Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Table of contents This is Wärtsilä 03 Sustainability 41 Governance 97 Investors 140 Financial review 152 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Anchor Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 4 This is Wärtsilä CEO review 05 Sustainability highlights 08 Strategy 16 Targets 19 Wärtsilä Energy Business 29 Wärtsilä Marine Business 31 Manufacturing and R&D 33 Innovating for sustainability 34 Why invest in Wärtsilä 38 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 5 Anchor CEO rreview eview Gr Growth owth in or order der intake and net sales The year 2018 was marked by positive momentum in ordering activity in our marine related businesses, and growth in net sales. The latter was primarily due to increased newbuild marine and energy deliveries, which, in combination with slower than anticipated development in transactional service volumes and higher costs related to research, development, and digitalisation, burdened profitability. Well positioned in challenging markets In the energy markets, economic development, geopolitical uncertainty, and currency fluctuations resulted in a slowdown in customer decision-making, which adversely affected ordering activity. Although the competitive environment is demanding, our offering is well positioned to respond to the prevailing market trends. The costs of solar and wind power continue to decrease, and it has become increasingly economical to replace traditional baseload capacity with renewables and flexibility. This expansion of renewable energy was evidenced with major contracts from Australia and the USA being awarded to us. At the same time, the continued need for reliable capacity to support economic growth and alleviate power shortages is supporting power plant investments in the emerging markets. The pace of recovery in the marine markets has been slower than anticipated, thus burdening the newbuild market and causing many customers to limit their service spend to essential repairs and maintenance. Overcapacity and geopolitical uncertainty are the primary sources of concern. Our broad market exposure has once again served us well, as vessel contracting activity has favoured the more specialised segments such as cruise and ferry and LNG carriers. Our customers’ appetite for service in these segments has also remained healthy. Environmental considerations emerged as a key theme in the marine markets. For Wärtsilä, this was reflected in a significant growth in demand for exhaust gas cleaning systems in both the newbuild and retrofit markets, as customers sought to prepare themselves for compliance with the approaching IMO 2020 global sulphur cap. Pr Progr towards ess towar ogress ds rrealising ealising our vision for the marine and energy markets Maximising renewable generation is essential in ensuring a sustainable and profitable future for the energy industry. In this context, Wärtsilä launched a new vision for the energy market during the year. Our ambition is to lead the industry’s transformation towards a future that utilises 100% renewable energy, with flexible capacity as the enabler. The introduction of new solutions for the integration of renewables and storage, such as the Wärtsilä Hybrid Solar and GridSolv, an advanced modularised energy storage solution, represents concrete examples of the steps we have taken in realising this vision. The marine industry is being transformed through increasing connectivity, new business models, and a stronger focus on environmental compliance. We are committed to supporting our customers by taking a leading role in this transition. This forms the basis for our Smart Marine vision, which emphasises leveraging the opportunities offered by digitalisation to promote safety, alleviate environmental impact, and improve efficiency. A key milestone for the year was further strengthening our offering of smart solutions through the acquisition of Transas, a leader in marine navigation solutions, training and simulation services, as well as ship traffic control. Other examples of progress made in the field of intelligent shipping include the successful testing of our automated dock-to-dock concept, and a project initiated to develop an autonomously navigated harbour tug. With the growth in digital solutions, cyber security has become vital to the operation and management of many safety, security, and protection systems in the shipping environment. With this in mind, we entered into a partnership with Templar Executives, a specialist cyber security company, to establish a cyber academy offering courses designed to support and enhance the collective cyber maturity of the wider shipping community. The partnership has also resulted in the introduction of a new international cyber intelligence and incident support platform, MCERT, that enhances cyber resilience for the maritime ecosystem. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 6 Emphasising collaboration, new ways of working, and rresponsible esponsible business conduct Attracting and retaining personnel is key for safeguarding our future success. Our aim is to foster an inclusive corporate culture, emphasising diversity and high ethical standards, and safe working conditions. In this context, we are committed to supporting the UN Global Compact and its principles with respect to human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption. In 2018, the lost-time injury frequency increased slightly to 2.50 (2.48). After successive years of improvement in this area, we are disturbed to see even this small increase. We will re-double our efforts towards achieving our goal of zero time lost through injuries. Our organisation is developing along with its transformation into a technology services company. Collaboration and knowledge sharing, both within the Group and externally with partners, suppliers and customers, is central to aligning ourselves to changing market requirements and for developing the smart technologies needed. In this, we emphasise new working methods and sustainable development throughout the organisation. Our focus on these areas is enhanced with our move during the autumn into state-of-the-art office premises in Helsinki, wherein the latest smart real estate technologies are incorporated, and with our decision to build a new centre for research, development and production, in Vaasa, Finland. When finalised in 2020, this Smart Technology Hub will enable more agile and efficient testing, development, and production of solutions for the maritime, oil and gas, and energy industries. We also opened an Acceleration Centre in Singapore, focusing on areas such as intelligent vessels, connected smart port operations, cyber-physical security, and digital acceleration with start-ups. This represents yet another example of our commitment to promoting innovation and collaboration within our operating sphere. Looking ahead We enter the year with a new organisation formed around two business areas that incorporate both newbuild activities and services. With this structure our primary focus is to enhance the value that we deliver to customers through a stronger emphasis on lifecycle solutions that are tailored to specific market needs, increased flexibility, and even faster response times. I am confident that this change will enable us to develop stronger partnerships with our customers and ensure the continued rapid development of innovative solutions, thereby accelerating our progression towards the long-term target of profitable growth. Market conditions in 2019 are expected to be largely in line with those seen during the previous year. The pace of recovery in the marine markets will remain slow, and, while the need for flexible power capacity supports activity in the energy markets, the competitive environment remains a concern. For these reasons, the demand outlook for both our businesses is solid. To stay competitive in the current market environment, we must initiate actions to increase customer value and secure profitable growth. This is the basis for the group-wide realignment program announced in January 2019. In addition to reviewing our cost structure, planned actions include an increased focus on targeted sales activities, developing the agreements-based and “as-a-service” business, and optimising the business portfolio. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the entire Wärtsilä personnel for its commitment to furthering our common goals, our customers for your trust in our solutions and services, and last but not least, our shareholders for your confidence in Wärtsilä’s future development. Jaakko Eskola President & CEO This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 7 Key figures Restated MEUR 2018 10-12/2018 7-9/2018 4-6/2018 1-3/2018 20173 2016 Net sales 5 174 1 532 1 330 1 246 1 066 4 911 4 801 Services 2 426 737 572 582 535 2 407 2 190 Energy Solutions 1 517 431 451 368 267 1 401 943 Marine Solutions 1 232 364 307 296 264 1 104 1 667 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -130 -37 -31 -31 -30 -134 -138 Comparable operating result1 577 226 141 123 88 576 583 Comparable operating result1, % 11.2 14.7 10.6 9.8 8.3 11.7 12.1 Profit before taxes 502 194 130 102 76 491 479 Earnings per share, EUR2 0.65 0.25 0.17 0.13 0.10 0.63 0.60 Order intake 6 307 1 874 1 372 1 553 1 507 5 644 4 927 Restated MEUR 2018 31.12.2018 30.9.2018 30.6.2018 31.3.2018 20173 2016 Balance sheet total 6 059 6 059 5 880 5 906 5 632 5 648 5 391 Interest-bearing liabilities, gross 823 823 874 893 726 619 629 Cash and cash equivalents 487 487 221 245 282 379 472 ROI, continuing operations, % 18.1 18.1 18.6 18.9 19.7 18.5 17.1 Gearing 0.14 0.14 0.28 0.29 0.21 0.10 0.07 Order book, end of period 6 166 6 166 5 918 5 904 5 490 5 100 4 696 Year-end market capitalisation 8 222 8 222 9 935 9 959 10 621 10 375 8 418 Personnel, number at end of period 19 294 19 294 19 420 19 231 18 182 18 065 18 011 1 Figures exclude items affecting comparability. 2 The share issue without payment (share split) approved by Wärtsilä Corporation’s Annual General Meeting on 8 March 2018 increased the total number of Wärtsilä shares to 591 723 390. Share related figures in the comparison periods have been restated accordingly. 3 Figures for comparison period 2017 have been restated due to the adoption of IFRS 15 and an internal transfer of service activities. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 8 Anchor Sustainability highlights Anchor 23.1. Wärtsilä listed among the “2018 Global 100” Most Sustainable Corporations in the World. The recognition took place in Davos as an aside to the World Economic Forum. Selected from a pool of 5,994 publicly listed companies, the Global 100 companies represent 22 countries and encompass all sectors of the economy. Anchor 19.3. Wärtsilä acquires Transas to accelerate its Smart Marine Ecosystem vision. Wärtsilä’s Smart Marine Ecosystem is a vision whereby smart vessels connect with smart ports and beyond to deliver efficiency, minimised environmental impact, and safety and security. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 9 Anchor 20.3. Wärtsilä delivers the world’s largest solar hybrid power plant to Burkina Faso, reducing annual CO2 emissions by as much as 18,500 tons. By hybridising an existing 57 MW diesel power plant with the new solar PV plant and related hybrid plant controls, the plant’s performance has been significantly enhanced. Anchor 26.3. Wärtsilä contracted to supply VOC recovery systems for two new shuttle tankers, saving tons of fuel each year. The ships will operate on Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) as the primary fuel, but VOC – the gas evaporating from the oil cargo tanks – will also be utilised as fuel by mixing it with the LNG. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 10 Anchor 25.4. Wärtsilä contracted to supply a 130 MW Flexicycle power plant to Senegal, enabling lower energy costs and the integration of more renewable energy. The Malicounda power project will provide the flexibility needed to facilitate the integration of intermittent renewable energy into the country’s network. Anchor 22.5. Wärtsilä LNGPac passes 100th order milestone. First introduced in 2009, the Wärtsilä LNGPac has played an important role in establishing the viability of LNG as a marine fuel. The system comprises a bunkering station, the LNG fuel tank and related process equipment, as well as the control and monitoring system. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 11 Anchor 22.5. Wärtsilä joins the Climate Leadership Coalition (CLC), a network of leading Finnish companies, research organisations and cities, aiming for the mitigation of climate change. The CLC believes that business solutions are central in tackling climate change, which is in line with Wärtsilä's purpose and strategy. Anchor 20.6. Wärtsilä introduces its new hybrid solar PV and storage solution. The Wärtsilä Hybrid Solar integrates solar PV generation and storage to deliver a true “renewables as baseload” solution that is climate-friendly, increases resilience and efficiencies, and which can be supported by a power producer’s existing grid infrastructure. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 12 Anchor 3.9. Wärtsilä’s Aquarius EC Ballast Water Management System endorsed with the United States Coastguard (USCG) Type Approval. This approval verifies that the product has met the specified regulatory, technical, and safety requirements, and represents an endorsement of its design and efficiency principles. Anchor 5.9. Wärtsilä announces ‘An Oceanic Awakening’ – a global initiative focused on the radical transformation of the world’s marine and energy industries into one supremely efficient, ecologically sound, and digitally connected ecosystem. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 13 Anchor 13.9. Wärtsilä once again included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. Anchor 25.9. Greensmith Energy, a Wärtsilä company, releases GridSolv, the company’s first standardised energy storage solution. This innovative and standardised architecture supports both standalone energy storage deployments, as well as integrated hybrids with thermal or renewable generation assets. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 14 Anchor 17.10. Wärtsilä inaugurates its new Hybrid Centre, the first of its kind in the world, to boost sustainable shipping. The facility in Trieste, Italy, enables further development and deployment of the Wärtsilä HY hybrid power module, and also provides customers with the possibility to experience the benefits of the Wärtsilä HY. Anchor 13.11. Wärtsilä, Finland’s Lappeenranta University of Technology (LUT), and Nebraska Public Power District (NPPD), sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the study of the development of a business case for the use of alternative fuels, aiming towards a future with energy produced from 100% renewable carbon free sources. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 15 Anchor 28.11. Wärtsilä achieves notable advances in automated shipping through testing its automated dock-to-dock solution. In the presence of the Norwegian Maritime Authority (NMA), the autonomously operated ferry ‘Folgefonn’ successfully visited all three ports serviced by the ship. Anchor 4.12. Wärtsilä introduces a lifeboat for buildings, a product that should never exist, at Slush Helsinki 2018. This hypothetical lifeboat, conceptualised and designed by Wärtsilä Ship Design, is a way for Wärtsilä to amplify the critical need to move climate change discourse to action. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 16 Anchor Strategy Wärtsilä’s purpose is to enable sustainable societies with smart technology. The demand for clean and flexible energy, and the need for efficient and safe transportation are increasingly affecting the way that customers operate. This forms the basis for our Smart Marine and Smart Energy visions. With an integrated portfolio of services, systems, and products that covers customer needs across the full lifecycle, we are well positioned to respond to the demand for energy efficient and innovative solutions. Strong emphasis is given to optimising installation performance, using data analytics and artificial intelligence to support customer business decisions. Wärtsilä’s digital transformation will provide enhanced customer value through an increased focus on collaboration and knowledge sharing. A strong presence in key markets and a superior global service network support our profitable growth ambitions. With our flexible production and supply chain management, we constantly seeks new ways to maintain high quality and cost efficiency often in co-operation with customers and leading industrial partners. The investments in R&D and the focus on digitalisation create a strong foundation for securing and strengthening the company’s position at the forefront of market innovation. This innovative culture, together with a constant emphasis on safety, diversity, and high ethical standards, attracts skilled and committed people and creates the basis for a high performing organisation. The implementation of operational excellence ensures that we are easy to do business with, and drives increased productivity and efficiencies for its customers. Anchor Smart Energy Wärtsilä creates optimal paths towards 100% renewable energy systems. Our objective is for customers to recognise the company as the leading energy systems integrator, providing all the essential technologies, services, and solutions for sustainable and reliable power systems. The energy market landscape is in transition and is moving towards more flexible energy systems with a rapidly increasing share of renewable energy, declining inflexible baseload generation, and wider applications of storage technology. The declining cost of renewables has begun to reduce new investments in coal and other inflexible baseload technologies, and this transition will eventually enable renewables to become the new baseload, which will require flexibility and storage to ensure reliable generation. Our solutions are at the very core of the energy systems of the future. We understand the role that different technologies play in our customers’ power systems, and enhance the assets of the customer through software, EPC offerings, and global service capabilities. Wärtsilä’s engine power plants act as a stepping stone for the ongoing energy industry transition, and provide a unique combination of energy efficiency, and fuel and operational flexibility throughout all its phases. Our energy storage and integration solutions handle second and daily level variations in supply, which is the key for renewables penetration. Wärtsilä provides asset and lifecycle management services that optimise the performance of our customers’ installations through upgrades, modernisations, fuel conversions, and safety solutions. Asset Management targets energy supply reliability and optimisation. With connectivity, we optimise asset performance throughout the lifecycle and provide strategic input to customers in order to enhance their business growth through smart technologies. Asset management will drive future growth in lifecycle solutions and enable new as-a-service business models. To secure future growth and profitability, the main focus will be on optimising the current business and building a solid foundation for developing future business models. Anchor This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 17 Smart Marine Wärtsilä’s aim is to lead the industry’s transformation towards a Smart Marine Ecosystem. Building on the sound foundation of being a leading provider of innovative products, integrated solutions, and lifecycle services to the marine and oil & gas industries, we aim to unlock new customer values through connectivity, digitalisation, and smart technology. The marine industry is moving towards a future that is increasingly connected. The opportunities offered through smart technology will foster a new era of collaboration and knowledge sharing with customers, suppliers, and partners. Industry players are faced with major sources of inefficiency that impose a significantly negative impact on business operations and profitability, the three most notable of these being overcapacity, inadequate port-to-port fuel efficiency, and time wasted waiting when entering ports and other high traffic areas. Eliminating these inefficiencies forms the basis of Wärtsilä’s marine strategy towards ecosystem thinking. We have identified four primary forces that will re-shape the industry. Shared capacity will improve fill rates and reduce unit costs; big data analytics will optimise both operations and energy management; intelligent vessels will enable automated and optimised processes; and smart ports will result in smoother and faster port operations. Wärtsilä is ideally positioned, together with its customers and partners, for positive disruptive development and to lead the transformation into a new era of shipping. Building on our extensive offering portfolio, and our vast installed base and industry know-how, we will continue to develop the smart technologies, business models, and competences needed to create a Smart Marine Ecosystem. By applying smart technology and performance optimisation services, Wärtsilä aims to deliver greater efficiencies, minimised climate impact, and a higher level of safety to the shipping industry. This will result in more sustainable, safe, and profitable operations for ship owners and operators around the world. The ultimate goal is to enable sustainable societies with smart technologies. Anchor Sustainability Economic Wärtsilä aims to meet shareholder expectations and contribute towards the well-being of society. This requires efficient, profitable, and competitive company operations. Good economic performance establishes a platform for the other aspects of sustainability – environmental and social responsibility. Envir Environment onment Wärtsilä's aim is to be a forerunner in sustainable innovation and furthermore reduce emissions in our customer’s operations and in societies overall. Wärtsilä supplies smart technologies and services that help to mitigate climate change and protect our oceans and seas. We continuously work on achieving high environmental standards in our operations, and improving the environmental performance and efficiency of our products and solutions through R&D, collaboration, partnerships, and active engagement in ecosystems. In doing this, we help our customers and society at large to meet the goals of the tightening global environmental regulations and guidelines. Social We have high ethical standards and we care about the communities in which we operate. Our business operations and relations with our stakeholders are governed by our Code of Conduct. Wärtsilä is a responsible employer, and we seek to offer our employees an interesting and exciting workplace where openness, respect, trust, equal opportunities, and scope for personal development prevail. A further aim is to offer a hazard-free working environment to our employees and contractors, and to minimise the health and safety risks associated with the use of our products and services. Through effective supply chain management and continuous development we strive to ensure that our values expressed in the Code of Conduct are promoted in our whole value chain. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 18 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 19 Anchor Targets Anchor Financial targets Net sales TARGET Wärtsilä's target is to grow faster than global GDP. DEVELOPMENT In 2018, net sales increased by 5% to EUR 5,174 million. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 20 Pr Profitability ofitability TARGET Wärtsilä's operating profit margin (EBIT%) target is 14% at the peak of the cycle. At the trough of the cycle, the target is to keep the operating profit margin above 10%. DEVELOPMENT In 2018, the comparable operating result was EUR 577 million, which represents 11.2% of net sales. Capital structur structuree TARGET Wärtsilä's target is to maintain gearing below 0.50. DEVELOPMENT In 2018, gearing was 0.14. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 21 Dividend TARGET Wärtsilä's target is to pay a dividend of at least 50% of earnings over the cycle. DEVELOPMENT The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of EUR 0.48 per share be paid for the financial year 2018, which represents 73.7% of operational earnings. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 22 Anchor Sustainability targets Sustainable power systems TARGET DEVELOPMENT Contribute to the development of In 2018, Wärtsilä announced its an affordable, reliable, sustainable energy vision of leading the energy and modern power system market’s transition towards a worldwide. 100% renewable energy future. Some 2860 MWs of new modern, Schedule: 2020 highly efficient, and flexible gas and liquid fired Smart Power Generation plants were sold during the year. Wärtsilä also released several innovative solutions, including the standardised energy storage solution GridSolv, Wärtsilä Hybrid Solar a hybrid solar PV and storage solution, and the latest generation of Wärtsilä’s advanced energy management software platform GEMS 6. Small-medium scale LNG solutions TARGET DEVELOPMENT Establish Wärtsilä solutions as an In 2018, Wärtsilä had three LNG important link in the global LNG terminal projects in Finland. A value chain. This develops ground-breaking ceremony for the opportunities, and builds the new Hamina LNG terminal was infrastructure for clean-burning held, and the tank slip forming and LNG to replace liquid fuels. lifting of the roof were completed. At the Tornio Manga LNG Terminal, Schedule: 2020 most of the performance tests were completed, and availability testing was started. At Raahe, the installation and commissioning work was completed, and the terminal was handed over to the customer. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 23 Solar and hybrid solutions TARGET DEVELOPMENT Solar and solar hybrid power During 2018, Wärtsilä delivered a plants to provide cleaner energy 15 MWp solar hybrid power plant and fuel savings. Delivery of 200 to Essakane Solar SAS in Burkina MW solar power by the end of Faso, reducing annual CO2 2018. emissions by 18,500 tons. In addition, under construction was a Schedule: 2018 52 MWp solar photovoltaic (PV) power plant at AM Solar BV/ Jordan. Altogether, 163 MWp worth of deals were announced during the review period 2017-2018. Climate change TARGET DEVELOPMENT By 2020, the aim is to reduce During 2018, Wärtsilä released its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Wärtsilä 31SG gas engine to the from gas engines by 15% from market, and was able to reduce 2015. greenhouse gas emissions from gas engines by 8% from the Schedule: 2020 baseline year. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 24 Decarbonisation of transport TARGET DEVELOPMENT Contribute to the development of In 2018, Wärtsilä inaugurated the more sustainable transportation world’s first real-scale hybrid centre through gas based and other in Trieste (Italy), successfully tested technologies. the world’s first automated dockto-dock solution, and launched Schedule: 2020 important new solutions. These included the Skylight 3.0 for fleet performance monitoring, and the Wärtsilä 14, the first Wärtsiläbranded high-speed engine. In addition, Wärtsilä presented its end to end concept to optimise vessel speed and trim based on weather conditions, traffic, and berth availability at ports. Climate change TARGET DEVELOPMENT Reduce more than 300,000 tons of The estimated reduction in CO2 CO2 annually from vessels with the emissions in 2018 was help of Eniram solutions. approximately 197,000 tons. This was a 13% increase in savings Schedule: 2020 compared to the previous year. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 25 Energy savings TARGET DEVELOPMENT Reduce energy consumption by at By the end of 2018, energy least 7% in terms of absolute savings of 2.9 GWh were consumption (GWh) from 2015 achieved, representing 9.8% of the levels by 2025. final target. Schedule: 2025 Ethical behavior TARGET DEVELOPMENT Ensure commitment to the Code Training records are continuously of Conduct throughout the monitored. At the end of 2018, the organisation (Code of Conduct Code of Conduct training training coverage to be 100%). programme coverage was 89.8% of all employees. Schedule: 2020 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 26 Occupational safety TARGET DEVELOPMENT Reach the long-term goal of zero In 2018, the corporate lost-time injuries. injury frequency rate was 2.50, which was 1% higher than in 2017 Schedule: 2020 and above the internal target for the year (2.3.). However, Wärtsilä managed to increase the focus on proactive measures, and near miss/hazard reporting increased by 19% compared to 2017. By the end of the year, 3,200 Wärtsilä leaders had completed a “Leader in Safety, Leader in Business” safety workshop. Climate change TARGET DEVELOPMENT Prepare an analysis of the impact During 2018, Wärtsilä continuously of the Paris Climate Change monitored the proceedings of Agreement on Wärtsilä. climate negotiations covering both the marine and energy sectors. In Schedule: 2018 addition, the preparation of a technology strategy programme covering solutions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions was initiated. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 27 Well being at work car careers eers TARGET DEVELOPMENT Establish a balance between In 2018, 40% of all open vacancies external and internal recruitments, were filled through internal with more than 50% of the open selections for job levels 3 and up, vacancies filled from the internal and 60% through external applicant pool, including selections. promotions and lateral moves. Schedule: 2020 Personnel development TARGET DEVELOPMENT Complete 100% coverage for By the end of 2018, altogether development discussions. 96.1% of the company’s employees had completed Schedule: 2020 development discussions. Diversity TARGET DEVELOPMENT Increase the share of female In 2018, the share of female employees to 20%. employees was 17%. Schedule: 2020 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 28 Supplier lifecycle management TARGET DEVELOPMENT Risk-based supplier assessment The new risk-based Supply and management process in use Relationship Management Tool by 2018: was taken into use for new suppliers during 2018. The tool will • Phase I: new suppliers be taken into use for existing by 2017 suppliers in 2019. All existing • Phase II: existing suppliers are required to submit a suppliers by 2018 self-assessment by the end of 2020. Schedule: 2018 Supplier monitoring TARGET DEVELOPMENT Achieve the following rating In 2018, Wärtsilä achieved its coverage for suppliers: rating coverage targets. The rating coverage of direct global supplier • 96% of direct global spend was 97%, 77% of indirect supplier spend rated supplier spend and 82% of local • 70% of indirect supplier supplier spend. For the year 2018, spend rated the supplier rating target level for • 75% of local supplier local suppliers was raised to 80% spend rated from the original 75%. Nevertheless, this target was also Schedule: 2020 achieved. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 29 Anchor Wärtsilä Energy Business Wärtsilä Energy is leading the transition towards a 100% renewable energy future. As an energy systems integrator, we understand, design, build and serve optimal power systems for future generations. Our offering includes flexible internal combustion engine-based power plants, hybrid solar power plants, energy storage and integration solutions, as well as gas to power systems. We support our customers throughout the lifecycle of their installations with services that enable increased efficiency and guaranteed performance. Wärtsilä’s solutions provide the needed flexibility to integrate renewables and ensure the reliability of power systems. We serve thr three ee main customer segments Wärtsilä’s three main customer segments in the energy markets are utilities, independent power producers (IPPs), and industrial customers. Utilities supply electricity and gas to residential, commercial, and industrial end users. They invest in various types of power generation and storage assets to ensure adequate load coverage, and the right palette of cost-effective and reliable products and services for their customers. IPP’s are financial investors investing in power generation and storage assets, and who then sell the generated power to utilities, or directly to end customers. Their investments are return driven, and as with utilities, their technical requirements are application driven. Industrial customers are mainly private companies with energy intensive production operations. By investing in captive power, they are able to achieve lower energy costs and can be prepared for any grid reliability issues, thus ensuring security of supply. Wärtsilä serves the top end of this customer group, i.e. large industries requiring a relatively high electrical load, such as data centres, and cement and mining facilities. Our of offering fering is based on flexibility and lifecycle support Wärtsilä’s energy solutions are used for a wide variety of applications. These include baseload generation, capacity for grid stability, peaking and load-following generation, and for the integration of wind and solar power. We provide our customers with a comprehensive understanding of energy systems, including fully integrated assets and advanced software, complete with value adding lifecycle services. Our engine power plants are tailored according to the specific requirements of the customer, utilising modular products and services. The delivery scope ranges from equipment deliveries to complete engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) projects, supported by superior project management capabilities. Wärtsilä’s solutions provide the best means for supporting power systems by offering the highest degree of flexibility, enabling major savings, and creating an optimised response to rapid changes in intermittent generation. Combined with our offering of energy storage, hybrid solutions, and advanced software for energy management, we enable the transition to a sustainable, reliable, and affordable low carbon power system. With services ranging from spare parts and basic support to full operations and maintenance services, we maximise the life and increase the availability of power plants, while providing a lifecycle cost guarantee.The performance of our customers’ installations is optimised through upgrades, modernisations, fuel conversions and safety solutions. As business models change, the need for asset management services is increased, which drives opportunities for using real time monitoring and analytics to optimise the business performance of our customers. Market drivers In the energy markets, the main drivers for Wärtsilä are: • Economic growth, electrification, and improving standards of living • Rapidly increasing use of renewables • Decentralised energy • Increasing role of flexible gas This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 30 • Emerging storage technologies • Data and digitalisation Economic growth, improving standards of living, and consequential electrification are jointly resulting in increased electricity consumption in non-OECD countries. The development of a more sustainable energy infrastructure is being driven by climate policies, energy security, and economics. Tightening emissions legislation is forcing the closure of ageing capacity, with carbon-intensive energy sources being replaced by low carbon fuels, such as natural gas and renewable source solutions. Investments in renewable generation are growing as solar and wind become increasingly cost competitive. This, in turn, is decreasing the running hours of conventional thermal capacity and creating a substantial need to add flexibility into power systems through energy storage and flexible capacity. Gas as a fuel is seen as having a key role in providing flexibility to the system, and in the future gas will be more and more carbon neutral. New data and platform-based business models and solutions enable system level integration and asset base optimisation. Competitive landscape and market position Wärtsilä’s main competitors in larger gas-fired projects are gas turbine manufacturers, such as GE, Siemens, and Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems. When competing against gas turbines, Wärtsilä’s combination of high efficiency, greater fuel flexibility, and superior operational flexibility enables better value propositions to many customer projects. In smaller gas power plants, and in the liquid fuel power plant market, the competitors are mainly other internal combustion engine suppliers, such as MAN Energy Solutions, Caterpillar (MAK), and Rolls-Royce, as well as high speed engine manufacturers. Wärtsilä’s advanced gas and dual-fuel engine technology, optimised modular power plants, superior project management capabilities, and the global service support provided throughout the lifecycle of installations, have led to Wärtsilä’s market leading position in the gas and liquid fuel combustion engine power plant markets. When looking at energy system integration, software and battery storage systems, the competition comes from companies such as Fluence, NEC and Tesla, among others. Competition within maintenance activities is fragmented in nature and consists mainly of local players with a limited offering scope. The competition for lifecycle solutions comes from a few regional players capable of offering plant operational services. In asset performance management related services there are both new and more established competitors that provide software and analytics across industries, while some utilities are establishing these skills and knowledge in-house. Wärtsilä’s strengths: • Competitive capital cost and engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) capability • Unique operational and fuel flexibility • Value adding hybrid solutions for existing and new customers • The most proven software platform for integrating renewable energy sources • Systems integration offering with lifecycle support • Global technical support capabilities and know-how • Strong track record in operations & maintenance, optimising operating costs, and increasing plant availability and efficiency This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 31 Anchor Wärtsilä Marine Business Wärtsilä has a strong position in the marine and oil & gas industries. By providing solutions and services that are optimised, and environmentally and economically sound, we enhance the viability and profitability of maritime operations and enable the development of sustainable societies. Our reputation is based on an in-depth understanding of our customers’ businesses, technological leadership, a broad product portfolio, and the industry’s most extensive service network. Serving ship owners, shipyar shipyards ds and ship management companies Wärtsilä’s marine customer base covers all the main segments, including traditional merchant vessels, gas carriers, cruise & ferry, navy, and special vessels. In the oil & gas industry, we are active in serving offshore installations and related industry vessels, as well as land-based gas installations. Our customers comprise ship owners, shipyards and ship management companies; the needs and demands of which differ significantly. Ship owners require safe and efficient operations, reliability and support, as well as the availability of services. Their decision-making is also impacted by freight rates, interest rates, and the capital and operating costs of the ship. Both ship owners and operators are increasingly taking other factors, such as environmental compliance and fuel flexibility, into consideration in their decision-making. Ship management companies provide ship owners and operators with technical management and the maintenance of ships. Among other things, they also provide the crews and take care of commercial operations on behalf of the owner or operator. The decision-making process of shipyard customers is typically affected by product prices, delivery times and reliability, project management, ease of installation, and the supplier’s ability to manage large delivery scopes. We are committed to meeting the needs of these customer groups. Success is achieved through a comprehensive understanding of their businesses, operating models, and requirements. This understanding, backed by our portfolio and service strengths, enables us to support our customers throughout the lifecycle of their installations with products and solutions that best serve their business interests. Our of offering fering is the br broadest oadest in the industry Wärtsilä’s market presence, combined with the broadest offering in the industry, enables us to understand the particular needs and requirements related to each of these segments – from initial vessel design choices to everyday operations throughout the vessel’s lifecycle. We provide innovative and competitive products and solutions, delivered efficiently and with high quality. Through the use of digitalisation and greater connectivity, and by applying smart technology and performance optimisation services, we create greater efficiencies, a minimised environmental impact, and enhanced safety to the shipping industry. In so doing, we enable more sustainable, safe, and profitable operations for ship owners and operators around the world. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 32 Market drivers In the marine markets, the main drivers for Wärtsilä are: • Developments in the global economy and their impact on world trade • Fuel prices and availability • Environmental compliance • Technological developments and innovations The global demand for new vessels in the shipbuilding and shipping industries is mainly driven by developments within the global economy, and the resulting impact on trade and transportation capacity requirements. The global economy also influences fuel prices, which in turn have both a direct and an indirect impact on the marine and oil & gas industries. Price, availability, and demand are the driving factors in the oil & gas industry, while in the general shipping industry, high fuel costs increase the demand for equipment upgrades, the rethinking of operational profiles, and for more efficient vessel designs. Other factors, such as shipyard capacity, newbuild prices, decommissioning and scrapping, as well as interest and freight rates, also affect these industries. Another important driver is the increasing stringency of environmental regulations and their impact on the demand for optimised vessel efficiency, environmental solutions, and gas as a marine fuel. Our in-depth expertise and system skills make it possible for customers to respond to these demands, and to achieve the performance, cost, and environmental compliance parameters that specifically match their operating profile. Technological developments and innovations act as an enabler for the marine industry to become more efficient, sustainable, and safe by advancing fleet design, system solutions and operations. Being a main source of differentiation, and a competitive edge provider for owners and operators, they also drive the markets. By partnering with customers, regulators, universities and various other key stakeholders, we are well-positioned to deliver solutions and services that support the specific interests of our customers. Competitive landscape and market position Wärtsilä’s field of competitors is extensive due to the broad offering portfolio and global market presence. It includes a variety of Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM), including engine companies such as MAN Energy Solutions, Caterpillar and HiMSEN, propeller makers such as Schottel and Thrustmaster, and environmental and auxiliary equipment providers like Alfa Laval. Our competitors also include electrical and automation houses, notably Siemens, GE, ABB and Kongsberg, gas system providers, such as TGE Marine, and companies with a broad range of offerings such as Rolls-Royce. In the service market, the main source of competition is from independent service companies operating globally, and local players with a limited offering scope, such as parts traders, repair yards, local workshops, component suppliers for spare parts (non-OEM), and field service businesses. Wärtsilä is recognised as a proven supplier of innovative and sustainable technologies across its portfolio serving the marine and oil & gas markets. Our extensive offering, experience, and service network gives us a competitive advantage, and a solid foundation for supporting new and existing customers in improving their performance, safety and sustainability. Wärtsilä’s strengths: • Strong presence in all major marine and offshore oil & gas segments • The broadest portfolio of reliable and high performing products, systems, and solutions in the industry • Fuel efficient solutions that are compliant with the strictest environmental requirements • The ability to deliver cost efficiencies and to unlock new revenue streams through integration, digitalisation and interconnectivity • A complete lifecycle service offering supported by an unmatched global service network and technical support • The capability to deliver operational and asset performance optimisation globally This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 33 Anchor Manufacturing and R&D Wärtsilä’s approach to manufacturing emphasises safe, innovative, and digitally connected processes. A strong culture of operational excellence, and a commitment to continuous improvement, form the basis for ensuring on time, cost competitive, and quality deliverables from advanced production environments. The main manufacturing activities of our digitalised factories are focused on the assembly, testing, and finishing of products, as well as the in-house production of key components. Technology leadership is continuously emphasised in our R&D activities. A global manufacturing footprint supported by an extensive supplier network We have a global manufacturing footprint that is continuously optimised for competence, availability, customer presence, and efficiency. Being located close to our customers enables us to provide better service locally, thereby boosting the entire value chain, eliminating waste, and allowing savings in both production and transportation costs. Our assembly-based manufacturing model, which is strongly connected to a broad network of suppliers, guarantees a high level of flexibility in capacity. Through close co-operation, excellent relations, and the sharing of information with suppliers, we are able to ensure market-conforming lead times for component supplies. We work with numerous suppliers globally. The sourcing strategy is to focus on carefully selected suppliers, with a strong emphasis on performance, innovation, and a presence close to our manufacturing units and joint ventures. The aim is to continuously develop and strengthen the company’s global supply chain with a strong emphasis on quality and cost competitiveness. Technology leadership thr through ough R&D The focus of our R&D activities is on digitalisation, smart technologies, and on new products and solutions that are flexible, efficient, reliable, safe, and cost-efficient to operate. It is also essential that they impose a minimal environmental impact throughout their lifecycles. A substantial proportion of the investments we make in product This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 34 development is targeted at securing environmental compliancy, providing shortand long-term benefits for our customers, and enabling sustainable societies. By concentrating on the initial stages of the development process, and by utilising modularity, simulation, virtual testing, and validation, we shorten lead times for new solutions, thereby securing reliability and safety aspects without compromising quality. Validation testing on site with existing installations, in co-operation with the customer, is an important element in furthering the improved performance of existing solutions. It also assists in finding new and better solutions while, at the same time, gaining long-term experience under actual field conditions. A field installation also provides an opportunity to gain valuable learning and insight regarding new technologies and solutions. Only after the product has successfully passed all the validation process steps, both in the laboratory and in the field, and its performance meets Wärtsilä's high standards, can it be delivered to the market. Through close attention to Intellectual Asset Management, and the continuous development of internal key competences, we strive to protect our innovation and competitiveness. Networks and clusters are formed to further extend our know-how, skills, and capabilities by committing to long-term relationships with suppliers, engineering companies, university partners, and with other Original Equipment Manufacturers. Incr Increased eased agility thr through ough Open Innovation Forming meaningful connections with a wide range of stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, partners, government, academia and start-ups, are the foundation for our Open Innovation activities. By co-creating and collaborating with our ecosystem, we are able to significantly decrease the span of time from innovation to market, and to respond faster to new market needs with the development of holistic solutions. This is amplified by cocreation activities with customers to ensure that all new products and solutions create maximum value, from the assembly line through to the full asset lifecycle. The Open Innovation approach is promoted through our increased presence in start-up activities globally. We regularly participate in a variety of start-up accelerators and have invited start-up companies to co-create, rapidly prototype, and validate new products and solutions. By working together with start-ups in Wärtsilä’s R&D centres, quick insights into the potential customer values are able to be identified. This collaboration also furthers our efforts towards more agile ways of working. The HERCULES pr programme ogramme Wärtsilä was involved in the long-term HERCULES R&D programme, which was conceived in 2002 and concluded in 2018. It was set up within the context of the EU's sixth and seventh Framework programmes. Sharing a joint vision, the major lowand medium-speed engine manufacturers, Wärtsilä, Winterthur Gas & Diesel, and MAN Diesel & Turbo, collaborated with universities, research institutions, and other industrial partners to increase engine reliability and efficiency, while striving to reduce harmful emissions. The programme had a combined budget of over EUR 100 million. The HERCULES project included the HERCULES A, B and C projects, as well as the fourth phase, the HERCULES-2 project, that was kicked off in 2015. HERCULES-2 focused on the integration of technologies developed in the earlier projects. Many of these technologies have found their way into Wärtsilä products such as the Wärtsilä 31. Anchor Innovating for sustainability Wärtsilä’s purpose is to enable sustainable societies with smart technologies. As a global leader in complete lifecycle solutions for the marine and energy markets, Wärtsilä plays a key role in providing environmentally sound solutions and services that enable its customers to develop their businesses in a sustainable way. This forms the basis of the company's offering and sustainability approach, and is supported by its strong commitment to responsible business conduct. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 35 Climate change, combined with the world's growing energy needs and the scarcity of natural resources, is increasing the demand for clean and flexible energy and the need for efficient and smart transportation. To secure its leading position at the forefront of sustainable innovation, Wärtsilä continuously invests in developing technologies that benefit the entire power system and marine ecosystem. Innovation and product development, plus the willingness to explore new technologies, are essential for meeting current customer needs, future requirements, and for remaining an industrial frontrunner. Minimising envirenvironmental onmental impact thr through ough R&D Wärtsilä develops smart and sustainable solutions across a broad front, including technologies related to efficiency improvement, the reduction of gaseous and liquid emissions, waste reduction, noise abatement, as well as effluent and ballast water treatment. The company's proactive approach to meeting future demand has resulted in the development of both primary and secondary abatement technologies, and has broadened the range of usable fuels. Wärtsilä actively seeks to utilise opportunities provided by the digital transformation taking place in the maritime and energy sectors. Wärtsilä’s commitment to investing in research and product development benefits its customers as well as the environment, both in the short term and over a longer time span. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 36 The key features of Wärtsilä's environmentally sound solutions include: • Reliability, safety, and long life span • Low emission levels • Renewable energy integration with engines and storage systems • Fuel flexibility • Efficiency improvement with lower lifecycle costs • Low water consumption • Design and operational optimisation of vessels By combining these key features, and understanding the system level benefits of its offering, Wärtsilä is able to provide solutions that enable the development of sustainable shipping and power systems. Partnerships and innovations enhancing sustainability In 2018, Wärtsilä announced several new R&D partnerships, such as with the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore to promote maritime innovation and R&D, and Hyundai Motor Group to utilise second-life electric vehicle (EV) batteries for the growing energy storage market. During 2018 Eniram, a Wärtsilä company, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Athens-based Arista Shipping to participate in the Project Forward initiative, which aims to develop the cleanest and most efficient fleet of cargo ships in the world. Wärtsilä, together with Finland’s Lappeenranta-Lahti University of Technology (LUT) and Nebraska Public Power District (NPPD), the largest electricity utility in the state of Nebraska, also signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for developing a business case for the use of alternative fuels with Wärtsilä generating sets. In 2018, Wärtsilä launched Future Innovation Days which comprised a gathering of marine industry stakeholders – ship owners, yards, ports, politicians, scientists, and students. These co-creation events were arranged to jointly solve notable industry challenges, such as zero emissions in shipping, producing, and storing clean energy, implementing smart vessels, ports, and a marine ecosystem, as well as new business models and the future of services. These first design thinking workshops were organized in Stord, Norway, Wuxi, China, and Hamburg, Germany. In Singapore and Shanghai, the events were combined also with the introduction of the An Oceanic Awakening initiative. As a result, 400 people attended, and 70 new idea concepts were co-created. In 2019, some of those ideas will be brought forward, and further developed in new events to be planned in Rotterdam, Seoul, Helsinki, Tokyo, Trieste, Panama, and Oslo. These events will also explore the paths of major cities towards 100% renewable energy. Wärtsilä, together with three companies; Tieto, St1, and Fortum, as well as the think tank Demos Helsinki, introduced an Innovation Community initiative at the end of 2018. The goals of the community include building a vision and roadmap for accelerating the transition to renewable energy sources, and experimenting and bringing to market promising new initiatives. During 2018, Wärtsilä developed, tested and launched several products, systems and solutions, which advance the company’s realisation of its Smart Marine and Smart Energy Visions. Among other things, Wärtsilä launched a new standardised energy storage solution, GridSolv, which is an advanced design offering maximum flexibility and speed of deployment. Wärtsilä also successfully tested its automated docking solution for vessels, which provides considerable value-adding benefits in terms of better efficiency, greater safety, lower fuel consumption and, therefore, reduced exhaust emissions. Without human intervention, the ferry was able during the tests to leave the dock, manoeuvre out of the harbour, sail to the next port of call, manoeuvre through the harbour entrance, and dock alongside the terminal. Among its other product introductions, Wärtsilä also introduced the first Wärtsiläbranded high-speed engine. The Wärtsilä 14 is a high-speed, compact engine designed to fit requirements for limited space and weight, lower capital expense, compliance with current and future global emissions regulations, and to provide customers with improved efficiency, safety, and environmental sustainability. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 37 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 38 Anchor Why invest in W Wärtsilä ärtsilä Wärtsilä’ ärtsilä’ss str strengths engths lie in our integrated services and solutions of offering, fering, data-driven innovations, close and longstanding customer rrelationships, elationships, and an unparalleled global prpresence. esence. Supporting customers with lifecycle solutions Our business model is based on providing the marine and energy markets with smart technologies and optimised lifecycle services. Our service activities represent nearly 50% of total net sales, which provides a good foundation for achieving the long-term target of profitable growth. The demand for Wärtsilä’s services is supported by the increasing technological sophistication of the installed equipment base. Digitalisation provides further opportunities to develop a value-adding customer offering. It also enables the leveraging of new technologies to build capabilities that will create a future offering with equipment-asa-service. A leader in smart technology for the marine and energy markets The shift towards clean and flexible energy production, and the need for efficient and safe transportation, form the basis of our offering of smart solutions. As an industry frontrunner, we are well positioned to respond to the need for innovative and energy efficient solutions. Our digital transformation will provide increased customer value through an increased focus on collaboration and knowledge sharing. Continuous investing in research and development is vital for ensuring the competitiveness of our product portfolio, and for securing a leading position in sustainable innovation. A capital-light business model emphasising incr increased eased ef efficiency ficiency Our manufacturing model is assembly-based, with shared production and R&D facilities. This creates flexibility in aligning operations to market conditions, and synergies in innovation processes. Achieving operational excellence by focusing on continuous process improvement throughout the organisation is a central pillar for reaching our financial targets. Investing in technological leadership and pr providing oviding sharshareholder eholder rretur eturnsns Our financial position enables investments in research and development activities and developing the business through acquisitions, thereby securing our future competitiveness. It also enables us to offer solid dividends to our shareholders. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 39 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 This is Wärtsilä 40 Wärtsilä is included in the following sustainability indices: MCSI Global Sustainability Index Ethibiel Sustainability Index (ESI) FTSE4Good Index Series Excellence Europe ECPI Global Carbon Equity Index OMX GES Sustainability Nordic & ECPI Global ESG Best in Class Index & OMX GES Sustainability RobecoSAM Sustainability Equity index Finland Index Yearbook Member of Dow Jones STOXX Global ESG Leaders index Sustainability Indices This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Anchor Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 42 Sustainability Sustainability at Wärtsilä 43 Stakeholder relations 44 Sustainability management 46 Guiding principles 47 Management system 53 People management 54 Environmental management 57 Occupational health and safety 58 Responsible business conduct 60 Product design principles 61 Supply chain management 62 Sustainability data 64 Economic 64 Environment 66 Social 70 Compliance 75 Report profile 77 Materiality assessment 78 Reporting principles 83 Independent Assurance Report 85 GRI and UNGC index 88 UN Sustainable Development Goals and Wärtsilä 94 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 43 Anchor Sustainability at W Wärtsilä ärtsilä Our commitment to sustainability and responsible business is based on our purpose and strategy, which along with our sustainable development objectives create the framework for developing the company's activities and products. Wärtsilä’s strategy is based on three key areas, energy efficient solutions, lifecycle optimisation, and innovative solutions, all of which contribute to a more sustainable future in both the energy and the marine industry. Our strength is our technological leadership and therefore technology plays a central role in our sustainability work. Wärtsilä Energy Business and Marine Business focus on developing and providing sustainable solutions and services for the industries in which they operate. The utilisation of lifecycle data analytics will enhance our efforts on enabling sustainable societies with smart technology. Wärtsilä identifies and assesses its sustainability risks on an annual basis. Based on the current assessment, the sustainability risks are considered to be at a moderate level, and sustainability forms an opportunity for Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä’s sustainable development is based on three closely interrelated pillars: economic, environmental, and social performance. In the field of sustainable development, Wärtsilä's overriding focus is on the following: • Economic: profitability • Environment: environmentally sound products and services • Social: responsible business conduct For the sustainability reporting purposes Wärtsilä has identified the following topics as material: Emissions, environmental compliance, economic performance, training and education, and occupational health and safety. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 44 The overall management approach of sustainability is presented in the picture Wärtsilä’s sustainability approach. Wärtsilä’s strategy for environmental and social responsibility is presented in the Strategy section. Wärtsilä sets corporate level sustainability targets for the core areas. Anchor Stakeholder rrelations elations Wärtsilä actively engages with its stakeholders to develop its operations, products, and services. At the corporate level, Wärtsilä has defined its most important stakeholders as being its customers, owners, suppliers, employees, and society in general. Wärtsilä's subsidiaries define their own primary stakeholders. In addition to the ones mentioned above, these typically include local residents close to production plants, educational institutes, and public authorities. Wärtsilä’s Code of Conduct provides the foundation for the management of stakeholder relations, while the priorities involved vary within Wärtsilä from one subsidiary to another. In order to facilitate active dialogue with its customers, Wärtsilä arranges Customer Days for existing and potential customers at locations in various parts of the world. During these events, subjects of topical interest from both local and global perspectives are reviewed, and existing and future needs and challenges are discussed. In addition to these Customer Days, the Marine Solutions and Energy Solutions businesses arranged or participated in more than 330 industry-related events globally during 2018, including international and national seminars, exhibitions, and conferences. These events were attended by customers, potential customers, and other stakeholders, such as investors, consultants, suppliers, students, and other interested parties. Long-term research programmes and partnerships are an important means of enhancing open dialogue and cooperation with key industry players and important research institutions. Wärtsilä has actively initiated and participated in the development and work of common research programmes, both locally and internationally. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 45 Dialogue with employees takes place in many formats. More information about the procedures and processes to support active and engaging dialogue with Wärtsilä employees is described in the section covering Consultation and information procedures in Group companies. Wärtsilä also engages in an active and open dialogue with local and international public authorities and officials. The aim is to share information, provide expertise, and support authorities in improving the quality of regulatory matters. Wärtsilä participates in public consultations in areas that are of importance to the company. Voluntary commitments Wärtsilä has signed the United Nations Global Compact initiative and supports its ten principles with respect to human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption. Wärtsilä is committed to aligning its strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations with these principles, and to engage in collaborative projects that advance sustainable development. Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct and sustainability approach provide the main framework for promoting the principles within the company’s sphere of influence. Wärtsilä has joined the Sustainable Shipping Initiative (SSI) and is a signatory to its Vision for a Sustainable Shipping Industry in 2040. The initiative brings together some of the most prominent companies in the maritime sector. Wärtsilä has also signed the Finnish Business and Society's (FIBS) Diversity Charter, and an Energy Efficiency Agreement whereby Finnish industry voluntarily endeavours to use energy more efficiently for the period 2017-2025. Wärtsilä North America Inc. has signed the Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) agreement. Activities in organisations In 2018, Wärtsilä participated in activities organised by various national and international organisations and associations. New memberships during the year included, for example, the European Commission’s Digital Transport and Logistics Forum (DTLF) and the Finnish Climate Leadership Coalition (CLC). Wärtsilä also renewed its membership in the European Sustainable Shipping Forum (ESSF) for the next five year period. The key organisations for Wärtsilä and the nature of Wärtsilä's involvement in these organisations are presented in the table below. Stakeholder Organisation Natur Naturee of activity Interest groups Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK), Membership and participation in activities. Federation of Finnish Technology Industries, Finland Chamber of Commerce, International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), ICC Finland Industrial Association of Singapore Marine Industries Board membership and participation in organisations (ASMI), Brazilian Institute of Oil and Gas activities of specific working groups (IBP), Brazilian Thermoelectric Generators (CARILEC, CII, CIMAC, Cogen Europe, Association (ABRAGET), Caribbean EMA, Euromot, EUGINE, SEA\LNG, Utilities Association (CARILEC), Cogen VDMA, WaterBorne TP). Europe, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Cruise Line International Association Membership and participation in activities (CLIA), BIMCO, EnergyVaasa, Engine (ABRAGET, ASMI, BIMCO, CLIA, EGCSA, Manufacturers Association (EMA), EURELECTRIC, EnergyVaasa, Hong Kong European Association of Engine Shipowners Association, IBP, IDEMA, Manufacturers (Euromot), European Interferry, SGMF, SolarPower Europe). Engine Power Plants Association (EUGINE), Exhaust Gas Cleaning System Association (EGCSA), Hong Kong Shipowners Association, Indian Diesel This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 46 Engine Manufacturers Association (IDEMA), Interferry, International Council on Combustion Engines (CIMAC), SEA\ LNG Society for Gas as a Marine Fuel (SGMF), Union of the Electricity Industry (EURELECTRIC), Verband Deutscher Maschinenund Anlagenbau (VDMA), WaterBorne TP, SolarPower Europe Standardisation International Organisation for Participation in activities. organisations Standardisation (ISO), Finnish Standards Association (SFS) International Digital Transportation Logistics Forum Participation in activities through national and EU (DTLF), European Sustainable Shipping delegations (IMO). organisations Forum (ESSF), International Maritime Organization (IMO), Global Compact Participation in activities (DTLF, ESSF, Nordic Network (GCNN), Global Industry GCNN, GIA). Alliance (GIA) Other Climate Leadership Coalition (CLC), Participation in activities. Cleantech Finland, Finnish Business & Society (FIBS), European Energy Forum (EEF), Sustainable Shipping Initiative (SSI) Anchor Sustainability management Wärtsilä's sustainability is systematically managed through the Group-wide guiding principles and management systems and practices in place for material sustainability aspects and impacts. Wärtsilä’s global guiding principles together with the company’s values ensure a harmonised way of working towards sustainable development. Wärtsilä’s Corporate Manual includes a description of the company's operating procedures, responsibilities, and the management system structure that are applicable for the entire company. Wärtsilä's governance and risk management principles are described in the Governance section. The key elements of Wärtsilä's sustainability management are described in the table below. The guiding principles lay the foundations for uniform management practices. The management approach covers procedures, processes, and systems to manage and monitor material aspects. Guiding Management ar area ea Material aspect Targets principles Personnel skills and Wärtsilä Corporate Sustainability People management development targets Code of Product design Environmental Locally defined targets Conduct principles impacts of Wärtsilä’s products and services QEHS Policy Environmental Occupational health management and safety This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 47 Policy on human Occupational health Compliance with laws rights, equal and safety and regulations opportunities management and fair employment practices Corporate Responsible Anti-corruption and Manual business conduct bribery Other policies Supply chain Economic impacts to and guidelines management stakeholders Anchor Guiding principles Wärtsilä’s Code of Conduct defines common rules for all employees, and provides guidance on Wärtsilä’s approach to responsible business practices. The key areas of the Code of Conduct include: compliance with laws, transparency and continuous stakeholder dialogue, respect for human and labour rights, fair employment practices, anti-corruption, anti-fraud, and data privacy. Wärtsilä takes an active approach to the application of the Code of Conduct, and promotes its implementation through the effective communication of its contents to its employees. Application of the Code is monitored internally. Wärtsilä has also implemented an externally hosted whistleblowing channel for all employees to report potential misconduct relating to the Code of Conduct or other Wärtsilä policies. Such reporting can be made anonymously and in 16 languages. Suppliers and business partners are an important and integral part of the total value chain of the company’s products and services. They are expected to conduct their businesses in compliance with the same high legal and ethical standards and business practices as Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä also promotes the application of the Code of Conduct by monitoring the actions of its suppliers and business partners, and has a stringent pre-qualification and monitoring programme for all sales intermediaries complemented with a tailored e-learning programme. Group-wide policies complement the Code of Conduct and the commitment to maintain the highest legal and ethical standards in everything the company does. Wärtsilä's Quality, Environmental, Health and Safety Policy sets principles for managing the environmental impacts of Wärtsilä’s products and services. Wärtsilä's corporate policy on human rights, equal opportunities and fair employment practices creates a common framework for employee practices in all group companies. It covers the following issues: equal opportunities, human and labour rights, wellbeing at work, non-harassment, and remuneration. Wärtsilä's Corporate Manual also includes other policies, such as anti-corruption, compliance reporting, and Wärtsilä’s supply management policies. The purpose of the manual is to safeguard compliance with relevant legislation, and to provide further guidance concerning daily business conduct. Values and Code of Conduct pr programme ogramme Wärtsilä executes a Values and Code of Conduct programme, including various actions to strengthen the ethical culture of the company. The programme elements include Wärtsilä Values and Code of Conduct discussion modules, the signing of an individual Code of Conduct Undertaking, an e-learning programme, and inclusion of the Code of Conduct topic into the annual development discussions covering all employees. The purpose of the Values and Code of Conduct discussions is to create a common understanding and to strengthen the values and principles of the Wärtsilä Code of Conduct. Additionally, every employee is required to sign a personal undertaking letter indicating that they have read the Code of Conduct and that they commit to complying with its contents in their work. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 48 Code of Conduct Intr Introduction oduction Wärtsilä is committed to carrying out its business in a sustainable way. In order to promote the long-term interests of Wärtsilä and its stakeholders, the company strives to maintain the highest legal and ethical standards in all its business practices. Each employee is expected to act responsibly and with integrity and honesty, and to comply with this code and its underlying policies and instructions. Compliance with laws All business and other activities of Wärtsilä shall be carried out strictly in compliance with all applicable laws and under the principles of good corporate citizenship in each country where such activities take place. Each employee is expected to comply with the requirements of those laws and regulations that apply to Wärtsilä's operations and to his/her job and with the Wärtsilä principles of good corporate citizenship. Openness Wärtsilä promotes openness and transparency as well as continuous dialogue with its stakeholders, including customers and other business partners, shareholders, personnel, authorities, local communities, and the media. Stock exchange rules and competitive considerations may, however, in some cases restrict such openness and transparency. Wärtsilä strives to be honest and accurate when communicating with its stakeholders, and also Wärtsilä employees shall make their statements in accordance with this principle. Respect for human and labour rights Wärtsilä supports and respects the protection of human rights as defined in the United Nation's Universal Declaration on Human Rights. No employee is allowed to take any action that violates these human rights principles, either directly or indirectly. Wärtsilä supports basic labour rights as defined by the International Labour Organization. In this respect, Wärtsilä upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. In the case that these rights are restricted by local law, Wärtsilä endeavours to offer its employees alternative means to present their views. Wärtsilä does not accept any form of forced or compulsory labour, or the use of child labour. Fair employment practices Wärtsilä promotes freedom from discrimination based on race, ethnic or national origin, colour, gender, family status, sexual orientation, creed, disability, age, political beliefs or other characteristics protected by law. Wärtsilä fosters equal opportunity and our employees are selected and treated on the basis of their abilities and merits. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 49 Wärtsilä does not accept any form of discrimination, harassment or bullying from its employees. Occupational health and safety Wärtsilä endeavours to create hazard-free workplaces for its employees, contractors and others working in various locations by applying high standards of occupational health and safety. Wärtsilä strives to assure the safety of its products and solutions through its world-class product and solution development processes. Each employee is responsible for complying with the safety instructions, for using personal protection equipment when required, and for reporting on any shortcomings regarding safety instructions or protection measures. Conflicts of inter interest est Wärtsilä expects full loyalty from its employees. Employees must avoid situations where their personal interests may conflict with those of Wärtsilä. This means, for instance, that employees are not allowed to accept gifts or entertainment from a stakeholder, except a gift or entertainment of a minor value given on an occasional basis, providing it does not create a conflict of interest situation. Anti-corruption No Wärtsilä company or any of its employees may, directly or indirectly, promise, offer, pay, solicit or accept bribes or kickbacks of any kind, including money, benefits, services or anything of value. Such payments and favours may be considered bribery, which violates local legislation and internationally recognised principles for combatting corruption and bribery. Envir Environment onment Wärtsilä's target is to develop and produce for its customers environmentally advanced solutions and services that fulfil essential requirements, such as low emissions and high efficiency. Efforts are made to achieve sustainable development by means of raw material selection, processes, products, wastes and emissions through the use of the latest technical advances. Each employee shall comply with the policies and instructions regarding environmental protection. Relationship with authorities and local communities Wärtsilä maintains constructive co-operation with authorities and regulatory bodies, at both local and international levels. Wärtsilä seeks to play a role in serving the needs of the local communities whenever possible. Innovation and pr protection otection of pr proprietary oprietary information Wärtsilä supports and encourages innovation by its employees in all areas of its activities. Wärtsilä's intellectual property is one of its most valuable assets, and the patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and other proprietary information of Wärtsilä must be protected. At the same time, each Wärtsilä employee must respect the intellectual property rights of others. Accuracy of accounting rrecorecords ds Wärtsilä accounting records must be accurate and reliable in all material respects. Unrecorded funds are prohibited. The records must not contain any false, misleading, or artificial entries. Competition and fair dealing Competition laws aim to protect consumers and businesses against unfair business practices. Each employee shall comply with those laws. Actions such as participation in cartels, abuse of a dominant position in the market place, or the exchange of price or other commercial information between competitors are prohibited. Wärtsilä employees should be sensitive to competition concerns when attending occasions where competitors, or potential competitors, can be present. Anti-fraud Wärtsilä does not tolerate fraudulent behaviour or activities, such as embezzlement, fraud or theft. Such violations will lead to immediate termination of employment and are subject to criminal sanctions. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 50 Implementation Wärtsilä takes an active approach to the application of this Code and promotes its implementation through the effective communication of its contents to employees. Wärtsilä monitors the application of this Code internally. Suppliers and business partners are an important and integral part of the total value chain of the products and services of Wärtsilä. They are expected to conduct their businesses in compliance with the same high legal and ethical standards and business practices as Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä promotes the application of this Code by monitoring the actions of its suppliers and business partners. In the case that questions arise regarding the interpretation of, or compliance with, this Code, Wärtsilä Legal Affairs should be contacted. The application of the Code will be reviewed from time to time by the Board of Management, which may decide on necessary revisions or interpretations. Reporting violations Any Wärtsilä employee becoming aware of a potential violation of this Code must contact his or her superior or Wärtsilä Legal Affairs. The president of the respective subsidiary must be informed, unless he or she is party to the alleged violation, in which case the Group General Counsel of Wärtsilä Corporation must be contacted. Wärtsilä will investigate all reported matters with discretion. Wärtsilä shall not take any adverse actions as a result of such reporting against any employee reporting in good faith what he or she believes to be a violation of this Code. Sanctions Violation of this Code may lead to a warning, the termination of employment, and the payment of damages. Additionally, certain violations of a criminal nature can lead to criminal sanctions, such as fines or imprisonment. Approved by the Board of Management in 2011. Quality, Envir Environment, onment, Health and Safety Policy We shape the marine and energy markets with advanced technologies, and focus on lifecycle performance to enhance our customers’ business and benefit the environment being: • Reliable and safe • Efficient and environmentally sound • Compliant with the applicable legal requirements and regulations. We continue to improve our performance and reduce adverse environmental impact to satisfy our customers and other stakeholders. We create and maintain safe and healthy workplaces for our employees and partners in all of our business operations. We give our employees the authority to stop work if conditions are unsafe or quality is compromised. Our skilled organisation acts as a responsible global citizen. Approved by Wärtsilä Board of Management 10.12.2015 Jaakko Eskola President & CEO This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 51 Policy on human rights, equal opportunities and fair employment practices Human and Labour Rights Wärtsilä supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, as defined in the United Nation’s Universal Declaration on Human Rights, ILO standards, and the UN Global Compact principles. Wärtsilä supports basic labour rights as stated by the International Labour Organization. In this respect the Group upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. In case these rights are restricted by local law, the company endeavours to offer personnel alternative methods to present their views. Wärtsilä does not accept any form of forced and compulsory labour or the use of child labour. Wärtsilä complies with local legislation, regulations and agreements concerning human rights, employment and equal opportunities, including all laws pertaining employee data privacy, immigration, working time, wages and hours and employment discrimination. Temporary and part-time employees are offered the same benefits as permanent employees according to local legislation and collective agreements. Wärtsilä applies European Union directives, local acts of cooperation in the companies and corporations, collective agreements, and equivalent regulations concerning consultation and local bargaining. Equal opportunities Wärtsilä is committed to fostering equal employment opportunities, in which individuals are selected and treated on the basis of their job-relevant merits and abilities and are given equal opportunities within Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä's policy is to treat all employees equally on the basis of their merits, without discriminating them on the basis of their race, ethnic or national origin, colour, gender, family status, sexual orientation, creed, disability, age, or political beliefs. Employee benefits and rremuneration emuneration The basic principle for remuneration in the company is to pay the same wage for the same job and the same performance. The salary is meant to be just, fair, and encouraging. Differences in individual salaries are based on how demanding the job is, on differences between competence, work experience, and performance, and not on gender. In general, temporary and part-time employees are offered the same benefits as permanent employees. In some countries, eligibility is linked to months or years of service – such differences being typically based on collective agreements according to local legislation. Individual salaries are reviewed once a year in connection with the performance review and in the framework of annual salary increase guidance. The company may pay employees an annual bonus in accordance with company rules and based on separate bonus agreements. Based on financial and individual performance, the bonus outcome is determined once a year. Employees may be paid a spot bonus based on exceptional performance. Benefits, such as a company car, service year award, and well-being, fitness, and health services, are planned and implemented locally taking into account both company guidelines and national practices. Minimum notice period Wärtsilä complies with European Union directives, local acts of co-operation in the companies and corporations, collective agreements and equivalent regulations concerning consultation and local bargaining. Concerning the termination of employment, Wärtsilä respects national labour union agreements and employment legislation. In the case of occurrences having significant business or social implications, such as personnel redundancies, the transfer in full or part of production facility location, structural changes, as well as transnational effects, the EWC Working Committee and/or local employee representatives are consulted before decisions about such matters are made or, if that is not possible, as soon as possible. The objective is to provide information about any significant operational change at the time of planning. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 52 Competency management Wärtsilä's Competency Management and Development frame is a structured way to carry out long-term competence development plans within our businesses and functions. Wärtsilä has defined 16 global job families consisting of generic job descriptions for seven different demand levels. In the job description, the most critical competencies of the job are defined and used as a basis for individual position competence requirements. Typically, in the connection of annual development discussion, individual competencies are assessed against the job requirements and position profile. Competence assessment of our employees and a comparison with competence targets allow us to analyse competence gaps and create development plans accordingly. All learning and development activities in Wärtsilä strive to develop, maintain, and renew the shortand long-term skills and competencies required to fulfil our strategy. Having the right competencies available at the right time and being able to continuously adapt to a changing business environment are critical success factors for Wärtsilä. Consultation and information pr procedur ocedureses in Gr Group oup companies Wärtsilä's procedures for consultation and information within the Group are arranged in each country according to local legislation. Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct calls for ongoing and open dialogue between the company's management and employee representatives through co-determination bodies, and employees are kept informed of both the Group's situation and that of their particular company. Company management and personnel engage in an open discussion also in those countries where there are no formal co-determination bodies as such. Regular briefings for personnel are an integral part of the operating procedures of Wärtsilä companies. Employee participation in decision-making also extends to occupational health and safety (OHS). Most Wärtsilä units have an OHS committee with representatives from all personnel groups. In addition to Wärtsilä's procedures for consultation and information for employees at the local level, the European Works Council (EWC) handles issues that affect at least two companies located in the EU and the Group as a whole. The EWC and its working committee play an active role in considering and pursuing transnational issues. Dialogue at the individual level is conducted through development discussions, which are held at least once a year. The subjects covered in these discussions range from the Group's and business unit's targets to the individual's job description, competence development, career alternatives, personal targets, and feedback. Development discussions are by definition held with all employees. Employees are able to have a direct impact on the company's operations and their development by making suggestions. Each Wärtsilä employee can offer suggestions for improvement in operations either through the continuous improvement process (CIP) or by submitting private initiatives. CIP-proposals are discussed jointly and need a common decision to be put into effect. Individual initiatives are evaluated by experts within the company and, if found to be feasible, are put into effect. Another global channel for new ideas is SPARK, a Wärtsilä-wide collaborative innovation platform which enables the handling of ideas in a transparent and efficient way, and gives all Wärtsilä employees the opportunity to be a part of the ideation process. Business performance updates are given to all personnel on a regular basis in connection with Wärtsilä interim reporting. The company intranet Compass'' and the employee magazines are the common global channels for internal communication. Recognition of excellent performance Wärtsilä encourages its employees to be innovative by granting an annual Technology and Innovation Award either to an individual or to a team for the best technical innovation of the year. The award criteria are that the invention must be innovative and environmentally sound, it must represent leading technology, improve a product or process, and offer potential for cost savings. Wärtsilä also grants annually a Customer Care Award for a team or individual who actively participated in the initiatives leading to development of business operations, quality improvements in how we serve and partner with customers, customer satisfaction, or Wärtsilä values demonstration. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 53 Anchor Management system Wärtsilä's management system aims to generate added value for Wärtsilä's various stakeholders, achieve the company's strategic objectives, support sustainability performance, manage operating risks, and enhance Wärtsilä's performance through the continuous improvement process. The system includes a range of tools, such as systems for managing quality, the company's environmental responsibilities, and occupational health and safety. Management reviews are conducted at various levels of the organisation to monitor the effectiveness of the system, the achievement of targets, and the development of key performance indicators. Wärtsilä's processes are developed in the Businesses, the Business lines, and the Functions. These development projects are governed by the Wärtsilä Controllers’ meeting and OD Portfolio Management Team, Wärtsilä Presidents’ Quality Reviews, the Functional Management Teams, and Wärtsilä Digital Leadership team. Wärtsilä's Board of Management is responsible for defining the company's main strategies, principles and policies, and for the management system itself. The Board of Management regularly monitors the effectiveness and performance of the management system. Responsibilities are distributed to the line organisation at all levels of the company, and the management system defines a specific sphere of responsibility for each Wärtsilä employee. Work groups for developing the management system are appointed at the corporate level and in most Wärtsilä subsidiaries. At the Group level, the following work groups coordinate the development of product and operational issues: Work grgroup oup Focus Main tasks Wärtsilä Presidents’ Quality Overall responsibility for Wärtsilä's quality, quality Quality Review process improvement, and achievement of strategic quality goals. Wärtsilä Controllers’ Strategic operational Overall responsibility for Wärtsilä's operational Meeting development development and the operational development plans, and governing the work of IM and Process development. Business Line Quality Support and oversee quality development based Quality Reviews on customer perception of our quality and full endto-end lifecycle view. Platform for focusing on the key improvement areas with the biggest impact to our customers. Cross-functional decision making to increase efficiency and shorten resolution lead time. Digital Leadership Group Digital solutions and The divisions drive Wärtsilä’s Digital strategy Team Platforms through digital roadmaps. The Digital Leadership Team ensures alignment across all digital initiatives through roadmap alignment and portfolio management. Wärtsilä OD Portfolio Operational development Operational development road map, targets, and Management Team guidelines based on business strategies and targets, and overall operational development process responsibility for the approval of the Wärtsilä Controllers’ Team. Cross-divisional operational development alignment and harmonisation. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 54 Wärtsilä EHSS Environmental, health and Overall responsibility for Wärtsilä EHSS, EHSS Management Team safety and security (EHSS) management system development, corporate level EHSS measuring and target setting, and monitoring of legislation developments. Management systems Pr Proportion oportion of W Wärtsilä ärtsilä companies with certification Quality (ISO 9001) 93% Environment (ISO 14001) 67% Occupational health and safety (ISO 18001) 69% Anchor People management Wärtsilä’s People Strategy, as an integral part of group strategy, supports the company’s businesses and the successful implementation of their ambitions. This is achieved by developing the company’s organisation, competencies and way of working to meet both current and future business needs. The key focus areas of the strategy are the further development of leadership skills and a leadership culture, as well as an emphasis on high performance and operational excellence throughout the organisation. Strengthening accountability and ownership is encouraged by promoting employee engagement through a culture of open communication, integrity, and innovation. At the same time, the strategic actions are aimed at ensuring that the businesses have the required resources and skilled and motivated people at their disposal. This involves the readiness to make changes within the organisation, a continuous focus on competence development and performance excellence, emphasising quality in the setting of targets, proper and regular feedback, the evaluation of overall performance, and recognition of outstanding performance. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 55 Wärtsilä Human Resources works to develop people management processes, tools, and ways of working that are consistent across national and organisational boundaries. In particular, an intensive effort has been made to further promote the skills needed in people management. In 2018, the focus of the performance management process continued to be on improving the feedback process within the organisation and supporting line managers in their daily leadership role. Wärtsilä Human Resources invests in technologies and tools that enable quick access to online reports, employee information, and annual compensation planning for both local and multi-country teams. Transforming company cultur culturee Together with the company’s digital transformation initiatives, Wärtsilä promotes new ways of working and a company culture that is defined for a changing world. Wärtsilä's purpose is driving all our activities, and the company’s values of “Energy, Excellence and Excitement” are strengthened by the diversity of its employees. Wärtsilä aims to capture opportunities and make things happen, to do things better than any of its competitors, and to foster openness, respect, and trust while creating an exciting work environment. A diverse workforce generates innovation, higher profits, has better complex problem-solving skills, and enables access to a larger talent pool. Performance management One of the essential elements of Wärtsilä’s People Strategy is to embrace and develop a culture of performance excellence throughout the organisation. Coaching to achieve better performance through smart target setting, together with continuous and real-time feedback, is central to this aim. The well-executed performance management process supports Wärtsilä in reaching its business targets by translating business strategies into team and individual objectives. Each Wärtsilä employee needs to know and understand Wärtsilä's business strategies and their goals. More importantly, everyone needs to know the main targets set for their own units, and the target areas related to their own work. Greater attention has been given to the quality and impact of the process by emphasising the importance of continuous feedback, clarifying expected behaviours, and creating opportunities for both professional and personal growth. Good coverage of the annual development discussions has continued globally, with 96.1% being achieved in 2018. As a part of the performance management process, each employee receives performance feedback and an evaluation based on their overall job performance, as well as a personal development plan for the future. Overall performance evaluation is one of the considerations in compensation decisions, and is in line with the principle of performance-based rewarding. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 56 Lear Learning ning and T Talent alent development In 2018, Wärtsilä continued its leadership development activities in many areas. New learning solutions for line managers have been developed to support them in their people management and leadership roles. The annual executive development programme (LLP) was held in November, and four other global leadership development programmes for senior managers were held during the year. The first implementation of the Growth Lab programme, which focuses on future leaders’ development, was kicked off in August 2016, with the third running of the programme being started in August 2018. Twenty Wärtsilä managers and future leaders, with 7 to 15 years’ work experience, were selected for this action learning programme based on applications. The participants have been given three project assignments by the Board of Management. These projects are aimed at analysing and building possible future business opportunities. The third Growth Lab programme will end at the end of April 2019. Wärtsilä’s HR organisation has developed the Operational Excellence Academy learning framework, and an Operational Excellence learning portal with supporting materials for all those staff members in the organisation involved in leading operational excellence. Close to 2,000 Wärtsilä managers and employees have participated in the programme during 2016, 2017 and 2018. The aim of the OE Academy is not only to learn, but to establish operational excellence as an integral part of the company culture and way of working, and to ensure continuous efficiency improvement. Learning on the job, self-learning, mentoring, coaching, job rotation, and assignments designed to encourage competence development and the sharing of competence and skills by experienced employees with their younger colleagues, are integral parts of the development of knowledge and competence within the company. Employees are given formal classroom training at all organisational levels; from induction training for new employees, to training courses for the company's top executives. Wärtsilä employees attended a total of 41,258 training days during 2018; an average of 2.2 training days per employee. Engagement At Wärtsilä, equal opportunities and opportunities for professional and personal growth are core principles. The company supports its employees in self-imposed learning and in finding their own career path within the company. Recruiting and retaining the best talent enables Wärtsilä to be a valued business partner to its customers, and the employer of choice for current and future employees. In autumn 2017, it was decided that Wärtsilä will invest in a new recruitment system and, more importantly, in the development of recruitment and onboarding processes. The system was launched in August of 2018. Through this change Wärtsilä endeavours to attract new talent, improve the candidates’ experience, and promote Wärtsilä’s employer brand. MyVoice is the Wärtsilä employee engagement survey, where all Wärtsilä employees are invited to give their feedback on topics related to leadership, culture, development and work. A MyVoice Survey has been conducted globally since 2004 at approximately two year intervals. During the years, MyVoice has been proven to be an important means for developing our way of working and strengthening our work culture. In 2018, the survey was updated to better meet our current needs. The renewed survey is shorter and gives more attention to engagement and motivation. It is completely online and available on mobile devices. The survey will be conducted globally once a year in the future, instead of every two years. The new MyVoice survey is available in 17 languages and was conducted in January 2019. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 57 Anchor Envir Environmental onmental management One of the three key ingredients in Wärtsilä’s purpose of “enabling sustainable societies with smart technology” is to achieve a clean environment. Wärtsilä´s environmental management practices give full support to reaching this goal. For Wärtsilä, environmental responsibility has two dimensions: products and operations. Most of the efforts to improve the company’s environmental performance, including its operations, are conducted as part of the product development and improvement processes. This work is supported by operational measures, which are based on achieving high environmental standards and which seek constant improvement. The continual improvement in environmental performance requires the organisation to consistently work in a systematic way. This work is guided by the company’s strategy and its environmental targets, the Code of Conduct, and policies relating to Quality, Environment, Health and Safety, and it is coordinated and monitored by the crossbusiness EHSS Management Team. In developing its operations, processes and products, Wärtsilä endeavours to utilise the latest technologies available for improving efficiency in areas such as material and energy consumption, as well as for reducing and managing emissions and waste throughout the lifecycle of its products and services. Wärtsilä continuously develops and improves its operations and products with the help of certified environmental management systems. The principle means is to apply certified Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) management systems based on ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 in all Group companies, excluding those companies focusing purely on sales. Wärtsilä’s EHS management systems cover all operations carried out by its subsidiaries. This promotes environmental protection and allows the reduction of adverse impacts to be carried out on a wide front. The company's EHS management system emphasises compliance with legal requirements, identifying and reducing environmental impacts and risks, training personnel and clearly defining their responsibilities, the full documentation of activities and procedures, actions to be taken in emergencies, and the continuous improvement of environmental performance. The company's subsidiaries and business units set their own targets for covering the significant environmental aspects of their operations, and for monitoring the overall performance of their management systems. At the end of 2018, 56 Wärtsilä companies operated with a certified environmental management system. These certified environmental management systems cover roughly 86% of Wärtsilä's total workforce. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 58 Anchor Occupational health and safety Wärtsilä's occupational health and safety principles are defined in the Code of Conduct, the company's Quality, Environmental, Health and Safety (QEHS) Policy, and in the directive on environment, health, and safety (EHS). Wärtsilä's subsidiaries are required to have a management system in place that conforms to the QEHS Policy and the EHS directive. The main aspects of the management system relate to compliance with legislation, identifying and minimising occupational health and safety risks, personnel training, implementing effective health and safety programmes and instructions, recording and investigating occurred incidents, and the continual improvement of occupational health and safety performance. At the end of 2018, 57 Wärtsilä companies, covering roughly 86% of Wärtsilä's total workforce, operated with a certified occupational health and safety management system in place. In addition to the management system, Wärtsilä companies apply occupational health and safety programmes as required by local legislation. These are normally developed by occupational health and safety committees made up of company management and personnel representatives. Altogether, 78% of all Wärtsilä companies currently have an occupational health and safety committee. The indicators used to measure occupational health and safety performance include the number of accidents, the time of absence due to sickness, the frequency of accidents, and the number of near miss / hazard observation reports. Wärtsilä has set a corporate level target of achieving zero injuries. This target is a long-term commitment from the company to strengthen the safety culture, and it requires actions from all Wärtsilä companies and employees. The safety performance of each company is monitored on a monthly basis, and the results are reviewed by the Board of Management. To further strengthen Wärtsilä’s safety culture, a global programme known as ZeroMindset has been introduced. ZeroMindset focuses on three key elements: leadership, the shared safety mindset of individuals, and effective safety tools and practices. During 2017-2018, the main focus of the ZeroMindset programme has been on leadership, and 3,200 Wärtsilä management level employees have participated in face-to face “Leader in Safety, Leader in Business” workshops led by certified local facilitators throughout the Wärtsilä network. The first group to participate in this workshop was Wärtsilä’s Board of Management, followed by 21 senior business management teams. In addition, Wärtsilä held its fourth global Safety Day, which took place on 15 March 2018 at Wärtsilä locations all around the world. Employees spent the day learning about road traffic safety, the importance of being aware of the risks, and helping others to make safe choices when travelling on the road. This Safety Day was a great success throughout the entire Wärtsilä network. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 59 Intr Introduced oduced activity Description Lost time injury tracking Safety performance is reviewed on a monthly basis by the Board of and targets Management, and targets are set on a yearly basis. OSHAS 18001 QEHS Management is certified based on the OHSAS 18001 standard within the Management systems business organisations. Safety Flashes Safety flash reports are lessons learned from occurred injuries and near misses, and which are distributed globally within the organisation. Zero Injury Training Global training consists of e-learning (4h) and a practical workshop (4h). Management Safety A leadership tool that involves holding conversations on safety with employees. walks Global Safety Day An annual safety celebration that takes place throughout the Wärtsilä network. The theme changes every year. Stop work authority Wärtsilä QEHS policy authorises everybody to stop work in unsafe situations. Leader in Safety, Leader A leadership safety engagement training programme for all line managers and in business employees who have direct impact on front line operations. Duration is for one day. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 60 Anchor Responsible business conduct Human and labour rights Wärtsilä supports and respects basic human values as outlined in the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Wärtsilä also supports the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, of which six principles are related to Human and Labour rights. Wärtsilä's employees represent 137 nationalities. The company supports fair and equal treatment of all its employees. Wärtsilä supports the work-related rights defined by the International Labour Organization. Therefore, the company works to ensure that there is freedom of association and right to collective bargaining in the company. In those countries where local legislation does not recognise these rights, Wärtsilä endeavours to give employees other channels for expressing their opinions. Wärtsilä does not accept the use of forced labour or child labour in any form. Human and Labour rights are a part of the Wärtsilä Code of Conduct training material and also the Wärtsilä Supplier Handbook. At the end of 2018, 89.8% of Wärtsilä’s employees had successfully completed the renewed Code of Conduct training. Pr Preventing eventing corruption and bribery Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption Policy, as well as specific Policies implemented for sales intermediaries, namely Agent, Broker and Distributor Policies, expressly prohibit the company and its employees from offering or accepting any kind of benefit considered to be a bribe and from taking actions that could give rise to a conflict of interest or breach of loyalty. The instructions make it compulsory to comply with anti-corruption laws of all the countries in which Wärtsilä does or intends to do business and urge the reporting of any cases of corruption and bribery. The company continues to rendering an extensive training programme for its personnel on anti-corruption principles and applicable legislation as well as the relevant company policies and procedures. At the end of 2018, 91.8% of Wärtsilä’s employees had successfully completed the Anti-corruption training. Political lobbying Wärtsilä's policy is to engage in an open dialogue and discussion with both local and international public authorities and officials. The aim of the dialogue is to share information and improve the quality of regulation. Wärtsilä participates in public consultations in the areas of importance to the company. Wärtsilä is part of the Transparency Register of the European Commission. Competition rregulation egulation In 2018, Wärtsilä launched a fully updated competition compliance programme aiming at further improved risk management, and the company's management is strongly committed to implementing this programme. The new programme builds upon an e-learning module, which is based upon a fully updated competition law manual, both providing information and guidance for Wärtsilä’s personnel. In addition, competition compliance trainings were held in 2018 for the Board of Management as well as other relevant personnel in order to promote knowledge of competition laws and full compliance therewith. Security management Wärtsilä has a corporate security policy and various guidelines, which incorporate human rights considerations and international best practices. Wärtsilä’s security management principles and strategies are reviewed and approved in the Wärtsilä Security Steering Group, which consists of Presidents of each Business, Executive Vice Presidents for Digitalisation, Corporate Relations and Legal Affairs, as well as Finance and Control and security professionals. Security management in Wärtsilä is divided into six specific security areas: Personnel, Premises, Information, Cyber, Crisis Management, and Travel Security. Operational security management in these areas is implemented on the business and local level. Wärtsilä prefers security service providers who are members of ICoCA (International Code of Conduct Association). This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 61 Local community appr approach oach Wärtsilä aims to contribute towards the well-being of local communities in which the company is present. This can be reached, for example, by creating employment, paying taxes and social dues, providing training and education to employees, co-operating with local stakeholders, and by supporting local development. The guiding principle of Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct is to promote openness and good interaction with its stakeholders locally. This applies as much to the families of personnel, our neighbours, educational institutions, and the media, as to local authorities and officials. The methods used towards this end include Open Door days, press briefings, and different modes of communication for different target groups. As a truly international company, Wärtsilä has delivered solutions to more than 170 countries. Wärtsilä supports its solutions globally during their entire lifecycle, often spanning up to 30 years. Thus, Wärtsilä can at times be present in countries facing various uprisings, ethnic conflicts, area disputes, or violations of human rights. Conducting business locally emphasises the importance of responsible business practices. Governments and the international community define the proper framework for companies to conduct their business. Wärtsilä complies with relevant legislation and international conventions. Wärtsilä complies with all relevant guidelines of the OECD and the International Chamber of Commerce and with the sanctions set by the United Nations and the European Union, by supporting their implementation. In addition, the Wärtsilä Code of Conduct applies to all Wärtsilä employees. We are committed to sustainable development and responsible business conduct, and we promote the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact within the sphere of our influence. Wärtsilä's impact on employment, the public sector, and the company's activities for charitable purposes are described in the Economic Performance section of this report. Measures to evaluate the impacts on local communities in case of operational changes of Wärtsilä subsidiaries are determined case by case. Anchor Pr Product oduct design principles Wärtsilä strives to develop environmentally sound, safe, and reliable products and solutions for its customers. By providing lifecycle maintenance, reconditioning, and retrofitting services for its products, Wärtsilä is able to support its customers' operations throughout the entire life of service of Wärtsilä products. Reconditioning of engines and components increases the reliable service life of the products. Modernising can improve current operational performance of installations and enables customers' operations to meet tightening future regulative requirements. Meeting rregulatory egulatory rrequir equirements ements The majority of the international environmental policies and requirements for Wärtsilä’s products and solutions are set by the International Maritime Organization (IMO), and the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank (WB) group. On the regional or national level, organisations such as the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE), the European Union (EU), and the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and other emission standards such as in Germany, Japan, and India, are also important policy and regulatory directors for Wärtsilä products. The IMO is responsible for adopting its own standards for the safety and security of shipping and the prevention and control of marine pollution and emissions from vessels. The IMO regulates nitrogen oxides and fuel sulphur content as well as ballast water treatment procedures and limitations. Wärtsilä's engines are designed to meet the requirements of the EU Machinery Legislation, the IMO Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) and other relevant safety directives. Wärtsilä's propulsion systems are designed to comply with the SOLAS and safety requirements of relevant classification bodies. Type approval is acquired from classification societies before new products are launched. Wärtsilä's ship design follows class society and flag state rules in the design process to secure safe and compliant designs for its clients. Class approval is required for drawings and calculations to be delivered to the client before construction of the vessel starts. The IFC provides general and industry specific examples of Good International Industry Practice (GIIP) such as the Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) Guidelines for Thermal Power Plants, which is today considered the This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 62 minimum environmental standard in larger global power plant projects. The EHS guidelines together with the IFC’s Environmental and Social Performance Standards are adhered to in most of the projects financed by international financial institutions in emerging markets. In the EU, the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) and the Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD) set the main requirements for large and medium-sized combustion plants to lower emissions from different industrial sources throughout the EU. In order to ensure Wärtsilä’s ability to respond to future regulation requirements, the company actively monitors legislative initiatives and changes in environmental legislation. As a result, Wärtsilä has focused its R&D activities on the development of new environmentally sound products and solutions that meet the future demands of the changing operating environment. Lifecycle appr approach oach Wärtsilä's products have a long operational life. Therefore, identifying the lifecycle impacts of our products is essential for understanding their total environmental impact. Wärtsilä manages the lifecycle of its products through product design, careful selection of suppliers, production methods, optimising transportation, maintenance and repair during the operational lifetime of the products, and by training and advising our customers in using the products and systems in the most efficient way. Wärtsilä offers service agreements and products that help customers to optimise their operations. Furthermore, Wärtsilä actively supports customers in selecting suitable solutions in the early phase of projects. Wärtsilä's products are delivered with adequate user guides that include basic information about the products and full instructions for their use. In addition, Wärtsilä provides specific training to ensure environmentally sound and safe utilisation of Wärtsilä’s products at customers’ daily operations. Anchor Supply chain management Suppliers play a significant role in our delivery process. We aim to have close and excellent relationships with our key suppliers in order to ensure that both parties understand and comply with our strict process and product requirements. Apart from financial benefits, close relationships stimulate knowledge sharing, create an environment of innovation, and integrate more strongly strategic suppliers into Wärtsilä's value chain. Wärtsilä has an extensive supply base with around 27,000 active suppliers, most of whom are located in Europe, where we have our main production units. We are also continuously investing in developing a strong supply chain network in Asia. Wärtsilä supplier rrequir equirements ements Wärtsilä has defined processes for selecting suppliers, determining their compliance with Wärtsilä requirements, and developing the supply relationship. We offer our suppliers a partnership that strengthens the competitiveness of both parties. A precondition of this partnership is an open and continuous dialogue. The partnership approach is also applied in Wärtsilä's research and development activities, in which we often collaborate with universities, research institutes, and key suppliers. In addition to requirements relating to general features and product-specific issues, Wärtsilä has clear expectations towards its suppliers in terms of compliance with relevant legislation, environmental, quality, and occupational health and safety management, and social performance. Suppliers must demonstrate their compliance with these requirements in order to receive approved supplier status. These requirements are also included in standard supply contracts. Wärtsilä monitors that suppliers comply with these requirements by using performance indicators and conducting various types of audits. Supplier assessment and selection Wärtsilä assesses and manages its suppliers through its Supplier Management System. Wärtsilä assesses potential new suppliers before the supplier relationship begins, in a pre-assessment phase. For suppliers of higher criticality and risk, in terms of management system, offered scope and geographical location, this phase is more advanced, This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 63 including audits for the most critical ones. Audits are also conducted for existing suppliers whose performance does not meet Wärtsilä's requirements. In addition, performance reviews are carried out to identify and solve issuespecific deviations from the Wärtsilä’s supplier requirements. As part of the supplier evaluation, Wärtsilä conducts a rating based upon Wärtsilä's supplier requirements. This rating is a result of an assessment of various information sources, such as pre-assessment questionnaires, dialogue with suppliers, and conducted audits. Based on this rating, the suppliers receive a status: approved, approved with remarks, or banned. The rating is reviewed regularly, as are the results of conducted audits. Wärtsilä rreached eached its supplier rating coverage targets for 2018 By the end of 2018, we rated 763 out of our 1,199 direct global suppliers, which covers 97% of the related spend (target for the year was 96%). The rating coverage of local supplier spend was 82% (target 80%), and of indirect supplier spend 77% (target 70%). In 2018, 32 suppliers were banned because of non-compliance with Wärtsilä’s requirements, including 17 for sustainability reasons. Wärtsilä develops its supply management system on a regular basis. In 2018, Wärtsilä launched a risk-based supplier assessment and management system for new suppliers. The tool will be applied in 2019 also to existing suppliers. All existing suppliers are required to submit the self-assessment by the end of 2020. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 64 Anchor Sustainability data Anchor Economic Wärtsilä's objective is to achieve profitable growth and create long-term value for our shareholders and society at large. Achieving this depends on our ability to satisfy the expectations of multiple stakeholders. These include providing customers with high-quality and environmentally sound products, solutions and services, building longterm partnerships with suppliers, offering employees competitive compensation and working conditions, as well as contributing to the well-being of the local communities in which Wärtsilä operate. Good economic performance establishes a platform for the other aspects of sustainability – environmental and social responsibility. Economic performance Dir Direct ect economic value generated and distributed (GRI 201-1) MEUR 2018 2017* 2016 2015 2014 Customers Net sales 5 174 4 911 4 801 5 029 4 779 Suppliers Cost of goods, materials, and services purchased 3 327 3 024 2 969 3 136 3 066 Value added 1 847 1 888 1 831 1 893 1 713 Distribution of value added Distributed to stakeholders 1 615 1 651 1 593 1 555 1 475 Employees Wages and salaries 954 1 000 939 935 906 Public sector Taxes and social dues 336 331 343 349 313 Cr Creditors editors Net financial items -40 -47 -53 -34 -28 Shar Shareholder eholder Dividends 284 272 256 237 227 Communities Donations given 1 1 2 1 1 For business development 232 237 238 338 239 *Restated due to IFRS 15. 2018 2017* 2016 2015 2014 Customers Net sales (MEUR) 5 174 4 911 4 801 5 029 4 779 Net sales by market area (MEUR) Europe 1 485 1 526 1 581 1 566 1 402 Asia 1 867 1 933 1 774 2 051 1 989 Americas 1 245 1 132 1 039 1 006 840 Africa 283 221 313 329 398 Other 294 100 94 78 150 Suppliers Cost of goods, materials, and services purchased (MEUR) 3 327 3 024 2 969 3 136 3 066 Employees Salaries and wages (MEUR) 954 1 000 939 935 906 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 65 Salaries and wages by market area (MEUR) Europe 643 689 650 632 637 Asia 150 156 153 163 144 Americas 134 130 110 112 99 Africa 20 18 19 21 18 Other 7 7 7 8 8 Net sales/employee (TEUR) 274 275 262 271 265 Public sector Taxes and social dues (MEUR) 336 331 343 349 313 Taxes and social costs by market area (MEUR) Europe 252 236 246 246 220 Asia 38 44 45 50 42 Americas 33 38 47 44 37 Africa 10 12 5 6 12 Other 4 1 0 2 2 Subsidies received (TEUR) 7 085 9 891 8 343 9 669 11 486 Net financial items (MEUR) -40 -47 -53 -34 -28 Community Donations given, Board of Directors (TEUR) 110 110 1 365 110 110 Donations given, Wärtsilä companies (TEUR) 627 673 533 511 608 *Restated due to IFRS 15. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change (GRI 201-2) Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A is the only subsidiary that falls into the scope of the EU Emission Trading Scheme (ETS) because of the heating plant of the factory. The EU ETS has not had any impact on the company's profitability. Wärtsilä's response to climate change is to develop and provide products, solutions, and services that enable our customers to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. More information about Wärtsilä's solutions for climate change can be found on our website: www.wartsila.com. The potential business risks related to climate change and Wärtsilä's products are presented under the sustainability and climate change chapter under the Risks and risk management section. Defined benefit plan obligations and other rretir etirement ement plans (GRI 201-3) The pension cover is based on the legislation and agreements in force in each country. In Finland, most of the pension obligations are covered by the Employee Pensions system (TyEL). The largest defined benefit plans are used in Switzerland, Germany, Great Britain and Sweden. Most of these defined benefit pension plans are managed by pension funds, and their assets are not included in the Group's assets. Wärtsilä's subsidiaries make their payments to pension funds in accordance with the local legislation and practices in each country. Authorised actuaries in each country have performed the actuarial calculations required for the defined benefit plans. More information on the Group's pension obligations can be found in the Financial Review, Note 23. Pension obligations. Financial assistance rreceived eceived fr from om gover government nment (GRI 201-4) Subsidies received (TEUR) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 7 085 9 891 8 343 9 669 11 486 The value of the subsidies received in 2018 was EUR 7 085 thousand and they were among others related to R&D projects. The most contributing countries in 2018 were Finland and Spain. Market pr presence esence Ratios of standar standardd entry level wage by gender compar compared ed to local minimum wage (GRI 202-1) Wärtsilä applies and follows local employment legislation in all countries, and respects local collective labour agreements, which often define the minimum wage levels. In addition, entry level salaries are benchmarked against the market references by function and educational qualification. While laws and regulations determine the minimum level, the actual salaries often exceed these levels. A total compensation package for employees in each country is in line with the corporate rewarding guidelines, local market practices, and labour agreements. The base salary is set to meet market conditions, the demands of the job, and individual competence and performance. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 66 Pr Proportion oportion of senior management hir hired ed fr from om the local community (GRI 202-2) Wärtsilä always publishes all open vacancies internally, thus ensuring an equal opportunity to apply for Wärtsilä positions. If there is no specific reason, such as a competence transfer need from other countries, to hire expatriates to the position, local residents are hired. This principle also applies to senior management positions. Senior management consists of global business and corporate management and local company management positions. Globally, 80% of Wärtsilä's senior management is locally hired, in other words from the same country as the Wärtsilä subsidiary they work for. Anchor Envir Environment onment The environmental impacts of Wärtsilä's operations largely relate to manufacturing. The main environmental aspects of manufacturing relate to the use of energy and natural resources and thus also to the emissions that are produced by the manufacturing processes. Product development also requires the testing of products and individual components which, alongside manufacturing, loads the environment. However, the positive impacts of product improvements on the environment far outweigh the negative impacts of testing when taking the product's entire lifecycle into account. Materials Materials used by weight or volume (GRI 301-1) The main materials used in Wärtsilä products are various metals: cast iron, alloy and structural steel, aluminium alloys, and bronze. In 2018, the total material usage was 103,332 tons (73,738). The major material groups were various metals 83%, sand 13%, and various chemicals 1%. Materials 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total material usage (t) 103 332 73 738 84 913 100 767 88 736 Metals (t) 85 820 55 416 59 898 73 285 65 363 Sand (t) 13 055 13 493 18 399 20 915 16 445 Chemicals (t) 1 422 1 575 1 831* 5 025 5 447 Others (t) 3 035 3 255 3 601 1 542 1 481 * A substantial error in reporting classifications was corrected in 2016, meaning that the figure is not directly comparable to earlier years. Recycled input materials used (GRI 301-2) The main materials used in Wärtsilä products are various metals: cast iron, alloy and structural steel, aluminium alloys and bronze. Recycled material content of these metals vary depending on the material and supplier in question. Recycled material, such as end-of-life coins and bronze propellers, is used for example in the casting of new propellers. Energy Energy consumption within the organisation (GRI 302-1) The total energy consumption (in terajoules, TJ) includes the electricity, heat, and fuels used in Wärtsilä companies in recent years. The fuels are used mainly in engine testing, but also in heating, production, and transportation. In 2018, the fuels were from non-renewable sources. Wärtsilä uses electricity in its manufacturing operations for example in machining components and in service workshops and offices. Both the electrical and the heat energy generated during engine test runs can be utilised. Wärtsilä's aim is to use the electrical energy for its own purposes while also selling part of this electrical energy to local power companies. Due to the nature of engine test runs, the production of electricity and the company's electricity demand are not equivalent; this allows the surplus energy to be sold to local power companies. Heating for factories and offices accounts for most of Wärtsilä's consumption of heat energy. In several factories, the heat generated in engine test runs is used for heating. Some factories and offices are connected to a local district heating network, some have their own heating plant, and some use electricity for heating. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 67 Energy 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total energy consumption (TJ) 1 538 1 477 1 471 1 539 1 475 Electricity consumption (MWh) 132 572 131 960 139 363 142 819 140 713 Purchased electricity (MWh) 128 878 128 176 132 771 131 501 131 896 Generated electricity (MWh) 3 694 3 784 6 592 11 318 8 817 Sold electricity (MWh) 32 019 28 066 23 620 21 834 25 548 Heat consumption (MWh) 32 937 36 890 33 542 30 161 25 073 Light fuel oil (t) 6 223 4 327 3 918 4 801 4 461 Heavy fuel oils (t) 3 381 3 798 3 647 3 675 3 579 Natural gas (t) 9 783 8 393 8 614 9 750 8 721 Other fuels (t) 1 238 2 811 3 209 2 834 3 348 Energy intensity (GRI 302-3) Energy 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total energy consumption (TJ/ Net sales) 0.300 0.308 0.313 0.334 0.319 Reduction of energy consumption (GRI 302-4) From the start of 2017, Wärtsilä set an energy saving target to reduce energy consumption by at least 7% in terms of absolute consumption (GWh) by 2025, compared to the energy consumption in 2015. By the second year to the target, permanent energy savings of 2.9 GWh have been reached, mainly by reducing electricity or heat consumption. Wärtsilä's previous energy saving target period was launched in 2008 and ended in 2016, resulting in permanent energy savings of 43.3 GWh. Energy savings 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Annual energy savings (GWh) 2.0 0.9 1.3 4.6 1.9 Cumulative energy savings (GWh) 2.9 0.9 43.3 42.0 37.5 Water Water withdrawal by sour source ce (GRI 303-1) Wärtsilä's water consumption can be divided into two categories: domestic use and cooling use. Domestic water is used mainly for sanitary purposes and by industrial equipment, such as machine tools and washing machines. Some factories also use domestic water to produce moulds or to fill in their closed-loop cooling system needs. Wärtsilä uses seawater for its engine and process cooling needs. Total annual water consumption split by the water withdrawal source: Out of cooling water about 99% comes from local surface watercourses where only heat is released along with clean water, and about 1% of cooling water comes from municipal water utilities. Out of Wärtsilä’s total water consumption in 2018, about 95% was seawater for cooling purposes, about 5% was from municipal water supplies, and about 0.5% was directly withdrawn groundwater or rain water. Water 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total water consumption (1 000 m³) 12 607 12 749 8 444 6 971 7 774 Consumption of domestic water (1 000 m³) 652 631 613 703 683 Consumption of cooling water (1 000 m³) 11 954 12 118 7 831 6 268 7 091 Water sour sourcesces significantly af affected fected by withdrawal of water (GRI 303-2) No water source has been found to be significantly affected by any Wärtsilä subsidiary water withdrawal. Per Percentage centage and total volume of W Water ater rrecycled ecycled and rreused eused (GRI 303-3) Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A. recycled 122,557 m³ of water in 2018 by running it through a water treatment plant and reusing the cleaned water in production processes. The amount corresponds to roughly 35% of Wärtsilä Italia’s annual water consumption and 1% of Wärtsilä’s total water consumption in 2018. No other major water recycling processes are in use in Wärtsilä production facilities globally. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 68 Emissions Gr Greenhouse eenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and intensity (GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4) In addition to direct CO2 emissions, Wärtsilä’s operations generate indirect CO2 emissions. In 2018, the calculated secondary CO2e emissions (location-based method) were 47,347 tons (56,002) (from purchased electricity and heat) and the CO2e emissions from flights totalled 44,652 tons (43,553). There were no biogenic CO2 emissions in 2018. GHG emissions (location-based) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Emissions of carbon dioxide (tCO2e) (direct) (SCOPE 1) 59 949 57 998 57 355 63 441 57 477 Emissions of carbon dioxide (tCO2e) (indirect) (SCOPE 2) 47 347 56 002 59 697 60 317 55 989 Emissions of carbon dioxide (tCO2e) (indirect) (SCOPE 3) * 208 330 155 537* 168 571* 39 033 39 619 GHG emissions intensity (all) 61.5 56.1 60.8 35.3 33.1 * Includes indirect emissions from materials, energy, and flights from 2016 onward. Pre-2016 figures only include emissions from flights. GHG emissions (market-based) 2018 Emissions of carbon dioxide (tCO2e) (direct) (SCOPE 1) 59 949 Emissions of carbon dioxide (tCO2e) (indirect) (SCOPE 2) 63 768 Emissions of carbon dioxide (tCO2e) (indirect) (SCOPE 3) 204 065 GHG emissions intensity (all) 63.9 Reduction of grgreenhouse eenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (GRI 305-5) Wärtsilä has taken several measures to reduce its indirect CO2 emissions. The energy efficiency commitment aims to reduce energy consumption and emissions. In addition, Wärtsilä’s focus lies on reducing travelling by implementing a strict travel policy and by using virtual meeting concepts: Skype instant messaging, which enables live chats between two people or more, Skype meetings allowing multi-person meetings from personal computers, in which presentation material can be shared, and the videoconferencing system. In Wärtsilä, Skype and videoconferences are in everyday use. Approximately 1,700 Skype conferences are arranged daily, and there are 150 video conference rooms in 46 countries. Additionally, several other collaboration tools have been taken into use. Although estimating the reductions from the above mentioned measures is not possible, several local measures have been estimated to have achieved permanent reductions of total 5,524 tons CO2e in 2018. Nitr Nitrogen ogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions (GRI 305-7) Air emissions are mainly caused by test runs and the painting of completed engines or other Wärtsilä products. Test run emissions consist of nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur dioxide (SOx), carbon dioxides (CO2) and particles, as well as small amounts of other emission components. The painting of engines and other Wärtsilä products generates VOC emissions (volatile organic compounds). Engine emissions are reduced through research and development, as well as product development and testing. These measures also generate emissions, but their results reduce the future emissions of manufactured engines. Emissions 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Emissions of nitrogen oxides (t) 545 534 500 553 519 Emissions of sulphur oxides (t) 55 62 59 63 76 Emissions of total hydrocarbons (t) 164 131 116 145 87 Particulates (t) 7 8 9 9 9 Emissions of VOC (t) 45 36 30 40 40 The primary sources of manufacturing noise are the engine test runs and the ventilation machinery on factory roofs. This noise is mostly low frequency and is therefore not easily detected by the human ear. Wärtsilä has specifically addressed the issue of noise protection using technical means and has succeeded in lowering noise levels considerably. However, noise abatement is a continuous need and requires regular monitoring. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 69 Ef Effluents fluents and waste Water discharge by quality and destination (GRI 306-1) Wärtsilä uses seawater for its engine and process cooling needs, in which case the cooling water system is kept separate so that only heat is released into the natural water system. Wastewater is sewered and piped to the local wastewater treatment plant or treated on site before being discharged. If the effluent is not suitable for discharge, it is taken away for appropriate processing, for example to a special treatment plant for hazardous wastes. Several Wärtsilä subsidiaries have environmental permits allowing clean or properly treated water discharge into natural water bodies. Most of this discharge is clean cooling water released back into local surface watercourse, where only heat is released. In 2018, the total amount of water discharge was 12,665,551 m³. Municipal Re-used by 2018 water discharge sewer Sea River Ground other entity Amount (m³) 219 844 11 950 057 471 100 23 942 608 % of total water discharge 2 94 4 0 0 Waste by type and disposal method (GRI 306-2) Manufacturing activities cause various wastes. These are divided into two main categories: hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Hazardous wastes include cutting fluids, various types of waste oil, paints and solvents, oily wastes, solid wastes, etc. Non-hazardous wastes include scrap metal, metal swarf, waste plastics, waste wood, domestic waste, cardboard, and paper waste. All Wärtsilä companies sort their waste according to local municipal regulations. Generally speaking, the main sorting categories are waste to be incinerated, waste for landfills, and waste for recycling. Waste management in Wärtsilä has four aims, listed in their order of priority: • to reduce the amount of waste generated in processes • to use waste as a material • to use waste as energy • to dispose of waste in an environmentally sound way Waste 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total waste (t) 36 025 32 580 50 020 52 037 46 829 Non-hazardous waste (t) 31 240 28 928 42 663 44 864 39 409 Hazardous waste (t) 4 785 3 651 7 357 7 173 7 420 Waste for landfills (t) 4 051 3 198 9 962 8 593 9 621 Waste for recycling (t) 24 791 23 647 30 695 34 074 27 328 Waste for incineration (t) 2 305 1 990 1 889 2 197 2 460 Waste for composting (t) 92 95 Hazardous waste for landfills (t) 579 548 964 2 586 2 504 Hazardous waste for recycling (t) 3 063 2 113 5 470 3 502 3 792 Hazardous waste for incineration (t) 1 143 990 923 1 084 1 124 Pr Products oducts and services Extent of impact mitigation of envirenvironmental onmental impacts of prproducts oducts and services Environmental products and services are the most important means for Wärtsilä to mitigate the environmental impacts. Wärtsilä has a key role in providing environmentally sound solutions and services that enable our customers to develop their business in a sustainable way. The value of sustainable innovation is delivered across a wide range of environmentally sound products and solutions, including technologies related to efficiency improvement, reduction of gaseous and liquid emissions, effluent and ballast water treatment, as well as to products and solutions that are flexible, efficient, reliable, safe, cost-efficient to operate, and that have a minimal environmental footprint throughout their lifecycles. Expenditur Expenditures es Total envir environmental onmental pr protection otection expenditur expenditures es and investments Concerning Wärtsilä’s operations, we have defined expenditures as environmental expenditures if they are related to soil, water and air pollution control, waste management, environmental management, or noise control. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 70 A substantial proportion of the company's investments in product development are targeted at securing environmental compliancy providing shortand long-term benefits for the whole value chain and ultimately for the environment. Expenditures 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 R&D costs (MEUR) 165 141 131 132 139 Environmental costs Environmental capital expenditures (MEUR) 0.6 4.0 0.7 0.5 1.9 Environmental operating expenditures (MEUR) 4.0 3.8 4.0 4.6 4.8 Anchor Social Wärtsilä's aim is to provide the best value and service to its customers by continuously developing its competences and way of working. The strategic goal of Wärtsilä's social responsibility and people strategy is to bring the business strategy alive by developing Wärtsilä's organisation and competences to meet the evolving business needs. The aim is to have energetic, competent, and motivated personnel with exciting and meaningful jobs and career opportunities led by excellent leaders. Good performance is recognised and diversity respected. By applying high standards of occupational health and safety, Wärtsilä strives to offer a hazard-free workplace to its employees, contractors, and others working in different parts of the corporation. Good corporate citizenship is accomplished through active co-operation, open communication, and good relationships with stakeholders. Wärtsilä's operations and relations with its stakeholders are based on the company's Code of Conduct, with which each Wärtsilä company and individual is required to comply. Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain in 2017 (GRI 102-10) In February, Wärtsilä announced the expansion of its QuantiServ service offering with the acquisition of Lock-n-Stitch Inc., an American engineering company specialised in cast iron repairs. The acquisition strengthened Wärtsilä’s service portfolio for customers operating multiple brands. Wärtsilä also completed the acquisition of Trident BV, a Netherlands based company specialised in underwater ship maintenance, inspection, and repair services. The acquisition enables Wärtsilä to become a leading global operator in the underwater services market. The company employs 35 persons. In March, Wärtsilä announced the acquisition of Transas, a global market leader in marine navigation solutions that include complete bridge systems, digital products and electronic charts. The company is also a leader in professional training and simulation services, ship traffic control, as well as monitoring, and support. The company has 22 regional offices worldwide and a distribution network that spans 120 countries. It has a workforce of approximately 1000 employees. Transas business and operations will be integrated within Wärtsilä’s Marine Business. In October, the technology group Wärtsilä decided to reorganise into two business areas, Wärtsilä Marine Business and Wärtsilä Energy Business, covering both new sales and services for the respective markets. With this change, Wärtsilä aims to deliver increased value to its customers by better serving their needs across the full lifecycle. The new organisational structure is operational as of 1 January 2019. Forming two business areas will enable Wärtsilä to accelerate growth and the implementation of the Smart Marine and Smart Energy strategies. Integrating the newbuild and service activities enhances customer value by strengthening the focus on complete lifecycle solutions tailored to specific market needs. It also allows Wärtsilä to more effectively serve its customers with increased flexibility and faster response times. In October, Wärtsilä divested its pumps business to Solix Group, a Scandinavian investment company with offices in Copenhagen, Denmark and Malmö, Sweden. Wärtsilä Pumps has belonged to the Wärtsilä Marine Solutions organisation and became part of the company along with the acquisition of Hamworthy in 2012. This divestment concerned 227 employees. The divestment enables Wärtsilä to devote greater focus to its Smart Marine vision. In October, Wärtsilä acquired underwater services provider Burriel Navarro, S.L. which operates and enjoys a long-standing reputation in the main ports of Spain. This acquisition supports the growth of underwater business by increasing service locations and by complementing the position of Trident – a Wärtsilä Company in Europe. The company employs 19 persons. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 71 Employment Information on employees and other workers in 2018 (GRI 102-8, GRI 401-1) In addition to direct employment, Wärtsilä employed also indirectly an external workforce totalling 7,000 man-years in subcontracting at its factories and units. The units located in Finland had a total personnel of 3,885 employees. All in all, 1,641 employees left and 3,316 joined Wärtsilä globally during 2018 for different reasons. Wärtsilä had 19,293 employees at the end of 2018. Personnel 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Number of employees at the end of the year 19 293 18 065 18 011 18 856 17 717 Personnel by business Services 11 051 10 624 10 567 10 592 10 692 Marine Solutions 6 267 5 845 6 074 6 847 5 603 Energy Solutions 1 171 1 038 903 959 978 Other 805 559 467 459 444 Personnel by market area Europe 11 693 10 463 10 399 10 893 9 633 Asia 4 726 4 890 4 992 5 297 5 477 Americas 2 074 1 960 1 919 1 917 1 840 Other 801 753 701 748 767 Average age of employees 41.4 41.5 41.0 41.0 40.2 Permanent employees (%) 93 92 89 89 88 Temporary employees (%) 7 8 11 11 12 Full-time employees (%) 98 98 98 98 98 Part-time employees (%) 2 2 2 2 2 Employee turnover (resigned) (%) 5.7 5.3 5.3 5.2 6.2 Net employment creation 923 -213 -840 -755 -283 Number of employees by employment contract and gender in 2018 Permanent Temporary Total 17 852 1 441 Male 14 934 1 155 Female 2 918 286 Number of employees by employment contract and region in 2018 Permanent Temporary Europe 11 193 500 Asia 4 002 724 America 2 046 28 Other 611 190 Permanent employees by employment contract type and gender in 2018 Full-time Part-time Total 17 517 335 Male 14 815 125 Female 2 703 210 New employee hires in 2018 Employees Rate (%) Total 3 316 17.2 Gender Male 2 534 15.8 Female 782 23.8 Age group This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 72 < 30 years 1 078 40.1 30–50 1 891 15.6 > 50 years 347 7.7 Market area Europe 2 188 18.7 Asia 641 13.6 Americas 365 17.6 Other 122 15.2 Employee turnover (resigned) in 2018 Employees Rate (%) Total 1 011 5.7 Gender Male 807 5.0 Female 203 6.2 Age group < 30 years 187 10.6 30–50 660 5.7 > 50 years 164 3.6 Market area Europe 573 5.1 Asia 267 6.7 Americas 137 6.7 Other 33 5.4 Benefits pr provided ovided to full-time employees that araree not pr provided ovided to temporary or part-time employees (GRI 401-2) In general, temporary and part time employees are offered the same benefits as permanent employees. In some countries, eligibility is linked to the number of months or years of service – such differences being typically based on collective agreements according to local legislation. Labour / management rrelations elations Minimum notice periods rregaregarding ding operational changes (GRI 402-1) Wärtsilä way of working concerning minimum notice periods is described in the Policy on human rights, equal opportunities and fair employment practices. Occupational health and safety Workers rrepr epresentation esentation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees (GRI 403-1) Wärtsilä companies apply occupational health and safety programmes as required by local legislation. These are normally developed by occupational health and safety committees consisting of representatives from both management and personnel. Altogether 78% of Wärtsilä companies have an occupational health and safety committee covering in total 92% of Wärtsilä’s employees. Type of injury and rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and total number of work-r work-related elated fatalities (GRI 403-2) The lost time injury frequency for 2018 was 2.50, which was 1% higher than in the previous year. Wärtsilä regrets to report a fatality at a shipyard in China. A Wärtsilä employee was commissioning engines in a container vessel and intending to leave the vessel after the work. There was an unprotected side on the deck of the vessel, which the employee did not notice. The employee fell down to the cargo hold and lost his life. In 2018, Wärtsilä started reporting the number of lost time injuries and lost time injury frequency also for Wärtsilä contractors, as well as the number of lost time injuries in geographical areas. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 73 Injuries 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total number of injuries, employees 398 446 439 461 510 Number of lost time injuries resulting in at least 1 day absence employees, total 90 88 95 104 130 Europe 62 60 69 72 90 Asia 14 9 17 15 21 Americas 13 16 6 16 15 Africa 1 3 3 1 4 Number of lost time injuries resulting in at least 1 day absence contractors, total 35 Europe 19 Asia 6 Americas 10 Africa 0 Lost time injuries / million working hours Employees 2.5 2.5 2.6 2.8 3.5 Contractors 3.1 Absence rate, employees Absence due to illness (% of total working hours) 2.2 2.0 2.2 1.9 2.0 Absence due to lost time injury (% of total working hours) 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Absence due to occupational diseases (% of total working hours) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Fatalities Number of fatalities, total 1 1 1 1 5 Employees 1 0 0 1 3 Contractors 0 1 1 0 2 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases rrelated elated to their occupation (GRI 403-3) Wärtsilä employees constantly work close to running engines while conducting overhaul or testing activities, which exposes them to high levels of noise. Wärtsilä has occupational safety and health programmes in place to prevent hearing loss, including providing hearing protectors to those employees at risk of hearing loss or impairment. In 2018, there were in total 7 cases of occupational disease diagnosed, which is equivalent to 0.2 cases / million worked hours. Training and education Average hours of training per year per employee (GRI 404-1) Wärtsilä's average number of training days in 2018 for male employees was 2.17 and for female employees 2.23. Training days/employee 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 All employees 2.2 2.2 3.0 3.0 4.2 Managers and superiors 2.9 3.5 3.7 3.5 5.1 Other white-collar employees 2.1 3.0 2.9 2.9 3.5 Blue-collar employees 2.1 2.0 3.0 3.1 4.4 Pr Programs ograms for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance prprograms ograms (GRI 404-2) Wärtsilä programmes for skills management is described in the People Management section. Wärtsilä offers a wide variety of internal training and learning opportunities for its employees, covering more than 20 training categories. These include topics such as engine technology, health and safety, language and culture, project management, environment, security, and leadership. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 74 Percentage Per centage of employees rreceiving egular performance and car eceiving rregular career eer development rreviews eviews (GRI 404-3) Development discussions held annually 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Coverage % 96 96 96 92 92 Diversity and Equal opportunity Diversity of gover governance nance bodies and employees (GRI 405-1) A diverse workforce generates higher profits, better complex problem-solving skills, and access to a larger talent pool. Wärtsilä’s Diversity Initiative began in 2012 and is aimed at driving an inclusive corporate culture at all levels to meet both global and local requirements. By investing in diversity and supporting employees of varied gender, age, personality, and educational background, Wärtsilä becomes an even more attractive employer and a more valued business partner for its customers. Gender diversity 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Male/female ratio (%) 83/17 84/16 84/16 85/15 86/14 Executive positions globally: male/female ratio (%) 87/13 89/11 89/11 89/11 90/10 Regional diversity Number of nationalities 137 136 134 131 122 Ratio Number of employees per age group in 2018 Employees (%) < 30 years 2 687 13.9 30–50 12 107 62.8 > 50 years 4 499 23.3 Percentage of members of Board of Management (BoM) and Board of Directors (BoD) per age group in 2018 BoM (%) BoD (%) < 30 years 0 0 30–50 25 25 > 50 years 75 75 Percentage of members of Board of Management (BoM) and Board of Directors (BoD) per gender in 2018 BoM (%) BoD (%) Female 13 25 Male 87 75 Customer satisfaction Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction (GRI 102-43) Wärtsilä always puts the needs of our customers first. We show this by carefully listening and acting upon our customers’ feedback, at both operative and management levels. Wärtsilä places great emphasis on earning our customers’ long-term trust by keeping its promises. While challenges may arise at any time in this business, relationships are strengthened by focusing on our customers. We observe our customers’ perception of loyalty and satisfaction by applying a Net Promoter Score methodology, NPS. The results are monitored on a monthly basis and last three years shows considerable improvements. Our Customers’ feedback on project deliveries and the operation of their installations, are welcomed. To know what works and where to improve, as well as, understanding our customers’ operational environments, is critical in developing the company’s products and services. To ensure our customers’ needs and expectations are met, Wärtsilä collects feedback during different events, activities, and interactions with our customers and acts upon that feedback. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 75 Customer loyalty and satisfaction 2018 2017 2016 Customer satisfaction Marine Solutions 82% 76% 76% Services 90% 87% 90% Energy Solutions 85% 95% 97% NET promoter score NPS 53 45 41 Sample 3 356 4 875 4 899 Customer satisfaction percentage is based on one question: Are you satisfied with Wärtsilä's overall performance? Answering options: Satisfied, Neutral or Dissatisfied. Percentage shows Satisfied as part of total answered. Net promoter score scale is from -100 to 100. Anchor Compliance Wärtsilä is committed to carrying out its business in a sustainable way. In order to promote the long-term interests of Wärtsilä and its stakeholders, the company strives to maintain the highest legal and ethical standards in all its business practices. All business and other activities of Wärtsilä shall be carried out strictly in compliance with all applicable laws and under the principles of good corporate citizenship in each country where such activities take place. This requires all employees to act responsibly and with integrity and honesty. Wärtsilä is committed to ensuring compliance with the Wärtsilä Code of Conduct in all of its business operations globally and has, therefore, established a Group policy for reporting misconduct incidents and suspected Code of Conduct violations. Wärtsilä employees are encouraged to voice their concerns as to potential violations of the Code and its underlying policies and instructions. The reported misconduct cases are investigated either locally or centrally, as appropriate. The primary way for reporting suspected misconduct incidents is via the line management. However, employees also have alternative reporting routes, including an externally hosted whistleblowing channel, reporting directly to the compliance function, or by informing legal affairs. Should a suspected violation involve the top management of Wärtsilä Corporation, or where the suspected case is believed to be significant, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Wärtsilä Corporation may be contacted directly. An employee who reports a potential Code of Conduct violation in good faith shall suffer no harassment, retaliation, or adverse employment consequences. Finally, Wärtsilä employees are instructed to seek advice on ethical and lawful behaviour and on matters of integrity from Wärtsilä legal counsels or from the compliance function. Envir Environmental onmental compliance Wärtsilä companies comply with all local environmental legislation. The operations of Wärtsilä's manufacturing companies require a valid environmental permit, the terms of which are generally met. Incidents of non-compliance are described in the following chapters. Significant spills (GRI 306-3) and complaints The number of disturbances, complaints, and incidents of non-compliance are presented in the table below. Reported disturbances typically cover incidents in which the Wärtsilä company concerned has been obliged to report the disturbance to the authorities. The main environmental disturbances that occurred in Wärtsilä's business locations in 2018 were five minor fuel or oily water spills. These disturbances were investigated and the appropriate corrective actions to minimise the impact on the environment were taken in each case. Wärtsilä North America, Inc.'s customer received noise complaints related to a power plant in Marquette, Michigan, which has three Wärtsilä engines installed. Wärtsilä has met all its contractual obligations related to noise, but still has proposed the customer a discussion in order to find a solution to the issue in co-operation. Non-compliance with envir environmental onmental laws and rregulations egulations (GRI 307-1) Wärtsilä Brasil Ltda. was charged a fine of EUR 1 616 by the Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA), for lacking permission to import lithium batteries used in Electrical and Automation – related field service works. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 76 Wärtsilä China Co. Ltd. received a fine of EUR 1 584 for malfunctioning environmental protection equipment in a chroming workshop. The equipment has been repaired and inspected. Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A was charged a fine of EUR 5 166 for incomplete registration of a waste amount produced by a water treatment plant in Trieste. Disturbances, complaints, and non-compliances 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Environmental Disturbances 5 6 12 3 11 Non-compliances 3 1 0 3 1 Complaints 1 1 2 2 1 Social Non-compliances 2 1 4 4 1 Fines of non-compliance cases (EUR) 25 962 22 575 37 860 30 111 9 824 Incidents of discrimination and corr corrective ective actions taken, and non-compliance with laws and rregulations egulations in the social and economic ar area ea (GRI 103-2, GRI 406-1, GRI 419-1) Wärtsilä supports and respects basic human values as outlined in the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Wärtsilä also supports the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, of which six principles are related to Human and Labour rights. Wärtsilä's employees represent 137 nationalities. The company supports fair and equal treatment of all its employees. Wärtsilä supports the workrelated rights defined by the International Labour Organisation (ILO), and works, therefore, to ensure that there is freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining in the company. In those countries where local legislation does not recognise these rights, Wärtsilä endeavours to give employees other channels for expressing their opinions. Wärtsilä does not accept the use of forced labour or child labour in any form. Wärtsilä is unaware of any cases of human rights being breached, discrimination, infringements of rights at work, or the use of forced or child labour. During the reporting period the following misconducts were realised: Wärtsilä Korea Ltd. was charged a penalty fee of EUR 15 646 for not fulfilling its legal obligation to hire disabled persons as a minimum 5% of the company's total employees. The company has mainly hired blue-collar employees, which limits the suitable job offerings to disabled persons. Wärtsilä Singapore Pte Ltd. was charged a fine of EUR 1 950 by the Workplace Health and Safety authority for lacking safe work procedure for boilers servicing activities. The safe work procedure has been established and the authority was informed. Non-compliance cases pr presented esented in pr previous evious rreports eports Wärtsilä Korea Ltd. was not able to fulfill its legal obligation to hire the legal minimum amount of disabled persons. Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and pr procedur ocedures, es, and Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken (GRI 205-2, 205-3) During the review period, no instances of corruption or bribery were identified. Wärtsilä's Anti-Corruption Policy is provided to sales intermediaries such as agents. Wärtsilä has arranged specifically tailored trainings to agents and other sales intermediaries. Wärtsilä’s Anti-Corruption Policy is available for suppliers and any person or organisation upon request. Political contributions (GRI 415-1) During 2018, Wärtsilä did not make any direct contributions to political parties. Wärtsilä participated in two fundraising seminars in Finland, the contents of which had relevance for Wärtsilä. The participation fees totalled EUR 1 690. Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior behavior,, anti-trust, and monopoly practices (GRI 206-1) Wärtsilä arranged, as it has earlier, a number of competition law training seminars in 2018 for relevant personnel in order to further promote their knowledge of competition laws, and thus ascertain full compliance with such laws. Incidents of non-compliance concer concerning ning health and safety impacts of pr products oducts and services, pr product oduct and service information, marketing communications and customer privacy and data (GRI 416-2, GRI 417-2, GRI 417-3, GRI 418-1, GRI 419-1) During the review period, no instances of non-compliance related to product health and safety or information liability, or customer privacy were identified. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 77 Anchor Report pr profile ofile Data collection The data on the products' environmental performance is based on measured test results. Performance data on the environmental and social aspects of sustainability has been collected from the Wärtsilä companies using a detailed questionnaire. Economic performance data is based mainly on audited financial accounts. The sustainability data is collected and reported according to Wärtsilä's specific internal reporting guidelines that include all the definitions and instructions necessary for this purpose. Environmental expenditure and investments are reported applying the Eurostat instructions. Each company has a nominated individual responsible for collection and consolidation of the data, and for its quality and reliability. The management of each company approves the data before it is consolidated at the Group level. The companies report their sustainability data using Wärtsilä's sustainability reporting system. The reported data is checked at both local and Group levels before its consolidation. The content of this Sustainability Report was reviewed and approved by Wärtsilä's Board of Management. Report assurance DNV GL Business Assurance Finland Oy Ab (DNV GL) has independently assessed the report against GRI Standards (2016). As part of the assurance process, DNV GL assesses local level data management and processes, evaluates the relevance and reliability of the data reported to headquarters, and assesses whether the reporting guidelines of Wärtsilä are well understood and applied. This is achieved through conducting site visits and videoconferencing. Site visits were carried out in Trieste, Italy and Hamburg, Germany. Wärtsilä Canada, Wärtsilä China, Wärtsilä Netherlands and Wärtsilä United Arab Emirates were assessed through videoconferencing. Additional sour sources ces of information Wärtsilä has prpreviously eviously published the following rreports: eports: Wärtsilä Environmental Report 2000 Wärtsilä Sustainability Report 2002 Wärtsilä Sustainability Report 2004 Wärtsilä Sustainability Report 2005 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2006 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2007 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2008 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2009 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2010 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2011 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2012 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2013 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2014 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2015 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2016 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2017 These reports and their sustainability data are available on Wärtsilä's website: www.wartsila.com. Sustainability Report Project Team Marko V Vainikka ainikka Director, Corporate Relations and Sustainability (contact person: marko.vainikka@wartsila.com) Harri Mäkelä Manager, Sustainability Alina Pathan Manager, Corporate Relations Natalia VValtasaari altasaari Director, Investor Relations This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 78 Anchor Materiality assessment Identified material topics and boundaries Entities included in the organization's consolidated financial statements (GRI 102-45) The entities included in Wärtsilä’s Consolidated Financial Statements are listed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 34. Subsidiaries. All the Group companies are included in Wärtsilä’s Sustainability reporting. The report covers Wärtsilä's businesses. At the company level, the report includes the parent company and its subsidiaries as well as its manufacturing, service and sales units. The report excludes Wärtsilä's associated companies, joint ventures, and supply chain companies. Pr Process ocess for defining rreport eport content and aspect boundaries (GRI 10246, 102-54) Wärtsilä's Sustainability Reporting 2018 is prepared according to the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Standards (2016) and the Reporting Principles for Defining report content.This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. This means that our reporting covers all the General Disclosures of the GRI Standards framework and all the sustainability topics we have identified as material in our operations. In 2017, Wärtsilä updated the assessment of material sustainability topics. The process included an assessment of economic, environmental, and social topics from the stakeholders’ point of view and as an impact to Wärtsilä’s business. Stakeholder views were collected through a questionnaire answered by 88 key stakeholder contacts in various Wärtsilä units and functions worldwide. The aim of the stakeholder questionnaire was to evaluate how important different sustainability topics are for assessments and decision-making of Wärtsilä’s stakeholders. Sustainability topics for the stakeholder evaluation were identified based on Wärtsilä’s previous experience on material sustainability topics, industry peer review, and analysis of significant economic, environmental and social impacts in Wärtsilä’s value chain. The focus on stakeholder assessment was in investors and financiers, major customers, personnel, local societies, and media. The significance of identified topics was then analysed as a current or potential business impact on Wärtsilä. The business implications of identified sustainability topics were evaluated based on direct financial impacts as well as risks and opportunities. In addition the level of internal policies or practices were used as an indication of potential business impact. As a result of the materiality assessment, the following GRI topics were identified as material for Wärtsilä: • Emissions • Environmental Compliance • Economic Performance • Training and education • Occupational health and safety • In addition to the identified material aspects Wärtsilä discloses sustainability data on several other areas, because they are frequently asked by Wärtsilä’s stakeholders or they are considered important on the basis of continuity of sustainability reporting. Topic boundaries for the identified material topics were then evaluated in reflection to the sustainability context that is based on the significance of their economic, environmental, and social impacts in our value chain. A more detailed description of the topic boundaries and completeness of data collection for the identified material topics can be found in the GRI 103-1-b and GRI 103-1-c, Topic boundary within the organisation and Topic boundary outside the organisation. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 79 Material topics (GRI 102-47) From a sustainability impact point of view, product related environmental issues are the most significant for Wärtsilä. The use of Wärtsilä’s products has an environmental impact both locally and globally. Other dimensions of sustainability mainly have a local impact. Sustainability impact Local Global Economic Envir Environmental onmental • Product related • Operational Social The following GRI topics have been identified as material for Wärtsilä’s sustainability reporting: Category Topics Identified material topic Other topics Excluded for W Wärtsilä, ärtsilä, rreported eported in included in fr from om W Wärtsilä ärtsilä accor accordance dance with GRI Wärtsilä Sustainability Standar Standards ds Sustainability Reporting Reporting Economic Economic performance Market presence Indirect economic impacts Procurement practices Anti-corruption Anticompetitive behaviour Envir Environmental onmental Materials Energy This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 80 Water Biodiversity Emissions Effluents and waste Environmental Compliance Supplier Environmental assessment Social Employment Labour/ management relations Occupational health and safety Training and education Diversity and equal opportunity Nondiscrimination Freedom of association Child Labour Forced or compulsory labour Security practices Rights of indigenous people This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 81 Human rights assessment Local communities Supplier social assessment Public policy Customer health and safety Marketing and labelling Customer privacy Socioeconomic compliance Wärtsilä’s sustainability reporting provides a full disclosure of the management approach, relevant general disclosures and material topic-specific disclosures defined by the GRI Standards. Topic boundary within the organisation (103-1-b and 103-1-c) The topic boundary for the material topics is all Wärtsilä companies. The economic performance data covers all Wärtsilä companies. The data on environmental and social performance covers all Wärtsilä companies except the following: • Transas • Trident B.V. • Burriel Navarro S.L. These companies will be included in Wärtsilä's sustainable development reporting in the forthcoming years. Wärtsilä's Sustainability Reporting is an integrated part of its annual reporting, and therefore Wärtsilä publishes its sustainability data annually. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 82 Coverage of operational data Operational data, % of W Wärtsilä ärtsilä companies 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Economic 100 100 100 100 100 Envir Environmental onmental 97 86 93 83 94 Social 100 100 100 100 100 Operational data, % of personnel 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Economic 100 100 100 100 100 Envir Environmental onmental 93 96 98 91 98 Social 100 100 100 100 100 Operational data, % of pr product oduct manufacturing 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Economic 100 100 100 100 100 Envir Environmental onmental 100 100 100 95 100 Social 100 100 100 100 99 Topic boundary outside the organisation (GRI 103-1-c) Wärtsilä’s Sustainability Report does not cover performance data collected outside the Group companies. Explanation of the efeffect provided e-statements of information pr fect of any rre-statements ovided in earlier rreports eports (GRI 102-48) As of 1 January 2018, Wärtsilä adopted the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers standard, and as a result, the financials 2017 were restated accordingly. Significant changes fr from om pr previous evious rreporting eporting periods (GRI 102-49) There are no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the reporting topic boundaries. Historical data covers all entities that were part of the Group at the end of each reporting period. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 83 Anchor Reporting principles Economic performance data The economic performance data is based on audited financial accounting and covers all Wärtsilä subsidiaries unless otherwise stated. Donations: The data of this indicator included 15 major Wärtsilä subsidiaries and the parent company in 2018. Subsidies: The data of this indicator included all Wärtsilä subsidiaries and the parent company in 2018. The social costs for employees contribute to the funding of pensions, unemployment, and other social benefits that provide security and improve the quality of life for the company's employees and their families. Senior management includes all employees with the highest job grade levels 12-15. At the end of 2018 this covered 92 employees. Envir Environmental onmental performance data Materials include all the major material flows used in the production processes globally. The most material consuming product categories include engines, propellers, and propulsion systems. Total energy consumption includes both direct and indirect energy usage. The direct energy usage includes the fuels used by Wärtsilä subsidiaries. Lower heating values (LHV) are used to calculate the energy consumption of fuels in joules. LHVs are based on information supplied by vendors or results of fuel analysis for engine testing and R&D purposes, and for other fuel consumption the source is the DEFRA (the UK government Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs). The indirect energy usage includes the purchased electricity and heat. Since the efficiency of purchased electricity and heat generation is not known, the energy conversion is done directly from the purchased values. Fuel consumption data is based on either invoices or measured values. Heat and electricity data is based on either invoices or measured values. Energy intensity describes the ratio of total internal energy consumption divided by the total net sales of the subsidiaries included in the data gathering in a particular year (MJ/euro). GHG emissions intensity describes the ratio of total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) divided by the total net sales of the subsidiaries included in the data gathering in a particular year (gCO2/euro). Reduction of GHG emissions data is collected on a site level, based on permanent GHG emissions reduction measures, and either calculated or estimated (Scope 1 and 2). Reduction of energy consumption data is collected on a site level, based on permanent energy saving actions, and either calculated or estimated. Water consumption: The reported figures are based on either measured values or invoices. The cooling water usage might also be calculated from the heat load in some units. Recycled water: The reported amount is the total measured recycled water used in Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A. Their water treatment plant provides reusable water for manufacturing processes. Water discharge: The reported figures are based on either measured values or invoices. The cooling water discharge might also be calculated from the heat load in some units. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 84 Emissions: The reported figures are mainly based on measured values, based on which specific emission factors are determined. The specific emission factors are determined for various fuels and engine types. The emissions of the heating boilers are either measured or calculated. For electricity consumption the indirect CO2 emissions (Location-based scope 2) are calculated by using the emission factors from IEA (International Energy Agency), and the indirect CO2 emissions (Market-based scope 2) are calculated by using the residual mix emission factors where available (for Europe and USA), and for other countries the IEA emission factors. For district heating the indirect CO2 emissions (scope 2) are calculated by using the emission factors from the DEFRA (the UK government Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs). The indirect CO2 emissions (scope 3) of energy consumption are calculated by using the emission factors from DEFRA. The indirect CO2 emissions (scope 3) of material consumption are calculated by using the emission factors from thinkstep’s GaBi database. The CO2 emissions of air travel (Scope 3) are based on calculations by Wärtsilä's travel agency and are based on DEFRA defined factors. The other-than-GHG emissions of vehicles are calculated by using the VTT (Technical Research Centre of Finland) Lipasto database emission factors. GWP factor used for converting methane emissions to CO2-equivalent is 25. Only CO2 and methane are considered for the CO2 emissions. Waste: Information on waste disposal methods normally comes from the waste disposal contractor. Envir Environmental onmental disturbances: As such are considered major incidents, which generally require communication to local authorities. Social performance data Total number of injuries: The reported figures include all types of reported work-related injuries, including first-aid cases, as well as commuting injuries and possible fatalities. Lost time injuries: The reported figures include all reported work-related injuries resulting in absence from work of at least one scheduled work day, lost day counting from the first day after the injury. LTI fr frequency equency is expressed as reported lost time injuries and possible fatalities per million working hours. The working hours are actual paid working hours. The lost time injury rate does not include commuting injuries. Net employment cr creation eation is calculated by deducting the number of permanent employees having left the company for any reason from the amount of newly hired permanent employees during the reporting period. Employee tur turnover nover is calculated from permanent employees. The number of resigned permanent employees is divided by the number of permanent employees at the end of the reporting period. Employees and other workfor workforce: ce: The data on Wärtsilä employees is mainly from the global SAP HR database. Less than 3% of employees, the amount varying between indicators, have not had all their employment details in the global HR processes, and thus their qualities have been assumed to be the same as on average among the rest of the global employees, i.e. their gender, employment and contract type. The new-hires and resigned employee numbers do not include any such assumptions of employees having joined but still lacking the formal record of that activity. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 85 Anchor Independent Assurance Report Independent Limited Assurance Report To the Management of W Wärtsilä ärtsilä Corporation Scope of Engagement Wärtsilä Corporation (“Wärtsilä”commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Finland OY/AB (“DNV GL”) to conduct a limited assurance engagement over selected sustainability disclosures presented in the Wärtsilä Annual Report (“Report”) for the reporting period 1st January to 31st December 2018. Selected Information The scope and boundary of our work is restricted to the General and Topic-specific GRI-disclosures (the “Selected Information”). The location of Selected information in the Report is specified in the “GRI and UNGC index”. In addition, we have reviewed the sustainability information presented in the “Stories” -section marked with “Sustainability Assured”. To assess the Selected Information, which includes an assessment of the risk of material misstatement in the Report, we have used Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI-standards (2016) and Wärtsilä’s reporting principles, (the “Criteria”, see Reporting Principles -section of the Report). We have not performed any work, and do not express any conclusion, on any other information that may be published in the Report or on Wärtsilä’s website for the current reporting period. Our conclusions Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Information is not fairly stated and has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria. We believe that the Report is in line with the “Comprehensive” requirements of the GRI-standards. This conclusion relates only to the Selected Information, and is to be read in the context of this Assurance Report, in particular the inherent limitations explained below. Standar Standard d and level of assurance We performed a limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 revised – ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ (revised), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. This standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance. DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:2011 Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards, and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less detailed than those undertaken during a reasonable assurance engagement, so the level of assurance obtained is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. We planned and performed our work to obtain the evidence we considered sufficient to provide a basis for our opinion, so that the risk of this conclusion being in error is reduced, but not reduced completely. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 86 Basis of our conclusion We are required to plan and perform our work in order to consider the risk of material misstatement of the Selected Information; our work included, but was not restricted to: • Assessing the appropriateness of the Criteria for the Selected Information; • Conducting interviews with Wärtsilä’s management to obtain an understanding of the data management systems and processes used to generate, aggregate and report the Selected Information; • Two site visits and four video conferences to review process and systems for preparing site level data consolidated at Head Office. The site level review was conducted at: ◦ Wärtsilä Italia (Trieste, Italy); ◦ Wärtsilä SAM Electronics (Hamburg, Germany); ◦ Wärtsilä Canada; ◦ Wärtsilä China; ◦ Wärtsilä Gulf, UAE; and ◦ Wärtsilä Netherlands. DNV GL was free to choose the sites on the basis of materiality; • Reviewing data at source and following this through to consolidated Group data; • Reviewing whether the evidence, measurements, and scope of the Selected Information is prepared in accordance with the Criteria; and • Reviewing the Report and narrative accompanying the Selected Information in the Report with regard to the Criteria. • Evaluation of the disclosed information in the Report for “in accordance – Comprehensive” reporting requirements of GRI-standards. Inher Inherentent limitations Our assurance relies on the premise that the data and information provided by Wärtsilä to us as part of our review procedures have been provided in good faith. Because of the selective nature (sampling) and other inherent limitations of both procedures and systems of internal control, there remains the unavoidable risk that errors or irregularities may not have been detected. Energy use data utilized in GHG emissions calculations are subject to inherent limitations, given the nature and the methods used for determining such data. Finally, the selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques may result in materially different measurements. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Independent Assurance Report. Our competence, independence and quality contr controlol DNV GL established policies and procedures are designed to ensure that DNV GL, its personnel and – where applicable – others are subject to independence requirements (including personnel of other entities of DNV GL) maintain independence where required by relevant ethical requirements. This engagement work was carried out by an independent team of sustainability assurance professionals, whose members have not been involved in the development of any of the Criteria. Our multi-disciplinary team consisted of professionals with a combination of environmental and sustainability assurance experience. Responsibilities of the Management of W Wärtsilä ärtsilä and DNV GL The Management of Wärtsilä have sole responsibility for: • Preparing and presenting the Selected information in accordance with the Criteria; • Designing, implementing and maintaining effective internal controls over the information and data, resulting in the preparation of the Selected Information that is free from material misstatements; • Measuring and reporting the Selected Information based on their established Criteria; and • Contents and statements contained within the Report and the Criteria. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 87 Our responsibility is to plan and perform our work to obtain limited assurance about whether the Selected Information has been prepared in accordance with the Criteria and to report to Wärtsilä in the form of an independent limited assurance conclusion, based on the work performed and the evidence obtained. We have not been responsible for the preparation of the Report. For and on behalf of DNV GL Business Assurance Finland OY/AB Espoo, Finland, 8th February 2019 Mikael Niskala Shaun W Walden alden Lead Auditor Principal Consultant and Reviewer DNV GL – Business Assurance DNV GL – Business Assurance This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 88 Anchor GRI and UNGC index General Disclosur Disclosures es GRI 102: General Disclosur Disclosures es GRI Standard / Disclosure Links Remarks UNGC Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the Organisation Strategy 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Strategy Wärtsilä Energy Business Wärtsilä Marine Business 102-3 Location of headquarters Shares Helsinki, Finland 102-4 Location of operations Strategy www.wartsila.com 102-5 Ownership and legal form Shares 102-6 Markets served Strategy Strategy 102-7 Scale of the organization Shareholders 102-8 Information on employees and other Social workers Supply chain 102-9 Supply chain management 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and Social its supply chain Product design principles Risks and risk 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach management Manufacturing and R&D 102-12 External initiatives Stakeholder relations 102-13 Membership of associations Stakeholder relations Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO review Risks and risk management Strategy Wärtsilä Energy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Business Wärtsilä Marine Business Innovating for sustainability Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Strategy behavior Guiding principles 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns Guiding principles about ethics Compliance Governance Corporate governance 102-18 Governance structure Board of Directors Corporate governance 102-19 Delegating authority Board of Directors This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 89 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Board of Management environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Annual General Meeting environmental, and social topics Internal control 102-22 Composition of the highest governance Board of Directors body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Board of Directors The nomination committee proposes new board members. The committee consults major shareholders, and in their 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Annual General Meeting proposals they take into account the governance body Board of Directors specific needs of the Board, including sustainability competencies and diversity. Board of Directors 102-25 Conflicts of interest Insider management Shareholders 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting Board of Directors purpose, values, and strategy Internal control 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest Internal control governance body Board of Management The evaluation is of general nature, but also includes sustainability issues if such 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s Board of Directors concerns arise. The evaluation partly performance affects the membership changes within the Board. Board of Directors 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, Risks and risk environmental, and social impacts management 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management Board of Directors processes Board of Directors 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and The Board's committees 11 meetings in 2018 social topics Internal control 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in Report profile sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Internal control 102-34 Nature and total number of critical This information is not publicly disclosed. concerns Remuneration report 102-35 Remuneration policies 2018 The Board's committees 102-36 Process for determining remuneration People management Remuneration report 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 2018 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio This information is not publicly disclosed. 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total This information is not publicly disclosed. compensation ratio Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder relations 57% of Wärtsilä employees were 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements covered by collective bargaining agreements in 2018. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 90 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder relations Stakeholder relations 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Customer satisfaction 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder relations Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Materiality assessment financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Materiality assessment Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Materiality assessment 102-48 Restatements of information Materiality assessment 102-49 Changes in reporting Materiality assessment 102-50 Reporting period Report profile 102-51 Date of most recent report Report profile 102-52 Reporting cycle Report profile 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the Report profile report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the Materiality assessment GRI Standards Independent Assurance 102-56 External assurance Report GRI 103: Management Appr Approach oach GRI Standard / Disclosure Links Remarks UNGC 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Materiality assessment Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its Sustainability components management 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability management Targets Sustainability data Risks and risk management Topic-specific standar standards ds GRI 200 Economic Standar Standard d Series Material GRI Standard / Disclosure Links Omissions UNGC topic disclosures GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Economic distributed performance The costs of actions taken 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Economic to manage the risks or opportunities due to climate change performance opportunities is not applicable, as it is not This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 91 possible to calculate specifically 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Details in points a – e will Economic retirement plans be studied and analysed in performance 2019 Divisions by country will be 201-4 Financial assistance received from Economic studied and analysed in government performance 2019 GRI 202: Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by Only reported the gender compared to local minimum wage Market presence Management Approach disclosure 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from Market presence the local community GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Coverage of risk Risks and risk corruption management processes is management 100% of our operations 205-2 Communication and training about antiEmployees’ classification corruption policies and procedures by employee category and Responsible business region, as well as by conduct business partners, will be studied and analysed in 2019. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Compliance actions taken GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Compliance anti-trust, and monopoly practices GRI 300 Envir Environmental onmental Standar Standard d Series Material GRI Standard / Disclosure Links Omissions UNGC topic disclosures GRI 303: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Materials The recycled material input of metals varies between 20% and 95%, depending on the type of furnace and 301-2 Recycled input materials used Materials foundry used by the metal recycling companies in the supply chain, of which there are too many to state an exact percentage. GRI 301: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy 302-3 Energy intensity Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 92 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by Water withdrawal of water 303-3 Water recycled and reused Water GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Emissions It is not possible to state the exact amount of GHG emission reductions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Emissions achieved from the reduced travelling, because such a figure would be purely hypothetical. Not applicable, Wärtsilä 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Emissions does not produce, import (ODS) or export ODS. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), Emissions and other significant air emissions GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Effluents and waste 306-3 Significant spills Effluents and waste GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws Compliance and regulations GRI 400 Social Standar Standard d Series Material GRI Standard / Disclosure Links Omission UNGC topic disclosures GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time Employment employees GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding Labour/Management operational changes Relations GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint Occupational health management–worker health and safety and safety committees Injury rate (non-lost time), occupational disease rate 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Occupational health classifications by region occupational diseases, lost days, and and safety and gender not reported. absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities These will be studied and analysed in 2019. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 93 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of Occupational health diseases related to their occupation and safety In some cases local collective bargaining agreements also cover 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal Responsible business OHS issues. Detailed agreements with trade unions conduct listing of the topics not applicable, as it is not considered meaningful information. GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per Training and education employee Various types of training can be offered in 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Training and education restructuring situations, transition assistance programs however specific actions are defined case by case. Employees’ classification 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular by gender and employee Training and education performance and career development reviews category will be studied and analysed in 2019. GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunities Employment 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Diversity and equal employees opportunity GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Compliance actions taken GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Compliance GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the Compliance health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Compliance product and service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Compliance marketing communications GRI 418: Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of Compliance customer data GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in Compliance the social and economic area This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 94 Anchor UN Sustainable Development Goals and W Wärtsilä ärtsilä The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the United Nations (UN) entered into force in 2016. The 17 goals and 169 targets, which are part of a wider 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, are intended to address a range of issues from gender inequality to climate change, with the overall goal of ending global poverty. The SDGs are applied to all countries and actors, including governments, businesses, and civil society. The role of the private sector is seen as being vital to the delivery of innovative changes that can have significant influence. Sustainability forms the core of Wärtsilä’s business operations, products and solutions. Several of the SDGs deal with issues to which Wärtsilä contributes in a positive way. We continue to develop such means that make a difference to our customers and partners and to the communities in which we operate. Respect for people Wärtsilä’s efforts to promote people’s health, safety, and well-being covers employees, suppliers, customers and local communities. Our high standards in environmental, health and safety (EHS) matters are aimed at zero injuries among employees and contractors, and our products and solutions are designed to be reliable and safe to use. Wärtsilä offers solutions with zero or very low levels of emissions, and which comply to even the strictest local emission regulations, thus contributing positively to air quality while minimising the impact on people's health. We are also committed to continuous improvement in our environmental and social performance to avoid causing harm to the communities close to our operations. Wärtsilä supports the work-related rights defined by the International Labour Organization, and upholds the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. We promote gender equality and are committed to including women in all aspects of our business. Wärtsilä’s Diversity Initiative has been in place since 2012, fostering an inclusive corporate culture at all levels. Wärtsilä contributes to sustainable economic growth by promoting global corporate citizenship, an inclusive corporate culture, and local employment. Continuous learning and self-development are encouraged by offering a wide range of competence development options at all levels of the organisation. Towar owards ds a 100% rrenewable enewable futur futuree Wärtsilä plays an important role in helping to meet the world’s increasing demand for sustainable energy. Our flexible energy solutions enable the transition towards a 100% renewable energy future. Wärtsilä’s Smart Power Generation engine power plants provide energy efficiency as well as fuel and operational flexibility, thus enabling the effective integration of wind and solar power into the grid. In addition, our strong capabilities in offering energy storage, utility-scale solar PV power plants and hybrid solutions, including the most advanced software for energy management, enable the share of renewables into the energy mix to be maximised. This provides sustainable, reliable, and affordable power, particularly in countries and regions with isolated or weak electricity grids. Wärtsilä’s offering also includes Dry Flexicycle power plants, which can reduce water consumption almost entirely, making it possible to place power plants in water-stressed areas. We engage actively in an open dialogue with various stakeholders to provide expertise and support for enhancing clean energy technology and research on a global scale. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 95 Enhancing a Smart and Low-Carbon Marine Ecosystem Wärtsilä aims to connect smart vessels with smart ports to lead the shipping industry towards a Smart Marine Ecosystem with greater efficiency, negligible climate impact, and the highest levels of safety. Digitalisation sets new standards for the industry and enables the optimisation of individual vessels, fleets, or entire value chains, providing opportunities for lifecycle efficiency improvements. Wärtsilä’s Smart Marine Vision builds on its strong existing portfolio of environmentally sound products and solutions, which includes environmentally advanced vessel solutions, dual-fuel marine engines, and systems for voyage optimisation, ballast water management, wastewater treatment, and exhaust gas cleaning. By eliminating or reducing polluting discharges and emissions from our customers’ processes, we ensure that they can continue to operate in environmentally sensitive areas around the world. In 2018, Wärtsilä announced ‘An Oceanic Awakening’, a global initiative which focuses on the radical transformation of the world’s marine and energy industries into one efficient, ecologically sound, and digitally connected ecosystem. The initiative was supported by the establishment of SEA20, an international forum of Smart and Ecologically-Ambitious marine cities. We are also involved in numerous other global and local partnerships, such as the IMO’s Global Industry Alliance (GIA) and the European Sustainable Shipping Forum (ESSF). Responsible business conduct Wärtsilä is committed to sustainability and responsible business in its purpose statement and strategy. Our values and Code of Conduct define common rules for all employees and provide guidance on our approach to responsible business practices. Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct and supporting policies expressly prohibit the company, its employees, and suppliers from offering or accepting any kind of benefit considered a bribe, and from taking actions that could give rise to a conflict of interest or breach of loyalty. We comply with international good practices and anti-corruption laws of the countries in which we operate, and urge the reporting of any cases of corruption and bribery. The implementation of our Code of Conduct and main policies on responsible business conduct include Wärtsilä Values and Code of Conduct discussion modules, the signing of an individual Code of Conduct Undertaking, e-learning training, and inclusion of the Code of Conduct topics into the annual development discussions covering all employees. In addition, Wärtsilä has an externally hosted whistle blower channel for all employees to report concerns related to potential misconducts of the Code of Conduct or the company’s policies. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 96 We aim to contribute towards the well-being of the local communities in which we are present. The means for this include, for example, creating employment, paying taxes and social dues, providing training and education to employees, co-operating with local stakeholders, and supporting local development. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Anchor Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 98 Governance Corporate governance 99 Annual General Meeting 100 Board of Directors 101 Operations of the Board of Directors 104 Responsibilities of the Board of Directors 105 The Board's committees 106 Board of Management 108 The President & CEO and the Deputy CEO 111 Operations of the Board of Management 111 Corporate management 112 Internal control 113 Values and the control environment 116 Business processes 116 Guidelines and communication 116 Monitoring 117 Audit 117 Related party transactions 118 Insider management 118 Remuneration report 2018 119 Risks and risk management 127 Risk profiles and responsibilities 138 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 99 Anchor Corporate gover governance nance Wärtsilä Corporation complies with the guidelines and provisions of its Articles of Association, the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, and the rules and regulations of Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. Wärtsilä also applies the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2015 (“Code”) issued by the Finnish Securities Market Association. The Code is publicly available on http://cgfinland.fi/en. Wärtsilä has not deviated from any of the Code's recommendations. Wärtsilä's Corporate Governance Statement, prepared in accordance with the recommendations of the Code, is published as a separate statement on Wärtsilä's website as well as in this Annual Report. The content of this Corporate Governance section corresponds fully to Wärtsilä's Corporate Governance Statement. Wärtsilä's Audit Committee has reviewed the Corporate Governance Statement. The Company's external auditor has monitored the issuing of the statement, and has verified that the description of the main features of the internal control and risk management section, as related to the financial reporting process included in the statement, matches the Financial Statements. Gover Governing ning bodies Wärtsilä implements a single-tier governance model, by which management of the Wärtsilä Group is the responsibility of the General Meeting of shareholders, the Board of Directors, and the President & CEO. Their duties are for the most part defined by the Finnish Companies Act. The General Meeting of shareholders elects the Board of Directors and auditor. The Board of Directors is responsible for the strategic management of the company, and is assisted in its work by the Board Committees. The Board appoints the President & CEO who is in charge of the operative, day-to-day management of the company, with support from the Board of Management. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 100 Anchor Annual General Meeting Wärtsilä's ultimate decision-making body is the General Meeting of shareholders. It resolves issues as defined for General Meetings in the Finnish Companies Act and the company's Articles of Association. Agenda items for the General Meeting of shareholders include the following: • approving the financial statements • deciding on the distribution of dividends • discharging the company's Board of Directors and President & CEO from liability for the financial year, and • electing the company's Board of Directors and auditor and deciding on their remuneration. A General Meeting of Wärtsilä Corporation shareholders is held at least once a year, at a time no later than the end of June. If needed, the company may also hold Extraordinary General Meetings. An invitation to the General Meeting is published on the Company’s website or in not less than two daily newspapers, which are commonly distributed in Finland, as decided by the Board of Directors. The invitation shall be published no earlier than two months, and no later than three weeks, prior to the General Meeting. It shall, however, be published at least nine days prior to the shareholders' record date. Wärtsilä also publishes invitations to its General Meetings as stock exchange releases. The documents and draft resolutions to be submitted to the General Meeting can be found on Wärtsilä's website. Shareholders have the right to add items falling within the competence of the Annual General Meeting to the meeting's agenda. The request must be submitted to the Board of Directors in writing sufficiently in advance of the meeting so that the item can be added to the Notice of the General Meeting. Wärtsilä publishes on its website the date by which a shareholder must notify the company’s Board of Directors of an issue that he or she demands to be addressed at the General Meeting. This information is given no later than by the end of the financial period preceding the General Meeting, and includes the postal or email address to which the demand shall be sent. The demand is always deemed to have arrived in sufficient time if the Board has been notified of the demand at the latest four weeks before the delivery of the Notice of the General Meeting. All shareholders registered by the record date in the company's list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd have the right to attend the Annual General Meeting. Each share entitles the holder to one vote. The General Meeting is organised in such a manner that shareholders can participate in the meeting as extensively as possible. The Chairman of the Board of Directors, the members of the Board of Directors, and the President & CEO are present at the General Meeting. The auditor-in-charge also attends the Annual General Meeting. Director candidates shall also be present at the General Meeting that decides upon their election. Annual General Meeting 2018 Wärtsilä's Annual General Meeting was held on 8 March 2018. A total of 1,795 shareholders representing 112,402,425 votes participated in person or by proxy. The Annual General Meeting approved the financial statements and discharged the members of the Board of Directors and the company’s President & CEO from liability for the financial year 2017. The audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy was elected as the auditor of the Company for the year 2018. The Meeting approved the Board of Directors’ proposal to pay a dividend of EUR 1.38 per share in two instalments. The first instalment of EUR 0.69 per share was paid on 19 March 2018. In accordance with the approved share issue without payment (share split), the second instalment was divided between one old and two new shares so that EUR 0.23 was paid on each share. The second dividend instalment was paid on 27 September 2018. Adjusted to reflect the increased number of shares resulting from the share issue, the dividend amounted to EUR 0.46 per share. The Annual General Meeting approved the Board of Directors’ proposal to issue new shares to the shareholders without payment in proportion to their holdings so that two new shares are issued for each share. Thereby, a total of 394,482,260 new shares were issued. The new shares were registered in the trade register on 12 March 2018. The Annual General Meeting authorised the Board of Directors to repurchase and/or distribute a maximum of 57,000,000 shares. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 101 All resolutions were taken without voting. The minutes of the meeting and other related documents can be found on Wärtsilä's website; www.wartsila.com/investors/governance. Anchor Boar Board d of Dir Directors ectors Mikael Lilius Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Chairman of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation. Born 1949, B.Sc. (Econ.). Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2010, Chairman of the Board since 2011. Primary working experience Fortum Oyj, President & CEO, 2000-2009; Gambro AB, President & CEO, 1998-2000; Incentive AB, President & CEO, 1991-1998; KF Industri AB (Nordico), President & CEO, 1989-1991 and Huhtamäki Oy, President of the Packing Division, 1986-1989. Other positions of trust Ahlström Capital Oy and Metso Corporation, Chairman of the Board; Evli Bank Ltd., Member of the Board; Ab Kelonia Oy, Member of the Supervisory Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2018: 61,260 shares Tom Johnstone CBE Independent of the company, dependent of significant shareholders. Born 1955, Master of Arts, Honorary Doctorate in Business Administration and Honorary Doctorate in Science. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2015, Deputy Chairman of the Board since 2017. Primary working experience Several management posts within the SKF Group, the latest as President and CEO of AB SKF, 2003-2014. Other positions of trust British Swedish Chamber of Commerce, Combient AB and Husqvarna AB, Chairman of the Board; Investor AB, Northvolt AB and Volvo Cars, Member of the Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2018: 8,594 shares Maarit AarAarni-Sirviö ni-Sirviö Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Born 1953, M.Sc. (Tech.), eMBA. Secretary General of Directors' Institute Finland – Hallitusammattilaiset ry; Managing Director of Boardview Oy. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2007. Primary working experience Mint of Finland Ltd., President and CEO, 2008-2010; Borealis Group, 1994-2008, several senior positions of which the most recent was Vice President BU Phenol, 2001-2008, Vice President BU Olefins, 1997-2001 in Copenhagen, Denmark and Neste Oyj 1977-1994. Other positions of trust Directors' Institute Finland – Hallitusammattilaiset ry and ecoDa (The European Confederation of Directors’ Associations), Member of the Board. Finland National Committee for UN Women, Chairman of the Board. Relevant prior positions of trust Board memberships: Berendsen plc, 2014-2017; Rautaruukki Oyj, 2005-2012; Ponsse Oyj, 2007-2010 and Vattenfall AB, Sweden, 2004-2007. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2018: 32,437 shares This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 102 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Born 1955, B.Sc., LL.M. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2008. Primary working experience Managing Director of Föreningen Konstsamfundet r.f., 2006-2018; Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, Member of management, 2000-2001; SEB Asset Management, Director, 1998-2001; Ane Gyllenberg Ab, Chief Executive Officer, 1986-1998; Oy Bensow Ab, Director, Executive Vice President, 1985-1986; Ane Gyllenberg Ab, Administrative manager, 1984-1985 and Ky von Konow & Co, Administrative manager, 1982-1983. Other positions of trust Julius Tallberg Oy Ab, Chairman of the Board; Stockmann plc, Ramirent Group and JM AB, Member of the Board. Relevant prior positions of trust Board chairmanships: Mercator Invest Ab 2014-2018; KSF Media Holding Ab 2007-2018; Sponda Oyj 2013-2017; Stockmann plc 2014-2016; Fiskars Corporation 2006-2014; Ålandsbanken Abp 2011-2013 and Aktia Abp 2005-2009. Board memberships: Fiskars Corporation 2014-2015 and Stockmann plc 2007-2013. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2018: 30,103 shares Karin Falk Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Born 1965, B.Sc. (Econ.). Senior Vice President Volvo Trucks Services & Customer Quality. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2017. Primary working experience Volvo Group, Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy & Brand Portfolio 2012-2016; Volvo Group, President, Non-Automotive Purchasing 2008-2012. Volvo Car Corporation, Vice President, Volvo Car Customer Service 2006-2008; Volvo Car Corporation, President, Volvo Car Special Vehicles 2001-2006; Various positions within Volvo Cars and Volvo Group 1988-2001. Other positions of trust Volvo Group Venture Capital, Member of the Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2018: 3,007 shares Johan Forssell Independent of the company, dependent of significant shareholders. Born 1971, M.Sc. (Economics and Business Administration). President and CEO of Investor AB. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2017. Primary working experience Investor AB, Head of Core Investments and Member of the Management Group, 2006-2015; Investor AB, Project Director, 2014; Aleris AB, Head of Research, 2003-2006; Investor AB, Head of Capital Goods and Healthcare sector, 2001-2003; Investor AB, Head of Capital Goods sector and Analyst, 1995-1999. Other positions of trust Atlas Copco, Epiroc AB, EQT AB and Patricia Industries, Member of the Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2018: 3,007 shares This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 103 Risto Murto Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Born 1963, Ph.D. (Econ.). President & CEO of Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2014. Primary working experience Investments, Varma, Executive Vice President, 2010-2013; Investments, Varma, Chief Investment Officer, 2006-2010; Opstock Ltd, Managing Director, 2000-2005; Opstock Ltd, Head of Equities and Research, 1997-2000; Erik Selin Ltd., Head of Research, 1993-1997. Other positions of trust University of Oulu and The Finnish Pension Alliance TELA, Chairman of the Board; Finance Finland (FFI) and Sampo plc, Member of the Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2018: 8,947 shares Markus Rauramo Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Born 1968, M.Sc. (Econ. and Pol. Hist.). Chief Financial Officer and Member of the Fortum Executive Management Team. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2011. Primary working experience Fortum Corporation, Executive Vice President, City Solutions Division 2016-2017; Fortum Corporation, Executive Vice President, Heat, Electricity Sales and Solutions Division, 2014-2016; Fortum Corporation, Chief Financial Officer, 2012-2014; Stora Enso Oyj Helsinki, CFO and Member of the GET, 2008-2012; Stora Enso International London, SVP Group Treasurer, 2004-2008; Stora Enso Oyj Helsinki, VP Strategy and Investments, 2001-2004; Stora Enso Financial Services Brussels, VP Head of Funding, 1999-2001 and Enso Oyj Helsinki, several financial tasks, 1993-1999. Other positions of trust Teollisuuden Voima Oyj, Member of the Board; Uniper SE, Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2018: 16,609 shares This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 104 Anchor Operations of the Boar Board d of Dir Directors ectors Responsibility for the management of the company and the proper organisation of its operations is invested in the company's Board of Directors, which is composed of five to ten members. Board members serve for one year at a time and are elected by the General Meeting. According to the Corporate Governance Code's recommendation 10, the majority of Board members shall be independent of the company and at least two of the members representing this majority shall be independent of significant shareholders of the company. The Board evaluates the independence of its members annually and reevaluates as necessary. The Nomination Committee prepares the proposal for the General Meeting regarding the election of directors to the Board, and communicates with significant shareholders, when required, on matters pertaining to the proposal. The proposal for the composition of the Board is included in the Notice of the General Meeting. The same applies to a proposal for the composition of the Board made by shareholders with at least 10% of the votes carried by the company shares, provided that the candidates have given their consent to the election, and the company has received information on the proposal sufficiently in advance as to be included in the Notice of the General Meeting. The candidates proposed shall be disclosed separately. Wärtsilä publishes the biographical details of the candidates for the Board on its website in connection with publication of the Notice of the General Meeting. The Board elects a chairman and a deputy chairman from among its members. The Board steers and supervises the company's operations, and decides on policies, goals, and strategies of major importance. The principles applied by the Board to its regular work are set out in the Board Charter. The Board also approves the rules of procedure applied by the Board's committees setting out their main tasks and working principles. In addition to matters requiring its decision, the Board is also given updates at its meetings on the Group's operations, financial position and risks. The Board conducts an annual self-evaluation of its operations and working methods. The purpose of this evaluation is to assess how the Board has executed its tasks during the year and to act as a basis for developing Board functions. The Board of Directors convenes 8-11 times a year following a pre-determined schedule. In addition to these meetings, the Board convenes as necessary. All board meetings are documented. Diversity principles In order for the Board of Directors to discharge its duties in the most effective manner, the Board must be highly qualified and sufficiently diverse. When preparing its proposal for the Board's composition, the Nomination Committee takes into account the educational and professional background of the individual candidates, as well as their international experience so that the composition of the Board represents a wide variety of competencies and qualifications. The Nomination Committee also takes into account the candidates'age, as having different seniority levels on the Board is considered beneficial in terms of ensuring mutually complementing experience. Wärtsilä's principle with regard to gender is to have both genders represented on the Board. In December 2018, Wärtsilä had two female board members out of eight members in total. The objective of the Comapny is to achieve over time a more balanced representation of both genders on the Wärtsilä Board. The Nomination Committee assesses the potential candidates, not only in terms of their individual qualifications and characteristics, but also in terms of their ability to effectively work together and jointly support and challenge the company management in a proactive and constructive way. Boar Board d of Dir Directors ectors in 2018 As of 8 March 2018, the Board consisted of the following eight members: Ms Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Mr Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Ms Karin Falk, Mr Johan Forssell, Mr Tom Johnstone (Deputy Chairman), Mr Mikael Lilius (Chairman), Mr Risto Murto, and Mr Markus Rauramo. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 105 All eight Board members were determined to be independent of the company and six members were determined to be independent of significant shareholders. Mr Tom Johnstone was determined to be dependent of significant shareholders, due to his position on the board of Investor AB. Mr Johan Forssell was determined to be dependent of significant shareholders, due to his position as the President and CEO of Investor AB. Until 8 March 2018, the Board consisted of the following eight members: Ms Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Mr Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Ms Karin Falk, Mr Johan Forssell, Mr Tom Johnstone (deputy chairman), Mr Mikael Lilius (chairman), Mr Risto Murto and Mr Markus Rauramo. During 2018, Wärtsilä's Board of Directors held 11 meetings. The average attendance of all directors was 100%. The financial and strategic development of Wärtsilä and its position in the markets, its growth opportunities, and the general further development of the Company have been, among others, the major items on the Board's agenda. People matters are also an important and continuous part of the Board’s work, as they contribute to Wärtsilä’s longterm success. During 2018, areas of particular focus included implications of escalating trade tensions, the organisational design of the Group, Wärtsilä's digital strategy, business development in the USA, as well as the acquisition of Transas. Boar Board d member meeting participation in 2018 Number of meetings % of meetings Mikael Lilius, Chairman 11/11 100 Tom Johnstone, Deputy Chairman 11/11 100 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 11/11 100 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh 11/11 100 Karin Falk 11/11 100 Johan Forssell 11/11 100 Risto Murto 11/11 100 Markus Rauramo 11/11 100 Anchor Responsibilities of the Boar Board d of Dir Directors ectors The Board considers all matters stipulated to be the responsibility of a board of directors by legislation, other regulations, and the company's Articles of Association. The most important of these are: • the annual and interim financial statements • matters to be put before the General Meetings of shareholders • the appointment of the President & CEO, the Executive Vice Presidents and the CEO's deputy, if any • the organisation of financial supervision within the company The Board is also responsible for considering any matters that are so far-reaching with respect to the area of the Group's operations, that they cannot be considered to fall within the scope of the Group's day-to-day administration. Examples of such matters include: • approval of the long-term goals of the Group and its businesses, as well as the strategies to achieve them • monitoring the developments, opportunities and threats in the external environment, and their impact on goals and strategy • approval of the annual business plan and target setting for the Group • approval of risk management principles • monitoring and assessing the performance of the President & CEO • approval of the remuneration and pension benefits of the President & CEO, the Executive Vice Presidents and the CEO's deputy • approval of the corporate governance principles This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 106 • overseeing that the Company complies with legal and regulatory requirements and its Code of Conduct and other established values and ethical principles in its operations • discussing and monitoring the R&D and product development plans of the Company • the appointing of the Board committees • the granting of charitable donations • approval of other matters that are strategically or financially important, such as significant investments, acquisitions or divestments. Anchor The Boar Boards' ds' committees The Board of Directors appoints annually an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee, and a Remuneration Committee, and may also nominate other committees if considered necessary in its constitutive meeting following the Annual General Meeting. The Board appoints the members of these committees, and their chairmen, taking into consideration the expertise and experience required for the duties of the committee. The Board also has the right to remove a member from a committee. The members of each committee are appointed for the same term of office as the Board itself. In addition to the committee members, other Board members may participate in committee meetings, if they so wish. The purpose of the Board's committees is to prepare matters to be put before the Board for its decision. The committees have no decision-making authority of their own. The Audit Committee The Board of Directors appoints an Audit Committee to assist it in the performance of its supervisory duties. The Board appoints from among its members at least three members to the Committee. These members shall have the qualifications necessary to perform the responsibilities of the Audit Committee. The majority of the members of the Audit Committee shall be independent of the company and at least one member shall be independent of the company’s significant shareholders. The Board defines the duties of the Audit Committee in the charter confirmed for the Committee. The Audit Committee monitors the reporting process of financial statements, supervises the financial reporting process, and monitors the efficiency of the internal control, internal audit and risk management systems. Furthermore, the Committee reviews the description of the main features of the internal control and risk management systems pertaining to the financial reporting process, monitors the statutory audit of the financial statements and consolidated financial statements, evaluates the independence of the statutory audit firm, and prepares the proposal for resolution on the election of the auditor. Other duties of the Audit Committee include reviewing the accounting principles of the company and approving any amendments to them, reviewing the interim and financial statements of the company and the reports prepared by the auditor for the Audit Committee, as well as evaluating the processes aimed at ensuring compliance with laws and regulations and monitoring the company’s credit position and taxation. The Audit Committee also reviews the company’s Corporate Governance Statements and reviews and resolves any special issues raised by the Board of Directors that fall within the competence of the Audit Committee. The Chairman of the Audit Committee convenes the Committee as required. The Chairman also reports the Committee's proposals to the Board of Directors and regularly reports to the Board on the Committee's meetings. Audit Committee in 2018 Chairman Markus Rauramo, members Maarit Aarni-Sirviö and Risto Murto. All members are independent of the company and significant shareholders. The Audit Committee met five times in 2018. The average attendance of all Committee members was 100%. The Nomination Committee The Board of Directors appoints a Nomination Committee to assist it in its work. The Board appoints at least three of its members to serve on the Committee. The majority of the members of the Committee shall be independent of the company. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 107 The Board defines the duties of the Nomination Committee in the charter confirmed for the Committee. The Nomination Committee prepares the proposal to be put before the General Meeting regarding the election of the directors to the Board. The Committee communicates, when required, with major shareholders on matters pertaining to the election of the directors for the Board. The Nomination Committee prepares matters concerning the remuneration applying to Board members. The Nomination Committee monitors and reports to the Board of Directors the achievement related to the Board’s diversity objectives on a yearly basis, and, if needed, the Committee proposes adjustments to the Diversity Policy for the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Nomination Committee convenes the Committee as required. He also reports the Committee's proposals to the Board of Directors and regularly reports to the Board on the Committee's meetings. Nomination Committee in 2018 Chairman Mikael Lilius, members Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Johan Forssell and Risto Murto. All members are independent of the company and three are independent of significant shareholders. In addition to several discussions, the Nomination Committee held one formal meeting in 2018. The average attendance of all Committee members was 100%. The Remuneration Committee The Board appoints a Remuneration Committee to assist it in its work. The Board appoints at least three of its members to sit on the Committee. The majority of the members of the Committee shall be independent of the company. The Board defines the duties of the Remuneration Committee in the charter confirmed for the Committee. The Remuneration Committee prepares, as necessary, matters concerning the appointment of the President & CEO, the CEO's deputy and other Board of Management members for the Board of Directors. The Committee prepares proposals for the Board of Directors concerning the remuneration principles, incentive schemes and remuneration that apply to the President & CEO and the Board of Management members. External consultants used by the committee are independent of the company and management. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee convenes the Committee as required. He also reports the Committee's proposals to the Board of Directors and regularly reports to the Board on the Committee's meetings. Remuneration Committee in 2018 Chairman Mikael Lilius, members Maarit Aarni-Sirviö and Tom Johnstone. All members are independent of the company and two are independent of significant shareholders. The Remuneration Committee met three times in 2018. The average attendance of all Committee members was 100%. Boar Board d member committee meeting participation in 2018 Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Mikael Lilius 1/1 3/3 Tom Johnstone 3/3 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 5/5 3/3 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh 1/1 Karin Falk Johan Forssell 1/1 Risto Murto 5/5 1/1 Markus Rauramo 5/5 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 108 Anchor Boar Board d of Management Jaakko Eskola President & CEO of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2015. Born 1958, M.Sc. (Eng.). Joined the company in 1998. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Senior Executive Vice President and Deputy to the CEO, 2013-2015; President, Marine Solutions, 2006-2015; Vice President, Power Plants Sales & Marketing, 2005-2006; Wärtsilä Development & Financial Services Oy, President, 1998-2005; PCA Corporate Finance, Executive Director, 1997-1998; Kansallis-Osake Pankki, various managerial positions in international project finance, 1986-1997; Industrialization Fund of Finland, Corporate Analyst, 1984-1986; VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland, Researcher, 1983-1984. Positions of trust The Federation of Finnish Technology Industries and The Finnish Foundation for Share Promotion, Member of the Board. Relevant prior positions of trust European Marine Equipment Council (EMEC), President, 2008-2011. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2018: 41,739 shares Arjen BerBerends ends Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 1 October 2018. Born 1968, MBA. Joined the company in 1988. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation: Vice President Finance & Business Control, Marine Solutions, 2012-2018; Vice President Finance & Business Control, Wärtsilä Industrial Operations, 2010-2012; Finance Director, Wärtsilä Industrial Operations, 2007-2010; Finance Director, Propulsor Business & Finance Director, Wärtsilä Propulsion Netherlands B.V., 2002-2007; Controller Marine / Manufacturing & Finance Director, Wärtsilä Norway AS, 1998-2002; various controller positions in Wärtsilä Netherlands B.V., 1988-1998. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2018: no shares Päivi Castr Castrén én Executive Vice President, Human Resources since 2012. Born 1958, M.Sc. (Soc. Sc.). Joined the company in 2005. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President, Human Resources, 2005-2011; Nokia Corporation, Director, Human Resources, Nokia Finland, 2002-2005; Nokia Networks, HR Director, 2000-2002; Nokia Networks, Networks Systems division, HR Director, 1999-2000; Nokia Networks, HR manager, 1995-1998; Valmet Paper Machinery, HR manager, 1988-1995. Positions of trust The Federation of Finnish Technology Industries, Chairman of the Committee of Education and Employment; Wilhelm Wahlforss Foundation, Chairman of the Board; Member of the IMD Executive Education Advisory Council. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2018: 14,799 shares This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 109 Kari Hietanen Executive Vice President, Corporate Relations and Legal Affairs since 2012, Company Secretary since 2002. Born 1963, LL.M. Joined the company in 1989. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Legal Affairs, 2002-2011; Wärtsilä Power Divisions, Group General Counsel, 2000-2002; Wärtsilä Diesel Group, General Counsel, 1994-1999; Metra Corporation and Wärtsilä Diesel Group, Legal Counsel, 1989-1994. Positions of trust European Engine Power Plants Association, EUGINE, Vice President; German-Finnish Chamber of Commerce, Member of the Board; Finnish-Russian Intergovernmental Economic Commission, II Deputy Chairman; Finnish-Korean Trade Association, Deputy Chairman of the Board; East Office of Finnish Industries Ltd, Member of the Board; Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK), Member of the Trade Policy Committee; International Trade Committee, Finland Chamber of Commerce / ICC Advisory Board, ICC Finland, member. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2018: 15,633 shares Roger Holm President, Marine Solutions and Executive Vice President, Wärtsilä Corporation, since 2015. Born 1972, M.Sc. (Econ.). Joined the company in 1997. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation: Senior Vice President, Engines, 2013-2015; Vice President Seals & Bearings, 2011-2013; Vice President Solutions Management, Services, 2010-2011; Vice President Business Development, Services, 2008-2010; Chief Information Officer, 2006-2008; Program Director, Global ERP Program, 2002-2006; Corporate Controller, 2001-2002; Wärtsilä Finland Oy & Wärtsilä NSD Finland Oy: various managerial positions, 1997-2001. Positions of trust Hanken School of Economics, Member of the Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2018: 11,796 shares Atte Palomäki Executive Vice President, Communications & Branding, since 2008. Born 1965, M.Sc. (Pol.). Joined the company in 2008. Primary working experience Nordea Bank AB (publ.), Group Chief Press Officer, 2007-2008 and Chief Communication Officer, Finland, 2005-2006; Kauppalehti, Senior Business Correspondent, 2002-2005; MTV3, Senior Economic Correspondent, 2000-2002, News Producer, 1995-2000 and News Anchor, 1993-1995. Positions of trust European Association of Communication Directors (EACD) and Management Group of the Finland Promotion Board, Member of the Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2018: 14,493 shares This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 110 Mar Marco co Ryan Executive Vice President and Chief Digital Officer since 2016. Born 1966, BSc (IM). Joined the company in 2016. Primary working experience Flint Group, Interim Chief Digital Officer, 2016; Thomas Cook Group, Chief Digital Officer, 2013-2015; Thomas Cook Touristik GMbH, Managing Director Omnichannel, 2013-2014; Accenture Interactive, Managing Director (ASEAN), 2011-2013; Premier Farnell Plc, Senior Vice President eCommerce and Digital, 2006-2011; Capgemini Consulting, Executive Consultant, 2001-2006; Interactive Collector Plc, VP Interactive Services, 1999-2001; Telematix and Keyhaven Ltd, Managing Director, 1997-1999; British Army, Officer with various management and operational roles, 1985-1997. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2018: no shares Mar Marco co Wir Wirénén President, Energy Solutions and Executive Vice President, Wärtsilä Corporation, since 1 October 2018. Born 1966, M.Sc. (Econ.). Joined the company in 2013. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 2013-2018; SSAB, Executive Vice President and CFO, 2008-2013; SSAB, Vice President Business control, 2007-2008; Eltel Networks, CFO and VP Business Development, 2002-2007; NCC, VP Business Development and Group Controller, 1995-2001. Positions of trust Neste Corporation, Member of the Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2018: 20,184 shares Pierpaolo Barbone acted as Deputy to the CEO since 2015 and President, Services & Executive Vice President, Wärtsilä Corporation, until 31 December 2018. Javier Cavada Camino acted as President, Energy Solutions & Executive Vice President, Wärtsilä Corporation, until 30 September 2018. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 111 Anchor The Pr President esident & CEO and the Deputy CEO The Board of Directors appoints a President for the Group who is also its Chief Executive Officer. The President & CEO is in charge of the day-to-day management of the company and its administration, in accordance with the company's Articles of Association, the Finnish Companies Act, and the instructions of the Board of Directors. He is assisted in this work by the Board of Management. The President & CEO's service terms and conditions are specified in writing in his service contract. The President & CEO of the company is Mr Jaakko Eskola. Mr Pierpaolo Barbone served as the deputy to the President & CEO until the end of 2018. Anchor Operations of the Boar Board d of Management Following the organisational redesign into two business areas on 1 January 2019, the company's Board of Management comprises eight members: the President & CEO, the Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Vice Presidents heading the Wärtsilä Energy Business and Wärtsilä Marine Business, the Chief Digital Officer, and the Executive Vice Presidents heading the Communications & Branding, the Corporate Relations & Legal Affairs, and the Human Resources functions. Board of Management members are appointed by the company's Board of Directors, which also approves their remuneration and other terms of employment. The Board of Management is chaired by the President & CEO. It considers strategic issues related to the Group and its businesses, as well as investments, product policy, and the Group's structure and corporate steering systems. It also supervises the company's operations. The Chief Financial Officer's main areas of responsibility include group accounting and control, treasury (including project and customer financing), taxation, process development, corporate planning, and investor relations. The Executive Vice Presidents heading the businesses are each responsible for the sales volumes and profitability of their respective global businesses, deploying the capabilities of the Group's worldwide subsidiaries. The Chief Digital Officer leads the Information Management organisation and is responsible for developing and executing Wärtsilä’s digital strategy, and related digital governance. The main areas of responsibility of the Executive Vice President, Corporate Relations & Legal are corporate relations and legal affairs, intellectual asset management and sustainability, as well as environmental and occupational health and safety, and quality. The Executive Vice President, Human Resources is responsible for people related processes. The main areas of responsibility of the Executive Vice President, Communications & Branding are external and internal communications, as well as branding. Information on the members of the Board of Management and their areas of responsibility and holdings can be found in the Board of Management CVs. The Boar Board d of Management in 2018 The Board of Management met 13 times during 2018. The main issues addressed by the Board of Management included market development and business strategy, new growth areas, the profitability of the company, as well as issues relating to developments regarding competitiveness, costs, and Wärtsilä's organisational structure. Areas of special focus included the decision to build the Smart Technology Hub, a new centre for research, development and production, in Vaasa, Finland; as well as the decision to redesign the Wärtsilä organisation into two business areas covering both new sales and services for the marine and energy markets respectively. Digitalisation and security, in particular cybersecurity, were also high on the agenda, as were occupational health and safety, and operational excellence. Carrying out the acqusition of Transas, and planning and implementing the integration process was another important area of focus. Furthermore, the Board of Management continuously addresses the development of the regulatory operating environment, order intake and production capacity, as well as supplier and other stakeholder relationships. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 112 Anchor Corporate management The company's Corporate Management includes, in addition to the Board of Management, the following directors responsible for corporate functions: Juha Hiekkanen Vice President, Financial Controlling Born 1978, M.Sc. (Econ.) Riitta Hovi Deputy General Counsel, Corporate Legal Affairs Born 1960, LL.M., MBA Anu Hämäläinen Vice President, Group Treasury and Financial Services & Support Born 1965, M.Sc. (Econ.) Sari Kolu Director, Compliance Born 1967, Master of Laws, Executive MBA Jukka Kumpulainen Vice President, Chief Information Officer (CIO) Born 1968, M.Sc. (Eng.) Antti Kuokkanen Vice President, Group Business Control, Development and M&A Born 1977, M.Sc. (Econ.), M.Sc. (Eng.) Vesa Riihimäki Vice President, Quality Born 1966, M.Sc. (Eng.) Tom Unnérus Vice President, Corporate Internal Audit Born 1972, M.Sc. (Eng.) Marko V Vainikka ainikka Director, Corporate Relations and Sustainability Born 1970, M.Sc. (Eng.) Natalia VValtasaari altasaari Director, Investor Relations Born 1984, M.Sc. (Econ.) Business Management teams Each business head is supported by a Business Management team. The Business Management teams are comprised of the heads of the business units and business lines, as well as business specific support function heads. They are responsible for executing the respective business strategies and ensuring that the Businesses’ performance is in line with agreed targets. Managing Dir Directors ectors of the subsidiaries The Managing Directors of the Group's subsidiaries are responsible for ensuring that local resources are correctly dimensioned to meet the needs of the businesses, and that the subsidiary's personnel development needs are met. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 113 The Managing Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the subsidiary's operations fulfil the requirements stipulated in the Group processes, including the quality system, that these operations comply with the respective country's legal requirements and with good business practices, and that communication within the subsidiary is conducted according to the targets of the Group. Anchor Inter Internal nal contr control ol Wärtsilä has defined its objectives for internal control according to the international COSO framework. Wärtsilä defines internal control as a process implemented by Wärtsilä's Board of Directors, the Management, the Boards of Directors of Group companies, and other personnel, which is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives. Internal control covers all the policies, processes, procedures and organisational structures within Wärtsilä that help management, and ultimately the Board, to ensure that Wärtsilä is achieving its objectives, that the business conduct is ethical and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, that the company's assets, including its brand, are safeguarded, and that its financial reporting is correct. Internal control is not a separate process or set of activities, but is embedded within Wärtsilä's operations. The system of internal control operates at all levels of Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä maintains and develops its internal control system with the ultimate aim of improving its business performance and, at the same time, of complying with laws and regulations in countries where it operates. Anchor Performance management Planning and target setting, an integral part of performance management in Wärtsilä, is a regular management activity and not part of Wärtsilä's internal control system. The establishment of objectives, however, is an important pre-requisite for internal control. Through the performance management process, financial and non-financial targets are set for Wärtsilä annually at the Group level. These Group level targets are then translated into targets for the Businesses, Group companies, and eventually for individuals. The achievement of the annual targets is monitored through monthly management reporting. The performance of the Businesses and the achievement of the annual targets are reviewed on a monthly basis in the respective Management team meetings. The performance relating to the targets set by the Group and the different Businesses are reviewed on a monthly basis by the Board of Management. The respective management teams and the Board of Management also address the reliability of Wärtsilä's financial reporting. Wärtsilä's financial reporting is carried out in a harmonised way in all major Group companies, using a single instance ERP system and a common chart of accounts. The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are applied throughout the entire Group. Wärtsilä's finance and control process is essential for the functioning of internal control. Adequate controls in the financial management and accounting processes are needed to ensure the reliability of financial reporting. The Board of Directors regularly assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of Wärtsilä's internal controls and risk management. It is also responsible for ensuring that the internal control of accounting and financial administration is arranged appropriately. The Audit Committee of Wärtsilä’s Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process. The Group Business Control function, together with the Business Control functions in the Business areas, are responsible for notifying relevant levels of management regarding deviations from plans, analysing the underlying reasons, and suggesting corrective actions. These functions support the Businesses in decision-making and analyses to ensure the attainment of financial targets. They maintain and develop the company's performance management processes, so that the management at different levels of the organisation is able to receive timely, reliable, and adequate information regarding the achievement of the organisation's objectives. In addition, they are responsible for developing the financial reporting processes and respective controls. Anchor This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 114 Legal and compliance management Legal and compliance management practices and processes occupy a central role in Wärtsilä's system of internal control. Wärtsilä's policy is to act in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations in all countries where it operates. Legal and compliance management acts predominantly in a proactive manner. Legal Affairs supports the President & CEO and the businesses in analysing and making decisions on matters involving contract policy, risk management, and regulatory considerations. Other key activities are to lead compliance management, and to strengthen and ensure the culture of appropriate conduct and behaviour, both internally and in external business transactions. Compliance management is based on the Code of Conduct and relevant group level policies and directives. Company-wide control mechanisms and processes are a part of the overall internal control system. Anchor HR management Human resource management practices and processes play an active role in Wärtsilä's system of internal control. Wärtsilä's main human resource management processes with respect to internal control are; compensation and benefits, HR development, recruitment and resourcing management, individual performance management, as well as processes for collecting employee feedback. The HR function is responsible for maintaining and developing Wärtsilä's people related processes to enable effective internal control, also at the individual level. Anchor Other management systems The Board of Management is responsible for developing and implementing Wärtsilä's management system, continuously improving its performance, and ensuring that it operates effectively. The Wärtsilä management system covers all global processes and management procedures within Wärtsilä related to fulfilling customer requirements. The proper functioning of the management systems highlighted below ensures, for their part, the attainment of Wärtsilä's internal control objectives. Quality The quality of Wärtsilä's solutions, and thus quality management, is a top priority for Wärtsilä. Compliance with Wärtsilä's Quality Management System ISO 9001:2000 is compulsory throughout the Group, and compliance with the system is rigorously monitored. Sustainability Wärtsilä is strongly committed to sustainability. Wärtsilä's purpose and values, together with a solid financial performance, form the basis for sustainable development within Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä applies global guiding principles, such as the Quality, Environmental, Health & Safety policy (QEHS policy) and the Code of Conduct, which, together with the company's values, ensure a harmonised way of working towards sustainable development. In addition to the aforementioned, the Corporate Manual includes other policies and directives, a description of the company's operating procedures, responsibilities, and the management system structure. Wärtsilä's Board of Management has overall responsibility for sustainability performance. The Board of Management approves the guiding principles and reviews the content on a regular basis. The Board of Management defines sustainability targets and monitors performance against these set targets. Performance is reviewed in connection with the management reviews at both Wärtsilä's Board of Management and Business Management Team levels. The Board of Directors reviews major sustainability issues on an annual basis. In addition, the Board of Management identifies major critical concerns and, when necessary, communicates such concerns to the Board of Directors. Wärtsilä's sustainability function is responsible for providing the necessary information to management, identifying development needs, as well as for coordinating sustainability programmes and preparing instructions. The function cooperates closely with the Businesses and the supporting functions, such as Human Resources, Legal Affairs, Compliance and Quality. It also collects and consolidates sustainability data from the subsidiaries. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 115 Wärtsilä has clearly defined responsibilities, which are supported by necessary instructions and training. This training covers, for example, the Code of Conduct, anti-corruption, as well as environmental and occupational health and safety issues. Wärtsilä monitors its sustainability performance by utilising the information provided by various sustainability tools and activities, such as internal audits and compliance processes. Risk management Internal control within Wärtsilä is designed to support the company in achieving its targets. The risks related to the achievement of targets need to be identified and evaluated in order for them to be managed. Thus, the identification and assessment of risks is a pre-requisite for internal control within Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä's internal control mechanisms and procedures provide management assurance that risk management actions are carried out as planned. Wärtsilä has defined and implemented entity level and process level control activities, as well as information system controls. Control activities at different levels are needed to directly mitigate risks at the respective levels. Wärtsilä's risk management processes consist of Group-wide risk assessment and management processes, as well as project-specific risk assessments and project risk management. The Group-wide risk assessment process results in the creation of action plans for the identified and prioritised risks. Each Business reports its main risks to Wärtsilä's Board of Management, which reviews on a regular basis the execution of the defined risk management action plans. Wärtsilä's Board of Directors is responsible for defining the Group's overall level of risk tolerance, and for ensuring that Wärtsilä has adequate tools and resources for managing risks. The Board reviews the risk profile regularly. The President & CEO, with the assistance of the Board of Management, is responsible for organising and ensuring risk management in all of Wärtsilä's operations. Business management is responsible for defining action plans for managing the most important risks. Wärtsilä's most important strategic, operational and financial risks can be found in the Risks and risk management section of this report. Information management Information management plays a key role in Wärtsilä's internal control system. Information systems are critical for effective internal control as many of the control activities are programmed controls. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 116 Anchor Values and the contr control ol envir environmentonment The foundation of Wärtsilä's internal control system lies its values: Energy, Excellence and Excitement. Wärtsilä's values are reflected in its day-to-day relations with its suppliers, customers and investors, and in internal guidelines, policies, manuals, processes and practices. The control environment sets the tone for internal control within Wärtsilä and influences the control awareness of its people. It provides discipline and structure for all the other components of internal control. The elements of Wärtsilä's control environment are included in the corporate culture, the integrity, ethical values and competence of Wärtsilä's personnel, as well as in the attention and direction provided to the personnel by the Board of Directors of Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä's values and control environment provide Wärtsilä's Board of Directors and Management with the basis for reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of the objectives for internal control. The President & CEO and the Board of Management define Wärtsilä's values and ethical principles, which are reflected in the Code of Conduct, and set an example for the corporate culture, which in combination create the basis for the control environment. They, together with Business management, are responsible for communicating Wärtsilä's values to the organisation. Anchor Business pr processes ocesses The controls embedded in Wärtsilä's business processes play a key role in ensuring effective internal control within the company. Controls in the business processes help ensure the achievement of all the objectives of internal control within Wärtsilä, especially those related to the efficiency of operations and the safeguarding of the company's profitability and reputation. Business management is responsible for ensuring that within its area of responsibility, the defined Group level processes and controls are implemented and complied with. Where no Group level processes and controls exist, Business management is responsible for ensuring that efficient Business level processes with adequate controls have been described and implemented. Anchor Guidelines and communication Guidelines and manuals The components of Wärtsilä's internal control system, including for example, corporate governance, the management system, the performance management process, as well as the business and other processes, are described in various guidelines and manuals. The essential Group level policies and guidelines are compiled in Wärtsilä's Corporate Manual. Wärtsilä's Group level Accounting Manual contains instructions and guidance on accounting and financial reporting to be applied in all Wärtsilä Group companies. The manual supports the achievement of the objectives regarding the reliability of Wärtsilä's financial reporting. Wärtsilä's Group level policies, and any changes to them, shall be approved by a member of the Board of Management. In addition to the Group level guidelines and manuals, the Businesses have issued related guidelines and instructions for their own, specific purposes. The Business level guidelines and manuals are aligned with, and do not contradict, the Group level guidelines and manuals. Information and communication An effective internal control system needs sufficient, timely and reliable information to enable the management to assess the achievement of the company's objectives. Both financial and non-financial information is needed, relating to both internal and external events and activities. Employees can provide feedback to management and communicate suspected misconduct via a whistle blower channel that secures anonymous reporting or directly to the Compliance, Legal Affairs or Internal Audit function. All external communications are carried out in accordance with the Group Communications Policy. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 117 Anchor Monitoring Monitoring is a process that assesses the quality of Wärtsilä's system of internal control and its performance over time. Monitoring within Wärtsilä is performed both on an ongoing basis, and through separate evaluations that include internal, external and quality audits. Business management is responsible for ensuring that all relevant laws and regulations are complied with in their respective responsibility areas. Wärtsilä's management in turn performs monitoring as part of its regular supervisory activities. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors assesses and assures the adequacy and effectiveness of Wärtsilä's internal controls and risk management. The Internal Audit function assists the Audit Committee in assessing and assuring the adequacy and effectiveness of Wärtsilä's internal controls and risk management by performing regular audits of Group legal entities and support functions according to its annual plan. Wärtsilä's external auditor and other assurance providers, such as quality auditors, conduct evaluations of Wärtsilä's internal controls. The Group Finance & Control function oversees the financial reporting processes and controls to ensure that they are being followed. It also monitors the correctness of all external and internal financial reporting. The Legal and Compliance function monitors adherence to the compliance policies of the Group. The external auditors verify the correctness of the external annual financial reports. Anchor Audit Inter Internalnal The Group's internal audit is handled by its Internal Audit unit, which reports to the Audit Committee and to the President & CEO. The purpose of the Internal Audit is to analyse the company's operations and processes, as well as the effectiveness and quality of its supervision mechanisms. The internal auditor also participates, if necessary, in audits undertaken in conjunction with acquisitions and carries out special tasks when needed. The Internal Audit function covers all of the company's organisational levels and subsidiaries. An internal audit is undertaken in the subsidiaries and network companies at regular intervals, ranging from one to four years, based on a systematic evaluation. The Internal Audit function prepares an annual plan under which they independently audit different parts of the company, but it is also empowered to carry out special audits. The annual plan is approved by the Audit Committee, to which the Internal Audit function reports at regular intervals. If required, the auditors also have the possibility to take direct contact with the Audit Committee or members of the Board of Directors. Exter External nal The company has one auditor, which shall be an audit firm. The auditor is elected by the Annual General Meeting to audit the accounts for the ongoing financial year, and its duties cease at the close of the subsequent Annual General Meeting. The auditor is responsible for auditing the consolidated and parent company financial statements and accounting records, and the administration of the parent company. Following the closing of the annual accounts, the external auditor submits the statutory auditor's report to the company's shareholders and reports regularly also its findings to the Board of Directors' Audit Committee. The auditor, in addition to fulfilling general competency requirements, must also comply with certain legal independence requirements guaranteeing the execution of an independent and reliable audit. Auditor in 2018 The Annual General Meeting appointed the audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy (PwC) as Wärtsilä Corporation's auditor for the year 2018. The auditor-in-charge was Ms Merja Lindh. Auditing fees paid to PwC amounted to EUR This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 118 3.7 million in 2018. Consultancy fees unrelated to auditing duties totalled EUR 0.3 million. These latter fees mainly concerned consultation on taxation matters. Anchor Related party transactions Wärtsilä’s related parties comprise the Board of Directors, the President & CEO, the Board of Management, as well as the associated companies and joint ventures. The Group Finance and Control function evaluates and monitors transactions concluded between the company and its related parties to ensure that any conflicts of interest are taken into account appropriately in Wärtsilä’s decision-making process. Anchor Insider management Wärtsilä manages inside information and insiders in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations regarding insiders and insider trading. The most important statutory provisions are contained in the Market Abuse Regulation (EU) 596/2014 (“MAR”). Wärtsilä also follows the Insider Guidelines of Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd., and Wärtsilä’s Insider Policy. The company draws up insider lists for projects containing inside information. Insiders are given written notification of their status as insiders and instructions on the obligations that apply to insiders. Members of Wärtsilä’s Board of Directors and Board of Management and certain other Wärtsilä personnel are prohibited from trading of the Wärtsilä financial instruments during the 30 days prior to publication of the financial statements bulletin or interim report. Wärtsilä publishes notifications on transactions conducted by persons discharging managerial responsibilities, and persons closely associated with them in accordance with the provisions of the MAR. The term ’persons discharging managerial responsibilities’ refers exclusively to the members of the Board of Directors and the Board of Management of Wärtsilä. These notifications are available on Wärtsilä’s webpages. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 119 Anchor Remuneration rreport eport 2018 Dear Shar Shareholders eholders This report sets out the Wärtsilä remuneration policy and report for the Board of Directors and Board of Management for 2018, and enumerates the same for the two previous years. With this policy and report, we aim to increase transparency regarding Wärtsilä’s remuneration practices, and how they contribute to the business strategy and long-term interests. Wärtsilä strives for high performance, and strong achievements are recognised and rewarded. Remuneration at Wärtsilä is guided by our ‘Pay for Performance’ principles. These principles are used to structure the reward approach throughout the organisation, and are designed to align employee rewards with the interests of the company and its shareholders. The remuneration policy for the President & CEO and other members of the Board of Management has been developed taking these principles into account. We believe in a consistent approach to performance rewarding at Wärtsilä. The remuneration arrangements for the Board of Management, which also cascade down to other members of the senior management team, have operated broadly unchanged for some years. The short-term incentive awards for the Board of Management have been consistently based on profitability (EBIT%) and cash flow targets over the past years. The expected performance criteria for profitability were set at highly ambitious levels for 2018, and increased from the previous year, while the criteria for the cash flow target was lowered. Wärtsilä’s financial performance in 2018 resulted in neither the profitability nor the cash flow target thresholds being met. Therefore, no short-term incentives were awarded for the year. Wärtsilä’s long-term incentive scheme is based on share price development, and its realisation is paid as a cash award. The 2015 scheme came to a close at the end of 2018. Due to share price performance during the performance period, there will be no pay-out for the 2015 scheme. As of 2019, the structure of the program is renewed, so that realisation is paid out in shares. With this change, our aim is to promote shareholder value creation by strengthening the alignment of senior management interests with those of Wärtsilä’s shareholders. Mikael Lilius Chairman of the Remuneration Committee This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 120 Remuneration principles and policy for the Boar Board d of Management Wärtsilä's rewarding principles are designed to attract, retain and motivate executives by providing compensation solutions that reward them for their performance in delivering business results. The remuneration mix for the Board of Management consists of fixed and variable, performance related, pay. The objective is to have a good balance of rewarding elements. These comprise a fixed pay level guaranteed to be market competitive, supported by shortand long-term incentive schemes to drive company performance and to reward accordingly. Fixed pay The fixed remuneration paid to the President & CEO and to the other members of the Board of Management consists of a monthly base salary and fringe benefits. Base salaries are reviewed annually taking into account the company’s and the individual’s performance, and the market conditions. The members of the Board of Management are provided private medical insurance and life insurance. They are also offered a company car benefit. Taking into consideration Wärtsilä's emphasis on environmental responsibility, hybrid or low emission cars are recommended. The President & CEO and members of the Board of Management participate in company specific pension schemes, in addition to any statutory requirements. The nature of the supplementary pension schemes and retirement ages vary. They are generally based on the retirement scheme of the national social security system to which the person in question belongs, and are either defined benefit or defined contribution based. Variable pay Short-term incentive schemes The Group operates a bonus scheme, which is implemented globally and is designed to provide incentives for achievement of and reward for delivery of the short-term business plan. The bonus is based on the Group's financial targets, business specific targets, as well as agreed team and personal targets. Around 3,000 directors and managers are covered by this scheme. For the President & CEO and the Board of Management, the payment is based on the achievement of the company's profitability and other financial targets for the financial year, as set by the Board of Directors. The shortterm incentive opportunity is capped at 100% of the annual base salary for the President & CEO, and 65% of the This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 121 annual base salary for the other members of the Board of Management. Bonuses are paid in cash shortly following the year-end. Wärtsilä's employees also participate in bonus or profit-based incentive schemes. These are applied in the majority of countries where Wärtsilä operates according to each country's legislation. Alternatively, they take the form of local bonus or profit-sharing schemes. All in all, 80% of the company's employees are covered by the Group's bonus schemes and various other performance-related incentive schemes. Long-term incentive scheme Around 100 senior managers, including the President & CEO and the Board of Management, participate in Wärtsilä's long-term incentive scheme. The objective of the long-term incentive scheme is to align the interests of senior management with those of Wärtsilä’s shareholders by creating a long-term equity-related interest for the participants. In so doing, this promotes shareholder value creation and drives a long-term performance culture within Wärtsilä. The long-term incentive scheme has a three year performance period. Under the scheme, participants are awarded incentive rights. The value of an incentive right at the end of the performance period is based on the growth in value of the share price between the three month period immediately preceding the performance period and the last three months of the performance period. The end share price may include a value for part or all of the normal and extraordinary dividends paid by Wärtsilä Corporation during the performance period. Valuation of the incentive rights: To ensure an appropriate level of reward, an upper limit is set for each award cycle, capping the maximum value for each incentive right. The incentive rights are paid-out in cash, but the President & CEO and the Board of Management members are expected to acquire Wärtsilä shares with 50% of the net value received until they have achieved their required share ownership level. The schemes launched as of 2019 will be paid out in shares to promote shareholder value creation by strengthening the alignment of senior management interests with those of Wärtsilä’s shareholders. Shar Sharee ownership policy Each Board of Management member is expected to accumulate and, once achieved, maintain a share ownership in Wärtsilä that at least corresponds to the individual’s annual gross base salary. Gover Governance nance The Board of Directors determines the levels and underlying principles of the fixed pay, as well as the incentive schemes for the President & CEO and other Board of Management members. The Board of Directors also decides on other possible long-term incentive schemes for senior management, unless they are by law determined by the Annual General Meeting. The Board of Management decides on bonus schemes for other directors and managers. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 122 Anchor Remuneration of the Boar Board d of Management Contractual terms for the Pr President esident & CEO The base salary of the President & CEO is EUR 862,200 p.a. He is entitled to participate in the shortand long-term incentives schemes according to the terms and conditions described above. The President & CEO is eligible to take retirement upon reaching the age of sixty-three (63). His pension scheme is determined according to a defined contribution based system. The retirement pension contribution is equivalent to 20% of the annual salary. Remuneration paid to the President & CEO if dismissed by the company corresponds to 18 months’ salary plus a six months’ period of notice salary. Boar Board d of Management's total rremuneration emuneration in 2018 TEUR Salary and Supplementary short-term pension Short-term Long-term Board of Management benefits contributions incentives1 incentives2 Total Jaakko Eskola, President & CEO 862 (785) 170 (156) 239 (295) 1 696 (410) 2 967 (1 645) Pierpaolo Barbone, President, Services and Deputy to the CEO 384 (425) 107 (88) 56 (105) 848 (410) 1 396 (1 028) Other members of the Board of Management 2 263 (2 162) 368 (493) 480 (441) 4 452 (1 587) 7 563 (4 863) 1 Relates to the annual bonus for 2017 performance, which was paid in 2018. 2 Relates to the 2015-2017 long-term incentive cycle, which was paid in 2018. Short-term incentive schemes The Board of Management's performance target structure for the short-term incentives is described in the table below. A sliding scale of targets was set for each measure. Short-term incentive for 2018 performance The above performance measures and weightings apply to the annual bonus for 2018 performance. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 123 Performance against the group targets was as follows: As the performance outcomes were below the target thresholds, no bonuses were paid out. Short-term incentive for 2019 performance There are no proposed changes to the operation of the short-term incentive plan for 2019. The performance measures, weightings, and maximum limits will be the same as those applying in 2018. Historical development of performance outcome The performance measures and weightings have remained consistent during the past years. Actual performance against the group targets during 2016-2017 is shown below. Long-term incentive schemes The table below sets out details of the realised and outstanding awards under Wärtsilä's long-term incentive scheme. The scheme applies to Wärtsilä’s senior management, consisting of approximately 100 directors, including the Board of Management. The value delivered is based on the share price development during the three-year performance period. The values reflect the share split effective March 2018. Performance period 2016-2018 2017-2019 2018-2020 Number of incentive rights granted (on 4 857 000 5 490 000 4 845 000 31.12.2018) Starting share price, EUR 15.82 16.19 22.58 Measurement period for comparison share Q4 2018 + 100% of dividends Q4 2019 + 100% of dividends Q4 2020 + 100% of dividends price paid paid paid Maximum value per incentive right, EUR 4.61 6.07 8.47 Final comparison share price, EUR 15.79 Final value per incentive right, EUR 0.00 Scheme payment date February 2019 February 2020 February 2021 * The share issue without payment (share split) approved by Wärtsilä Corporation’s Annual General Meeting on 8 March 2018 increased the total number of Wärtsilä shares to 591 723 390. The figures in the above table have been restated accordingly. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 124 The incentive rights are paid-out in cash, but the President & CEO and the Board of Management members are expected to acquire Wärtsilä shares with 50% of the net value received until they have achieved their required share ownership level. In January 2019, the Board of Directors decided on the long-term incentive plan for 2019-2021.The structure was renewed so that reward will be paid out in shares, in order to better promote shareholder value creation by strengthening the alignment of senior management interests with those of Wärtsilä’s shareholders. The incentive scheme 2019 comprises 6,542,000 incentive rights. It is based on the share price development during a threeyear period, with a starting share price of EUR 16.76. The reward cannot exceed EUR 6.56 per incentive right and it takes into account 100% of dividends paid out during the performance period and reinvested in the Company’s shares. The 2019 scheme will be due for payment in February 2022. Shar Sharee ownership Boar Board d of Management's shar sharee ownership in W Wärtsilä ärtsilä on 31 December 2018 Board of Management No. of shares Jaakko Eskola 41 739 Change in 2018 33 258 Pierpaolo Barbone 21 831 Change in 2018 14 554 Arjen Berends 0 Change in 2018 0 Päivi Castrén 14 799 Change in 2018 9 866 Kari Hietanen 15 633 Change in 2018 10 422 Roger Holm 11 796 Change in 2018 11 796 Atte Palomäki 14 493 Change in 2018 9 662 Marco Ryan 0 Change in 2018 0 Marco Wirén 20 184 Change in 2018 15 279 * The changes in holdings reflect the increased number of shares resulting from the share issue without payment (share split), which was approved by the Annual General Meeting on 8 March 2018. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 125 Evaluation The Board of Directors monitors the Group’s shortand long-term incentive schemes and evaluates the achievement of the targets on which they are based. The incentive schemes for 2018 were found to be well balanced and in accordance with market practices. The Board of Directors was satisfied that the payout outcome was appropriate given the company's performance. Anchor Remuneration of the Boar Board d of Dir Directors ectors The Annual General Meeting decides annually on the fees to be paid to the members of the Board of Directors for one term of office at a time. The Annual General Meeting approved the following fees to the members of the Board of Directors for 2018: • to the ordinary members EUR 70,000/year • to the deputy chairman EUR 105,000/year • to the chairman EUR 140,000/year Approximately 40% of the annual fee is paid in Wärtsilä shares. In addition, each member will be paid EUR 750 per board meeting attended, the chairman's meeting fee being double this amount. Further, the Chairman of the Audit Committee will receive a fixed fee of EUR 20,000 and each member of the Committee a fixed fee of EUR 10,000 for the term; the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will receive a fixed fee of EUR 10,000 and each member of the Committee a fixed fee of EUR 5,000 for the term; and the Chairman of the Nomination Committee will receive a fixed fee of EUR 8,000 and each member of the Committee a fixed fee of EUR 4,000 for the term. The members of Wärtsilä's Board of Directors were paid altogether EUR 718 thousand for the financial period that ended on 31 December 2018. The Board's members were not covered by the company's incentive schemes. Fees paid to the Boar Board d of Dir Directors ectors TEUR Attendance fees Yearly fees Total Board of Directors 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Mikael Lilius, Chairman 35 21 140 132 175 153 Tom Johnstone, Deputy Chairman 14 9 105 99 119 108 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 26 12 70 66 96 78 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh 12 8 70 66 82 74 Karin Falk 8 5 70 66 78 71 Johan Forssell 12 6 70 66 82 72 Risto Murto 24 13 70 66 94 79 Markus Rauramo 33 15 70 66 103 81 Fees paid in W Wärtsilä ärtsilä shar shares es in 2018 Board of Directors No. of shares Mikael Lilius, Chairman 3 183 Tom Johnstone, Deputy Chairman 2 387 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 1 591 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh 1 591 Karin Falk 1 591 Johan Forssell 1 591 Risto Murto 1 591 Markus Rauramo 1 591 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 126 Board Boar d of Dir ectors' shar Directors' sharee ownership in W Wärtsilä ärtsilä on 31 December 2018 Board of Directors No. of shares Mikael Lilius, Chairman 61 260 Change in 2018 41 901 Tom Johnstone, Deputy Chairman 8 594 Change in 2018 6 525 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 32 437 Change in 2018 22 155 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh 30 103 Change in 2018 20 599 Karin Falk 3 007 Change in 2018 2 535 Johan Forssell 3 007 Change in 2018 2 535 Risto Murto 8 947 Change in 2018 6 495 Markus Rauramo 16 609 Change in 2018 11 603 * The changes in holdings reflect the increased number of shares resulting from the share issue without payment (share split), which was approved by the Annual General Meeting on 8 March 2018. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 127 Anchor Risks and risk management The aim and principles of risk management Wärtsilä, like any other company, is exposed to various risks through the normal course of its activities. No business can be conducted without accepting a certain level of risk, and any expected gains from business activities are to be assessed against the involved risks. The purpose of risk management is to ensure that Wärtsilä is able to effectively execute its strategies and to reach its targets, in the short term as well as over the long run. The key is to identify those risks that have the potential to restrain the company from reaching its goals, and to determine whether such risks are at an acceptable level. By definition, risk is the effect of uncertainty on objectives. An effect is a deviation from the expected — positive or negative; in other words, either a threat or an opportunity. Actions need to be taken to avoid, mitigate, transfer, or monitor identified risks, or to capture and utilise the opportunities. Wärtsilä's structured risk management process offers a set of reactive, proactive, protective, and preventive tools that are used not only to protect it against threats, but also to turn some of the risks into opportunities. Risks can only be managed if they are identified and understood in advance, if risk treatment plans for managing them are made, and if a process of continuous follow-up is in place for the related controls. Therefore, risk management is a central part of Wärtsilä's strategic and operational management. Risk management at Wärtsilä is a continuous process of analysing and managing all the opportunities and threats faced by the company in its efforts to achieve its goals, and to ensure the continuity of the business. The basis for risk management is the lifecycle quality of Wärtsilä’s operations and products, and the continuous, systematic loss prevention efforts at all levels of the Group, not only as an integrated part of management systems, but as part of every employee’s daily work. In the long-term, this is the only means for reducing the overall risk related costs. The risk management policy and pr process ocess Wärtsilä has a corporate level risk management policy which defines and formalises the Businesses’ risk management and reporting procedures. The document acts as a risk management guideline generating a common understanding over risk related concepts. It harmonises and structures the way of working with respect to risk management within the group in order to achieve a process whereby the risks identified are measurable and possible to consolidate. The policy brings consistency to risk management practice, and provides a structure for the organisation and Businesses to handle day-to-day risk management tasks in accordance with the agreed processes. It also provides a unified vocabulary to provide further guidance with respect to generic terms and definitions relating to risk management. The Businesses are responsible for the risks and rewards, and thus managing risks is in the responsibility of Business Management teams and individual managers. The risk management process controls exposures to risk by using systematic mapping, assessment, treatment, reporting, monitoring and control of risks, including the reporting of residual risks. Wärtsilä’s risk management process is based upon the ISO 31000 Risk Management Guidelines and Principles, and the vocabulary of ISO 31000 has been adopted in order to streamline risk related communication within the Group. The risk management process at Wärtsilä is embedded in Wärtsilä’s culture and practices, and has been tailored to fit the business functions and processes of the organisation. The process can be seen as a continuous loop consisting of the repetitive steps of context establishment, risk assessment, risk treatment, communication and consultation, and finally monitoring and review. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 128 Implementation The Board of Directors and the Board of Management decide and set the guidelines on strategic matters. The Businesses are responsible for achieving their set strategic goals, and for mitigating and managing their risks. The Corporate Risk Management function is part of Group Treasury, which reports to the Chief Financial Officer. The function is responsible for the risk reporting process, and for conducting risk assessments with the Businesses and their underlying organisations. It co-ordinates all risk management activities within the Group, reviews the business risk profile, and cooperates with the Businesses in the implementation of risk mitigation work. It is also responsible for maintaining the Group risk management policy, and for describing the current way of working in relation to risk reporting. Furthermore, the Risk Management function develops and manages global and local insurance schemes for insurable risks. The Audit Committee reviews and assesses the adequacy of risk management, while the Internal Audit function is responsible for reviewing the risk management process on an annual basis. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 129 Risk mitigation actions are decided in the normal course of business. At its meetings, the Board of Management conducts annual management reviews for each Business and certain main support functions, addressing also their risks and risk mitigation. The identified risks are labelled as either internal or external; they are quantified in euro, and their probabilities are estimated. The Group risk report is then prepared and presented to the Board of Directors. Risk management is part of the Businesses’ management process and has been integrated into the Business Management teams’ agenda. The Businesses are accountable for organising and reporting on risk management from their underlying geographical business areas, business lines, organisations, and product centres. All follow-up actions are also the Businesses’ responsibility. Risk categories The relevant risks for Wärtsilä have been classified under four categories; strategic, operational, hazard, and financial risks. The potential loss expectancy is highest with strategic and operational risks and lowest with hazard and financial risks. The risks in most of the categories can have both upside and downside impacts. In this regard, hazard risks are an exception, since for them only a negative effect is possible. Risk radars are used to map the main risks within the risk categories in the annual risk assessment workshops between the Businesses and the Corporate Risk Management function. During recent years, a similar risk mapping process has also been adopted by certain main support functions, such as HR and the Group Treasury. Business or function specific risk radars are generated for the use and evaluation of the Business Management teams, and are reviewed and updated by them on a regular basis. The Business specific radars are consolidated into a single Group Risk Radar, which is presented to the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee once a year. The purpose is to facilitate the discussion on risk and to give a quick overview of where priorities should lie in terms of risk management. Anchor Strategic risks Strategic risk assessment is part of the strategic planning process within the Group. At Wärtsilä, a risk is defined as strategic if it has the potential for imposing a long-term impact on the business. Business envir environment onment risks Business cycles in the global economy, and in customer industries, influence the demand for Wärtsilä's products, as well as its financial condition and operating result. The flexible manufacturing model based on capacity outsourcing, together with a stable business mix and a large share of sales deriving from service activities, provides Wärtsilä with a certain level of stability in a cyclical market. Important economic matters that indirectly affect Wärtsilä, its clients, and suppliers include inter alia, the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions, and thus not only their capability but also their willingness to extend credit, the counter cyclical stimulus programmes adopted by governments – especially in the power and infrastructure sectors, the enhanced activities of multilateral institutions, This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 130 such as the International Finance Corporation, the availability of export credit schemes and guarantees, and other such factors. Wärtsilä’s relatively large order book gives the company time to adapt to changes in market conditions. The implementation of more stringent environmental regulations is important for Wärtsilä’s future growth potential, since the company’s comprehensive portfolio of products and services allows customers to meet such stricter requirements. A delay in legislation implementation may present a risk to Wärtsilä, and possible changes in the legislation timeline and scope are, therefore, actively monitored. Energy storage is emerging as a disruptive technology that changes the paradigm of power systems, and Wärtsilä is strongly participating in these new market developments. Rapid deployment of new technologies can create new risks related to managing complex hybrid installations in an optimal way. Wärtsilä’s Greensmith Energy Management System (GEMS) is proven to be an efficient and stable software to control and operate complex systems, which gives Wärtsilä a competitive advantage in managing the related risks. Market and customer risks Wärtsilä’s midand long-term service activities are expected to grow in line with the development of the existing installed base and general global economic developments. Therefore, a slowdown in global growth represents the primary risk for the development of service demand. Wärtsilä has more than 12,000 individual customers engaging in service and spare part sales annually, and the current active base of installed Wärtsilä engines has a combined output of approximately 180,000 MW. Thus, dependency on any single customer or customer segment is limited. In the energy markets, there is a global shift towards more sustainable energy sources. The rapidly changing market environment has impacted the speed of customers’ decision-making, as the changes require the updating of their future portfolio strategies. Electricity demand is increasing in emerging markets, while fragile economic growth in developed countries represents a risk for demand development. Geopolitical tensions and significant currency fluctuations can result in investment decisions being postponed in certain countries. Low oil prices have a similar impact in the oil and gas producing countries. Price pressure resulting from the challenging competitive environment remains a risk. Orders have been received from all geographic regions, thus limiting the risk of dependence on one particular market. Wärtsilä’s three customer segments, namely industrial customers, IPPs (independent power producers) and utilities, were also all represented in the order intake. Wärtsilä is well represented in all the major shipbuilding markets, and is active in all the main vessel segments. This, along with the large product portfolio, mitigates both geographical and single customer risks. Conditions in the marine markets improved in 2018. However, challenges resulting from the uncertainty in the shipping and shipbuilding business environment continued to affect markets. Consolidation in the market continued during the year, leading to a decreasing number of major shipbuilding customers. The shipbuilding market continued to be dominated by Asian yards, notably China and South Korea, but activity in Europe was also healthy thanks to developments in the cruise and special vessel segments. Order book levels improved Wärtsilä’s marine business during 2018, supported by the extensive product mix and broad segment exposure which compensated for the slow pace of recovery in worldwide marine order activity. The importance of fuel efficiency and environmental regulations are clearly visible, driving interest in environmental solutions, gas as a marine fuel, as well as electric/hybrid solutions. Contracting activities for exhaust gas cleaning solutions offered by Wärtsilä increased significantly during the year. This created both an opportunity for a steep increase in the volume of delivered exhaust gas cleaning systems, and a recognised risk to manage and deliver the demanded orders on time and with the required quality. Digitalisation has become increasingly important for the shipping industry’s business and operating models. Wärtsilä, with its Smart Marine strategy, took further steps to become an important and leading player in the digital transformation of future shipping markets with internal digital development programmes, and with the acquisition of Transas. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 131 Competitive situation and price risks In services, Wärtsilä has no direct competitors capable of offering a similar portfolio of services from a single source. Excluding the networks of other engine manufacturers, there are few global players in the service market. The continued focus of customers on optimising operating expenditures can lead to an increase in competition for services where price is more important than quality. The main action for mitigating this risk is to promote the valuebased offering. In larger gas-fired projects, Wärtsilä faces competition from gas turbine manufacturers, such as GE and Siemens. In smaller gas power plant projects, and in the liquid fuel power plant market, the competitors are mainly other combustion engine suppliers, such as MAN Energy Solutions, INNIO (previously GE Jenbacher), Caterpillar (MAK), and Rolls-Royce. Price pressure resulting from the prevailing competitive environment remains a risk. In Wärtsilä’s addressable market, i.e. the market for installations of up to 500 MW, orders for natural gas and liquid fuel power plants totalled 20.8 GW during the twelve months ending in September. Wärtsilä’s market share was 13%. Wärtsilä’s success in the market can be attributed to its flexible power generation solution, which can be used in a wide range of different applications and power plant sizes. In the marine equipment markets the competitive landscape remained largely unchanged in 2018. The most significant competitors in the main engine markets are MAN Energy Solutions and Caterpillar (MAK). Wärtsilä has a strong position in medium-speed main engines with a 48% market share in 2018. In auxiliary engines, Wärtsilä’s market share was 14%. In propulsion equipment, the competition is more fragmented and varies by product category. One of the main competitors for these products is Rolls-Royce. In environmental solutions, as well as in gas products, the markets are very fragmented. Alfa Laval and Evac are two of the main competitors in environmental solutions, while in the Electrical and Automation segment Wärtsilä faces competition from companies such as Kongsberg, GE and Siemens. Price competition has continued to be intense in the marine markets. The strategic move of becoming a systems integrator with automation and ship design capability has proven to be an important factor in the competition for new projects with larger and more value-added scopes. The concept of selling packaged solutions reduces price volatility. Political and legislative risks Wärtsilä is present in over 200 locations in more than 80 countries and has delivered power plants to 177 countries. Political developments and changes in legislation can have a significant impact on Wärtsilä’s business. Wärtsilä actively monitors political and legal developments in its markets, and engages in dialogue with various official bodies on projects of importance to its operations and intellectual property rights. Much of this engagement takes place through interest groups and trade organisations. The company monitors political and legislative changes at both the corporate and subsidiary levels. Trade related tensions seen during 2018 have not had a significant impact on Wärtsilä. In recent years, there has been increased regulatory activity by different governments worldwide, which has led to the need for emphasising due internal processes to ensure compliance. As an example, the continuing and changing trade sanctions were complied with and closely monitored during 2018. This has required increased internal efforts to ensure that adequate procedures are in place. Climate change and sustainability risks Wärtsilä has assessed its sustainability risks, including climate change risks, in both its strategic and operative risk assessments. However, the risks were not found to be significant. The potential business risks related to sustainability, climate change, and Wärtsilä's products are in the areas of regulatory emission restrictions and changes in customer attitudes to using combustion engines and fossil fuels. The risks in environmental legislation changes are related to the complexity of the overall field of different emissions, the balance between commercially available fuels and their resulting emissions, available abatement technologies, the impact on overall energy efficiency, and the resulting financial feasibility of the various alternative ways to meet regulatory demands. Being at the forefront of technological developments mitigates sustainability risks and gives Wärtsilä many opportunities arising from tightening environmental regulations. Over the years, Wärtsilä has worked continuously to improve the efficiency of its products, while at the same time seeking ways to reduce emissions. The fuel flexibility of Wärtsilä's products enables the utilisation of various fuels, including gas and those from renewable sources, while This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 132 their operational flexibility enables the installation of large capacity based wind and solar energy systems without hampering the reliability of the electricity grid. Wärtsilä has entered both the hybrid energy and energy storage businesses, representing a further step in providing customers with sustainable innovations that reduce carbon emissions. Wärtsilä's technology also enables energy to be generated with a minimum use of water. The lack of fresh water is expected to be one of the major challenges facing the world in the future. In shipping, Wärtsilä can reduce the carbon footprint of vessels through optimised ship design, and with optimal propulsion solutions. Environmental solutions offer, among others, alternative technologies to reduce sulphur oxide (SOx) emissions and to treat waste and ballast water. In the energy markets, Wärtsilä's Smart Power Generation concept supports the increase in low carbon power generation, including wind, solar, and natural gas fired plants. Wärtsilä offers several retrofit solutions for the after-sales market to reduce emissions and to increase fuel efficiency. For more information, please see the Sustainability section in this annual report. Technology risks Wärtsilä aims to increase the competitiveness of its solutions and manage technology risks and opportunities through solid R&D efforts and innovation. The development of new products is based on the strategic view of optimising lifecycle value for customers, and on reducing the lifecycle impact of developed technologies and products on the environment. This is achieved with modern and sustainable power solutions through, for example, gas solutions, environmental technologies, ship design, and electrical & automation solutions. As a technology leader, Wärtsilä places strong emphasis on emissions control, enhancing efficiency, and maintaining the cost competitiveness of its products. Connectivity and the utilisation of data to further optimise efficiency and unlock new customer values is becoming an increasingly important element of Wärtsilä’s development roadmap. Anchor Operational risks Operational risk management is part of the daily work of the Businesses. Opportunities and risks are identified, assessed, and managed on a daily basis and reported to, and managed by, the appropriate management level. The status of these opportunities and threats are reviewed on a periodic basis and appropriate further actions are taken. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 133 Manufacturing risk Wärtsilä constantly analyses its manufacturing footprint and capacity costs, including costs related to the supply chain. Risk assessments have been made for all the main delivery centres, and significant safety, environmental impact, and risk mitigation investments have been completed. Risk identification, assessment, and mitigation actions are executed on a regular basis as part of operational management. Management systems for quality, environmental, occupational health and safety, and other systems are utilised to improve productivity, while safety and business continuity plans have been implemented for the key delivery centres. Supplier and sub-contractor risk Wärtsilä’s supply management is integrated within the business lines. The aim is to work in partnership with the supplier base to create value for Wärtsilä’s customers by ensuring quality, on-time delivery, and the lowest total cost. In order to ensure coordinated interfaces and synergies for the cross-divisional supplier base, a category management structure has been in place since 2007. Indirect Purchasing remains a centralised function responsible for managing strategic sourcing activities for indirect materials and services in all businesses and support functions. The supply management units have a unified process for managing and controlling Wärtsilä’s supplier network, and for verifying that the suppliers’ performance meets Wärtsilä’s expectations. Supplier performance is, therefore, continuously measured. A key activity in managing business continuity planning is the regular assessment of business interruption risks, which is carried out in cooperation with the company’s suppliers. Several supplier risk audits have been completed jointly with the insurer as one means of mitigating risk. These audits are now one of the regular tasks for the supply category managers and the Risk Management function. Wärtsilä has developed its supply related activities by creating close collaboration and long-term relationships with its main suppliers. This co-operation creates a common view towards values and goals, which in turn supports the management of Wärtsilä’s strategic risks. To further mitigate supplier and sub-contractor risks, a comprehensive follow-up of suppliers’ credit worthiness has been established. Supplier related risks for key components are mitigated by establishing dualor multi-sourcing. During 2018, Wärtsilä first piloted and then took into use an online solution for supply chain risk identification, assessment and monitoring. More than 2,000 suppliers have been, and continue to be, followed through the system since mid-2018. The solution includes a selection of Wärtsilä defined key criteria against which the situation of each supplier is continuously measured. Any discrepancies are automatically reported to the responsible category manager who is responsible for ensuring that the necessary steps, if any, are taken to mitigate the risk. Also the first steps in supply chain cyber security assessment were taken during 2018. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 134 Lifecycle quality of pr products oducts and pr product oduct liability risk The launching of new products always involves risks. In the R&D process, several risk management techniques are applied, including the risk elimination tool FMEA (Failure Modes and Effects Analysis) and in-house validation testing. Wärtsilä seeks to control quality risks by monitoring the incoming quality of the supply chain, and by designing and manufacturing its products with all due care. A non-destructive robotic ultrasonic data analysation procedure, which replaces manual scanning of critical components, enhances the probability of detecting imperfections in components with a complex geometry. Wärtsilä applies a GATE model in order to control the product development process. Initially, only a limited release of new products is allowed, and via the gate approach, full release authority is given to the sales organisations only after testing and further validation has been completed. As part of the on-going digital transformation, a so-called ‘agile’ way of working has been adopted in the Digital organisation, which allows Wärtsilä to test new ideas and business models quickly in order to promptly adapt to changing market needs. This approach is used for conceptualisation to avoid the risk of losing business opportunities, while products continue to go through the established GATE procedure. Thus, the two models complement each other and are used in different contexts within the organisation. Wärtsilä seeks to control its manufacturing quality risks by applying several assurance and quality control principles. The level of quality assurance and control requirements are determined based on component criticality, and they are applied throughout the delivery chain. Requirement management is used to assess components systematically, enabling the allocation of resources and efforts according to the component criticality. The ranking criteria indicates the consequence if a component fails. The objective is to improve quality proactively within product development, supply management, and the entire delivery process from order intake to commissioning. Nonconformity management at Wärtsilä focuses on developing and improving operations by registering and handling detected nonconformities. This ensures that customers receive products and services according to the agreed scope and specifications. Efficient handling, monitoring, and review of nonconformities is crucial for proper risk management and mitigation. Product improvement management (issue resolution) projects are prioritised based on risk and importance. This happens when Wärtsilä identifies a technical issue according to claim statistics, customer feedback, or internal analysis and the case fulfils the risk categorisation for a non-isolated case. The business lines are responsible for supporting customers in all warranty issues. This offers a feedback loop from the field to production and R&D, while taking care of the customers’ installations throughout their lifecycle. The company makes warranty provisions to cover any costs that may arise after product delivery. The company’s product liability insurance covers unexpected damages. Wärtsilä seeks to continuously improve the quality of its products and services through the adoption of best industry practices and good governance. Management at all levels is responsible for the quality of output from their organisations, and is accountable for ensuring that appropriate review and feedback mechanisms are in place. The centralised Wärtsilä Quality function is responsible for coordinating quality activities across the businesses, and for ensuring that senior governance mechanisms are in place and effective. Wärtsilä's Business level management systems are certified according to 2015 standard revisions (ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015) with an emphasis on a risk based approach and proactive risk and opportunity management. Contractual risks Wärtsilä’s non-service sales include projects and equipment supply deliveries of various sizes. The most substantial orders concern power plants delivered on a complete EPC (engineering, procurement, and construction) basis. However, in relation to the total volume of business, the risks from individual projects do not reach significant levels. The risk of product liability claims is reduced through the lifecycle quality of the products and work, starting from the This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 135 initial design, through all stages of the production process, to the eventual field service activities, and the use of standard sales contracts, including the establishment of a contract review process. In service activities, contractual risk is related mainly to long-term agreements and service projects, such as engine upgrades, retrofits or modifications. These offerings represent approximately 25% of all service activities, but the risks connected to individual contracts do not reach significant levels since the business between the various customers and countries is broadly spread. In addition, both offerings follow a well-defined sales process, thereby bringing multiple control points to observe embedded risks and to plan their control, both in contractual measures as well as in execution. Risk of non-compliance, corruption and fraud Wärtsilä complies with the law and its own internal policies and procedures everywhere the company does business. Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct is the key guideline for all employees globally. Wärtsilä is committed to high ethical standards and integrity, and to preventing corruption and violations of the principles set forth in the Code of Conduct, as well as in Wärtsilä's Anti-Corruption and Compliance Reporting policies. Compliance processes are embedded in all of the Businesses, and the responsibility for compliance and awareness of ethics and integrity is that of all Wärtsilä employees. Wärtsilä is fully committed to compliance with anti-corruption laws and statutes. Wärtsilä's Anti-Corruption Policy absolutely forbids any kind of corruption and bribery, and the top management of the company has a zero-tolerance policy regarding corruption and fraud. The Compliance function promotes Group wide compliance and continuously strives to raise awareness of the risk of corruption and bribery and other misconduct. It is primarily responsible for creating and enforcing Group level policies and procedures, training programmes, internal compliance investigations, managing the consequences of misconduct, and reporting. The continuous development of Wärtsilä's compliance programme and nurturing the company’s commendable ethical culture are pivotal tasks for the Compliance function. Moreover, Compliance supports and co-operates with the Businesses and other corporate functions in their risk management efforts. Wärtsilä has a Group-wide programme for strengthening its Code of Conduct which aims to increase employees’ understanding on how the Code of Conduct impacts the everyday work at all Wärtsilä locations, wherever Wärtsilä operates. In 2018, Wärtsilä took into use an externally hosted new channel for reporting potential misconducts. While Wärtsilä is aware of the risk of being subject to fraud by external business parties, and that the risk of corruption and fraud is heightened in many markets where the company operates, Wärtsilä maintains its highly ethical practices at all times. Full compliance with its stringent anti-corruption regime, including policies to prevent the corruption and bribery risk of third parties, is demanded by Wärtsilä. Cyber & information security rrelated elated risks Wärtsilä has an experienced and professional internal organisation dedicated to the effective management of cyber security risks across Wärtsilä’s portfolio. This organisation, in co-operation with Wärtsilä’s Business Management teams, delivers cyber security operational support. It also provides the associated governance, risk management, and assurance required to support and enable both safe and secure internal operations, while securing that customer offerings by the Businesses are compliant with the relevant regulations and applicable standards, both now and in the future. The Wärtsilä cyber security governance model aligns closely with wider business risk management and supports the Businesses in identifying and prioritising their respective cyber security risks. The cyber security team works seamlessly with physical security colleagues across Wärtsilä to ensure the effective and coordinated delivery of holistic security solutions for both the cyber and physical domains. Information security risks related to Wärtsilä’s internal operations are continually identified, analysed and evaluated. The attendant mitigation activities are executed across Wärtsilä’s networks, endpoints, systems and services. The 24/7 Wärtsilä Security Operations Centre continually monitors the perimeter to internal systems and closely observes the external threat exposure level, whilst providing a coordinated response to identified information security incidents, as and when they may occur. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 136 The effective mitigation of the risks associated with cyber security hygiene throughout Wärtsilä are continually and progressively being reinforced through coordinated and complementary cyber security training, awareness initiatives and extensive communications. This involves all Wärtsilä corporate functions and the Businesses. Recognising the ever-present and increasing cyber security risks to our customers in the maritime industry, Wärtsilä has developed, in close partnership with a leading cyber security provider, a world-leading maritime cyber emergency response capability based in Singapore. This service puts thought leadership into tangible action, and places Wärtsilä at the forefront in mitigating the cyber security risks to its customers. Commodity price risk Oil The direct effect of oil price changes on Wärtsilä's production is limited, with their impact being mainly demand related. Higher oil prices represent a risk for global economic growth and increase operating costs, especially in the shipping markets. However, they also stimulate investments in exploration and production for oil and gas, both on land and offshore. Furthermore, high oil prices increase investments in gas carriers, gas-based power plants and, increasingly, also in gas-fuelled vessels. Low oil prices can delay investment decisions in oil producing countries and regions, as well as in the offshore industry. Wärtsilä is a global company involved in different shipping and power plant segments where oil price changes can have an opposing impact on demand drivers. This position is further diversified by the increasing importance of natural gas in Wärtsilä's business. Metals Metal prices have an indirect effect on the component costs of Wärtsilä’s products. Furthermore, some key components are sourced with long-term contracts, and thus raw material price volatility is limited. Electricity Electricity prices have no substantial impact on Wärtsilä’s production costs. In the energy markets, high electricity prices support investments in new capacity by utility customers. Lower grid electricity prices do not favour investments in their own generating capacity by industrial customers. Anchor Hazar Hazard d risks Occupational health and safety systems, travel safety instructions, and crisis management guidelines are aimed at protecting Wärtsilä employees. Appropriate insurances are in place for the personnel, and to emphasise the importance of employee safety, the Board of Management has decided on a corporate level target of zero lost-time injuries. A specific Zero Injury project exists for this purpose, and the target is included in the company’s sustainability programme. During 2018, the near-miss reporting system, WeCare, was actively used worldwide in order to manage information related to incidents that can threaten the safety, health and security of the company’s employees and operations, as well as the environment. This IT solution provides a guide for identifying the causes of incidents, and for taking all appropriate actions in a systematic way. Environmental management systems are in place to mitigate environmental hazard risks. Wärtsilä maintains a register of all properties used and gives guidelines for the purchase, sale, rental and security of premises, and uses external advisors for environmental audits. None of Wärtsilä’s major facilities are located in natural disaster areas. Catastrophic peril related scenarios are identified and, where necessary, exposures are mitigated by, for example, elevating sites above the flood risk level or by constructing flood dikes. For Wärtsilä’s main sites, business impact analyses have been conducted and continuity plans created to cover both property and business interruption risks. The risks that Wärtsilä is unable to influence through its own efforts are transferred whenever possible to insurance companies. Wärtsilä uses appropriate insurance policies to cover indemnity risks related to its personnel, assets, and business interruptions; including supplier triggered interruptions, as well as third-party and product liability. Wärtsilä has established its own captive insurance company, Vulcan Insurance PCC Ltd. This risk management tool only insures Wärtsilä’s own risks. For insurance technical reasons the company is located on the island of Guernsey. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 137 Vulcan Insurance PCC Ltd’s results are consolidated into the corporation’s books and are subject to normal taxation in Finland. Anchor Financial risks Wärtsilä's financial risks are presented in the notes to the financial statements, Note 31. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 138 Anchor Risk pr profiles ofiles and rresponsibilities esponsibilities Low High Risks Risk profile Policy or other guideline Responsible body Strategic Wärtsilä's strategy and business Wärtsilä's Board of Directors risks plans (BoD), Board of Management (BoM) and Businesses Business Wärtsilä's strategy and business BoM and Businesses environment plans risk Market and Wärtsilä's strategy and business BoM and Businesses customer risk plans Competitive Wärtsilä's strategy and business BoM and Businesses situation and plans price risk Political and Various guidelines and risk Businesses, R&D, Risk legislative risk management policy management (RM) and Legal functions Climate QHSE policy, Code of Conduct, Businesses, R&D and change and management systems (ISO 14001 Sustainability function sustainability & OHSAS 18001) risk Technology Patents and industrial rights, Businesses and R&D risk product guarantees Operational Wärtsilä's strategy and business BoM and Businesses risks plans Manufacturing Production systems, Business Manufacturing and risk Continuity Plan Businesses Supplier and Supplier requirement and supplier Businesses and Supply subcontractor management system, Business Management risk Continuity Plan Lifecycle Management systems (ISO 9001), Manufacturing, R&D, quality of safety instruction and manuals, risk Businesses, RM, Quality and products and management policy, R&D risk Legal functions product elimination instructions liability risk Contractual Standard contracts, Corporate Legal function and risks Sales Contracting Policy Businesses This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Governance 139 Commodity Production cost control Businesses and Treasury price risk function Data security Data security principles and Cyber Businesses and IM function risk Security Strategy NonCode of Conduct, Anti-corruption Businesses and Compliance compliance policy, Compliance policy, Whistlefunction risk blowing channel Hazard risks Risk management policy and Businesses and RM function guidelines Personnel risk Management system (OHSAS Businesses, Human 18001), travel safety instructions, Resources, RM, EHS and crisis management guidelines, security functions near misses reporting and premises safety plans Natural Crisis management guidelines, Businesses and RM function catastrophes Business Continuity Plan Fire, cargo Management systems (ISO 14001 Businesses, RM and Real and other & OHSAS 18001), premises safety Estate functions accidents plan Financial Wärtsilä's strategy and business Businesses and Treasury risks plans function Foreign Treasury policy Businesses and Treasury exchange risk function Interest rate Treasury policy Businesses and Treasury risk function Liquidity and Treasury policy Businesses and Treasury refinancing function risk Credit risk Credit and Treasury policy Businesses and Treasury function Low High This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Anchor Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Investors 141 Investors Shares 142 Shareholders 144 Wärtsilä on the capital markets 147 Analysts 149 Information for shareholders 150 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Investors 142 Anchor Shar Shares es Wärtsilä Corporation's shares are listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki Large Cap list under the trading code WRT1V. Wärtsilä’s Annual General Meeting, held on 8 March 2018, approved the Board of Directors’ proposal to issue new shares to the shareholders without payment in proportion to their holdings so that two new shares are issued for each share. Thereby, a total of 394,482,260 new shares were registered in the trade register on 12 March 2018, bringing Wärtsilä’s total number of shares to 591,723,390. The share capital entered in the trade register was EUR 336,002,138.50 at the end of the financial period 2018. Wärtsilä has one share series, with each share entitling its holder to one vote at the General Meeting and to an equal dividend. Key figur figures es for the W Wärtsilä ärtsilä shar sharee 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Earnings per share (EPS)* EUR 0.65 0.63 0.60 0.75 0.59 Book-value of equity per share* EUR 4.09 3.97 3.87 3.72 3.31 Dividend per share* EUR 0.481 0.46 0.43 0.40 0.38 Dividend per earnings % 73.71 70.8 72.8 53.3 65.4 Dividend yield % 3.51 2.6 3.0 2.8 3.1 Price per earnings (P/E) 21.4 27.0 23.8 18.8 21.1 Price to book-value (P/BV) 3.4 4.4 3.7 3.8 3.7 Adjusted number of shares* x 1 000 End of financial year 591 723 591 723 591 723 591 723 591 723 On average 591 723 591 723 591 723 591 723 591 723 1 Proposal of the Board of Directors. * The figures in the comparison periods have been restated to reflect the increased number of shares. Wärtsilä's shar shares es on Nasdaq Helsinki Wärtsilä's share price decreased by 20.8% during 2018, while the OMX Helsinki Industrials and the OMX Helsinki Cap index decreased by 17.6% and 7.7% respectively. The highest quoted price for Wärtsilä's share during the financial period was EUR 19.88 and the lowest EUR 12.75. The closing price on 31 December 2018 was EUR 13.90 and the volume weighted average price for the year was EUR 17.04. At year-end, Wärtsilä's market capitalisation was EUR 8,222 million. The volume of trades on Nasdaq Helsinki was 278,938,159 shares, equivalent to a turnover of EUR 4,754 million. Wärtsilä's shares are also traded on alternative exchanges, including Turquoise, BATS CXE and BATS BXE. The total trading volume on these alternative exchanges amounted to 226,474,065 shares. Further information on the company’s share price development can be found on Wärtsilä’s IR pages at www.wartsila.com/investors. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Investors 143 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Investors 144 Wärtsilä shar shareses on Nasdaq Helsinki 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Trading volume MEUR 4 754 4 800 3 826 4 529 5 114 Number of traded shares* x 1 000 278 938 268 222 296 611 341 211 397 575 Stock turnover % 47.1 45.3 50.1 80.0 67.2 Share price, high* EUR 19.88 20.77 14.48 14.99 14.61 Share price, low* EUR 12.75 13.97 11.30 11.07 10.62 Average share price* EUR 17.04 17.90 12.89 13.28 12.70 Share price at year-end* EUR 13.90 17.53 14.23 14.05 12.36 Year-end market capitalisation MEUR 8 222 10 375 8 418 8 314 7 315 * The figures in the comparison periods have been restated to reflect the increased number of shares. Anchor Shar Shareholders eholders Wärtsilä had 49,382 shareholders at the end of the financial period 2018. Foreign shareholding, including nominee registered shares, represented 54.5% (55.9) at the end of the period, and Finnish retail investors held 17.9% of the share capital (17.7). Further information concerning the company’s shareholder base development can be found on Wärtsilä’s IR pages at www.wartsila.com/investors. Ownership structur structuree on 31 December 2018 Group Number of shareholders % Number of shares % Private corporations 1 902 3.9 45 119 958 7.6 Banks and insurance companies 113 0.2 19 114 087 3.2 Public sector entities 50 0.1 63 271 820 10.7 Non-profit organisations 923 1.9 35 947 203 6.1 Households 46 003 93.2 105 685 525 17.9 Outside Finland 391 0.8 5 911 228 1.0 Nominee registered 316 673 569 53.5 Total 49 382 100.0 591 723 390 100.0 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Investors 145 Division of shar shareses on 31 December 2018 Number of shares Number of shareholders % Number of shares % 1-100 10 133 20.5 496 145 0.1 101-1 000 22 281 45.1 9 385 351 1.6 1 001-10 000 14 625 29.6 45 286 471 7.7 10 001-100 000 2 153 4.4 52 897 482 8.9 100 001-1 000 000 170 0.3 44 896 460 7.6 1 000 001-10 000 000 17 0.03 46 685 304 7.9 10 000 0013 0.006 75 402 608 12.7 Nominee registered 316 673 569 53.5 Total 49 382 100.0 591 723 390 100.0 Wärtsilä's 50 major shar shareholders eholders on 31 December 2018, excluding nominee rregister egistered ed The largest shareholder was Investor AB with 104,599,632 shares or 17.7% of the share capital at year-end. Investor AB's shares are included in the nominee register and therefore not visible in the below table. Owner Shares % 1 Fiskars Corporation 32 645 343 5.52 2 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 30 780 522 5.20 3 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 11 976 743 2.02 4 The Social Insurance Institution of Finland 5 807 730 0.98 5 Elo Mutual Pension Insurance Company 5 150 000 0.87 6 Svenska Litteratur-sällskapet i Finland rf 4 554 777 0.77 7 State Pension Fund 3 920 000 0.66 8 Keva 3 831 981 0.65 9 Op-Suomi -Sijoitusrahasto 3 115 798 0.53 10 The Finnish Cultural Foundation 2 920 440 0.49 11 Jenny and Antti Wihuri Foundation 2 700 000 0.46 12 Sigrid Jusélius Foundation 2 359 505 0.40 13 Schweizerische Nationalbank 2 007 488 0.34 14 Oy Ingman Finance Ab 1 650 000 0.28 15 Savox Investments S.a. 1 643 000 0.28 16 Rantanen Tuula Anneli 1 515 198 0.26 17 Mandatum Henkivakuutusosakeyhtiö 1 491 123 0.25 18 The Signe and Ane Gyllenberg foundation 1 463 664 0.25 19 Samfundet Folkhälsan i Svenska Finland rf 1 434 600 0.24 20 Holding Manutas Oy 1 120 000 0.19 21 Blåberg Olli Edvard 1 000 000 0.17 22 Louise och Göran Ehrnrooth Stiftelse sr 982 890 0.17 23 Livränteanstalten Hereditas Ab 950 270 0.16 24 Sijoitusrahasto Nordea Suomi Passiivinen 866 787 0.15 25 Fromond Elsa Margaretha Louise 860 800 0.15 26 Folkhälsan i Svenska Finland rf Inez och Julius Polins Fond 838 800 0.14 27 Stockmann Marita 813 678 0.14 28 Sijoitusrahasto Aktia Capital 800 000 0.14 29 William Thurings Stiftelse sr 770 750 0.13 30 Sijoitusrahasto Nordea Pro Suomi 712 485 0.12 31 Sr Danske Invest Suomi Yhteisöosake 710 000 0.12 32 Von Fieandt Berndt Johan 706 146 0.12 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Investors 146 33 Åbo Akademi Foundation 688 880 0.12 34 Holdix Oy Ab 613 500 0.10 35 Sijoitusrahasto Seligson & Co 536 756 0.09 36 Seb Finlandia Sijoitusrahasto 519 408 0.09 37 Markkola Leena 519 370 0.09 38 Folkhälsans Forskningsstiftelse Kansanterveyden tutkimussäätiö 516 204 0.09 39 Brita Maria Renlund Foundation 511 400 0.09 40 Säästöpankki Kotimaa -Sijoitusrahasto 500 075 0.08 41 Sijoitusrahasto Evli Suomi Select 500 000 0.08 42 Barry Staines Linoleum Oy 499 710 0.08 43 Perceval Ann-Marie Caussin De 498 840 0.08 44 Karlsson Anne Christine 480 000 0.08 45 Keskinäinen Vakuutusyhtio Kaleva 471 106 0.08 46 Brotherus Pia Monica 453 006 0.08 47 Ella and Georg Ehrnrooth Foundation 424 500 0.07 48 Tallberg Carl Johan 421 746 0.07 49 Odin Finland 409 896 0.07 50 Seligson & Co Suomi Indeksirahasto 389 413 0.07 Total 141 054 328 23.84 Changes in ownership – flagging notifications Under the provisions of the Finnish Securities Markets Act, shareholders of listed companies have an obligation to notify both the Finnish Financial Supervision Authority and the listed company of changes in their holdings when crossing predefined thresholds. The table below summarises the flagging notifications received by Wärtsilä during 2018. Further information can be found on Wärtsilä’s website. Release date Transaction date Shareholder Threshold Direct holding, % Total holding, % 26.2.2018 23.2.2018 BlackRock, Inc. Above 10% 9.88 10.04 28.2.2018 27.2.2018 BlackRock Investment Management Below 5% 4.85 6.10 (UK) Limited 2.3.2018 1.3.2018 BlackRock, Inc. Below 10% 7.13 9.98 8.3.2018 6.3.2018 BlackRock, Inc. Above 10% 6.64 10.01 9.3.2018 8.3.2018 BlackRock, Inc. Below 10% 6.60 9.97 14.3.2018 13.3.2018 BlackRock, Inc. Above 10% 6.69 10.04 19.3.2018 16.3.2018 BlackRock, Inc. Below 10% 8.22 9.66 22.3.2018 21.3.2018 BlackRock Investment Management Above 5% 5.07 6.03 (UK) Limited 6.9.2018 5.9.2018 BlackRock Investment Management Below 5% 4.75 5.78 (UK) Limited 28.9.2018 27.9.2018 BlackRock Investment Management Above 5% 5.03 5.14 (UK) Limited 2.10.2018 1.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management Below 5% 4.9999 5.11 (UK) Limited 3.10.2018 2.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management Above 5% 5.04 5.16 (UK) Limited 5.10.2018 4.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management Below 5% 4.99 5.11 (UK) Limited 8.10.2018 5.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management Above 5% 5.04 5.11 (UK) Limited 16.10.2018 12.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management Below 5% 4.98 5.04 (UK) Limited 18.10.2018 16.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management Below 5% (UK) Limited This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Investors 147 23.10.2018 19.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management Above 5% 4.98 5.01 (UK) Limited 24.10.2018 22.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management Above 5% 5.005 5.029 (UK) Limited 25.10.2018 23.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management Below 5% (UK) Limited Management holdings The members of the Board of Directors, the President & CEO, the CEO's deputy, and the corporations under their control, owned altogether 205,703 shares in Wärtsilä Corporation at the end of 2018, which represents 0.03% of the stock and voting rights. Further details on the Board of Directors' and Board of Management’s ownership of Wärtsilä's shares can be found in the Corporate Governance section. Authorisations granted to the Boar Board d of Dir Directors ectors The Annual General Meeting, held on 8 March 2018, authorised the Board of Directors to resolve to repurchase a maximum of 57,000,000 of the Company's own shares. The authorisation to repurchase the Company’s own shares shall be valid until the close of the next Annual General Meeting, however no longer than 18 months from the authorisation of the shareholders’ meeting. The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to distribute a maximum of 57,000,000 of the Company’s own shares. The authorisation for the Board of Directors to distribute the Company’s own shares shall be valid for three years from the authorisation of the shareholders’ meeting and it cancels the authorisation given by the General Meeting on 2 March 2017. The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to whom and in which order the Company’s own shares will be distributed. The Board of Directors was authorised to decide on the distribution of the Company’s own shares other than in proportion to the existing pre-emptive right of the shareholders to purchase the Company’s own shares. The Boar Board ectors' dividend pr Directors' d of Dir proposal oposal The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 0.48 euro per share be paid for the financial year 2018. The dividend will be paid in two equal instalments. Anchor Wärtsilä on the capital markets Wärtsilä’s Investor Relations (IR) team, consisting of the CEO, CFO, IR Director, and IR Officer, participated in approximately 280 investor meetings during 2018. The team also maintained regular contact with equity research analysts throughout the year. Meetings with institutional investors were conducted in North America, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, and in the Nordic countries. During the year, Wärtsilä’s IR team held roadshows on 21 days and attended eight investor conferences. During the year, Wärtsilä's foreign ownership represented 54.5% (55.9) of the total shareholder base. Investors in Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States held the largest percentage of foreign shares. Wärtsilä's Capital Markets Day was held in May in Helsinki. Presentation topics covered the company's strategic focus areas for the energy and marine businesses, and growth opportunities for the coming years. The event was well-appreciated by nearly 70 institutional investors, equity analysts, and bankers in attendance. A further 67 persons participated via webcast. During the year, Wärtsilä gave presentations at events aimed at domestic private investors. Such events included two hosted by Inderes and Nordea. In 2018, retail investors accounted for approximately 17.9% (17.7) of Wärtsilä's shareholder base. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Investors 148 Wärtsilä's Investor Relations policy The ultimate objective of Wärtsilä's Investor Relations is to produce accurate, sufficient, and up-to-date information regarding the development of Wärtsilä's business operations, strategy, markets, and financial position. This is to ensure that the capital markets have the relevant information concerning Wärtsilä in order to determine the fair value of the Company's shares. To achieve this objective, Wärtsilä publishes annually two interim reports, a half-year financial report, a financial statements bulletin, an annual report, and stock exchange releases. Furthermore, Wärtsilä's management conducts regular discussions with analysts and investors, both in Finland and abroad. Wärtsilä's web pages serve as an archive for all current and historical data on factors affecting the value of its shares. Pr Prospects ospects Guidance on Wärtsilä's prospects is published in the financial statements bulletin, in the half-year financial report, and in the interim reports. The most recently published prospects statement is repeated in the annual report. The published prospect statement consists of expectations regarding demand development in Wärtsilä's markets, and it is approved by the Board of Directors. Wärtsilä does not publish quarterly result forecasts. Should there be a change in business circumstances that could affect the prospects, Wärtsilä will publish changes to the prospects in accordance with prevailing regulations. Analyst rreports eports Wärtsilä will review, upon request by an analyst, his or her earnings model or report only for factual accuracy, or information that is in the public domain. Wärtsilä does not comment on, or take any responsibility for, estimates or forecasts published by capital market representatives. Silent period Wärtsilä observes a three-week silent period preceding the publication of its results to prevent the revealing of unpublished financial information. During this period, the Company's representatives do not meet with investors or analysts or comment on its financial position. Disclosur Disclosuree policy and financial communications Wärtsilä discloses information on its goals, financial position, and business operations in an open, timely, truthful, and systematic manner so as to enable stakeholders to form a true and fair view of the Company. Wärtsilä publishes stock exchange releases, press releases, and trade press releases. Wärtsilä’s subsidiaries publish press releases with local relevance. Matters that contain inside information and may have a material impact on the value of the Company’s financial instruments are published as stock exchange releases. Press releases contain information on events relating to Wärtsilä’s normal business operations, which are assessed to be of general interest for investors and media. Releases to the trade press provide more detailed information on Wärtsilä’s products and technologies. All stock exchange releases are published in Finnish, Swedish, and English. Press releases are published in English and can also be published in Finnish and Swedish. Trade press releases are published in English, and local releases in the local language. All releases are available on Wärtsilä's website immediately following publication. Contacts Relations with the Company's investors and analysts are handled by IR Director Natalia Valtasaari, together with the IR team. General enquiries can be sent to investor.relations@wartsila.com. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Investors 149 Natalia VValtasaari altasaari Director, Investor Relations Tel. +358 10 709 5637 natalia.valtasaari@wartsila.com Mari Hamarila IR Officer Tel. +358 50 364 3413 mari.hamarila@wartsila.com Alexandra Carlzén Investor Relations Coordinator Tel. +358 10 709 5445 alexandra.carlzen@wartsila.com Wärtsilä's corporate communications are the responsibility of Atte Palomäki, Executive Vice President, Communications & Branding. Atte Palomäki Executive Vice President, Communications & Branding Tel. +358 10 709 5599 atte.palomaki@wartsila.com Anchor Analysts To the best of Wärtsilä’s knowledge, the below listed brokers and financial analysts, follow the Company’s development on their own initiative. They have analysed Wärtsilä’s performance and drawn up reports and comments. As a result, they are able to evaluate the Company as an investment target. Wärtsilä takes no responsibility for the opinions expressed. Company Analyst Contact ABG Sundal Collier AB Anders Idborg anders.idborg@abgsc.se +46 8 566 286 74 Bank of America Merrill Lynch Alexander Virgo alexander.virgo@baml.com +44 20 7996 1221 Carnegie Investment Bank AB, Finland Tom Skogman tom.skogman@carnegie.fi Branch +358 9 6187 1234 Citi Edward edward.maravanyika@citi.com Maravanyika +44 20 7986 4071 Credit Suisse Max Yates max.yates@credit-suisse.com +44 20 7883 8501 Danske Bank A/S, Helsinki Branch Antti Suttelin antti.suttelin@danskebank.com +358 10 236 4708 DNB Bank ASA Christer christer.magnergard@dnb.no Magnergård +46 8 473 48 44 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Investors 150 Goldman Sachs International Jonathan Hanks jonathan.hanks@gs.com +44 20 7051 0928 Handelsbanken Capital Markets Timo Heinonen tihe03@handelsbanken.fi +358 10 444 2483 HSBC Bank plc Sean McLoughlin sean.mcloughlin@hsbcib.com +44 20 7991 3464 Inderes Erkki Vesola erkki.vesola@inderes.com +358 50 5495 512 Jefferies International Peter Reilly peter.reilly@jefferies.com +44 20 7029 8632 JPMorgan Cazenove Glen Liddy glen.liddy@jpmorgan.com +44 20 7134 4570 Kepler Cheuvreux Johan Eliason jeliason@keplercheuvreux.com +46 8 723 5100 Morgan Stanley Robert J. Davies Robert.J.Davies@morganstanley.com +44 20 7425 2057 Nordea Markets Manu Rimpelä manu.rimpela@nordea.com +358 9 530 05172 Pareto Öhman Anders Roslund anders.roslund@paretosec.com +46 8 402 5288 OP Financial Group Henri Parkkinen henri.parkkinen@op.fi +358 10 252 4409 UBS Deutschland AG Sven Weier sven.weier@ubs.com +49 69 1369 8278 Anchor Information for shar shareholders eholders Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of Wärtsilä Corporation will take place on Thursday, 7 March 2019, beginning at 3 p.m., at the Wing of the Helsinki Fair Center, address: Messuaukio 1, 00520 Helsinki, Finland. Right to attend Shareholders registered no later than 25 February 2019 in the Company's list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd have the right to attend the Annual General Meeting. Notification of attendees Shareholders wishing to attend the Annual General Meeting are required to inform the Company thereof no later than 4 p.m. on 4 March 2019 either by e-mail, on the Company’s website www.wartsila.com/agm_register, by telephone, or by regular mail. Letters and e-mails informing of participation must reach the Company before the notification period expires at 4 p.m. on 4 March 2019. Letters authorising a proxy to exercise a shareholder's voting right at the Annual General Meeting should also reach the Company before the notification period expires. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Investors 151 Registration: Wärtsilä Corporation Share Register P.O. Box 1834 FI-00080 WÄRTSILÄ Finland Telephone: +358 10 709 5282, between 9 a.m. and 12 p.m. (noon) on weekdays E-mail: yk@wartsila.com Internet: www.wartsila.com/agm_register Payment of dividend The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 0.48 euro per share be paid for the financial year 2018. The dividend will be paid in two instalments. The first instalment of 0.24 euro per share will be paid to shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record date 11 March 2019. The payment date proposed by the Board for this instalment is 18 March 2019. The second instalment of 0.24 euro per share will be paid to shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the dividend record date, which, together with the payment date, shall be decided by the Board of Directors in its meeting scheduled for 18 September 2019. The dividend record date for the second instalment as per the current rules of the Finnish book-entry system would be 20 September 2019 and the dividend payment date 27 September 2019. Stock exchange rreleases eleases Wärtsilä's stock exchange releases are available in English, Finnish, and Swedish on Wärtsilä's website. Anchor Financial calendar 2019 Annual Report 2018 on Tuesday, 12 February 2019 Interim Report January-March 2019 on Thursday, 25 April 2019 Half-year Financial Report January-June 2019 on Thursday, 18 July 2019 Interim Report January-September 2019 on Friday, 25 October 2019 Financial Statements Bulletin January-December 2019 on Thursday, 30 January 2020 Annual reports, interim reports, half-year reports and financial statements bulletins are available in English, Finnish, and Swedish on www.wartsilareports.com, as well as on Wärtsilä's website, www.wartsila.com. Wärtsilä’s financial calendar can be found on the company’s investor pages on www.wartsila.com/investors. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Anchor Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 153 Financial review Board of Directors' report 156 Business model 156 Strategy 156 The year 2018 158 Wärtsilä's prospects 170 Dividend proposal 171 Five years in figures 171 Quarterly figures 173 Calculations of financial ratios 174 Financial statements 176 Consolidated financial statements 176 Consolidated statement of income 176 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 177 Consolidated statement of financial position 178 Consolidated statement of cash flows 179 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 181 Accounting principles for the consolidated financial statements 182 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 197 1. Segment information 197 2. Acquisitions 198 3. Disposals 202 4. Disaggregation of revenue 203 5. Other operating income 204 6. Material and services 204 7. Employee benefit expenses 204 8. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 205 9. Other operating expenses 205 10. Financial income and expenses 205 11. Income taxes 206 12. Earnings per share 207 13. Intangible assets 207 14. Property, plant & equipment 209 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 154 15. Investments in associates and joint ventures 210 16. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category 211 17. Inventories 213 18. Contract balances 214 19. Other receivables 214 20. Cash and cash equivalents 215 21. Net debt reconciliation 215 22. Deferred taxes 216 23. Pension obligations 217 24. Equity 220 25. Provisions 221 26. Financial liabilities 222 27. Other liabilities 223 28. Derivative financial instruments 223 29. Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments 224 30. Related party disclosures 225 31. Financial risks 226 32. Auditors' fees and services 231 33. Exchange rates 231 34. Subsidiaries 232 35. Events after the balance sheet date 235 Parent company financial statements 236 Parent company income statement 236 Parent company balance sheet 237 Parent company cash flow statement 239 Accounting principles for the parent company 241 Notes to the parent company financial statements 243 1. Other operating income 243 2. Personnel expenses 243 3. Depreciation and amortisation 244 4. Financial income and expenses 245 5. Income taxes 245 6. Fixed assets 246 7. Non-current receivables 247 8. Current receivables from Group companies 247 9. Prepaid expenses and accrued income 247 10. Shareholders' equity 248 11. Liabilities 248 12. Accrued expenses and deferred income 249 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 155 13. Liabilities to Group companies 249 14. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category 250 15. Derivative financial instruments 252 16. Financial risks 252 17. Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments 253 18. Related party loans and other commitments 253 19. Auditors' fees and services 253 Proposal of the Board 254 Auditor's report 255 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 156 Anchor Boar Board d of Dir Directors' ectors' rreport eport Anchor Business model Wärtsilä provides the marine and energy markets with smart technologies and optimised lifecycle services. In the energy industry, Wärtsilä is a global systems integrator offering engine, solar, and storage technologies, as well as software solutions, on an equipment only or turnkey delivery basis. The marine offering consists of power, voyage, and processing solutions. Wärtsilä has the capabilities needed to combine its marine products into larger integrated systems and solutions. Wärtsilä’s portfolio of services ranges from spare parts and technical expertise, to ensuring a maximised installation lifetime, increased efficiency, and guaranteed performance. The company aims at maximising environmental and economic performance by emphasising sustainable, data-driven innovation and total efficiency. To support its geographically dispersed customer base, Wärtsilä’s sales and service network covers more than 200 locations in more than 80 countries around the world. Wärtsilä operates primarily through its subsidiaries and strategic joint ventures. The company’s manufacturing model is assembly based, emphasising the importance of developing long-term relationships with its global network of suppliers, which consists of approximately 1,120 key direct suppliers. Wärtsilä’s personnel is made up of approximately 19,000 employees with over 130 nationalities. By recruiting and retaining the best talent, Wärtsilä is able to be the most valued business partner to its customers, and the employer of choice for current and future employees. Wärtsilä is committed to conducting its business in a responsible manner, and promotes responsible practices throughout its value chain. Anchor Strategy Wärtsilä’s purpose is to enable sustainable societies with smart technology. The demand for clean and flexible energy, and the need for efficient and safe transportation are increasingly affecting the way that customers operate. This forms the basis for Wärtsilä’s Smart Marine and Smart Energy visions. With an integrated portfolio of services, systems and products that covers customer needs across the full lifecycle, Wärtsilä is well positioned to respond to the demand for energy efficient and innovative solutions. Strong emphasis is given to optimising installation performance, using data analytics and artificial intelligence to support customer business decisions. Wärtsilä’s digital transformation will provide enhanced customer value through an increased focus on collaboration and knowledge sharing. A strong presence in key markets and a superior global service network support the company’s profitable growth ambitions. With its flexible production and supply chain management, Wärtsilä constantly seeks new ways to maintain high quality and cost efficiency often in co-operation with customers and leading industrial partners. The investments in R&D and the focus on digitalisation create a strong foundation for securing and strengthening the company’s position at the forefront of market innovation. This innovative culture, together with a constant emphasis on safety, diversity, and high ethical standards, attracts skilled and committed people and creates the basis for a high performing organisation. The implementation of operational excellence ensures that Wärtsilä is easy to do business with, and drives increased productivity and efficiencies for its customers. Strategy implementation in 2018 Wärtsilä introduced several new concepts and solutions during 2018 to support the realisation of its strategy. The launch of the Smart Energy vision, which emphasises leading the industry’s transformation towards a future that utilises 100% renewable energy with flexible capacity as the enabler, was followed up by the introduction of new solutions for the integration of renewables and storage. The expansion of renewable energy was evidenced with major contracts awarded to Wärtsilä from Australia and the USA. In the marine industry, the acquisition of Transas was a key step in further strengthening Wärtsilä’s offering of smart solutions. Significant advances made in intelligent shipping included the successful testing of an automated dock-to-dock concept, and a project launched for developing a harbour tug with autonomous navigation. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 157 Collaboration and knowledge sharing, both within the Group and externally with partners, suppliers and customers, is central for developing the smart technologies needed to meet the changing market requirements. In this context, the decision to build a new centre for research, development and production in Vaasa, Finland was a key milestone of the year. The focus on digitalising Wärtsilä’s operations and customer offering continued. During the year, Wärtsilä opened an Acceleration Centre in Singapore with the aim of promoting innovation and collaboration with industry, academia, and local partners to strengthen and develop Singapore’s maritime ecosystem. Wärtsilä also announced a partnership with the cyber security company Templar Executives to establish a cyber academy offering courses designed to support and enhance the collective cyber maturity of the wider shipping community. The partnership introduced MCERT, an international cyber intelligence and incident support platform that enhances cyber resilience for the maritime ecosystem. To promote a high performance culture, Wärtsilä has continued its leadership development programmes in many areas. Since the launch of the Operational Excellence Academy in 2016, nearly 2,000 managers and employees have participated in operational excellence learning modules. The academy was established to ensure that continuous improvement becomes an integrated part of the company culture and way of working. During the year Wärtsilä launched the company culture initiative Leap and the WeLeap app to accelerate the developments of digital competencies throughout the company. Since its introduction in June, the online learning portal has had over 3,300 users. Furthermore, with particular attention to the ongoing digital transformation, a new recruitment system was taken into use with the aim of attracting new talent, improving the candidates’ experience, and promoting Wärtsilä’s employer brand. MyVoice, Wärtsilä’s employee engagement survey, was also updated to better meet the company’s needs. The renewed survey emphasises engagement and motivation, and is completely online and available on mobile devices. The health and safety of personnel is a priority for Wärtsilä, and zero lost-time injuries continues to be the company’s global target. After successive years of improvement in this area, the lost-time injury frequency for the year 2018 increased slightly to 2.50 (2.48). Further strengthening safety leadership within the company has been an area of focus, and by the end of the year 3,200 Wärtsilä leaders had completed a full day safety leadership workshop. The fourth global Safety Day was arranged under the theme ‘On the Road’, with the aim of raising awareness of risks and supporting employees in making safer choices when travelling. Financial targets Wärtsilä’s long-term financial target is to grow faster than global GDP, and to maintain its operating profit margin between 14% at the peak of the cycle and 10% at the trough. Furthermore, the target is to maintain gearing below 0.50, and to pay a dividend of at least 50% of earnings per share over the cycle. Wärtsilä’s performance in 2018 was in line with its long-term targets. Net sales increased by 5%, bringing Wärtsilä’s 5-year compound annual growth rate to 2.4%. The global real GDP is estimated to have increased by 3.7% in 2018, giving a 5-year compound annual growth rate of 2.0%. The comparable operating result was 11.2% of net sales. Gearing was 0.14 and the Board of Directors' proposed dividend of EUR 0.48 per share represents 73.7% of operational earnings. Target Development in 2018 Development in 2017, restated Net sales growth faster than global GDP 5% increase 3% increase Comparable operating result margin between 10% and 14% 11.2% 11.7% Gearing below 0.50 0.14 0.10 Dividend payment at least 50% of earnings per share over the cycle 73.7%1 70.8% 1 Proposal of the Board of Directors. Figures in the comparison period 2017 have been restated due to the adoption of IFRS 15. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 158 Anchor The year 2018 Anchor Market development Steady development in the service markets Service market activity improved somewhat during 2018, supported by a seasonal pick-up in demand towards the end of the year. In the marine markets, the cruise and ferry segment developed positively and the high level of interest in environmental retrofit projects, combined with improved service volume in the gas carrier segment, supported activity in the merchant segment. The demand for services in the oil and gas industry improved, while conditions in the offshore markets remained challenging. Power plant related service activities were steady across all geographical areas. Power generation markets stable with continued inter interest est in flexible capacity The interest in flexible power capacity in the form of generation and storage solutions is growing. Costs of solar and wind energy continue to decrease, and it has become more economical to replace traditional baseload capacity with renewables and flexibility. Utilities are assessing how to integrate such energy sources into their generation portfolios, and are updating their long-term investment plans accordingly. Currency volatility in the emerging markets, which has resulted in slower decision-making in certain countries, eased towards the end of the year. At the same time, the continued need for reliable capacity to support economic growth and alleviate power shortages supported power plant investments. For the twelve months period ending in September, Wärtsilä’s market share in the <500 MW market segment decreased to 13% (17). Global orders for natural gas and liquid fuel power plants remained stable at 20.8 GW (20.7). Global orders include all gas turbine and Wärtsilä orders with prime movers over 5 MW in size. The data is gathered from the McCoy Power Report. Gradual rrecovery ecovery in marine markets with str strong ong demand for envir environmental onmental solutions During the year 2018, 1.237 contracts for new vessels were registered (1.037 excluding late contracting). Market conditions in the LNG carrier segment improved, with vessel contracting being driven by increasing spot rates and the trend towards more environmentally friendly fuels. Investments in containerships and bulkers were partly limited by high fuel costs and global tariff concerns. Contracting activity was solid in the cruise segment, being supported by the need for modern capacity to match the expected growth in cruise passenger numbers. Investments in the ferry segment were mainly related to fleet replacements. Fluctuating oil prices created uncertainty in the offshore industry, and overcapacity continued to limit newbuild investments. Environmental compliance emerged as a key theme in shipping during the year, and the IMO 2020 sulphur regulations led to an uptake in orders for exhaust gas cleaning systems. In terms of compensated gross tonnage, South Korea and China remained the largest shipbuilding nations with 43% and 32% of all confirmed contracts respectively. Japan and Italy accounted for 13% and 3% of the global total. Anchor Or Order der intake Wärtsilä’s order intake for 2018 increased by 12% to EUR 6,307 million (5,644). The book-to-bill ratio was 1.22 (1.15). Services’ order intake increased by 16% to EUR 3,086 million (2,670), thanks to the strong demand for exhaust gas cleaning retrofit projects and continued demand for long-term service agreements. In the marine markets, highlights of the year included a EUR 170 million order for hybrid scrubber systems and retrofit services from a major European container shipping company, as well as the extension of Wärtsilä’s service agreement with Royal Caribbean to the year 2028. Important agreements signed in the energy markets included a 10-year asset management agreement for a power station in Papua New Guinea, as well a three-year operation and maintenance agreement for a 130 MW power plant delivered to Mexico. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 159 Energy Solutions’ order amounted to EUR 1,511 million (1,685), which represents a 10% decrease from the previous year. Asia was the most active region in terms of ordering activity, followed by the Americas. Demand was good in Bangladesh, where the government continues its efforts to increase the number of households with access to electricity, as well as in growing economies such as Indonesia. In the developed markets, Wärtsilä received major contracts in Australia and the USA to support the expansion of renewable energy. Wärtsilä also received several energy storage and grid management software orders during the year. Marine Solutions’ order intake increased by 33% to EUR 1,710 million (1,288). Several orders were received from major cruise companies, contributing to strong order activity in the cruise and ferry segment, which represented 30% of the order intake. The demand for environmental solutions continued throughout the year, largely as a result of the approaching IMO 2020 regulations. A considerable number of scrubber systems were ordered for newbuild vessels, particularly in the merchant segment, which amounted to 28% of the order intake. Other significant orders received in this segment included the supply of volatile organic compounds (VOC) recovery technology, LNG fuel gas handling systems, and the auxiliary engines for two new shuttle tankers being built for Singapore based AET Tankers, as well as solutions for shuttle tankers being built for TEEKAY. The gas carrier’s share of the order intake was 14%, while special vessels represented 8%, navy 8%, and offshore 7% of the total. Other orders accounted for 5%. Or Order der intake in joint ventur ventures es Order intake in the Wärtsilä Hyundai Engine Company Ltd joint venture company in South Korea, and in the Wärtsilä Qiyao Diesel Company Ltd, CSSC Wärtsilä Engine Company Ltd. and CSSC Wärtsilä Electrical & Automation Company Ltd. joint venture companies in China totalled EUR 156 million (70). The results of these companies are reported as a share of the result of associates and joint ventures. Anchor Or Order der book The total order book at the end of the financial period amounted to EUR 6,166 million (5,100), an increase of 21%. The Services order book totalled EUR 1,878 million (1,220), which is 54% higher than at the same time last year thanks to the increased demand for exhaust gas cleaning retrofit projects and continued interest in long-term service agreements. For service agreements, only the expected net sales for the next 24 months are included in the Services order book. The Energy Solutions order book was stable at EUR 1,871 million (1,871), while the Marine Solutions order book increased by 20% to EUR 2,417 million (2,009). Anchor Net sales Wärtsilä’s net sales for 2018 amounted to EUR 5,174 million (4,911), an increase of 5% over the corresponding period last year thanks largely to higher delivery volumes in the equipment businesses. Net sales from the Services business was solid at EUR 2,426 million (2,407). Adjusting for the effects of currency translation, Services’ net sales increased by 4%. Net sales for Energy Solutions totalled EUR 1,517 million (1,401), an increase of 8%. Marine Solutions’ net sales increased by 12% to EUR 1,232 million (1,104). Of the total net sales, Services accounted for 47%, Energy Solutions for 29%, and Marine Solutions for 24%. Of Wärtsilä’s net sales, approximately 67% was EUR denominated, 21% USD denominated, with the remainder being split between several currencies. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 160 Megawatts deliver delivereded 2018 2017 Change % Energy Solutions engines 3 706 3 119 19% Marine Solutions engines 1 087 1 203 -10% Wärtsilä total 4 793 4 322 11% By joint ventures 756 601 26% Engine deliveries total 5 549 4 923 13% Anchor Operating rresult esult and pr profitability ofitability The operating result for 2018 was EUR 543 million (538), which represents 10.5% of net sales (11.0). The group sales mix favoured equipment deliveries, which, together with increased costs related to research, development and digitalisation, burdened profitability. The comparable operating result was EUR 577 million (576), or 11.2% of net sales (11.7). Items affecting comparability amounted to EUR 35 million (37), of which EUR 29 million (36) was related to restructuring programmes and EUR 6 million (2) to acquisitions and other costs. The comparable adjusted EBITA was EUR 621 million (612), or 12.0% of net sales (12.5). Purchase price allocation amortisation amounted to EUR 43 million (36). The profit figures include a provision amounting to approximately EUR 70 million to cover cost overruns and project delays in two nuclear power plant back-up genset projects. The need for additional provisions was identified during a detailed review of the company’s nuclear power plant projects, following Wärtsilä’s decision to cease providing new equipment to this segment. The negative impact to the result was partially offset by a capital gain of EUR 27 million from the divestment of the pumps business and the release of a EUR 21 million provision related to ongoing long-term incentive schemes. Wärtsilä’s three-year long-term incentive schemes are tied to the development of the company's share price, and they apply to approximately 100 company executives. Financial items amounted to EUR -40 million (-47). Net interest totalled EUR -7 million (-8). Profit before taxes amounted to EUR 502 million (491). Taxes amounted to EUR 116 million (117), implying an effective tax rate of 23.1% (23.7). The profit for the financial period amounted to EUR 386 million (375). Earnings per share were EUR 0.65 (0.63) and the equity per share was EUR 4.09 (3.97). The return on investments (ROI) was 18.1% (18.5), while return on equity (ROE) was 16.1% (16.0). This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 161 Anchor Balance sheet, financing and cash flow Wärtsilä’s operating cash flow totalled EUR 470 million (430) in 2018. At the end of the financial period, working capital totalled EUR 581 million (563), a decrease of EUR 201 million from the end of September 2018. Advances received at the end of the period totalled EUR 584 million (522). At the end of September, advances totalled EUR 557 million. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period amounted to EUR 487 million (379). Unutilised Committed Credit Facilities totalled EUR 640 million (765). Wärtsilä had interest-bearing debt totalling EUR 823 million (619) at the end of December 2018. The total amount of short-term debt maturing within the next 12 months was EUR 74 million. Long-term loans amounted to EUR 748 million. Net interest-bearing debt totalled EUR 333 million (234) and gearing was 0.14 (0.10). This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 162 Anchor Capital expenditur expendituree Capital expenditure related to intangible assets and property, plant, and equipment amounted to EUR 110 million (64) in 2018. Capital expenditure related to acquisitions and investments in joint ventures totalled EUR 196 million (191). Depreciation, amortisation, and impairment for the financial period amounted to EUR 130 million (134). In 2019, capital expenditure related to intangible assets and property, plant, and equipment is expected to be below depreciation and amortisation. Anchor Acquisitions and divestments In February, Wärtsilä announced the expansion of its QuantiServ service offering with the acquisition of Lock-nStitch Inc., an American engineering company specialised in cast iron repairs. The acquisition strengthens Wärtsilä’s service portfolio for customers operating multiple brands. Wärtsilä also completed the acquisition of Trident BV, a Netherlands based company specialised in underwater ship maintenance, inspection, and repair services. This acquisition enables Wärtsilä to become a leading global operator in the underwater services market. Further This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 163 supporting the growth of Wärtsilä’s underwater services was the acquisition in October of Burriel Navarro, S.L, a company operating in underwater services in the main ports of Spain. In March, Wärtsilä announced the acquisition of Transas, a global market leader in marine navigation solutions, professional training and simulation services, ship traffic control, as well as in monitoring and support. The acquisition represents a considerable step forward towards the realisation of Wärtsilä’s Smart Marine vision, whereby smart vessels connect with smart ports and beyond to deliver three fundamental industry benefits: maximising the use of resources and operational efficiency, minimising environmental impact and risk, and achieving the highest levels of safety and security. Valued at EUR 210 million (enterprise value), the transaction closed in May 2018. In October, Wärtsilä divested its pumps business to Solix Group, a Scandinavian investment company with offices in Copenhagen, Denmark, and Malmö, Sweden. Wärtsilä Pumps has belonged to the Wärtsilä Marine Solutions organisation and became part of the company along with the acquisition of Hamworthy in 2012. The divestment enables Wärtsilä to devote greater focus to its Smart Marine vision. Anchor Strategic pr projects, ojects, partnerships, and joint ventur ventureses In January, Wärtsilä and Schneider Electric signed an agreement to collaborate on data centre projects. The objective of the agreement is to work together to open markets for innovative data centre energy optimisation solutions, focusing on hyperscale projects having an electrical load of at least 10 MW. Wärtsilä will provide the power generation plants, whereas Schneider Electric will focus on energy distribution optimisation. In April, Wärtsilä announced a partnership with the cyber security company Templar Executives to establish a worldclass cyber academy in Singapore. The academy will offer courses designed to support and enhance the collective cyber maturity of the wider shipping community, notably operators and owners. Wärtsilä has also partnered with the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore to promote maritime innovation and R&D. The partnership covers four different streams: digital acceleration, cyber-physical security, intelligent vessels, and port operations. In June, Wärtsilä and Hyundai Motor Group signed a technology and commercial partnership contract designed to utilise second-life electric vehicle (EV) batteries for the growing energy storage market. The partnership will target advanced energy storage products and platforms that maximise Hyundai’s second-life EV batteries to be commercialised via Wärtsilä’s existing customer and channel networks throughout 178 countries globally. In August, Wärtsilä announced that it will build a new centre of research, product development and production, the Smart Technology Hub, in Vaasa, Finland. The hub will be unique in its field, enabling more agile, more efficient testing and product development of solutions for the maritime, oil and gas industries, as well as new energy systems. As a part of the project, Wärtsilä will invest EUR 83 million in modern testing and production technology for the hub. The majority of these costs will materialise in 2020. The total investment in the Smart Technology Hub will be in the region of EUR 200 million, consisting of office and factory buildings, logistics and infrastructure. In November, Wärtsilä, Finland’s Lappeenranta University of Technology (LUT), and Nebraska Public Power District (NPPD), the largest electricity utility in the state of Nebraska, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the study of the development of a business case for the use of alternative fuels with Wärtsilä generating sets. The aim of the business case is to achieve a technically and commercially viable solution, allowing to proceed with an industrial scale pilot project. In December, Wärtsilä introduced its Innovation Community Initiative together with Tieto, St1, Fortum, and Demos Helsinki, with the aim of accelerating the global energy sector’s transition towards more sustainable energy generation. The community will provide an arena to study, improve, experiment, validate and bring to market new innovations that challenge current energy system paradigms. Anchor Resear Research ch and development, pr product oduct launches Research and development expenses totalled EUR 165 million (141) in 2018, which represents 3.2% of net sales (2.9). The key focus areas included digitalisation, efficiency improvement, fuel flexibility, and the reduction of environmental impact. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 164 In the marine markets, Wärtsilä completed a series of test procedures related to its automated dock-to-dock solution during the year. The auto-docking tests culminated in autonomous operation being utilised uninterrupted for the entire route of the Norwegian operator Norled’s 83-metre long ferry ‘Folgefonn’. Developments in the area of environmental solutions included type approval being received for the Aquarius EC ballast water management system by the United States Coastguard (USCG), as well as the completion of all testing processes required for USCG approval for the Aquarius UV ballast water management system. In October, Wärtsilä inaugurated its new Hybrid Centre. The facility represents an innovative concept that will enable further development and deployment of the Wärtsilä HY hybrid power module, while at the same time providing customers with the possibility to experience the benefits of the Wärtsilä HY. It will also be used to train crews and provide hands-on experience for technicians. Products launched during the year included the new Nacos Platinum solid state S-Band radar system, as well as the first Wärtsilä-branded high-speed engine. The Wärtsilä 14 is a compact engine designed to fit requirements for limited space and weight, lower capital expense, compliance with current and future global emission regulations, and to provide customers with improved efficiency, safety, and environmental sustainability. In the energy markets, June saw the launch of Wärtsilä’s new solar PV and storage hybrid solution. The Wärtsilä Hybrid Solar integrates engines, solar PV generation, and storage to deliver a solution that is climate-friendly, with increased resilience and efficiencies, and that can be supported by a power producer’s existing grid infrastructure. A critical component in maximising the value of this hybrid solution is the GEMS software and controls platform developed by Greensmith Energy, a Wärtsilä company. In September, GridSolv, an advanced, modularised storage solution designed to offer maximum flexibility and speed of deployment, was introduced. The solution architecture supports both standalone deployments, as well as hybrid solutions with thermal or renewable generation assets. The latest generation of Wärtsilä’s advanced energy management software platform, the GEMS 6, was released in December. GEMS is deployed across more than 70 grid-scale systems in nine countries, and is integrated with a multitude of thermal and renewable generation assets, as well as load and weather forecasting data. During the year, Wärtsilä, together with Templar Executives, introduced MCERT, an international cyber intelligence and incident support platform enhancing cyber resilience for the entire maritime ecosystem. It provides international intelligence feeds, advice and support, including real-time assistance to members on cyber attacks and incidents, and a cyber security reporting portal for its members. The MCERT operates from the Wärtsilä Acceleration Centre facilities in Singapore, which was launched during the year. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 165 Anchor Personnel Wärtsilä had 19,294 (18,065) employees at the end of December 2018. On average, the number of personnel for January-December 2018 totalled 18,899 (17,866). The increase in the number of employees relates mainly to the acquisition of Transas. Services employed 11,322 (11,234) people, Energy Solutions 1,171 (1,038), and Marine Solutions 5,995 (5,235). Of Wärtsilä’s total number of employees, 20% (20) were located in Finland and 40% (38) elsewhere in Europe. Personnel employed in Asia represented 24% (27) of the total, personnel in the Americas 11% (11), and personnel in other countries 4% (4). Anchor Changes in management The following appointments were made to the Board of Management of Wärtsilä Corporation in 2018: Mr Marco Wirén (52), M.Sc. (Econ.), was appointed President of Energy Solutions, Executive Vice President, and a member of the Board of Management of Wärtsilä Corporation, effective from 1 October 2018. In this position, he is responsible for Wärtsilä's Energy Solutions business globally, and will report to President & CEO Jaakko Eskola. He succeeds Mr Javier Cavada Camino, who left Wärtsilä to become President & CEO of the London-based energy storage company, Highview Power. Mr Arjen Berends (50), MBA, was appointed Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President and a member of the Board of Management of Wärtsilä Corporation, effective from 1 October 2018. He reports to President & CEO Jaakko Eskola. Wärtsilä’s new organisational structure, formed around two business areas that incorporate both newbuild activities and services, became operational on 1 January 2019. Roger Holm, previously President of Marine Solutions, was appointed to lead Wärtsilä Marine Business and President of Energy Solutions Marco Wirén was appointed to lead Wärtsilä Energy Business. Mr Pierpaolo Barbone (61), President of Services, EVP and Deputy to the CEO, left Wärtsilä at the end of 2018 to pursue opportunities outside the company. Anchor Non-financial rreporteport Increasing environmental awareness is resulting in fundamental changes in both the marine and energy industries. Thanks to its various technologies and specialised services, Wärtsilä is well positioned to reduce exhaust emissions and the use of natural resources, and to support its customers in preparing for new regulatory requirements. R&D efforts continue to focus on the development of advanced environmental technologies and solutions. Wärtsilä This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 166 emphasises responsible business conduct, and is committed to supporting the UN Global Compact and its principles with respect to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Responsible business conduct The Wärtsilä Code of Conduct defines common rules for all employees, and provides guidance on Wärtsilä’s approach to responsible business practices. The Code of Conduct is complemented by group-wide policies, including the Quality, Environmental, Health and Safety Policy, the corporate policy on equal opportunities and fair employment practices, as well as policies related to anti-corruption, compliance reporting, and sourcing and purchasing. Wärtsilä takes an active approach to the application of the Code of Conduct and promotes its implementation through the effective communication of its contents to its employees. Wärtsilä monitors the application of the Code internally to ensure understanding and commitment throughout the organisation. At the end of 2018, 17,255 employees, covering 90% of the total number of employees, had participated in the Code of Conduct training programme. Suppliers and business partners are an integral part of the total value chain of the products and services of Wärtsilä. They are expected to conduct their businesses in compliance with the same high legal and ethical standards and business practices as Wärtsilä. Information on Wärtsilä’s requirements is included in supplier agreement templates. Envir Environmental onmental performance Wärtsilä’s main contribution to improved environmental performance lies in providing its customers with reliable and safe technologies and services, which, in addition to enabling environmental compliance, support the sustainable development of the marine and energy industries. Wärtsilä’s products and solutions are designed to operate for up to 30 years. Therefore, focusing R&D efforts on improving the product or system level performance is crucial, as is adopting a lifecycle approach to performance optimisation. In addition to improving the environmental performance of its product and solutions, Wärtsilä also continuously monitors the impact caused by its own activities and targets reduced energy consumption in its facilities. Wärtsilä's Quality, Environmental, Health and Safety Policy sets principles for managing the environmental impacts of Wärtsilä’s products and services. The potential risks related to environmental matters and climate change are in the areas of regulatory emission restrictions and changes in customer attitudes to using combustion engines and fossil fuels. Risks are managed by focusing on product efficiency improvement and emission reduction in R&D activities, as well as by developing a wide product offering, including technologies related to waste reduction, noise abatement, and effluent and ballast water treatment. During 2018, R&D investments totalled EUR 165 million, which represents 3.2% of net sales. The majority of these investments targeted improved environmental performance. Significant achievements related to sustainable innovation included advances made in the field of intelligent shipping with the successful testing of Wärtsilä’s automated dock-to-dock solution. In the energy markets, Wärtsilä introduced the Wärtsilä Hybrid Solar, an integrated solar PV generation and storage solution, as well as GridSolv, an advanced energy storage solution. Social and employee matters Wärtsilä is a responsible employer, offering employees a workplace where openness, respect, trust, equal opportunities, and scope for personal development prevail. Wärtsilä is a signatory of the UN Global Compact initiative and supports the work-related rights defined by the International Labour Organization (ILO). Wärtsilä's corporate policy on equal opportunities and fair employment practices creates a common framework for employee practices in all Wärtsilä companies. People management processes, tools, and ways of working are developed to ensure consistency across national and organisational boundaries. Wärtsilä has a global job grading system and rewarding principles to ensure transparency and fairness for all employees, which are followed by all the entities in Wärtsilä globally. The objective of Wärtsilä’s people management strategy is to ensure that the businesses have the required resources, and skilled and motivated people at their disposal. In order to develop their competences, employees are offered a wide variety of internal training courses, including topics like technology, health and safety, language and This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 167 culture, project management, environment, security, and leadership. The average number of learning days was 2.16 per employee in 2018. Wärtsilä aims at offering employees and contractors a hazard-free working environment, and at minimising the health and safety risks associated with the use of its products and services. The company’s occupational health and safety principles are defined in the Code of Conduct, the quality, environmental, health and safety (QEHS) policy, and in the directive on environment, health, and safety (EHS). Wärtsilä's units are required to have a management system in place that conforms to the QEHS Policy and the EHS directive. In addition to the management system, Wärtsilä companies apply occupational health and safety programmes as required by local legislation. Wärtsilä’s aim is to reach a long-term goal of zero injuries. In 2018, the corporate lost-time injury frequency rate was 2.50 (2.48). Respect for human rights Wärtsilä supports and respects basic human values as outlined in the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Wärtsilä is also a signatory of the UN Global Compact and is thereby committed to its principles with respect to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. No employee is allowed to take any action that violates these human rights principles, either directly or indirectly. Wärtsilä does not accept the use of forced labour or child labour in any form. Human and Labour rights are a part of the Code of Conduct training material, and are included in Wärtsilä’s policy on equal opportunities and fair employment practices as well as in the company’s supplier handbook. Anti-corruption and bribery matters Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption Policy, and Broker Directive expressly prohibit the company and its employees from offering or accepting any kind of benefit considered a bribe and from taking actions that could give rise to a conflict of interest or breach of loyalty. The instructions make it compulsory to comply with anti-corruption laws of all the countries in which Wärtsilä does or intends to do business and urge the reporting of any cases of corruption and bribery. Wärtsilä is aware of the risk of being subject to fraud by external business parties, and that the risk of corruption and fraud is heightened in many markets where the company operates. Therefore, full compliance with a stringent anti-corruption regime is required of all employees. An extensive training programme is in place for personnel on anti-corruption principles and applicable legislation as well as the relevant company policies and procedures. By the end of 2018, 90% of Wärtsilä’s employees had participated in anti-corruption trainings. Employees are encouraged to provide feedback and communicate suspected misconduct to line management or directly to the Compliance, Legal Affairs or Internal Audit function. Wärtsilä also has a dedicated tool through which employees can report infringements. Anchor Shar Shares es and sharshareholders eholders During January-December 2018, the volume of trades on Nasdaq Helsinki was 278,938,159 shares, equivalent to a turnover of EUR 4,754 million. Wärtsilä's shares are also traded on alternative exchanges, such as Turquoise, BATS CXE, and BATS BXE. The total trading volume on these alternative exchanges was 226,474,065 shares. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 168 Wärtsilä shar shares es on Nasdaq Helsinki Number of shares Number of shares 31.12.2018 and votes traded 1-12/2018 WRT1V 591 723 390 278 938 159 1.1. 31.12.2018 High Low Average1 Close Share price 19.88 12.75 17.04 13.90 1 Trade-weighted average price Market capitalisation 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 MEUR 8 222 10 375 Foreign shareholders 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 % 54.5 55.9 Flagging notifications During 2018, Wärtsilä was informed of the following changes in ownership. Transaction Direct holding, Total holding, Release date date Shareholder Threshold % % 26.2.2018 23.2.2018 BlackRock, Inc. Above 10% 9.88 10.04 28.2.2018 27.2.2018 BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Below 5% 4.85 6.10 Limited 2.3.2018 1.3.2018 BlackRock, Inc. Below 10% 7.13 9.98 8.3.2018 6.3.2018 BlackRock, Inc. Above 10% 6.64 10.01 9.3.2018 8.3.2018 BlackRock, Inc. Below 10% 6.60 9.97 14.3.2018 13.3.2018 BlackRock, Inc. Above 10% 6.69 10.04 19.3.2018 16.3.2018 BlackRock, Inc. Below 10% 8.22 9.66 22.3.2018 21.3.2018 BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Above 5% 5.07 6.03 Limited 6.9.2018 5.9.2018 BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Below 5% 4.75 5.78 Limited 28.9.2018 27.9.2018 BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Above 5% 5.03 5.14 Limited 2.10.2018 1.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Below 5% 4.9999 5.11 Limited 3.10.2018 2.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Above 5% 5.04 5.16 Limited 5.10.2018 4.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Below 5% 4.99 5.11 Limited 8.10.2018 5.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Above 5% 5.04 5.11 Limited 16.10.2018 12.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Below 5% 4.98 5.04 Limited 18.10.2018 16.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Below 5% Limited 23.10.2018 19.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Above 5% 4.98 5.01 Limited 24.10.2018 22.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Above 5% 5.005 5.029 Limited 25.10.2018 23.10.2018 BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Below 5% Limited This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 169 Anchor Decisions taken by the Annual General Meeting Wärtsilä Corporation’s Annual General Meeting, held on 8 March 2018, approved the financial statements and discharged the members of the Board of Directors and the company’s President & CEO from liability for the financial year 2017. The Annual General Meeting decided that the Board of Directors shall have eight members. The following were elected to the Board: Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Karin Falk, Johan Forssell, Tom Johnstone, Mikael Lilius, Risto Murto and Markus Rauramo. The audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy was elected as the company’s auditor for the year 2018. Dividend distribution The Annual General Meeting approved the Board of Directors’ proposal to pay a dividend of EUR 1.38 per share in two instalments. The first instalment of EUR 0.69 per share was paid on 19 March 2018. In accordance with the approved share issue without payment (share split), the second instalment was divided between one old and two new shares so that EUR 0.23 was paid on each share. The second instalment was paid on 27 September 2018. Adjusted to reflect the increased number of shares resulting from the share issue, the dividend amounted to EUR 0.46 per share. Shar Sharee issue without payment (Shar (Sharee split) The Annual General Meeting approved the Board of Directors’ proposal to issue new shares to the shareholders without payment in proportion to their holdings so that two new shares are issued for each share. Thereby, a total of 394,482,260 new shares were issued. The new shares were registered in the trade register on 12 March 2018. Authorisation to rrepur epurchase chase and distribute the Company’ Company’ss own shar shares es The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to repurchase a maximum of 57,000,000 of the Company’s own shares. The authorisation to repurchase the Company’s own shares shall be valid until the close of the next Annual General Meeting, however no longer than for 18 months from the authorisation of the shareholders’ meeting. The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to distribute a maximum of 57,000,000 of the Company’s own shares. The authorisation for the Board of Directors to distribute the Company’s own shares shall be valid for three years from the authorisation of the shareholders’ meeting and it cancels the authorisation given by the General Meeting on 2 March 2017. The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to whom and in which order the shares will be distributed. The Board of Directors was authorised to decide on the repurchase or distribution of the Company’s own shares otherwise than in proportion to the existing pre-emptive right of the shareholders to purchase the Company’s own shares. Organisation of the Boar Board d of Dir Directors ectors The Board of Directors of Wärtsilä elected Mikael Lilius as its chairman and Tom Johnstone as the deputy chairman. The Board decided to establish an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee. The Board appointed from among its members the following members to the Committees: Audit Committee: Chairman Markus Rauramo, Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Risto Murto. Nomination Committee: Chairman Mikael Lilius, Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Johan Forssell, Risto Murto. Remuneration Committee: Chairman Mikael Lilius, Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Tom Johnstone. Anchor Risks and business uncertainties In the Services business, slow economic growth and political instability in specific regions are the main risks for demand development. Weakening currencies in certain countries may affect customers’ purchasing power. The challenging conditions in the traditional merchant and offshore markets continue to create uncertainty. In the power generation markets, fragile economic growth and slow decision-making continue to be the primary risks for demand development. Geopolitical tensions and trade barriers implications, as well as significant currency This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 170 fluctuations, can result in investment decisions being postponed in certain countries. Price pressure resulting from the prevailing competitive environment remains a risk. Global trade tensions and macro-economic uncertainty continues to be a concern in the marine industry. The offshore segment remains challenging due to overcapacity and volatile oil price development. Climate change requires increasing efforts to reduce emissions within the shipping industry. However, the enforcement of environmental regulations and potential new regulations are a source of uncertainty. Effective cyber risk management is increasingly important as cyber security has become vital to the operation and management of many safety, security, and protection systems in the shipping environment. Wärtsilä emphasises a holistic approach to the management of cyber and physical security risks in its internal operations and customer offerings. The company’s cyber security team carries out its operational, governance and compliance activities in line with the IEC62443 and ISO 27k protocols. Such activities include cyber assurance, risk management, detection, a secure software development lifecycle, training, endpoint protection, network security, and cyber advisory services. Wärtsilä has implemented new procedures for storing, processing, and using data in the company’s systems so as to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation. Cyber security was taken into consideration in this implementation. The Group is a defendant in a number of legal cases that have arisen out of, or are incidental to, the ordinary course of its business. These lawsuits mainly concern issues such as contractual and other liability, labour relations, property damage, and regulatory matters. The Group receives from time to time claims of different amounts and with varying degrees of substantiation. There is currently one unusually sizeable claim. It is the Group’s policy to provide for amounts related to the claims, as well as for litigation and arbitration matters, when an unfavourable outcome is probable, and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Risks and risk management section of this Annual Report contains a more detailed description of Wärtsilä’s risks and business uncertainties. Anchor Events after the rreporting eporting period On 30 January 2019, Wärtsilä announced plans to realign its operations and resources to secure future profitability and competitiveness. The Group-wide programme emphasises sustainable savings and actions that increase customer value. The planned actions include an increased focus on targeted sales activities, developing the agreements-based and “as-a-service” business, reviewing the cost structure, as well as optimising the business portfolio and organisation. The program is expected to lead to a reduction of approximately 1.200 employees globally. The reductions will impact all businesses and support functions. With these actions Wärtsilä seeks annual savings of EUR 100 million. Savings are expected to materialise gradually during the second half of 2019, with full effect by the end of 2020. The non-recurring costs related to the restructuring measures are expected to be EUR 75 million. Anchor Wärtsilä's pr prospects ospects The demand for Wärtsilä’s services and solutions in 2019 is expected to be in line with the previous year. Demand by business area is anticipated to be as follows: • Solid in Wärtsilä Energy Business. The global shift towards renewable energy sources and increasing electricity demand in the emerging markets create a need for distributed and flexible power capacity. • Solid in Wärtsilä Marine Business. Wärtsilä’s demand outlook is supported by its extensive product and service offering and broad segment exposure, which compensates for the slow pace of recovery in overall vessel contracting. Wärtsilä’s current order book for 2019 deliveries is EUR 3,696 million (3,207). Deliveries are expected to be concentrated to the latter part of the year. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 171 Anchor Boar Board d of Dir Directors’ ectors’ dividend pr proposal oposal The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 0.48 euro per share be paid for the financial year 2018. The parent company’s distributable funds total 1,037,972,039.58 euro, which includes 308,072,530.42 euro in net profit for the year. There are 591,723,390 shares with dividend rights. The dividend will be paid in two instalments. The first instalment of 0.24 euro per share will be paid to shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record date 11 March 2019. The payment date proposed by the Board for this instalment is 18 March 2019. The second instalment of 0.24 euro per share will be paid to shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the dividend record date, which, together with the payment date, shall be decided by the Board of Directors in its meeting scheduled for 18 September 2019. The dividend record date for the second instalment as per the current rules of the Finnish book-entry system would be 20 September 2019 and the dividend payment date 27 September 2019. Anchor Five years in figures Restated MEUR 2018 2017* 2016 2015 2014 Net sales 5 174 4 911 4 801 5 029 4 779 of which outside Finland % 98.9 97.7 97.5 97.8 98.9 Exports from Finland 2 145 1 953 1 804 1 936 2 280 Personnel on average 18 899 17 866 18 332 18 565 18 042 of which in Finland 3 766 3 521 3 482 3 580 3 582 Order book 6 166 5 100 4 696 4 882 4 530 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 172 Fr From om the consolidated statement of income Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 130 134 138 124 115 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 13 13 14 17 26 Comparable operating result 577 576 583 612 569 as a percentage of net sales % 11.2 11.7 12.1 12.2 11.9 Operating result 543 538 532 587 522 as a percentage of net sales % 10.5 11.0 11.1 11.7 10.9 Comparable adjusted EBITA 621 612 618 643 594 as a percentage of net sales % 12.0 12.5 12.9 12.8 12.4 Financial income and expenses -40 -47 -53 -34 -28 Profit before taxes 502 491 479 553 494 as a percentage of net sales % 9.7 10.0 10.0 11.0 10.3 Profit for the financial period from the continuing operations 386 375 357 429 389 Profit/loss for the financial period from the discontinued operations 22 -37 Net profit for the financial period 386 375 357 451 351 as a percentage of net sales % 7.5 7.6 7.4 9.0 7.4 Fr From om the consolidated statement of financial position Non-current assets 2 369 2 285 2 116 2 215 1 884 Current assets 3 690 3 363 3 275 3 374 3 294 Assets held for sale 102 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 2 418 2 352 2 288 2 201 1 960 Non-controlling interests 14 24 34 41 45 Interest-bearing debt 823 619 629 724 666 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 2 804 2 653 2 441 2 623 2 554 Liabilities directly attributable to assets held for sale 55 Total equity and liabilities 6 059 5 648 5 391 5 589 5 280 Fr From om the consolidated statement of cash flows Cash flow from operating activities 470 430 613 255 452 Cash flow from investing activities -240 -235 -126 -288 -71 Cash flow from financing activities -118 -278 -339 -210 -210 Gross capital expenditure 306 255 146 346 101 as a percentage of net sales % 5.9 5.2 3.0 6.9 2.1 Research and development expenditure 165 141 131 132 139 as a percentage of net sales % 3.2 2.9 2.7 2.6 2.9 Dividends paid 284** 272 256 237 227 Financial ratios Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted*** EUR 0.65 0.63 0.60 0.75 0.59 Dividend per share*** EUR 0.48** 0.46 0.43 0.40 0.38 Dividend per earnings % 73.7** 70.8 72.8 53.3 65.4 Interest coverage 10.8 11.8 18.6 15.9 15.9 Return on investment (ROI) % 18.7 Return on investment (ROI), continuing operations % 18.1 18.5 17.1 21.0 20.3 Return on equity (ROE) % 18.0 Return on equity (ROE), continuing operations % 16.1 16.0 15.6 20.2 20.0 Solvency ratio % 44.4 46.3 47.6 44.6 43.5 Gearing 0.14 0.10 0.07 0.17 0.05 Equity per share*** EUR 4.09 3.97 3.87 3.72 3.31 Working capital (WCAP) EUR 581 563 490 543 251 * Figures in the comparison period 2017 have been restated due to the adoption of IFRS 15. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 173 ** Proposal of the Board of Directors. *** Share issue without payment (share split) approved by Wärtsilä Corporation’s Annual General Meeting on 8 March 2018 increased the total number of Wärtsilä shares to 591,723,390. Figures in the comparison periods have been restated accordingly. Anchor Quarterly figures Restated Restated Restated Restated 10-12/ 7-9/ 4-6/ 1-3/ 10-12/ 7-9/ 4-6/ 1-3/ MEUR 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 Or Order der intake Services 865 699 785 737 696 598 641 735 Energy Solutions 589 148 360 414 501 418 361 405 Marine Solutions 419 525 409 357 316 339 361 273 Total 1 874 1 372 1 553 1 507 1 514 1 354 1 363 1 413 Or Order der book at the end of the financial period Services 1 878 1 742 1 622 1 401 1 220 1 249 1 239 1 234 Energy Solutions 1 871 1 725 2 013 2 012 1 871 1 839 1 764 1 847 Marine Solutions 2 417 2 451 2 269 2 077 2 009 2 018 2 087 2 033 Total 6 166 5 918 5 904 5 490 5 100 5 107 5 089 5 114 Net sales Services 737 572 582 535 710 569 594 534 Energy Solutions 431 451 368 267 425 324 412 239 Marine Solutions 364 307 296 264 305 282 284 233 Total 1 532 1 330 1 246 1 066 1 441 1 175 1 290 1 005 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 3 3 4 3 6 3 3 1 Comparable adjusted EBITA 237 152 134 98 250 141 130 90 as a percentage of net sales 15.4 11.5 10.7 9.2 17.4 12.0 10.1 9.0 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -37 -31 -31 -30 -42 -30 -30 -33 Purchase price allocation amortisation -11 -11 -11 -10 -10 -9 -9 -9 Comparable operating result 226 141 123 88 241 131 122 82 as a percentage of net sales 14.7 10.6 9.8 8.3 16.7 11.2 9.5 8.1 Items affecting comparability, total -20 -12 -3 -19 -4 -8 -6 Operating result 206 141 111 85 222 127 114 76 as a percentage of net sales 13.4 10.6 8.9 8.0 15.4 10.8 8.8 7.5 Financial income and expenses -12 -11 -8 -9 -10 -17 -14 -5 Profit before taxes 194 130 102 76 211 110 99 70 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 174 Income taxes -41 -29 -28 -19 -47 -28 -26 -16 Profit for the financial period 153 101 75 57 165 82 73 54 Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted, EUR 0.25 0.17 0.13 0.10 0.28 0.14 0.12 0.09 Gross capital expenditure 48 26 194 37 79 156 11 9 Investments in securities and acquisitions -1 177 20 45 145 1 Cash flow from operating activities 349 122 41 -42 276 150 2 2 Working capital (WCAP) at the end of the financial period 581 782 790 726 563 632 658 561 Personnel at the end of the financial period Services 11 322 11 426 11 345 11 328 11 234 11 135 11 059 11 067 Energy Solutions 1 171 1 165 1 135 1 084 1 038 1 017 928 913 Marine Solutions 5 995 6 195 6 151 5 197 5 235 5 167 5 257 5 317 Other 805 634 601 573 559 540 539 533 Total 19 294 19 420 19 231 18 182 18 065 17 859 17 783 17 832 Earnings per share for comparison periods have been restated to reflect the increased number of shares. Comparison periods for 2017 have been restated due to the internal transfer of service activities. Anchor Calculations of financial ratios Retur Return n on investment (ROI) Profit before taxes + interest and other financial expenses x 100 Total equity and liabilities – non-interest-bearing liabilities – provisions, average over the financial period Retur Return n on equity (ROE) Profit for the financial period x 100 Equity, average over the financial period Inter Interest est coverage Profit before taxes + depreciation, amortisation and impairment + interest and other financial expenses Interest and other financial expenses Solvency ratio Equity x 100 Total equity and liabilities – advances received Gearing Interest-bearing liabilities – cash and cash equivalents Equity This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 175 Ear Earnings nings per shar sharee (EPS), basic and diluted Profit for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent company Adjusted number of shares, average over the financial period Equity per shar sharee Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company Adjusted number of shares at the end of the financial period Dividend per shar sharee Dividends paid for the financial period Adjusted number of shares at the end of the financial period Dividend per earearnings nings Dividend per share x 100 Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted Ef Effective fective dividend yield Dividend per share x 100 Adjusted share price at the end of the financial period Price/ear Price/earnings nings (P/E) Adjusted share price at the end of the financial period Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted Price/carrying amount per sharsharee (P/BV) Adjusted share price at the end of the financial period Equity per share Working capital (WCAP) (Inventories + trade receivables + current tax receivables + other non-interest-bearing receivables) – (trade payables + advances received + pension obligations + provisions + current tax liabilities + other non-interest-bearing liabilities – dividend payable) Comparable adjusted EBIT EBITAA Operating result – items affecting comparability – purchase price allocation amortisation Comparable operating rresult esult Operating result – items affecting comparability Items afaffecting fecting comparability Items affecting comparability are related to restructuring measures and one-time charges for events or activities, which are not part of the normal business operations This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 176 Anchor Financial statements Anchor Consolidated financial statements Anchor Consolidated statement of income Restated MEUR 2018 2017 Note Net sales 5 174 4 911 1 4 Change in inventories of finished goods & work in progress 64 28 Work performed by the Group and capitalised 14 12 Other operating income 80 60 5 Material and services -2 852 -2 561 6 Employee benefit expenses -1 175 -1 214 7 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -130 -134 8 Other operating expenses -648 -577 9 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 13 13 15 Operating rresult esult 543 538 as a percentage of net sales 10.5 11.0 Financial income 24 12 10 Financial expenses -65 -59 10 Pr Profit ofit befor beforee taxes 502 491 Income taxes -116 -117 11 Pr Profit ofit for the financial period 386 375 Attributable to: equity holders of the parent company 386 375 12 non-controlling interests 1 -1 386 375 Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent company (basic and diluted): Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted, EUR 0.65 0.63 12 Earnings per share for the comparison period has been restated to reflect the increased number of shares. The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 177 Anchor Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Restated MEUR 2018 2017 Note Pr Profit ofit for the financial period 386 375 Other compr comprehensive ehensive income, net of taxes: Items that will not be rreclassified eclassified to the statement of income Remeasurements of defined benefit liabilities -3 7 Total items that will not be rreclassified eclassified to the statement of income -4 7 Items that may be rreclassified eclassified subsequently to the statement of income Exchange rate differences on translating foreign operations for equity holders of the parent company -23 -73 for non-controlling interests -1 -2 Associates and joint ventures, share of other comprehensive income -1 -1 Cash flow hedges measured at fair value -17 1 24 transferred to the statement of income -8 36 Tax on items that may be rreclassified eclassified to the statement of income Cash flow hedges measured at fair value 3 -1 transferred to the statement of income 2 -8 Total items that may be rreclassified eclassified to the statement of income -45 -48 Other compr comprehensive ehensive income for the financial period, net of taxes -48 -41 Total compr comprehensive ehensive income for the financial period 338 334 Total comprehensive income attributable to: equity holders of the parent company 338 337 non-controlling interests -3 338 334 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 178 Anchor Consolidated statement of financial position Restated MEUR 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Note Assets Non-curr Non-currentent assets Goodwill 1 355 1 237 13 Intangible assets 392 339 13 Property, plant and equipment 324 349 14 Investments in associates and joint ventures 66 83 15 Other investments 16 13 16 Interest-bearing investments 3 5 16 Deferred tax assets 129 131 22 Trade receivables 49 109 16 18 Other receivables 34 18 19 Total non-curr non-current ent assets 2 369 2 285 Curr Current ent assets Inventories 1 165 1 051 17 Trade receivables 1 222 1 307 16 18 Current tax receivables 31 53 Contract assets 557 351 18 Other receivables 228 221 19 Cash and cash equivalents 487 379 20 21 Total curr current ent assets 3 690 3 363 Total assets 6 059 5 648 Equity and liabilities Equity Share capital 336 336 24 Share premium 61 61 24 Translation differences -155 -132 24 Fair value reserve -31 -10 24 Remeasurements of defined benefit liabilities -39 -38 23 Retained earnings 2 245 2 135 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the par parent ent company 2 418 2 352 Non-controlling interests 14 24 Total equity 2 432 2 376 Liabilities Non-curr Non-currentent liabilities Interest-bearing debt 748 517 16 21 26 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 179 Deferred tax liabilities 99 102 22 Pension obligations 149 154 23 Provisions 54 52 25 Contract liabilities 41 64 18 Other liabilities 1 1 27 Total non-curr non-currentent liabilities 1 092 889 Curr Current ent liabilities Interest-bearing debt 74 102 16 21 26 Provisions 251 209 25 Trade payables 596 539 16 26 Current tax liabilities 81 83 Contract liabilities 888 724 18 Other liabilities 645 726 27 Total curr current ent liabilities 2 535 2 383 Total liabilities 3 627 3 272 Total equity and liabilities 6 059 5 648 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Anchor Consolidated statement of cash flows MEUR 2018 2017 Note Cash flow fr from om operating activities: Profit for the financial period 386 375 Adjustments for: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 130 134 8 Financial income and expenses 39 47 10 Gains and losses on sale of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment and other changes -26 -17 Share of result of associates and joint ventures -13 -13 15 Income taxes 116 117 11 Other non-cash flow adjustments -7 Cash flow before changes in working capital 625 643 Changes in working capital: Receivables, non-interest-bearing, increase (-) / decrease (+) -22 -284 Inventories, increase (-) / decrease (+) -130 -27 17 Liabilities, non-interest-bearing, increase (+) / decrease (-) 117 223 Changes in working capital -35 -87 Cash flow fr from om operating activities befor beforee financial items and taxes 589 555 Financial items and taxes: Interest income 6 1 Interest expenses -14 -6 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 180 Other financial income and expenses -7 -2 Income taxes paid -104 -119 Financial items and taxes -119 -126 Cash flow frfrom om operating activities 470 430 Cash flow frfrom om investing activities: Acquisitions -191 -191 2 Investments in associates and joint ventures -1 15 Other investments -3 16 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -110 -64 13 14 Reduction of share capital in associates and joint ventures 13 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 11 17 15 Proceeds from sale of shares in subsidiaries 41 3 Proceeds from sale of other investments 2 16 Loan receivables, increase (-) / decrease (+), and other changes 1 1 Cash flow frfrom om investing activities -240 -235 Cash flow after investing activities 230 195 Cash flow frfrom om financing activities: Proceeds from non-current debt 279 90 Repayments and other changes in non-current debt -84 -101 26 Loan receivables, increase (-) / decrease (+) -4 2 Current loans, increase (+) / decrease (-) -35 -5 Dividends paid -274 -264 Cash flow frfrom om financing activities -118 -278 Change in cash and cash equivalents, incr increase ease (-) decrease ease (+) / decr 112 -83 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial period 379 472 Exchange rate changes -5 -10 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial period 487 379 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 181 Anchor Consolidated statement of changes in equity Noncontrolling Total Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company interests equity RemeasTransurements lation Fair of defined Share Share differvalue benefit Retained MEUR capital premium ence reserve liabilities earnings Total Equity on 31 December 2016 336 61 -57 -39 -45 2 032 2 288 34 2 321 Restatement due to IFRS 9 -3 -3 -3 Restatement due to IFRS 15 -13 -13 -13 Equity on 1 January 2017 336 61 -57 -39 -45 2 016 2 272 34 2 305 Translation differences -74 -74 -2 -76 Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes 28 28 28 Defined benefit plans 7 7 7 Other compr comprehensive ehensive income -74 28 7 -39 -2 -41 Profit for the financial period 375 375 -1 374 Total rrestated estated compr comprehensive ehensive income for the financial period -74 28 7 376 336 -3 333 Total transactions with the owners of the company dividends paid -256 -256 -6 -263 Equity on 31 December 2017 336 61 -132 -10 -38 2 135 2 352 24 2 376 Noncontrolling Total Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company interests equity RemeasTransurements lation Fair of defined Share Share differvalue benefit Retained MEUR capital premium ence reserve liabilities earnings Total Equity on 1 January 2018 336 61 -132 -10 -38 2 135 2 352 24 2 376 Translation differences -24 -24 -1 -25 Cash flow hedges net change in fair value, net of taxes -14 -14 -14 transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes -6 -6 -6 Defined benefit plans -3 -3 -3 Other changes 3 -3 Other compr comprehensive ehensive income -24 -20 -1 -3 -47 -1 -48 Profit for the financial period 386 386 1 386 Total compr comprehensive ehensive income for the financial period -24 -20 -1 383 338 338 Total transactions with the owners of the company dividends paid -272 -272 -3 -275 non-controlling interests in disposed subsidiaries -7 -7 Equity on 31 December 2018 336 61 -155 -31 -39 2 245 2 418 14 2 432 Additional information on share capital, share premium, translation difference and fair value reserve is presented in Note 24. Equity. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 182 Anchor Accounting principles for the consolidated financial statements Basic information Wärtsilä Corporation is a Finnish listed company organised under the laws of Finland and domiciled in Helsinki. The address of its registered office is Hiililaiturinkuja 2, 00180 Helsinki. Wärtsilä Corporation is the ultimate parent company in the Wärtsilä Group. Wärtsilä is a global leader in smart technologies and complete lifecycle solutions for the marine and energy markets. By emphasising sustainable innovation, total efficiency, and data analytics, Wärtsilä maximises the environmental and economic performance of the vessels and power plants of its customers. In 2018, Wärtsilä’s net sales totalled EUR 5.2 billion with approximately 19,000 employees. The company has operations in over 200 locations in more than 80 countries around the world. Wärtsilä is listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. These consolidated financial statements were authorised for release by the Board of Directors of Wärtsilä Corporation on 30 January 2019, after which, in accordance with the Finnish Corporate Act, the shareholders have a right to approve or reject the financial statements in the Annual General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting also has a possibility to decide upon changes in the financial statements. Basis of pr preparation eparation The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by applying IAS and IFRS standards and their SIC and IFRIC interpretations, which were in force on 31 December 2018. International Financial Reporting Standards refer to the standards, and their interpretations, approved for application in the EU in accordance with the procedures stipulated in the EU’s regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 and embodied in Finnish accounting legislation and the statutes enacted under it. The notes to the consolidated financial statements also comply with the Finnish accounting and corporate legislation. Reporting is based on the historical cost convention. Exceptions are the financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the statement of income, hedged items under fair value hedging, and the cash-settled share-based payment transactions which are measured at fair value. The figures are in millions of euros except notes 30. Related party disclosures and 32. Auditors´fees and services, which are presented in thousands of euros. IFRS amendments In 2018, the Group adopted the following new and amended standards issued by the IASB. IFRS 15 Revenue fr from om Contracts with Customers and related amendments to the standard. The standard establishes a new five-step model that will apply to revenue arising from contracts with customers. IFRS 15 is based on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of a good or service transfers to a customer. In accordance with the standard, revenue is recognised as control is passed either over time or at a point in time. The Group has adopted the new standard on the required effective date using the full retrospective method. The disclosures related to revenue are presented according to the new standard. Adoption of IFRS 15 led to changes in revenue recognition, long-term service and maintenance agreements, and oil and gas business related construction contracts. In long-term service and maintenance agreements, the revenue changed from an output method (percentage of completion based on the proportion of the contracted services performed) to input method (percentage of completion based on cost incurred). In construction contracts related to gas solutions, the revenue recognition method changed from an output method (percentage of completion based on the progress measured by surveys of work performed) to an input method (percentage of completion based on cost incurred). The combined restatement impact in equity was EUR -13 million. The restatement impact on 2017 earnings per share was -0.04 EUR. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 183 As IFRS 15 was adopted using the full retrospective method, the impact of the restatement is presented in the below table also for the opening balance of the financial period 2017: Condensed statement of financial position Restated Restated MEUR 1.1.2017 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 Non-curr Non-currentent assets Intangible assets 1 434 1 577 1 747 Property, plant and equipment 405 349 324 Investments in associates and joint ventures 84 83 66 Other investments 15 13 16 Deferred tax assets 144 131 129 Other receivables 38 132 86 Total non-curr non-current ent assets 2 119 2 285 2 369 Curr Current ent assets Inventories 1 042 1 051 1 165 Other receivables 1 775 1 933 2 038 Cash and cash equivalents 472 379 487 Total curr current ent assets 3 289 3 363 3 690 Total assets 5 408 5 648 6 059 Equity Share capital 336 336 336 Other equity 1 936 2 016 2 082 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the par parent ent company 2 272 2 352 2 418 Non-controlling interests 34 24 14 Total equity 2 305 2 376 2 432 Non-curr Non-currentent liabilities Interest-bearing debt 520 517 748 Deferred tax liabilities 93 102 99 Other liabilities 270 270 245 Total non-curr non-current ent liabilities 884 889 1 092 Curr Current ent liabilities Interest-bearing debt 108 102 74 Other liabilities 2 111 2 281 2 461 Total curr current ent liabilities 2 219 2 383 2 535 Total liabilities 3 103 3 272 3 627 Total equity and liabilities 5 408 5 648 6 059 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 184 Amendments to IFRS 2 Shar Share-based e-based Payment Clarification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018). These amendments are intended to eliminate the diversity in the classification and measurement of particular share-based payment transactions (accounting for cash-settled share-based payment transactions that include a performance condition, share-based payments in which the manner of settlement is contingent on future events, share-based payments settled net of tax withholdings, and modification of share-based payment transactions from cash-settled to equity-settled). The amendments had no impact on the consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018): Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4. The amendments bring certainty to insurers on whether, and how, they should apply IFRS 9 before they apply the forthcoming insurance contracts standard. The amendments had no impact on the consolidated financial statements. IFRIC 22 For Foreign ency T Currency eign Curr Transactions ransactions and Advance Consideration (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018). This interpretation considers how to determine the date of the transaction when applying the standard on foreign currency transactions IAS 21. The guidance aims to reduce diversity in practice. The interpretation had no impact on the consolidated financial statements. Management judgement and use of estimates The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the valuation of the reported assets and liabilities and other information, such as contingent assets and liabilities and the recognition of income and expenses in the statement of income. Although these estimates and assumptions are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results may differ from the estimates. For Wärtsilä, the most significant judgements, estimates, and assumptions made by the management relate to revenue recognition, especially to project estimates for long-term projects and agreements, assumptions used in impairment testing, the valuation of accounts receivables and inventories, estimates and assumptions used in defined pension benefit obligations, recognition of warranty provisions and provisions for legal cases, and uncertain tax positions. Assessing whether or not it is probable that the consideration from contracts with customers will be collected requires judgement, and might impact the timing and amount of revenue recognition. Revenue from certain projects and long-term agreements is recognised over time according to the input method, based on their percentage of completion when the profit on the project or agreement can be reliably determined. The percentage of completion and the profit are based on management’s estimates, which require significant judgement concerning the stage of completion, cost to complete, and time of completion. These estimates are reviewed regularly. Recognised revenue and costs recorded are adjusted during the project when assumptions concerning the outcome of the entire project are updated. Changes in assumptions relate to changes in the project’s or agreement’s schedule, scope of supply, technology, costs, and any other relevant factors. Establishing whether distinct goods or services are considered as being separate performance obligations requires judgement, and might impact the timing and amount of revenue recognition. Project business contracts usually involve elements of variable consideration. At each reporting date, management reassesses the transaction price, which requires significant judgement as it affects the timing of the revenue recognition. The valuation of accounts receivables also includes estimates mainly concerning the recoverability of receivables. Determining whether different contracts with the same client are accounted for as one agreement involves the use of judgement, as it requires us to assess whether the contracts are negotiated together or linked in any other way. The timing and amount of revenue recognition can vary depending on whether two contracts are accounted for separately, or as one single arrangement. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 185 Warranty provisions are recorded on the recognition of revenue. The provision is based on the accumulated experience of the level of warranty needed to manage future and current cost claims. Products can contain new and complex technology that can affect warranty estimates with the result that earlier recognised provisions are not always sufficient. Accounting for the business combinations may require estimates of the fair value of acquired assets and the expected amount of realised contingent consideration. In addition, the recoverable amounts of goodwill are determined for all cash-generating units annually, or more often if there is an indication of an impairment, where its value in use is determined. The value in use is determined using estimates of future market development, such as growth and profitability, as well as other significant factors. The most important factors underlying such estimates are the net sales growth in the market area, the operating margin, the useful life of the assets, future investment needs, and the discount rate. Changes in these assumptions can significantly affect the expected future cash flows. The Group is a defendant in several legal cases arising from its business operations. A provision for a court case is recorded when an unfavourable result is probable, and the loss can be determined with reasonable certainty. The final result can differ from these estimates. Estimates of tax liabilities and receivables relate mainly to the expected result of ongoing tax audits, and recognition of deferred tax receivables from tax losses. Estimates of pension obligations regarding defined benefit plans are based on actuarial estimates of factors including future salary increases, discount rates, and return on plan assets. Changes in these assumptions can significantly affect the Group’s pension obligations and pension costs. Principles of consolidation Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the parent company Wärtsilä Corporation and all subsidiaries over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct the activities of the entity. Acquired and established companies are accounted for using the acquisition method. Accordingly, the purchase price and the acquired company’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. In the acquisition of additional interest, where the Group already has control, the noncontrolling interest is measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the identifiable net assets. The difference between the purchase price, possible equity belonging to the non-controlling interests and the acquired company’s net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities measured at fair value is goodwill. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. The purchase price includes the consideration paid, measured at fair value. The consideration does not include transaction costs, which are recognised in the statement of income. The transaction costs are expensed in the same financial period in which they occur, except the costs resulting from issued debt or equity instruments. Any contingent consideration (additional purchase price) related to the combination of businesses is measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. It is classified either as a liability or equity. Contingent consideration classified as a liability is measured at fair value on the last day of each financial period, and the resulting loss or gain is recognised through the statement of income. Contingent consideration classified as equity is not remeasured. For acquisitions which occurred before 1 January 2010, the accounting principles valid at the time of the acquisition have been applied. The acquired subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the day the Group has control, and disposed subsidiaries until the control ends. All intragroup transactions, dividend distributions, receivables and liabilities, as well as unrealised margins, are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. In the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, non-controlling interests have been separated from the profit This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 186 and the total comprehensive income for the financial period. In the consolidated statement of financial position, noncontrolling interests are shown as a separate item under equity. Associated companies and joint ventur ventureses Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control or joint control. This is generally the case where the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net asset of the joint venture. Joint control is established by contractual agreement. Associated companies and joint ventures are included in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method from the date the Group’s significant influence or joint control commences until the date it ceases. Investments in associates are initially recorded at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased according to the Group´s share of changes in the net assets of the associate after the date of the acquisition. The Group’s share of the associated company’s or joint venture’s profit for the financial period are shown as a separate item before the Group’s operating result, on the line Share of result of associates and joint ventures. The Group’s share of the associated company’s or joint venture’s changes recorded in other comprehensive income is recorded in the Group’s other comprehensive income. Wärtsilä’s proportion of the associated company’s or joint venture’s post-acquisition accumulated equity is included in the Group’s equity. If the Group’s share of the associated company's or joint venture's losses exceeds its interest in the company, the carrying amount is written down to zero. After this, losses are only recognised if the Group has incurred obligations from the associated company or joint venture. The accumulated exchange rate differences arising from the consolidation of associated companies and joint ventures, which are recorded in equity, are recognised in the statement of income as part of the gain or loss when change in ownership occurs. Non-curr Non-current ent assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and assets and liabilities related to discontinued operations are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use. Classification as held for sale requires that the following criteria are met; the sale is highly probable, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject to usual and customary terms, the management is committed to the sale, and the sale is expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification. Prior to classification as held for sale, the assets or assets and liabilities related to a disposal group in question are measured according to the respective IFRS standards. From the date of classification, non-current assets held for sale are measured at the lower of the carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell, and the recognition of depreciation and amortization is discontinued. A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale, and represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. The result from the discontinued operations is shown separately in the consolidated statement of income and the comparison figures are restated accordingly. Non-current assets held for sale are presented in the statement of financial position separately from other items. The comparison figures for the statement of financial position are not restated. Translating the transactions in for foreign eign curr currencies encies The items included in the financial statements are initially recognised in the functional currency, which is defined for each group company based on its primary economic environment. The presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements is the euro, which is also the functional and presentation currency of Wärtsilä Corporation. For Foreign eign subsidiaries The income and expenses for statements of income and statements of comprehensive income of foreign subsidiaries are translated into euros at the quarterly average exchange rates. Statements of financial position are This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 187 translated into euros at the exchange rates prevailing at the end of the financial period. The translation of the profit for the financial period and other comprehensive income using different exchange rates in the statement of comprehensive income and the statement of financial position causes translation differences, which are recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income as change. Translation differences of foreign subsidiaries’ acquisition cost eliminations and post-acquisition profits and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income and are presented as a separate item in equity. The goodwill generated in the acquisition of foreign entities and their fair value adjustments of assets and liabilities are considered as assets and liabilities of foreign entities, which are translated into euros using the exchange rates prevailing at the end of the financial period. When a foreign subsidiary is sold, the accumulated exchange rate differences recorded in the equity related to the subsidiary are recognised in the statement of income as a part of the gain or loss on sale. Transactions and balances in forforeign eign curr currencies encies Transactions denominated in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Receivables and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the financial period. Exchange rate gains and losses related to trade receivables and liabilities are reported on the applicable line in the statement of income and are included in the operating result. Exchange rate differences related to financial assets and financial liabilities are reported as financial items in the statement of income, except exchange rate differences related to non-current debt that is part of the Group's net investment in a subsidiary. Those are recognised in other comprehensive income and reported as translation differences in equity. Net sales and rrevenue evenue rrecognition ecognition Revenue is presented net of indirect sales taxes, penalties and discounts. Revenue is recognised when control of the goods or services is transferred to the customer at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. The transaction price may include variable considerations, such as penalties, liquidated damages, and performance bonuses. Revenue recognised by the reporting date corresponds to the benefit of the service provided by Wärtsilä to the customer. Revenue from contracts with customers is derived from four main revenue types. Product sales consist of sales of spare parts and standard equipment for which the revenue is recognised at a point in time when the control of the products has transferred to the customer, in general upon delivery of the goods. Product sale contracts generally include one performance obligation. Goods and services -types of revenue involve short-term field service jobs, which include the delivery of a combination of service and equipment. The revenue is recognised at a point in time when the service is rendered. Goods and service -type contracts generally include one performance obligation. Projects contain shortand long-term projects. Depending on the contract terms and the duration of the project, the revenue is recognised at a point in time or over time. Revenue related to long-term projects, such as gas solutions construction contracts, integrated solutions projects, ship design, and energy solutions turnkey contracts, is recognised over time. Revenue for tailor-made equipment delivery projects is recognised at a point in time. Project contracts generally represent one performance obligation, but can under certain circumstances contain multiple performance obligations in the Marine business when a contract contains multiple units of delivery. Long-term agreements contain long-term operating and maintenance agreements for which the revenue is recognised over time. The contract included in this revenue type generally contain one performance obligation per installation. Contracts with customers often include warranties in line with Wärtsilä’s General terms and conditions, which are regarded as part of the promise to the customer. Extended warranties or warranties purchased as an option are identified as separate performance obligations. Revenue recognised over time is measured in accordance with the input method (percentage of completion method based on costs incurred) when the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably. When the outcome cannot be reliably determined, the costs arising are expensed in the same financial period in which they occur, but the This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 188 revenue is recorded only to the extent that the company will receive an amount corresponding to actual costs. Any losses are expensed immediately. If revenue for goods and services is recognised at a point in time, it is when control is transferred to the customer. The transfer of control is based mainly on transferring risks and rewards according to the delivery terms. In case there are multiple contracts entered into with a same client at near the same time, the combination of the contracts is evaluated. Typically, Wärtsilä does not have combined contracts. The Group applies the practical expedient according to IFRS 15.63 concerning significant financing components arising from contracts with customers. In case the lead time between the payments specified in the contract and the corresponding transferral of the promised good or service to the customer is one year or less, no adjustment is made for the effect of a possible significant financing component. Wärtsilä has no customer contracts that would include significant financing components not covered by the practical expedient. The Group also applies the practical expedient stated in IFRS 15.94 according to which an entity can recognise the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortisation period of the asset that the entity would have recognised is one year or less. Wärtsilä has not incurred any costs of obtaining a contract to be recognised as an asset. Employee benefits Pension and other long-term employee benefits Pension plans Group companies in different countries have various pension plans in accordance with local conditions and practices. These pension plans are classified either as defined contribution or defined benefit plans. The fixed contributions to the defined contribution plans are expensed in the year to which they relate. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay employee benefits. All other plans are defined benefit plans. Defined benefit plans are funded through contributions to pension funds or pension insurance companies. Defined benefit plans may be unfunded or wholly or partly funded. The present value of the obligation arising from the defined benefit plans is determined per each plan using actuarial techniques, the projected unit credit method. The Group recognises the defined benefit obligation net of fair value of the plan assets at the end of the financial period. Actuarial gains and losses and other remeasurements of the net defined benefit obligation are recognised immediately in the statement of other comprehensive income. Current service cost is the present value of the post employment benefit, which is earned by the employees during the year. The Group determines the net interest expense on the net defined benefit plan by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation. Service cost is recognised in employee benefit expenses and the net interest in financial expenses. The defined benefit plans are calculated by qualified actuaries. Other long-term employee benefits In addition to defined benefit plans, Wärtsilä has other long-term employee benefits. They are presented separately from the defined benefit plans. Similarly to the accounting for a defined benefit plan, for any other long-term benefit the Group recognises a liability for the obligation net of the fair value of plan assets, if any. Changes in other longterm employee benefits are recognised in the consolidated statement of income. Shar Share-based e-based payments The company’s bonus scheme, which is tied to the price development of the company’s share during a predetermined timeframe, is measured at the fair value of the share on the reporting date and reported in the statement of income for the term-to-maturity of the bonus scheme. An upper limit is set for the bonus. When a bonus scheme ends and the employment requirement is fulfilled, the bonus is settled in cash. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 189 Goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is the difference between the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the acquirer’s share of the company’s net identifiable assets and liabilities measured at fair value on the acquisition date. The consideration transferred is measured at fair value, including also the acquirer’s previously held equity interest. Resear Research ch and development costs Research costs are expensed in the financial period during which they occur. Development costs are capitalised when it is probable that the development project will generate future economic benefits for the Group and when the related criteria, including commercial and technological feasibility, have been met. These projects involve the development of new or significantly improved products or production processes. Earlier expensed development costs are not capitalised. Capitalised development costs are measured at cost less accumulated amortisations and impairment. Capitalised development costs are amortised and the cost of buildings, machinery and facilities for development depreciated on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives, 5-10 years. Amortisations are started when the asset is finished and can be taken into use. Before that, the asset is tested for impairment annually. Grants received for research and development are reported as other operating income. Grants related to capitalised development costs are netted with the costs occurred before the capitalisation. Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are recorded at cost if the cost is reliably measurable and the future economic benefits for the Group are probable. Wärtsilä’s other intangible assets include patents, licenses, software, customer relations, and other intellectual property rights that can be transferred to a third party. These are measured at cost, except for intangible assets identified in connection with acquisitions, which are measured at the fair value at the acquisition date. The cost of intangible assets comprises the purchase price and all costs that can be directly attributed to preparing an asset for its intended use. Other intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets, for which the time limit for the right of use is agreed, are amortised over the life of the contract. Intangible assets identified in connection with acquisitions are amortised over their delivery times or estimated useful lives. The general guidelines for scheduled amortisation are: • Software 3-7 years • Development expenses 5-10 years • Other intangible assets 5-20 years The estimated useful lives and the residual values are reviewed at least at the end of each financial period, and if they differ significantly from previous estimates, amortisation periods are adjusted accordingly. Amortisation of intangible assets is stopped when an item is classified as held for sale. A gain or loss arising from the sale of intangible assets is recognised in other operating income or other operating expenses in the statement of income. Pr Property, operty, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment acquired by the Group are measured in the statement of financial position at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of an asset includes costs directly attributed to preparing an asset for its intended use. Grants received are reported as a reduction in costs. The property, plant and equipment of acquired subsidiaries are measured at their fair value at the acquisition date. The borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the asset acquisition, construction or production and to completion of the asset for its intended use or sale requiring necessarily a considerable length of time will be capitalised in the statement of This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 190 financial position as part of the cost of the asset. Other than directly attributable borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Subsequent expenditure is included in the cost of an asset only if the future economic benefits for the Group are probable and the costs are reliably measurable. Expenditure related to regular, extensive inspections and maintenance is treated as an investment, capitalised and depreciated during the useful life. All other expenditure such as ordinary maintenance and repairs is recognised in the statement of income as an expense as incurred. Depreciation is based on the following estimated useful lives: • Buildings 10-40 years • Machinery and equipment 5-20 years • Other tangible assets 3-10 years Depreciation is expensed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Land is not depreciated, as its useful life is considered as infinite. The estimated useful lives and the residual values are reviewed at least at the end of each financial period, and if they differ significantly from previous estimates, depreciation periods are adjusted accordingly. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is stopped when an item is classified as held for sale. A gain or loss arising from the sale of property, plant and equipment is recognised in other operating income or other operating expenses in the statement of income. Impairment of intangible assets and pr property, operty, plant and equipment The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed regularly for signs of possible impairment. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated. The recoverable amount is estimated annually also for the goodwill whether or not there are signs of impairment. In order to define a possible impairment, the Group’s assets are divided up into the smallest possible cash-generating units which are mainly independent of other units and the cash flows of which are separately identifiable and to a large extent independent of the cash flows of other similar units. An impairment loss is recorded when the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. The value in use is based on the expected discounted future net cash flows resulting from the asset or cash-generating unit. A pre-tax rate which reflects the markets’ position on the time value of money and asset-specific risks is used as the discount rate. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in other operating expenses in the statement of income. In connection with the recognition of the impairment loss, the useful life of the amortisable/depreciable asset is reassessed. An earlier impairment loss recognised for an asset other than goodwill is reversed if the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount change. However, reversal of impairment shall not exceed the asset’s carrying amount less impairment loss. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed under any circumstances. Determination of the fair value of assets acquir acquired ed thr through ough business combinations In significant business combinations, the Group has used external advisors when estimating the fair values of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. For property, plant and equipment, comparisons have been made of the market prices of similar assets, and the depreciation of the acquired assets due to aging, wear and other similar factors has been estimated. The fair value measurement of intangible assets is based on estimates of the future cash flows associated with the assets. The acquired identifiable intangible assets include typically technology, customer relationships, and trademarks. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 191 Investment pr properties operties Properties that are not used in the Group’s operating activities or that are held to earn rental income or for capital appreciation, or both, are classified as investment properties. Investment properties are presented in the statement of financial position on a separate line in non-current assets and measured at cost less accumulated depreciations and impairment. A gain or loss arising from the sale of investment properties is recognised in other operating income or other operating expenses in the statement of income. Leases Leases related to property, plant and equipment in which all material rewards and risks of ownership have been transferred to the Group are classified as finance leases. Assets acquired under a finance lease are recognised as property, plant and equipment at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the estimated present value of the underlying lease payments. The corresponding rental obligation, net of finance charge, is included in interestbearing debt with the interest element of the finance charge being recognised in the statement of income over the lease period. Assets acquired under a finance lease are depreciated over their estimated useful lives in accordance with the same principles that apply to the Group’s other similar property, plant and equipment. The shorter alternative of the following is selected: either the useful life of the leased asset or the lease term. Leases in which the rewards and risks of ownership have not been transferred to the Group are classified as operating leases. Rental payments under operating leases are expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs include allocated purchasing and manufacturing overhead costs in addition to direct manufacturing costs. Inventory valuation is primarily based on the weighted average cost. Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as subsequently measured according to the following categories: financial assets measured at amortised cost, financial assets at fair value through the statement of income and financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income. Financial assets are classified according to their cash flow characteristics and the business model they are managed in and accounted for at settlement date. Financial assets at amortised cost The Group’s financial assets at amortised cost includes trade receivables, other receivables and investments in commercial papers that are recognised at their anticipated realisable value, which is the original invoiced amount less an estimated valuation allowance for impairment. The Group assesses possible increase in the credit risk for financial assets measured at amortised cost at the end of each reporting period individually. The methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk. The loss allowance is estimated at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses at the current reporting date, if there has not been significant increase in credit risk. For trade receivables and receivables from revenue recognition in accordance with percentage of completion method, simplified approach is used and the loss allowance is measured at the estimate of the lifetime expected credit losses. Receivables from revenue recognition in accordance with percentage of completion method should be covered with advance payments collected from customers so recognising credit losses based on the lifetime expected loss amounts mainly concerns trade receivables. Examples of events giving rise to impairment include a debtor’s serious financial problems, a debtor’s probable bankruptcy or other financial arrangement. The Group may sell undivided interests in trade receivables on an ongoing and one-time basis to other lending institutions. Financial assets sold under these arrangements are excluded from trade receivables in the Group’s consolidated statement of financial position at the time of payment from acquirer, considering that substantially all risks and rewards have been transferred. If acquirer has not settled the payment to the extent that the ownership, This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 192 risk and control over the receivable have been substantially transferred then such financial assets sold are rerecognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at the end of the reporting period. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term cash investments. Cash in hand and deposits held at call are presented at amortised cost. Other short-term cash investments are mainly measured at fair value, except for commercial paper investments that are presented at amortised cost. Credit accounts related to Group cash pool accounts are included in current financial liabilities. Financial assets at fair value thr through ough the statement of income Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include interest-bearing investments, derivatives not included in hedge accounting, other financial investments and cash. Interest-bearing investments are measured at fair value through the statement of income and they include loans and receivables, which are non-derivative financial assets that have fixed or determinable payments and that are not quoted on active markets. They arise when the Group provides a loan or delivers products and services directly to a debtor. They are included in non-current receivables, unless they have a maturity of less than 12 months from the reporting date. Such items are classified as current receivables. Other financial investments include Wärtsilä’s investments in other companies (both listed and unlisted shares) and they are classified as financial assets at fair value through the statement of income. The fair value for listed shares is based on their market value. Gains and losses from fair valuation and disposal and impairments of shares that are attributable to operating activities are included in operating income, while gains and losses from fair valuation and disposal and impairments of other shares are included in financial income and expenses. The category includes also derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting and are not financial guarantee agreements, non-derivative financial assets, cash and cash equivalents as well as other financial assets recognised at fair value through the statement of income, which are financial assets held for trading. Derivatives are initially recognised at cost in the statement of financial position and are thereafter measured at their fair value at the end of each reporting period. Realised and unrealised gains and losses from changes in fair values are recognised in the statement of income in the period in which they have arisen. Derivatives held for trading, as well as financial assets maturing within 12 months after the end of financial period, are included in current assets. Non-derivative financial assets are included in non-current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months from the reporting date. Cash comprise cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and similar investments. Cash equivalents comprise short-term highly liquid investments that are subject to only minor fluctuations in value. Cash equivalents have a maturity of up to three months on the date of acquisition. Credit accounts related to Group cash pool accounts are included in current financial liabilities. Except for commercial paper investments that are presented at amortised cost, other short-term cash investments are recognised at fair value. These are short-term highly liquid investments that are subject to only minor fluctuations in value. Other short-term cash investments have a maturity of up to three months on the date of acquisition. Financial assets at fair value thr through ough other compr comprehensive ehensive income Financial assets recognised at fair value through other comprehensive income include derivates eligible for hedge accounting. Derivatives are measured at fair value and gains and losses from fair value measurement are treated as determined by the purpose of the derivatives. The effects on results of changes in the value of derivatives that are eligible for hedge accounting and that are effective hedging instruments are presented consistent with the hedged item. Derivatives eligible for hedge accounting are classified as financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income. For derivatives included in hedge accounting, the Group documents the relationship between each hedging instrument and the hedged asset upon entering into a hedging arrangement, along with the risk management objective and the strategy applied. Through this process, the hedging instrument is linked to the relevant assets and This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 193 liabilities, projected business transactions or binding contracts. The Group also documents its ongoing assessment of the effectiveness of the hedge as regards the relationship between a change in the derivative’s fair value and a change in the value of the hedged cash flows or transactions. Financial liabilities The Group’s financial liabilities are initially recognised and subsequently classified either into financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost or financial liabilities recognised at fair value through the statement of income. Financial liabilities are classified as current unless the Group has the unconditional right to defer the payment of the debt to at least 12 months from the end of the financial period. Financial liabilities (or parts thereof) are only derecognised once the debt has extinguished, i.e. once the contractually specified obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires. Financial liabilities rrecognised ecognised at amortised cost Financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings. The loans raised by the Group are included in financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost. They are measured at their initial recognition at fair value using the effective interest rate method. After the initial recognition, loans are measured at amortised cost. Interests on loans are expensed through the statement of income over the maturity of the debt using the effective interest rate method. Financial liabilities rrecognised ecognised at fair value thr through ough the statement of income In the Wärtsilä Group, financial liabilities recognised at fair value through the statement of income include derivatives that are not eligible for hedge accounting. Realised and unrealised gains and losses from changes in fair values of derivatives are recognised in the statement of income in the period in which they have arisen. Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivatives are measured at fair value. Gains and losses from fair value measurement are treated as determined by the purpose of the derivatives. The effects on results of changes in the value of derivatives that are eligible for hedge accounting and that are effective hedging instruments are presented consistently with the hedged item. The effective portion of the change in the fair value is deferred into the cash flow reserve through OCI and will be recognised in profit or loss when the hedged item affects profit or loss. Impact from ineffective hedging instruments is recognised in financial income and expenses immediately. For derivatives eligible for hedge accounting, the Group documents the relationship between each hedging instrument and the hedged asset upon entering into a hedging arrangement, along with the risk management objective and the strategy applied. Through this process, the hedging instrument is linked to the relevant assets and liabilities, projected business transactions or binding contracts. The Group also documents its ongoing assessment of the effectiveness of the hedge regarding the relationship between a change in the derivative’s fair value and a change in the value of the hedged cash flows or transactions. Hedging of sales and pur purchases chases Wärtsilä hedges its sales and purchases in foreign currencies with foreign exchange derivatives or currency options. Certain foreign exchange derivatives are eligible for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts designated to hedge future cash flows are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the fair value reserve in equity, provided that the hedging is effective. The ineffective portion is immediately recognised in the financial items in the statement of income for the financial period. Changes in fair value due to interest rate differences are recognised in the statement of income. Any gain or loss in the fair value reserve accumulated through other comprehensive income is reported as an adjustment to net sales or material and services in the same period as any transactions relating to the hedged obligations or estimates. Currency forwards are measured at forward rates at the end of the financial period and currency options at their market value at the end of the financial period. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 194 Derivatives not included in hedge accounting For derivatives not included in hedge accounting, changes in fair value are immediately recognised in financial income or expenses in the statement of income. For example, interest rate swap hedges belong to this group. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated by discounting the future cash flows. Fair value hierar hierarchy chy Financial instruments measured at fair value are classified according to the following fair value hierarchy: instruments measured using quoted prices in active markets (level 1), instruments measured using inputs other than quoted prices included in level 1 observable either directly or indirectly (level 2), and instruments measured using inputs that are not based on observable market data (level 3). Financial instruments measured at fair value include financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the statement of income. Contract balances Contract balances consist of customer-related assets and liabilities. When control over goods or services is transferred to a customer before the customer pays the consideration, the receivable is recognised as a contract asset. The contract asset represents the right to future consideration. When the customer pays consideration in advance, or the consideration is due before transferring the contractual performance obligation, the amount received in advance is presented as a contract liability. Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when the Group performs under the contract. Pr Provisions ovisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions can arise, for example, from warranties, environmental risks, litigation, foreseeable losses on projects and restructuring costs. The amount to be recognised as provisions corresponds to the management’s best estimate of the expenses that will be necessary to meet the existing obligation at the end of the financial period. Estimated future warranty costs relating to products delivered are recorded as provisions. The amount of future warranty costs is based on accumulated experience. Provisions for restructuring costs are made once the restructuring plan has been approved and the implementation started or the personnel concerned have been informed of the terms. The plan must indicate which activities and personnel will be affected and the timing and cost of implementation. Contingent liabilities are possible obligations resulting from previous events, the existence of which will only be ascertained once the uncertain event that is beyond the Group’s control materialises. Existing obligations that are not likely to require the fulfilment of a payment obligation or the amount of which cannot be reliably determined are also considered contingent liabilities. Contingent liabilities are presented in the notes. Income taxes The statement of income includes taxes on the Group’s consolidated taxable income for the financial period in accordance with local tax regulations, tax adjustments for previous financial periods and changes in deferred taxes. Tax effects related to transactions recognised through the statement of income and other events are recognised in the statement of income. Tax effects related to transactions or other events to be presented as components of other comprehensive income or directly in equity are also recognised, respectively, in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are calculated on temporary differences arising from the difference between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and the carrying values using the enacted tax rates at the end of the financial period. The statement of financial position includes deferred tax liabilities in their entirety and deferred tax assets at their estimated probable amount. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 195 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities which intend to settle the balances on a net basis. Dividends The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is deducted from distributable equity when approved by the company’s Annual General Meeting. Adoption of new and updated IFRS standar standards ds In 2019, the Group will adopt the following new and amended standards and interpretations issued by the IASB. New IFRS 16 Leases (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019): IFRS 16 addresses the definition, recognition and measurement of lease agreements and notes related to leases. The standard replaces IAS 17 Leases. IFRS 16 changes the accounting for operating leases by requiring companies to recognise lease assets and lease liabilities in the balance sheet, initially measured at the present value of unavoidable future lease payments, and to depreciate those assets and interest on lease liabilities in the statement of income over the lease term. Whether a contract contains a lease is determined on the basis of whether the customer has the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time. When adapting IFRS 16, the portion of the lease payments currently included in other operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income will be transferred to depreciations and amortisations and the interest portion to financial expenses. The standard will affect primarily the accounting for the Group´s operating leases increasing the balance sheet totals and some changes in key figures. At the reporting date, the Group has operating lease commitments of EUR 266 million, see note 29. Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments. Based on the Group´s estimation the net present value of the capitalised lease liability amounts to EUR 212 million according to the following bridge calculation: MEUR Nominal amount of rents according to leasing contracts on 31 December 2018 284 Variable lease payments -23 Residual value -3 Expenses relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets -15 Leases not yet commenced to which Wärtsilä is committed -3 Nominal amount of lease liability on 1 January 2019 240 Present value 212 The Group will apply the two available exceptions, which relate to either short-term contracts in which the lease term is less than 12 months or less, or low value assets, which are expensed to other operating expenses. The Group will apply the modified approach in transition. Amendments to IAS 28 Long-term Inter Interests ests in Associates and Joint V Ventur entures* es* (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019). The amendments clarify that IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is applied to the accounting for long-term interest in an associate or joint venture to which the equity method is not applied. The amendments will have no impact on the consolidated financial statements. Amendment to IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement* (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019). This amendment clarifies the accounting when a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs during a reporting period. The amendment specifies that when a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs during the annual reporting period, an entity is required to use updated assumptions to determine This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 196 the current service cost and net interest. The interpretation would have an impact on the consolidated financial statements in the case of curtailments or settlements. Amendments to IFRS 9 Pr Prepayment epayment Featur Features es with Negative Compensation (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019). Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation amends the existing requirements in IFRS 9 regarding termination rights in order to allow measurement at amortised cost (or, depending on the business model, at fair value through other comprehensive income) even in the case of negative compensation payments. Without the amendment these financial assets would have had to be measured at FVPL. The amendments will have no impact on the consolidated financial statements. IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax tr treatment eatment (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019). This interpretation addresses the accounting for income taxes when tax treatments involve uncertainty that affects the application of IAS 12. The key matter is whether the tax authority will accept the chosen tax treatment. When considering this, the assumption is that tax authorities will have full knowledge of all relevant information in assessing the proposed tax treatment. The interpretation will not have any significant impact on the consolidated financial statements. Annual impr improvements ovements to IFRSs 2015-2017 cycle*cycle*: Annual improvements include smaller amendments to four standards. The improvements are not expected to have an impact on the consolidated financial statement. The Group expects to adopt later than 2019 the following new standards and amendments to the existing standards already issued by the IASB. IFRS 17 Insurance contracts* (effective from financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021). IFRS 17 applies to all types of insurance contracts (direct insurance and re-insurance) regardless of the type of entities that issue them, as well as to certain guarantees and financial instruments with discretionary participation features. The overall objective is to provide a consistent accounting model for insurance contracts. The impact is under review within the Group. * Not yet endorsed for use by the European Union as of 31 December 2018. Inter Internalnal transfer of service activities Wärtsilä has decided to transfer certain service activities from Marine Solutions to Services as of 1 January 2018. The aim is to strengthen the focus on the development of these activities. The comparison periods for 2017 have been restated, resulting in EUR 177 million in net sales, EUR 190 million in order intake, and EUR 49 million in the order book being transferred from Marine Solutions to Services for the financial period 2017. This transfer has no impact on Group totals. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 197 Anchor Notes to the consolidated financial statements Anchor 1. Segment information Wärtsilä´s highest operative decision maker (CODM, Chief Operating Decision Maker) is the President and CEO with the support of the Board of Management and in some cases the Board of Directors. The President and CEO assesses the Group´s profitability, financial position and development as a whole. Consequently to the management approach by the Chief Operating Decision Maker, Wärtsilä is one operating segment. The operating segment is subdivided into two mutually supportive market areas, Marine Solutions and Energy Solutions, which are supported by Services. Wärtsilä provides advanced technologies and lifecycle solutions to its marine and energy market customers. These technologies and solutions are sold and delivered globally by the same Wärtsilä companies. Manufacturing supplies products to both Energy Solutions and Marine Solutions from the same assembly lines, allowing for synergies in the production process and in research and development. Also sourcing function supports both market areas and Services. Due to the business model, integrated operations, and governance structure, the Group is reported as one segment. However, to enable better understanding of the different market areas’ development and the business cycles, Wärtsilä discloses the net sales by market areas and Services. Net sales by market arareas eas and Services Restated MEUR 2018 2017 Energy Solutions 1 517 1 401 Marine Solutions 1 232 1 104 Services 2 426 2 407 Total 5 174 4 911 As geographical information, Wärtsilä reports the geographical areas Finland, other European countries, Asia, the Americas, and other continents. In the geographical information net sales are split by customer´s destination and non-current assets by origin. During the financial period 1 January 31 December 2018 and 1 January 31 December 2017 Wärtsilä did not have any individual significant customers or countries. The sales to the USA represented 14% (12) of the total net sales. Geographical information Restated 2018 2017 Non-current Non-current MEUR Net sales assets* Net sales assets* Finland 56 242 115 249 Other European countries 1 429 1 534 1 411 1 378 Asia 1 867 90 1 933 112 The Americas 1 245 266 1 132 265 Other 577 5 321 5 Total 5 174 2 137 4 911 2 009 * Non-current assets consist of goodwill, intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and investments in associates and joint ventures. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 198 Anchor 2. Acquisitions Acquisitions 2018 Transas GrGroup oup In May, Wärtsilä acquired 100% of Transas, a global company headquartered in the UK. Transas is a global market leader in marine navigation solutions that include complete bridge systems, digital products and electronic charts. The company is also a leader in professional training and simulation services, ship traffic control, as well as monitoring and support. The following tables summarise the preliminary amounts for the consideration paid for Transas, the cash flow from the acquisition, and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognised at the acquisition date. Preliminary consideration MEUR Consideration transferred 183 Total consideration transferr transferred ed 183 Preliminary cash flow from the acquisition MEUR Consideration paid in cash 183 Cash and cash equivalents of the acquired company -12 Total cash flow frfrom om the acquisition 171 Provisional values of the assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition MEUR Intangible assets 66 Property, plant and equipment 2 Inventories 8 Trade and other receivables 50 Deferred tax assets 2 Cash and cash equivalents 12 Total assets 140 Provisions 3 Interest-bearing debt 29 Trade payables and other liabilities 39 Deferred tax liabilities 13 Total liabilities 83 Total net assets 57 Pr Preliminary eliminary goodwill 113 The preliminary fair values of the acquired identifiable intangible assets at the date of the acquisition (including technology, customer relations, and trade marks) amounted to EUR 55 million. The fair value of the current trade receivables and other receivables is approximately EUR 50 million. The fair value of the trade receivables does not include any significant risk. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 199 The preliminary goodwill of EUR 113 million reflects the value of know-how and expertise in digital marine solutions and services. The acquisition takes Wärtsilä a significant step closer to achieving its mission of enabling sustainable societies with smart technologies. It will also speed delivery on the company’s promise to disrupt the industry by establishing an ecosystem that is digitally connected across the entire supply chain, through applications that are secure, smart and cloud-based. During 2018 the Group incurred acquisition-related costs of EUR 3 million related to external legal fees and due diligence costs. The costs have been included in the other operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income. Pr Pro o forma If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2018, management estimates that the consolidated net sales would have been EUR 5,213 million. The impact in the consolidated operating result would not have been significant. In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments which arose on the date of the acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2018. Other acquisitions In February, Wärtsilä acquired 100% of Trident B.V. and LOCK-N-STITCH Inc. In October, Wärtsilä acquired 100% of Burriel Navarro, S.L. Trident B.V. is a Netherland based company specialised in underwater ship maintenance, inspection, and repair services. With this acquisition, Wärtsilä builds in-house competence, captures the full potential of services’ product synergies, and strengthens its position in the market. LOCK-N-STITCH Inc. is an American engineering company serving customers within the marine and energy sectors as well as other industries. It specialises in cast iron repairs. The acquisition strengthens Wärtsilä’s service portfolio for customers operating multiple brands. Burriel Navarro, S.L is a company operating in underwater services in the main ports of Spain. The acquisition supports the growth of Wärtsilä’s underwater services and expands the company’s local presence in the European market. The following tables summarise the preliminary amounts for the consideration paid, the cash flow from the acquisitions, and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognised at the acquisition dates. Preliminary consideration MEUR Consideration transferred 27 Total consideration transferr transferred ed 27 Preliminary cash flow from the acquisitions MEUR Consideration paid in cash 23 Contingent consideration 4 Cash and cash equivalents of the acquired companies -1 Total cash flow fr from om the acquisitions 26 Provisional values of the assets and liabilities arising from the acquisitions MEUR Intangible assets 10 Property, plant and equipment 2 Inventories 1 Trade and other receivables 6 Cash and cash equivalents 1 Total assets 19 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 200 Trade payables and other liabilities 4 Deferred tax liabilities 3 Total liabilities 6 Total net assets 13 Pr Preliminary eliminary goodwill 13 The preliminary fair values of acquired identifiable intangible assets at the dates of the acquisitions (including technology, customer relations, and trade marks) amounted to EUR 10 million. The fair value of current trade receivables and other receivables is approximately EUR 6 million. The fair value of the trade receivables does not include any significant risk. The preliminary goodwill of EUR 13 million reflects the value of know-how and expertise in advanced underwater services. During 2018, the acquisition-related costs the Group incurred related to external legal fees and due diligence costs were insignificant. The costs have been included in the other operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income. Pr Pro o forma If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2018, management estimates that the consolidated net sales would have been EUR 5,176 million. The impact in the consolidated operating result would not have been significant. In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments which arose on the dates of the acquisitions would have been the same if the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2018. Acquisitions 2017 Gr Greensmith eensmith Energy Management Systems Inc. On 3 July 2017, Wärtsilä acquired 100% of Greensmith Energy Management Systems Inc. Greensmith Energy Management Systems Inc. is a market leader in grid-scale energy storage software and integrated solutions. The acquisition of Greensmith enables Wärtsilä to rapidly expand its footprint in the energy storage market globally and position as a premier energy system integrator. The following tables summarise the amounts for the consideration paid for Greensmith, the cash flow from the acquisition, and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognised at the acquisition date. Total consideration MEUR Consideration transferred 144 Total consideration transferr transferred ed 144 Cash flow from the acquisition MEUR Consideration paid in cash 144 Total cash flow frfrom om the acquisition 144 The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition MEUR Intangible assets 42 Trade and other receivables 5 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 201 Deferred tax assets 4 Total assets 51 Provisions 5 Trade payables and other liabilities 5 Deferred tax liabilities 17 Total liabilities 27 Total net assets 24 Goodwill 120 The fair values of the acquired identifiable intangible assets at the date of the acquisition (including trademark and tehcnology related IP) amounted to EUR 42 million. The fair value of the current trade receivables and other receivables is approximately EUR 5 million. The fair value of the trade receivables does not include any significant risk. The goodwill of EUR 120 million reflects the value of know-how and expertise in grid-scale energy storage and integrated solutions. Wärtsilä foresees that the acquisition will strengthen its position as an energy system integrator as well as support its growth strategy by improving Wärtsilä's offering and services towards customers. During 2017 the Group incurred acquisition-related costs of EUR 1 million related to external legal fees and due diligence costs. The costs have been included in the other operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income. Pr Pro o Forma If the Greensmith acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2017, management estimates that the consolidated net sales would have been EUR 4,928 million. The impact in the consolidated operating result would not have been significant. In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments which arose on the date of the acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2017. Other acquisitions In October, Wärtsilä acquired 100% of Puregas Solutions Ab and Guidance Navigation Holdings Limited. Puregas Solutions is a Sweden based leader in turnkey biogas upgrading solutions. The acquisition complements Wärtsilä’s existing position in the biogas liquefaction market. Guidance Navigation Holdings Limited is a UK based privately owned company. The company is a technology leader in the marine industry for sensor solutions relating to dynamic positioning and other vessel control systems. The acquisition enhances Wärtsilä’s capabilities in the areas of situational awareness and near-field measurement, both essential for more intelligent vessel navigation. The following tables summarise the amounts for the consideration paid, the cash flow from the acquisitions, and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognised at the acquisition dates. Total consideration MEUR Consideration transferred 63 Total consideration transferr transferred ed 63 Cash flow from the acquisitions MEUR Consideration paid in cash 53 Contingent consideration 9 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 202 Cash and cash equivalents of the acquired companies -10 Total cash flow frfrom om the acquisitions 52 The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisitions MEUR Intangible assets 17 Inventories 1 Trade and other receivables 14 Cash and cash equivalents 10 Total assets 43 Provisions 1 Trade payables and other liabilities 9 Advances received 4 Deferred tax liabilities 4 Total liabilities 17 Total net assets 26 Goodwill 37 The fair values of the acquired identifiable intangible assets at the dates of acquisitions (including customer relations, technology and trade marks) amounted to EUR 17 million. The fair value of the current trade receivables and other receivables is approximately EUR 14 million. The fair value of the trade receivables does not include any significant risk. The goodwill of EUR 37 million reflects the value of know-how and expertise in turnkey biogas upgrading solutions and more intelligent vessel navigation. Wärtsilä foresees that the acquisition of Puregas Solutions Ab will strengthen and complement its position in the biogas liquefaction market as well as improve Wärtsilä's offering and reach in the gas value chain. The acquisition of Guidance Navigation Holdings Limited enhances Wärtsilä’s capabilities in the areas of situational awareness and near-field measurement, both essential for more intelligent vessel navigation. During 2017, the Group incurred acquisition-related costs of EUR 1 million related to external legal fees and due diligence costs. The costs have been included in the other operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income. Pr Pro o forma If the other acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2017, management estimates that the consolidated net sales would have been EUR 4,940 million. The impact in the consolidated operating result would not have been significant. In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments which arose on the dates of the acquisitions would have been the same if the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2017. Anchor 3. Disposals Disposals 2018 Disposal of pumps business On 31 October 2018, Wärtsilä divested its pumps business to Solix Group, a Scandinavian investment company. Wärtsilä Pumps has belonged to the Wärtsilä Marine Solutions organisation and became part of the Group along with the acquisition of Hamworthy in 2012. The Wärtsilä Pumps business recorded sales of approximately EUR 50 million in 2017. The cash consideration of the transaction was EUR 45 million, and in addition EUR 20 million of the transaction price is reported as a receivable in the non-current other receivables in the consolidated statement of financial This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 203 position. Wärtsilä reported a gain of EUR 27 million in other operating income from the transaction according to the preliminary sales profit calculation. Other disposals On 20 October 2018, Wärtsilä sold its majority interest in Wärtsilä Yuchai Engine Co. Ltd. The consideration received and the impact on profit for the financial period were not significant. Disposals 2017 In 2017, there were no disposals. Anchor 4. Disaggregation of revenue Revenue from the contracts with customers is derived over time and at a point in time in the following revenue types. Net sales by rrevenue evenue type MEUR 2018 2017 Products 1 145 1 149 Goods and services 557 567 Projects 2 992 2 785 Long-term agreements 480 410 Total 5 174 4 911 Timing of satisfying performance obligations MEUR 2018 2017 At a point in time 3 740 3 555 Over time 1 434 1 356 Total 5 174 4 911 Product sales consist of sales of spare parts and standard equipment for which the revenue is recognised at a point in time when the control of the products has transferred to customer, in general at the delivery of the goods. Goods and services -type of revenue involves short-term field service jobs, which includes the delivery of a combination of service and equipment. The revenue is recognised at a point in time when service is rendered. Projects contain short-term and long-term projects. Depending on the contract terms and the duration of the project, the revenue is recognised at a point in time or over time. Revenue related to long-term projects, such as construction contracts, integrated solutions projects, ship design, and energy solutions contracts, is recognised over time. Revenue for tailor-made equipment delivery projects is recognised at a point in time. Long-term agreements contain long-term operating and maintenance agreements for which the revenue is recognised over time. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 204 Anchor 5. Other operating income MEUR 2018 2017 Capital gains 32 18 Government grants 7 10 Sale of scrapped material 3 3 Sale of by-products 2 1 Income related to cancelled orders* 10 6 Insurance indemnities 4 4 Other 24 19 Total 80 60 * Expenses related to cancelled orders are recorded on respective expense accounts. Anchor 6. Material and services Restated MEUR 2018 2017 Purchases during the financial period -1 598 -1 418 Change in inventories 40 1 External services -1 294 -1 144 Total -2 852 -2 561 Anchor 7. Employee benefit expenses MEUR 2018 2017 Wages and salaries 954 1 000 Pension costs Defined benefit plans 7 9 Defined contribution plans 71 66 Other compulsory personnel costs 142 139 Total 1 175 1 214 Management remuneration is specified in Note 30. Related party disclosures. Long-term incentive schemes Wages and salaries include a release of provision for expenses arising from bonus schemes 2016-2018 and 2017-2019 totalling EUR 21 million (previous year increase 40). The provision is recognised at fair value. The bonus schemes are tied to the price development of the company’s share during a pre-determined timeframe, and an upper limit is set for the bonus. When a bonus scheme ends and the employment requirement is fulfilled, the bonus is settled in cash. Board of Management members shall acquire Wärtsilä shares with 50% of the net bonuses received, until the share ownership corresponding to the individuals' annual gross base salary level has been achieved. The bonus payment for bonus schemes is based on the share price development during a three-year period. The decision about the share issue without payment has been reflected to the amount and criteria of long-term incentive schemes. The 2016-2018 bonus scheme comprises 4,857,000 incentive rights, the 2017-2019 bonus scheme 5,490,000 incentive rights and the 2018-2020 bonus scheme 4,845,000 incentive This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 205 rights. For the bonus scheme 2016-2018 the basis of a share price is EUR 15.82, for the bonus scheme 2017-2019 EUR 16.19, and for the bonus scheme 2018-2020 EUR 22.58. The bonus schemes take into account 100% of dividends paid, and the paid bonus cannot exceed EUR 4.61 per incentive right in the 2016-2018 bonus scheme, EUR 6.07 in the 2017-2019 bonus scheme, or EUR 8.47 in the 2018-2020 bonus scheme. 2018 2017 Personnel on average 18 899 17 866 Personnel at the end of the financial period 19 294 18 065 Anchor 8. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment MEUR 2018 2017 Development expenses 11 12 Purchase price allocation amortisation 43 36 Other intangible assets 12 12 Buildings and structures 16 15 Machinery and equipment 43 45 Other tangible assets 1 1 Impairments 3 14 Total 130 134 Anchor 9. Other operating expenses MEUR 2018 2017 Travel costs 145 138 Rental costs 90 90 Legal and consultancy costs 89 71 Information technology costs 61 55 Other personnel related costs 58 51 Other 204 173 Total 648 577 Anchor 10. Financial income and expenses MEUR 2018 2017 Interest income on loans and receivables 2 2 Interest income on financial assets at fair value through the statement of income 20 9 Interest income on investments at amortised cost 1 Other financial income 1 2 Total financial income 24 12 Interest expenses on financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost -11 -10 Interest expenses on financial liabilities at fair value through the statement of income -34 -14 Net interest from defined benefit plans -3 -3 Changes in fair values of financial assets/liabilities at fair value through the statement of income -4 1 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 206 Write-down of financial receivables -1 Exchange rate differences* -6 -27 Fee expenses -2 -1 Other financial expenses -4 -4 Total financial expenses -65 -59 Total -40 -47 * In 2018, the result from the ineffective portion of cash flow hedges related to cancelled orders, EUR -2 million (-15), and exchange rate differences from unhedged internal loans, EUR -5 million (-7) were included in exchange rate differences in the consolidated statement of income. Anchor 11. Income taxes Restated MEUR 2018 2017 Income taxes for the financial period -126 -121 for prior financial periods 1 -2 Change in deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 10 2 changes in tax rates 1 4 Total -116 -117 Reconciliation of efeffective fective tax rate: Profit before taxes 502 491 Tax calculated at the domestic corporate tax rate 20.0% -100 -98 Effect of changed tax rates 1 4 Effect of different tax rates in foreign subsidiaries 6 4 Effect of income not subject to tax and non-deductible expenses 2 -3 Effect of share of result of associates and joint ventures 3 3 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses carried forward 4 Unrecognised taxes on losses carried forward -17 -14 Other taxes* -10 -14 Other temporary differences -1 -1 Income taxes for prior financial periods 1 -2 Tax charge in the consolidated statement of income -116 -117 Ef Effective fective tax rate (%) 23.1 23.7 * Other taxes consist mainly of witholding taxes not utilised and taxes not directly based on taxable income. Income taxes related to other comprehensive income are presented in Consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented in Note 22. Deferred taxes. Wärtsilä is subject to tax audits in some countries, which can result in tax reassessment decisions and obligations to pay additional taxes and related payments. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 207 Anchor 12. Earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent company by the weighted average number of shares outstanding. During the financial periods there were no programmes with dilutive effect. Restated MEUR 2018 2017 Profit for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent company 386 375 Thousands of shares weighted average number of shares outstanding* 591 723 591 723 Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent company (basic and diluted): Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted, EUR 0.65 0.63 * Additional information on the number of shares is presented in Note 24. Equity. Earnings per share for the comparison period has been restated to reflect the increased number of shares. Anchor 13. Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill allocation Goodwill arising from business acquisitions is allocated to the Group cash-generating unit (CGU) that is the Group´s operating segment. The operating segment represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored. The companies acquired during the financial period are integrated to the Group CGU at the acquisition date. Previously separately presented CGU’s have also been integrated to the Group CGU during the financial period. The goodwill is presented in the table below: Goodwill/Cash Generating Unit MEUR 2018 2017 Wärtsilä on 1 January 1 237 1 112 Acquisitions and disposals 113 157 Other changes 1 Changes in exchange rates 4 -33 Total 1 355 1 237 Impairment testing of goodwill The Group performs its annual impairment testing of goodwill on 30 September. Impairment of goodwill is also carried out when changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The recoverable amount from the CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculation. The calculation is made on a discounted cash flow method basis, derived from the order book and five-year cash flow projections from management approved strategic plans. The estimated cash flow of CGU is based on utilisation of the existing property, plant and equipment in their current condition with normal maintenance capital This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 208 expenditure, excluding any potential future acquisitions. Cash flow beyond the five-year period is calculated using the terminal value method. The terminal growth rate used in projections is based on management’s assessment on conservative long-term growth. The terminal growth rate used is 2%. The key driver for the valuation is the growth in the global economy and in particular the development of the global power market, the global shipbuilding industry, and the demand for related services. The projected development of total costs in the market affects the profitability, whereas no single cost item is considered to have a material impact. The valuation driver for the new equipment sales is the growth in the global economy, whereas for after sales the drivers are also the demand for related services and the projected development in labour cost. The applied discount rate is the weighted average pre-tax cost of capital (WACC) as defined by Wärtsilä. The components of the WACC are riskfree rate, market risk premium, industry specific beta, cost of debt and debt equity ratio. When defining the WACC for 2018, it has been considered that the general interest rate is currently on a lower level. Wärtsilä has used a WACC of 8.9% (9.4) in the calculations. As a result of the impairment test, no impairment loss for the CGU was recognised for the financial periods ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 respectively. The recoverable amount from the CGU exceeded its carrying value remarkably. Sensitivity analysis The management has assessed that no reasonable possible changes in the key assumptions would cause the CGU´s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount. Sensitivity analyses have been carried out for the valuation of the recoverable amount for the CGU by changing the assumptions used in the calculation. A change in an assumption that would cause the recoverable amount to equal the carrying amount is presented in the table below. Change Pre-tax discount rate increase more than 20 percentage points Terminal growth rate decrease more than 68 percentage points Profitability decrease more than 82 percentage In management’s opinion, the changes in the basic assumptions shall not be seen as an indication that these factors are likely to materialise. The sensitivity analyses are hypothetical and should therefore be treated with caution. 2018 Construction in progress Developand Other ment advances intangible MEUR expenses paid assets Goodwill Total Cost on 1 January 2018 142 21 783 1 243 2 189 Changes in exchange rates -2 4 2 Acquisitions and disposals -2 10 66 113 187 Additions 2 35 8 1 45 Decreases and other changes -12 -1 -13 Reclassifications -13 13 Cost on 31 December 2018 141 53 857 1 361 2 411 Accumulated amortisation and impairment on 1 January 2018 -85 -521 -6 -612 Changes in exchange rates 1 1 Accumulated amortisation on decreases and other changes 2 12 1 15 Amortisation during the financial period -11 -55 -66 Impairments -1 -1 -2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment on 31 December 2018 -94 -565 -6 -665 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 209 Carrying amount on 31 December 2018 47 53 292 1 355 1 747 Development costs for internally generated assets capitalised during the financial period amounted to EUR 30 million (16). The carrying amount was EUR 91 million (73). Purchase price allocation amortisation amounted to EUR 43 million (36) and the carrying amount was EUR 248 million (227). 2017 Construction in progress Developand Other ment advances intangible MEUR expenses paid assets Goodwill Total Cost on 1 January 2017 107 41 743 1 118 2 008 Changes in exchange rates -15 -33 -49 Acquisitions 61 157 217 Additions 1 19 5 25 Decreases and other changes -12 1 -12 Reclassifications 34 -39 5 Cost on 31 December 2017 142 21 783 1 243 2 189 Accumulated amortisation and impairment on 1 January 2017 -73 -495 -5 -574 Changes in exchange rates 9 10 Accumulated amortisation on decreases and other changes 12 12 Amortisation during the financial period -12 -48 -60 Impairments -1 -1 Accumulated amortisation and impairment on 31 December 2017 -85 -521 -6 -612 Carrying amount on 31 December 2017 57 21 262 1 237 1 577 Anchor 14. Property, plant & equipment 2018 ConstrucBuildMachintion in ings ery progress Land and and and Other and strucequipadvances tangible MEUR water tures ment paid assets Total Cost on 1 January 2018 43 313 787 18 23 1 185 Changes in exchange rates -1 -1 -3 Acquisitions and disposals -9 -22 -19 -50 Additions 1 5 23 35 64 Decreases -4 -4 -22 -30 Reclassifications 7 12 -14 5 Cost on 31 December 2018 31 297 780 40 24 1 171 Accumulated depreciation and impairment on 1 January 2018 -2 -172 -642 -20 -835 Changes in exchange rates 1 1 1 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and disposals 1 11 41 53 Depreciation during the financial period -16 -43 -1 -60 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 210 Impairments -2 -2 Reclassifications -1 -4 -5 Accumulated depr depreciation eciation and impairment on 31 December 2018 -1 -177 -648 -21 -847 Carrying amount on 31 December 2018 30 120 132 39 3 324 Value of finance-leased assets included in carrying amount 1 1 3 2017 ConstrucBuildMachintion in ings ery progress Land and and and Other and strucequipadvances tangible MEUR water tures ment paid assets Total Cost on 1 January 2017 46 349 834 12 25 1 266 Changes in exchange rates -1 -10 -18 -30 Additions 2 20 17 39 Decreases -2 -22 -45 -69 Reclassifications -6 -5 -11 -1 -22 Cost on 31 December 2017 43 313 787 18 23 1 185 Accumulated depreciation and impairment on 1 January 2017 -1 -179 -660 -21 -861 Changes in exchange rates 4 13 18 Accumulated depreciation on decreases 15 44 59 Depreciation during the financial period -15 -45 -1 -61 Impairments -6 -7 -13 Reclassifications 9 13 1 22 Accumulated depr depreciation eciation and impairment on 31 December 2017 -2 -172 -642 -20 -835 Carrying amount on 31 December 2017 41 142 146 18 3 349 Value of finance-leased assets included in carrying amount 1 Anchor 15. Investments in associates and joint ventures MEUR 2018 2017 Carrying amount on 1 January 83 84 Investments 1 Share of result 13 13 Dividends -17 -12 Translation differences -1 -1 Reduction of share capital in associates and joint ventures -13 Carrying amount on 31 December 66 83 In 2018, Wärtsilä invested EUR 1 million in the joint venture CSSC Wärtsilä Electrical & Automation Co., Ltd., and received EUR 13 million as return of capital from Wärtsilä Hyundai Engine Co Ltd. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 211 Summary of financial information (100%): 2018 Profit for the LiabilNet financial MEUR Holding % Assets Equity ities sales period Joint ventur ventures es Wärtsilä Qiyao Diesel Company Ltd. China 50.0 26 19 8 17 South Wärtsilä Hyundai Engine Co Ltd. Korea 50.0 111 91 20 164 29 CSSC Wärtsilä Electrical & Automation Co., Ltd. China 49.0 2 2 1 -1 CSSC Wärtsilä Engine (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. China 49.0 70 19 51 49 -3 Repropel Sociedad de reparacao de helices Portugal 50.0 1 1 1 1 Associated companies Wärtsilä Land & Sea Academy, Inc. Philippines 40.0 -2 2 Neptun Maritime AS Norway 40.0 1 1 1 CSSC Wärtsilä Engine (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. factory is manufacturing medium and large bore medium speed diesel and dual-fuel engines at Lingang, Shanghai. Wärtsilä Hyundai Engine Co Ltd. manufactures Wärtsilä 50DF dual-fuel engines for LNG carriers and other marine application in Mokpo, South Korea. Wärtsilä Qiyao Diesel Company Ltd. manufactures marine auxiliary engines in Shanghai, China. CSSC Wärtsilä Electrical & Automation Co., Ltd. manufactures advanced electronical and automation solutions for the cruise industry. 2017 Profit for the LiabilNet financial MEUR Holding % Assets Equity ities sales period Joint ventur ventures es Wärtsilä Qiyao Diesel Company Ltd. China 50.0 25 19 7 13 South Wärtsilä Hyundai Engine Co Ltd. Korea 50.0 192 122 70 176 34 CSSC Wärtsilä Engine (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. China 49.0 62 22 40 26 -9 Repropel Sociedad de reparacao de helices Portugal 50.0 1 1 1 1 Associated companies Wärtsilä Land & Sea Academy, Inc. Philippines 40.0 -2 2 Neptun Maritime AS Norway 40.0 1 1 1 Anchor 16. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category 2018 At fair Carrying At fair value amounts value through of the Measured through other statement at the compreof financial amortised statement hensive position Fair MEUR cost of income income items value Non-curr Non-current ent financial assets Interest-bearing investments 3 3 3 Trade receivables 49 49 49 Derivatives 3 3 3 Other investments 16 16 16 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 212 Other receivables 20 20 20 Curr Current ent financial assets Trade receivables 1 219 1 219 1 219 Trade receivables for sale 3 3 3 Derivatives 5 3 8 8 Other financial receivables 3 3 3 Cash and cash equivalents 466 21 487 487 Carrying amount by measur measurementement category 1 758 52 3 1 813 1 813 Non-curr Non-currentent financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 748 748 754 Derivatives 16 16 16 Curr Current ent financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 74 74 74 Trade payables 596 596 596 Derivatives 27 36 63 63 Other financial liabilities 9 9 9 Carrying amount by measur measurementement category 1 428 43 36 1 507 1 513 2017 At fair Carrying At fair value amounts value through of the Measured through other statement at the compreof financial amortised statement hensive position Fair MEUR cost of income income items value Non-curr Non-currentent financial assets Interest-bearing investments 5 5 5 Trade receivables 109 109 109 Other investments 13 13 13 Other receivables 3 3 3 Curr Current ent financial assets Trade receivables 1 306 1 306 1 306 Trade receivables for sale 1 1 1 Derivatives 15 14 28 28 Other financial receivables 4 4 4 Cash and cash equivalents 360 19 379 379 Carrying amount by measur measurementement category 1 782 53 14 1 848 1 848 Non-curr Non-currentent financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 517 517 524 Derivatives 19 19 19 Curr Current ent financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 102 102 102 Trade payables 539 539 539 Derivatives 12 10 22 22 Other financial liabilities 11 11 11 Carrying amount by measur measurementement category 1 169 31 10 1 211 1 218 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 213 Fair value hierar hierarchy chy Financial instruments measured at fair value are classified according to the following fair value hierarchy: instruments measured using quoted prices in active markets (level 1), instruments measured using inputs other than quoted prices included in level 1 observable either directly or indirectly (level 2), and instruments measured using inputs that are not based on observable market data (level 3). Financial instruments measured at fair value include financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the statement of income. Due to the short nature of the current receivables, their carrying amount is considered to be same as their fair value. Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: • the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined by using forward rates at the closing date • the fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on observable yield curves • the use of quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments 2018 2017 MEUR Level 2 Level 3 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Other investments 16 13 Interest-bearing investments, non-current 3 5 Other receivables, non-current 3 3 Derivatives 12 28 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt, non-current* 754 524 Derivatives 79 41 * Measured at amortised cost in the consolidated statement of financial position. Additional information on financial liabilities is presented in Note 26. Financial liabilities. Other investments Other investments include unlisted shares carried at fair value. These investments are valued using certain DCF models where critical assumptions relate to WACC level and expected cash flows from future dividends. However, the results from different scenarios vary a lot. Thus, the management considers that the valuation at amortised cost is the best estimate of fair value. MEUR 2018 2017 Carrying amount on 1 January 13 15 Acquired shares 3 Disposal of shares -1 Impairment -1 Carrying amount on 31 December 16 13 In 2018, the cost for other unlisted shares (level 3) was EUR 16 million (13), and the market value of them was EUR 16 million (13). Anchor 17. Inventories MEUR 2018 2017 Materials and consumables 471 432 Work in progress 615 557 Finished products 35 27 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 214 Advances paid 43 36 Total 1 165 1 051 In 2018, EUR 1 million (4) impairment for obsolete inventories has been recognised in the consolidated statement of income. Acquisition-related increase in inventories is EUR 8 million (1). Anchor 18. Contract balances MEUR 2018 2017 Trade receivables 1 271 1 416 Contract assets 557 351 Contract liabilities Advances received 584 523 Deferred income 345 265 Trade rreceivables eceivables and contract assets Non-current 49 109 Current 1 779 1 658 Contract liabilities Non-current 41 64 Current 888 724 Revenue recognised in the financial period that was included in the contract liability on 1 January 724 615 Remaining performance obligations from projects and contracts under execution* 3 794 * As permitted under the transitional provision in IFRS 15, the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations as of 31 December 2017 is not disclosed. Trade receivables related to contracts with customers are non-interest-bearing receivables. Trade receivables have decreased during 2018 through collection of some sizable overdue receivables. Contract assets primarily relate to the Group’s right to consideration for transferred goods or services, but which is not yet billed at the reporting date. The contract assets are transferred to receivables when the rights become unconditional. The contract liabilities mainly relate to the advance consideration received from customers for contracts, but for which the corresponding good or service has not yet been transferred. The contract assets and liabilities arise from long-term service agreements and projects recognised over time such as gas solutions construction contracts, integrated solutions projects, ship design, and energy solutions turn key contracts. The increase in contract assets in 2018 is the result of usual business-related variation mainly in Energy Solutions projects, as well as the impact of new acquisitions amounting to EUR 15 million. In addition, the accrued revenue has increased in some larger long-term service agreements. The increase in contract liabilities in 2018 arises mainly from the usual business-related variation in Energy Solutions projects as well as the acquisition impact of EUR 1 million. Anchor 19. Other receivables Restated MEUR 2018 2017 Derivatives 12 28 Interest and other financial items 3 4 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 215 Insurance receivables 5 3 Rental accruals 3 4 Prepaid expenses 6 Other accruals 42 46 Loan receivables 3 3 Defined benefit plans 1 VAT receivables 104 97 Other* 83 52 Total 262 238 Non-curr Non-currentent 34 18 Curr Current ent 228 221 * Includes payroll related tax receivables of EUR 9 million (10) in Brazil, which cannot be utilised within a year. Anchor 20. Cash and cash equivalents MEUR 2018 2017 Cash and bank balances* 461 359 Cash equivalents 26 20 Total 487 379 * EUR 128 million (122) of cash and bank balances relate to cash in countries where repatriation is limited due to local regulation and consequently the cash is not immediately available to the parent company. Anchor 21. Net debt reconciliation Net inter interest-bearing est-bearing debt MEUR 2018 2017 Interest-bearing debt, non-current 748 517 Interest-bearing debt, current 74 102 Total inter interest-bearing est-bearing liabilities 823 619 Interest-bearing receivables -3 -5 Cash and cash equivalents -487 -379 Total inter interest-bearing est-bearing assets -490 -385 Total net inter interest-bearing est-bearing debt 333 234 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 216 Net debt rreconciliation econciliation Carrying Carrying Changes amount on amount on in Acquistions 31 1 January Cash exchange and December MEUR 2018 flows rates disposals 2018 Interest-bearing debt, non-current 517 231 -1 748 Interest-bearing debt, current 102 -40 -6 18 74 Interest-bearing receivables -5 -2 6 -3 Cash and cash equivalents -379 -101 4 -11 -487 Net debt as at 31 December 2018 234 87 -2 13 333 Carrying Carrying Changes amount on amount on in 31 1 January Cash exchange December MEUR 2017 flows rates Acquistions 2017 Interest-bearing debt, non-current 520 -12 9 517 Interest-bearing debt, current 108 10 -14 102 Interest-bearing receivables -7 1 2 -5 Cash and cash equivalents -472 94 9 -10 -379 Net debt as at 31 December 2017 150 92 6 -10 234 Anchor 22. Deferred taxes Changes in deferr deferreded taxes during 2018 Recognised in the conOther solidated compreTranslaAcquisi31 1 January statement hensive tion diftions and December MEUR 2018 of income income ferences disposals 2018 Deferr Deferred ed tax assets Tax loss carry-forwards 18 2 18 Pension obligations 23 -2 21 Provisions 30 -2 28 Elimination of intragroup margin in inventories 5 5 Fair value reserve 6 3 9 Other temporary differences 49 6 1 -7 49 Total 131 1 3 1 -6 129 Deferr Deferred ed tax liabilities Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 57 -6 14 66 Fair value reserve 2 -2 Other temporary differences 42 -2 -7 32 Total 102 -8 -2 7 99 Net deferr deferred ed tax assets/liabilities 29 9 5 1 -13 30 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 217 On 31 December 2018, the Group had temporary differences on which no deferred tax assets were booked totalling EUR 63 million (47), as it is uncertain if they will be realised. Most of the unrecognised deferred tax assets are related to cumulative tax losses. Of these, EUR 18 million (8) will expire within the next five years and the rest will expire later or never. Most of the cumulative tax losses on which deferred tax assets have been booked will never expire. Changes in deferr deferred ed taxes during 2017 Restated Recognised in the conOther solidated compreTranslaAcquisi31 1 January statement hensive tion diftions and December MEUR 2017 of income income ferences disposals 2017 Deferr Deferreded tax assets Tax loss carry-forwards 19 -1 -1 2 18 Pension obligations 25 -2 -1 23 Provisions 32 -2 -2 2 30 Elimination of intragroup margin in inventories 9 -3 5 Fair value reserve 12 -6 -1 6 Other temporary differences 44 5 -3 49 Total 141 -3 -6 -7 4 131 Deferr Deferreded tax liabilities Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 59 -19 -1 21 57 Fair value reserve 1 2 2 Other temporary differences 35 8 -3 42 Total 93 -10 2 -3 21 102 Net deferr deferred ed tax assets/liabilities 48 7 -8 -4 -17 29 Anchor 23. Pension obligations MEUR 2018 2017 Net defined benefit liabilities on 31 December 149 154 Liability for other long term employee benefits on 31 December 13 11 Wärtsilä has defined benefit plans for its employees mainly in Europe and Asia. The major plans are located in Switzerland, Germany, Great Britain and Sweden. The Swiss defined benefit plan accounts for 31% of the Group's total defined benefit obligations and 57% of the plans' assets. Most of the plans provide a lifetime pension to the members at the normal retirement age but there are also plans, which provide a lump sum payment at the retirement date. Most of these defined benefit pension plans are managed by pension funds. Their assets are not included in the Group's assets. The plans' assets are typically invested according to the investment strategies approved by the funds' Board of Trustees, or in some cases they are completely administered by insurance companies. Wärtsilä's subsidiaries make their payments to pension funds in accordance with the local legislation and practice. Authorised actuaries in each country have performed the actuarial calculations required for the defined benefit plans. The Swiss Plan Wärtsilä operates a defined benefit plan in Switzerland in accordance with the local pension laws and regulations. The plan provides benefits to the members in the form of a pension payable after retirement. The level of benefits provided depends on the accrued retirement savings capital, which is a result of contributions paid up to retirement plus respective interest. The plan is run as a pension fund by the Board of Trustees separately from the company. Contributions to the plan are paid both by the employees as well as by the employers based on a percentage of the insured salary as defined in the This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 218 pension fund regulations. Contributions by the employers vary depending on the age of the employee and cover on average two thirds of the total contributions. The investment strategy for a pension fund's asset is the responsibility of the Board of Trustees. Assets are invested in accordance with the strategy and the corridors for different investment categories as defined by local laws. Other risks of the plan are longevity of plan members as well as death or disability of employees before their retirement. The pension plan is reinsured for the risk of death and disability until 31 December 2018. Inflationary increases for pensions in payment are at the discretion of the Board of Trustees as benefits paid by the plan are exceeding the minimum level required by law. The German Plans Wärtsilä operates defined benefit plans in Germany in accordance with the local pension laws and regulations. The plans provide benefits to the members in the form of a pension payable after retirement. The level of benefits provided depends on the accrued retirement savings capital, which is a result of contributions paid up to retirement plus respective interest. The plans vary from unfunded plans to a plan run as a pension fund. In some of the plans, contributions are paid to the plan both by the employees and the employers based on a percentage of the insured salary as defined in the pension fund regulations. However, in some plans only the employer is obliged to make the payments. Contributions by the employers vary depending on the age of the employee, the duration of the employment, and also on the position of the employee. The main risks of the plans are longevity of plan members and death or disability of employees before their retirement. In a funded plan, also the investment strategy chosen includes certain risk. Inflationary increases for pensions in payment are valuated on a yearly basis. MEUR 2018 2017 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations 108 111 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 177 197 Fair value of plan assets -135 -154 Net liability in the statement of financial position 149 154 Present value of Fair defined value benefit of plan % obligations assets Switzerland 31 57 Germany 24 5 Other Europe 35 25 Asia 10 13 Total 100 100 Present value of Fair Net defined value defined benefit of plan benefit MEUR obligation assets liability Balance on 1 January 2017 323 -156 168 Changes in exchange rates -14 10 -4 Acquisitions 4 4 Recognised in the statement of income: Current service cost 8 9 Interest cost (+) / interest income (-) 5 -2 3 Remeasur Remeasurements ements rrecognised ecognised in other compr comprehensive ehensive income: Return on plan assets, excluding interest income -3 -3 Experience adjustments 8 8 Changes in demographic assumptions -1 -1 Changes in financial assumptions -10 -10 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 219 Contribution paid by the plan members 1 -1 Contribution paid by the employer -10 -10 Benefits paid -19 10 -9 Balance on 31 December 2017 307 -154 154 Balance on 1 January 2018 307 -154 154 Changes in exchange rates 2 -2 -1 Recognised in the statement of income: Current service cost 10 10 Past service cost (credit) -1 -1 Gains (-) / losses (+) on curtailments and settlements -21 20 -2 Interest cost (+) / interest income (-) 5 -3 3 Remeasur Remeasurements ements rrecognised ecognised in other compr comprehensive ehensive income: Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 11 11 Experience adjustments -6 -6 Changes in financial assumptions -2 -2 Contribution paid by the plan members 1 -1 Contribution paid by the employer -11 -11 Benefits paid -13 5 -8 Balance on 31 December 2018 282 -134 149 Plan assets invested in: % 2018 2017 Shares and other equity instruments 17 26 Bonds and other debt instruments 33 35 Property 17 16 Other assets 33 23 The main actuarial assumptions at the end of the financial period are (expressed as weighted averages): % 2018 2017 Discount rate 1.78 1.65 Future salary growth 2.16 2.15 Future pension growth 1.18 1.14 On 31 December 2018, the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 12 years. The Group expects to contribute EUR 5 million to the plans during the next financial period. Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial advice in accordance with the published statistics and experience in each country. These assumptions translate into a weighted average life expectancy in years for a pensioner at the retirement age as follows: 2018 2017 Plan participants rretiring etiring at the end of the financial period: Male 17.0 17.7 Female 17.1 19.6 Plan participants rretiring etiring 20 years after the end of the financial period: Male 16.1 19.5 Female 18.1 21.9 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 220 The following table presents a sensitivity analysis for each significant actuarial assumption showing how the defined benefit obligation would have been affected by changes in the relevant actuarial assumption that were reasonably possible at the end of the financial period. This sensitivity analysis applies to the defined benefit obligation only and not to the net defined benefit pension liability in its entirety. Sensitivity analysis Effect to defined benefit obligation, MEUR Change in assumption 2018 2017 Discount rate increase 1% -33 -36 Discount rate decrease 1% 41 44 Future salary growth increase 1% 9 13 Future salary growth decrease 1% -8 -10 Future pension growth increase 1% 25 28 Future pension growth decrease 1% -15 -15 Anchor 24. Equity Equity consists of share capital, share premium, translation differences, fair value reserve, remeasurements of defined benefit liabilities and retained earnings. Shar Sharee capital and number of shar shares es MEUR Number of shares Share Share Share capital and votes capital premium Total 1 January 2017 197 241 130 336 61 397 31 December 2017 197 241 130 336 61 397 Share issue without payment on 12 March 2018 394 482 260 31 December 2018 591 723 390 336 61 397 Wärtsilä's share does not have a nominal value. Wärtsilä has one series of shares. Each share is assigned one vote in the Annual General Meeting and has equal right to dividend. Shar Sharee Capital The subscription price of a share received by the company in connection with share issues is credited to the share capital, unless it is provided in the share issue decision that a part of the subscription price is to be recorded in the fund for invested non-restricted equity. Shar Sharee Pr Premium emium Share premium is restricted equity. It may be reduced in accordance with the rules applying to decreasing share capital in accordance with the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act. It can also be used to increase the share capital. Translation dif differ ferences ences Translating foreign subsidiaries' financial statements by using different exchange rates in the statement of comprehensive income and in the statement of financial position causes translation differences, which are recognised in equity. Translation differences of foreign subsidiaries’ acquisition cost eliminations and post acquisition gains and losses are also presented in equity. Also translation differences arising from subsidiary This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 221 net investment and non-current subsidiary loan without agreed settlement dates are presented in equity. The change in translation differences is recognised in other comprehensive income. Fair value rreserve eserve Fair value reserve includes the changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments, if the hedging is effective and eligible for hedge accounting. The changes in items included in fair value reserve are recognised in other comprehensive income. Cash flow MEUR hedges Difference between fair value and carrying amount on 1 January 2017 -50 Taxes related to fair value adjustments 12 Fair value rreserve eserve on 1 January 2017 -39 Transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes 28 Fair value adjustments 1 Taxes related to fair value adjustments -1 Fair value rreserve eserve on 31 December 2017 -10 Transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes -6 Fair value adjustments -17 Taxes related to fair value adjustments 3 Fair value rreserve eserve on 31 December 2018 -31 Par Parent ent company's distributable funds After the balance sheet date, the Board of Directors proposed that a dividend of EUR 0.48 per share be paid for the financial period 2018, the total dividend payable being EUR 284 million. The remaining part of the retained profits will be carried further in the unrestricted equity. For the profit for the financial period 2017, a dividend of EUR 0.46 per share was distributed, totalling EUR 272 million, and the rest of the retained profits were carried further in the unrestricted equity. The dividend per share for the comparison period has been restated to reflect the increased number of shares. Additional information on equity is presented in Notes to the parent company financial statements, in Note 10. Shareholders' equity. Anchor 25. Provisions 2018 Onerous RestrucOther MEUR Litigation Warranties contracts turing provisions Total Provisions on 1 January 2018 19 173 27 6 35 261 Acquisitions 1 1 1 3 Additions 12 60 107 9 11 198 Used provisions -2 -62 -64 -6 -5 -138 Released provisions -9 -5 -4 -4 -21 Pr Provisions ovisions on 31 December 2018 21 172 67 7 38 305 Non-curr Non-current ent 54 Curr Current ent 251 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 222 2017 Restated Onerous RestrucOther MEUR Litigation Warranties contracts turing provisions Total Provisions on 1 January 2017 17 170 17 18 29 250 Changes in exchange rates -2 -1 -1 -4 Acquisitions 1 5 6 Additions 10 57 20 6 11 104 Used provisions -2 -52 -10 -17 -3 -84 Released provisions -6 -3 -1 -10 Pr Provisions ovisions on 31 December 2017 19 173 27 6 35 261 Non-curr Non-current ent 52 Curr Current ent 209 Warranty provisions include estimated future warranty costs relating to products delivered. The amount of future warranty costs is based on accumulated historical experience. The standard warranty period is one year from the delivery onwards. The Group is a defendant in a number of legal cases which arise out of, or are incidental to, the ordinary course of its business. These lawsuits concern mainly issues such as contractual and other liability, labour relations, property damage, and regulatory matters. The Group receives from time to time claims of different amounts and with varying degrees of substantiation. There is currently one unusually sizeable claim, but it is highly unlikely that the outcome of it would be unfavourable. The claim is treated as a contingent liability as it is the Group’s policy to provide for amounts related to the claims as well as for the litigation and arbitration matters when an unfavourable outcome is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Anchor 26. Financial liabilities 2018 Current Non-current MEUR < 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total Loans from other financial institutions* 63 186 311 250 809 Finance lease liabilities* 1 2 2 Other interest-bearing debt* 11 11 Trade payables 596 596 Derivatives** 63 12 3 79 Other liabilities 9 9 Total 744 199 314 250 1 507 * Estimated interest expenses, total 8 13 11 7 39 Estimated contractual cash flows 752 212 326 257 1 546 2017 Current Non-current MEUR < 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total Loans from pension insurance companies* 8 8 Loans from other financial institutions* 90 112 237 166 605 Finance lease liabilities* 1 1 Other interest-bearing debt* 4 4 Trade payables 539 539 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 223 Derivatives** 23 1 17 41 Other liabilities 11 11 Total 676 114 255 166 1 211 * Estimated interest expenses, total 7 12 10 5 34 Estimated contractual cash flows 683 126 265 171 1 245 ** Valuation for derivatives with negative market value by maturity date. Nominal contractual amounts are presented in Note 28. Derivative financial instruments. Interest expenses for long-term loans are calculated by using the average interest rate prevailing on 31 December 2018. Fair values of financial liabilities are presented in Note 16. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category. Anchor 27. Other liabilities Restated MEUR 2018 2017 Accrued expenses 295 335 Personnel costs 124 191 Derivatives 79 41 Interest and other financial items 9 11 Other accruals 45 52 VAT liabilities 26 26 Other 67 70 Total 645 726 Non-curr Non-current ent 1 1 Curr Current ent 645 726 Anchor 28. Derivative financial instruments The Group applies hedge accounting to significant foreign currency forward contracts. Detailed financial information is presented in Note 31. Financial risks. of which of which MEUR 2018 closed 2017 closed Nominal values of derivative financial instruments (level 2) Interest rate swaps 270 165 Cross currency swaps 238 74 Currency forwards, included in hedge accounting 1 227 314 814 312 Currency forwards, no hedge accounting 1 600 721 1 134 435 Total 3 335 1 035 2 187 746 Fair values of derivative financial instruments (level 2) Interest rate swaps -4 -2 Cross currency swaps -8 -17 Currency forwards, included in hedge accounting -22 2 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 224 Currency forwards, no hedge accounting -33 3 Total -67 -13 In addition, the Group had copper futures and swaps amounting to 264 tons (254) valued at EUR 1 million (2). Foreign currency forward contracts are against transactional risks and fall due during the following 12 months (12). A currency forward is considered closed when there are offsetting cash flows in the same currency with the same value date. Interest rate swaps are denominated in euros and their average maturity is 48 months (18). The average maturity for cross currency swaps is 54 months (40). Normally all of the Groups' derivatives are done under International Swaps and Derivatives Association's Master Agreements (ISDA). In case of an event of default under these agreements the non-defaulting party may request early termination and set-off of all outstanding transactions. These agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the statement of financial position. The following table sets out the carrying amounts of recognised financial instruments that are subject to the above agreements. MEUR 2018 2017 Gr Gross oss fair values of derivative financial instruments subject to ISDAs Assets Cross currency swaps 3 Currency forwards 8 28 Total 12 28 Liabilities Interest rate swaps -4 -19 Cross currency swaps -11 Currency forwards -63 -22 Total -79 -41 Net fair values of derivative financial instruments subject to ISDAs Assets 12 Liabilities -67 -27 Total -67 -16 Anchor 29. Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments 2018 2017 Debt in the Debt in the statement statement of financial of financial MEUR position Collateral position Collateral Mortgages given as collateral for liabilities and commitments Other commitments 15 10 16 10 Total 15 10 16 10 Chattel mortgages and other pledges and securities given as collateral for liabilities and commitments Loans from credit institutions 8 2 11 4 Other commitments 17 16 Total 8 19 11 19 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 225 MEUR 2018 2017 Guarantees and contingent liabilities on behalf of Group companies 775 737 Total 775 737 Nominal amounts of rrents ents accor according ding to leasing contracts Payable within one year 53 35 Payable between one and five years 148 101 Payable later 83 48 Total 284 185 Anchor 30. Related party disclosures Related parties comprise the Board of Directors, the President and CEO, the Board of Management, the associated companies, and joint ventures. Management rremuneration emuneration Benefits recognised in the statement of income TEUR 2018 2017 President and CEO Salaries and other short-term benefits 862 785 Bonuses 234 Share based bonuses* -1 742 3 438 Statutory pension costs 119 145 Voluntary pension costs 170 156 Deputy of President and CEO Salaries and other short-term benefits 384 425 Bonuses 80 Share based bonuses* -871 1 719 Statutory pension costs 115 Voluntary pension costs 107 88 Other members of the Board of Management Salaries and other short-term benefits 2 263 2 153 Bonuses 456 Share based bonuses* -5 716 9 896 Statutory pension costs 315 322 Voluntary pension costs 368 493 Total -3 627 20 389 Board of Directors on 31 December 2018 Mikael Lilius, Chairman 175 153 Tom Johnstone, Deputy Chairman 119 108 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, member 96 78 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, member 82 74 Karin Falk, member 78 71 Johan Forssell, member 82 72 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 226 Risto Murto, member 94 79 Markus Rauramo, member 103 81 Board of Directors, until 2 March 2017 Sune Carlsson, Deputy Chairman 1 Gunilla Nordström, member 1 Total 829 718 Management rremuneration, emuneration, total -2 798 21 107 * Share based bonuses are measured at fair value at the reporting date. Due to the development of Wärtsilä share price during 2018, impact to the result for the financial period is positive. The holdings of Wärtsilä shares of the President and CEO, and the members of the Board of Directors and Board of Management at the year end were 304,439 shares (97,605). The President and CEO is entitled to retire on reaching 63 years of age. The members of the Board of Management are entitled to retire on reaching the statutory retirement age. One member of the Board of Management is entitled to retire earlier, on reaching 60 years of age. The Group has no loan receivables from the executive management or the Board of Directors. No pledges or other commitments have been given on behalf of management or shareholders. Business transactions with the associated companies and joint ventur ventures es MEUR 2018 2017 Sales to the associates and joint ventures 40 49 Purchases from the associates and joint ventures 27 53 Receivables from the associates and joint ventures 10 14 Advances paid to the associates and joint ventures 11 Payables to the associates and joint ventures 7 8 Detailed financial information on the associated companies and joint ventures is presented in Note 15. Investments in associates and joint ventures. Anchor 31. Financial risks General Wärtsilä has a centralised Group Treasury with two main objectives: 1) to arrange adequate funding for the Group’s underlying operations on competitive terms and 2) to identify and evaluate the financial risks within the Group and implement the hedges for the Group companies. The objective is to hedge against unfavorable changes in the financial markets and to minimise the impact of foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks on the Group’s cash reserves, profits, and shareholders’ equity. The Financial Risk Policy is approved by the Board of Directors. The Treasury employs only such instruments whose market value and risk profile can be reliably monitored. Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange exposures are monitored at the Business level and then netted and hedged at Group level. All material fixed sales and purchase contracts are hedged. The estimated future commercial exposures are evaluated by the Businesses, and the level of hedging is decided by the Board of Management. Hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS 9 is applied to most of the hedges of these exposures. The hedges cover such time periods that both the prices and costs can be adjusted to new exchange rates. These periods vary among Group companies from one month This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 227 to two years. The Group also hedges its position of the statement of financial position, which includes receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies. Cancellation of orders could lead to ineffective currency hedges. As field service work is invoiced in local currencies, there is some foreign exchange changes related volatility in the Group’s turnover. However the effect to the profitability is limited, as the related costs are in the same currency. Spare part sales are based on euro price list and related purchases in non-euro currencies are hedged, so effect from foreign currency rate changes to spare part sales is minimal. As both Marine and Energy Solutions’ project/hardware sales/purchases as well as estimated currency exposures from long-term services contracts are hedged, the Group does not expect significant gains/losses from foreign exchange rate changes in 2019. Approximately 67% (69) of sales and 65% (63) of operating costs in 2018 were denominated in euros, and approximately 21% (18) of sales and 8% (7) of operating costs were denominated in US dollars. The remainder were split between several currencies. The Group’s profits and competitiveness are also indirectly affected by the home currencies of its main competitors: USD, GBP, JPY and KRW. Usually fixed sales and purchase contracts are hedged by using foreign exchange forwards to offset currency spot rate related changes to the value of the underlying cash flows. As the aim is to hedge and apply hedge accounting (cash flow hedging) only to the foreign exchange spot risk, all interest rate/hedge timing related gains/losses are booked directly into the financial items. As the underlying cash flows can have long maturities, the related hedges can be done with shorter maturities and they can be rolled over when needed, so that at the maturity the total currency rate related gains/losses from these hedges are expected to fully offset the related gains/losses from the underlying cash flows. A cancellation or reduction of sales/purchase value of an order can cause the related hedge to be (partially) ineffective. Any ineffectiveness will be immediately recognised and booked into the financial items. As hedges are typically done on short maturities (up to 1 year) and only high credit quality (Aminimum rating requirement) counterparties are utilised, counterparty credit risk is expected to have minimal effect on hedge valuations. Due to some underlying hedged cash flows having longer maturities than related hedges, the change in present value of the hedge and underlying cash flow does not always fully offset each other during the lifetime of a hedge. This ineffectiveness is calculated on a quarterly basis and will be booked on Group level in financial items. The instruments, and their nominal values, used to hedge the Group’s foreign exchange exposures are listed in Note 28. Derivative financial instruments. Some Group companies in countries whose currencies are not fully convertible like Argentina, Brazil, and Indonesia have unhedged, intercompany loans nominated either in EUR or USD. The total amount of the loans is EUR 178 million (132). Since Wärtsilä has subsidiaries and joint ventures outside the euro zone, the Group’s equity, goodwill and purchase price allocations are sensitive to exchange rate fluctuations. At the end of 2018, the net assets of Wärtsilä’s foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures outside the euro zone totalled EUR 979 million (1,011). In addition, goodwill and purchase price allocations from acquisitions nominated in foreign currencies amounted to EUR 932 million (825). In 2018, the translation differences recognised in OCI mainly came from changes in USD, NOK, GBP, and BRL exchange rates. In 2018, EUR -14 million (1) fair value adjustments related to cash flow hedges were recognised in equity. EUR -8 million (-36) of the fair value adjustments were transferred from equity to the statement of income as net sales or operating expenses during 2018. In 2018, the result from the ineffective portion of the cash flow hedges was EUR -2 million (-15), which was booked in financial items and specified in Note 10. Financial income and expenses. Curr Currency ency forwar forwards ds Fixed sales and purchase Net MEUR contracts loans Currency forwards USD 877 335 NOK 971 13 CHF 29 310 CNY 171 JPY 16 SGD 1 35 DKK 6 GBP 7 43 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 228 SEK 11 Other* 148 36 Total 2 236 772 * Other does not include any material single currencies. Net loans include non-euro intragroup loans and deposits given by the parent company. IFRS hedge accounting has been applied to EUR 2,355 million (1,962) currency forwards. A 5% change in the exhange rates would cause from these currency forwards an approximately EUR 60 million (38) impact on the equity. As all material fixed sales and purchase contracts are hedged, the profit and loss sensitivity of foreign exchange is considered immaterial. Gross Net Equity MEUR amount amount impact Currency forwards under hedge accounting* USD 678 529 26 NOK 1 276 399 20 CNY 124 122 6 MXP 124 49 2 GBP 32 26 1 CHF 26 17 1 Other 94 61 3 Total 2 355 1 203 60 * Intragroup transactions, on which the actual hedge accounting bookings are based. MEUR Currency forwards, under hedge accounting 31 December 2018 2 355 Hedged highly probable forecasted cash flows by year 2019 1 540 2020 582 2021 73 2022 19 2023142 Interest rate risk Wärtsilä is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through market value changes to the net debt portfolio (price risk) and also through changes in interest rates (re-fixing on rollovers). Wärtsilä hedges interest rate exposure by using derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps, futures and options. Changes in the market value of these derivatives are recognised directly in the statement of income. Interest rate risk is managed by constantly monitoring the market value of the financial instruments and by using sensitivity analysis. Interest-bearing loan capital at the end of 2018 totalled EUR 823 million (619). The average interest rate was 1.0% (1.3) and the average re-fixing time 27 months (23). At the end of 2018, a one percentage point parallel decrease/increase of the yield curve would have resulted in a EUR 24 million (13) increase/decrease in the value of the net debt portfolio, including derivatives. Loans Wärtsilä spreads its interest rate risk exposure by taking both fixed and floating rate loans. The share of fixed rate loans as a proportion of the total debt can vary between 30–70%. The Board of Directors has given authorisation to temporarily increase the share of fixed loans up to 100%, and the authorisation is valid until the end of 2019. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 229 MEUR 2018 2017 Fixed rate loans 292 330 Floating rate loans 531 289 Derivatives 426 105 Share of fixed rate loans of total loans (including derivatives), % 87 70 A one percentage point change in the interest level would cause a EUR 1 million (2) change in the following year’s interest expenses of the debt portfolio, including derivatives. Additional information related to loans can be found in Note 16. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category and Note 26. Financial liabilities. Liquidity and refinancing risk Wärtsilä ensures sufficient liquidity at all times by efficient cash management and by maintaining sufficient committed and uncommitted credit lines available. Refinancing risk is managed by having a balanced and sufficiently long loan portfolio. The existing funding programmes include: • Committed Revolving Credit Facilities totalling EUR 640 million (640). • Finnish Commercial Paper programmes totalling EUR 800 million (800). The average maturity of the non-current debt is 49 months (44) and the average maturity of the confirmed credit lines is 31 months (28). Additional information in Note 26. Financial liabilities. At the year end, the Group had cash and cash equivalents totalling EUR 487 million (379) as well as EUR 640 million (640) non-utilised committed credit facilities. Commercial Paper Programmes were not utilised on 31 December 2018 nor on 31 December 2017. Committed Revolving Credit Facilities as well as the Parent Company's long-term loans include a financial covenant (solvency ratio). Solvency ratio is expected to remain clearly over the covenant level for the foreseeable future. Revolving cr credit edit facilities MEUR Available (end of Year Maturing period) 2018 640 2019 110 530 2020 110 420 2021 130 290 2022 130 160 2023 160 Credit risk The responsibility for managing the credit risks associated with ordinary commercial activities lies with the Businesses and the Group companies. Major trade and project finance credit risks are minimised by transferring risks to banks, insurance companies, and export credit organisations. The credit risks related to the placement of liquid funds and to trading in financial instruments are minimised by setting explicit limits for the counterparties and by making agreements only with the most reputable domestic and international banks and financial institutions. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 230 The Group companies deposit the maximum amount of their liquid financial assets with the centralised treasury when local laws and central bank regulations allow it. The Group’s funds are placed in instruments with sufficient liquidity (current bank deposits or Finnish Commercial Papers) and rating (at least single-A rated instruments or other instruments approved by the Group’s CFO). These placements are constantly monitored by the Group Treasury, and Wärtsilä does not expect any future defaults from the placements. The expected credit losses associated with investments carried at amortised cost are assessed on a forward looking basis based on investment maturity dates and counterparty credit risk on quarterly basis. As of 31 December 2018 the expected credit loss was not material. Aging of trade rreceivables eceivables For trade receivables and receivables from revenue recognition in accordance with the percentage of completion method, a simplified approach is used and the loss allowance is measured at the estimate of the lifetime expected credit losses. Receivables from revenue recognition in accordance with the percentage of completion method are usually covered with advance payments collected from customers. Thus, recognising credit losses based on the lifetime expected loss amounts mainly concerns trade receivables. For trade receivables not due or maximum 359 days overdue, an impairment of 0.1%–2.0% is made, depending on the aging category and the origin of the receivable. In calculating the expected credit loss rates, the company considers historical loss rates for each category, and adjusts for forward looking macroeconomic data. In addition to that, trade receivables more than 360 days old are assessed for impairment individually. 2018 2017 Trade of which Trade of which MEUR receivables impaired receivables impaired Not past due 862 1 951 1 Past due 1-30 days 129 122 Past due 31-180 days 163 1 189 6 Past due 181-360 days 79 1 33 2 Past due 1 year 100 59 184 53 Total 1 333 62 1 478 62 In 2018, the result impact of write-offs was EUR 1 million (-9). Impairments MEUR 2018 2017 Impairment, beginning of period 62 58 Other movements -3 -4 Impairment during the period 3 9 Impairment, end of period 62 62 The Group sells trade receivables in an amount that is currently not significant compared to the trade receivables as a whole. Sold receivables have been de-recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position. Equity price risk Wärtsilä has equity investments totalling EUR 13 million (10) in power plant companies, most of which are located in developing countries and performing well according to expectations. Additional information in Note 16. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category. Capital risk management Wärtsilä’s policy is to secure a strong capital base to keep the confidence of investors and creditors and for the future development of the business. The capital is defined as total equity including non-controlling interests and net interest-bearing debt. The target for Wärtsilä is to maintain gearing below 0.50 and to pay a dividend of at least 50% of earnings over the cycle. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 231 MEUR 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Interest-bearing liabilities, non-current 748 517 Interest-bearing liabilities, current 74 102 Cash and cash equivalents -487 -379 336 239 Loan receivables -3 -5 Net inter interest-bearing est-bearing debt 333 234 Total equity 2 432 2 376 Gearing 0.14 0.10 In the capital management Wärtsilä also follows the solvency ratio development: Equity and liabilities 6 059 5 648 Advances received -584 -522 5 475 5 126 Solvency ratio, % 44.4 46.3 Anchor 32. Auditors' fees and services The following remuneration was paid to auditors and accounting firms for audit based on applicable legislation and for other services. In 2018, the AGM appointed the audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy as Wärtsilä Corporation's auditor. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has provided non-audit services to entities of Wärtsilä Group in total 288 thousand EUR. These services included tax services (180 thousand EUR) and other services (108 thousand EUR). 2018 2017 MEUR PwC Others PwC Others Audit 3.7 0.4 3.0 0.7 Tax advisory 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.3 Other services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Total 4.0 0.9 3.2 1.1 Anchor 33. Exchange rates In the consolidated financial statements there are approximately 60 currencies consolidated. The most significant currencies are presented here. Closing rates Average rates 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 AED United Arab Emirates Dirham 4.20536 4.40503 4.33922 4.14735 BRL Brazil Real 4.44400 3.97290 4.30873 3.60410 CHF Switzerland Franc 1.12690 1.17020 1.15488 1.11155 CNY China Yuan Renminbi 7.87510 7.80440 7.80736 7.62644 DKK Danish Krone 7.46730 7.44490 7.45318 7.43865 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 232 GBP United Kingdom Pound 0.89453 0.88723 0.88475 0.87615 INR India Rupee 79.72980 76.60550 80.72774 73.49802 JPY Japan Yen 125.85000 135.01000 130.40956 126.65457 NOK Norway Krone 9.94830 9.84030 9.60063 9.32861 RUB Russian Rouble 79.71530 69.39200 74.05507 65.88766 SAR Saudi Arabian Riyal 4.29501 4.49738 4.43113 4.23474 SEK Sweden Krona 10.25480 9.84380 10.25674 9.63687 SGD Singapore Dollar 1.55910 1.60240 1.59286 1.55822 USD United States Dollar 1.14500 1.19930 1.18149 1.12928 Anchor 34. Subsidiaries Geographical Share area Company name Location Activities % Europe Wärtsilä Cyprus Limited Cyprus Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Danmark A/S Denmark Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Lyngsø Marine A/S Denmark Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Puregas Solutions A/S Denmark Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä BLRT Estonia Oü Estonia Sales and services 51.7 Eniram Oy Finland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Finland Oy Finland Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Projects Oy Finland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Solutions Oy Finland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Technology Oy Ab Finland Holding 100.0 Wärtsilä France S.A.S. France Sales and services 100.0 Transas Mediterranean SAS France Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Puregas Solutions GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Deutschland GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä ELAC Nautik GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Funa International GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä JOVYATLAS EUROATLAS GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä SAM Electronics GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Transas Marine GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Guidance Marine Ltd Great Britain Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Puregas Solutions Ltd Great Britain Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä UK Ltd Great Britain Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Valves Ltd Great Britain Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Water Systems Ltd Great Britain Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Voyage UK Limited Great Britain Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Greece S.A. Greece Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Hungary Kft Hungary Sales and services 100.0 Transas Investments Unlimited Ireland Sales and services 100.0 Transas Newbuilding Limited Ireland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Voyage Limited Ireland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä APSS Srl Italy Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A. Italy Production, sales and services 100.0 Trident Italia Srl Italy Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Moss AS Norway Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Norway AS Norway Production, sales and services 100.0 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 233 Wärtsilä Oil & Gas Systems AS Norway Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ship Design Norway AS Norway Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Valmarine AS Norway Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Baltic Design Centre Sp.z.o.o. Poland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Polska Sp.z.o.o. Poland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ship Design Poland Sp.z.o.o. Poland Sales and services 100.0 Transas Marine Poland sp. z.o.o. Poland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Portugal Lda. Portugal Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Vostok, LLC Russia Sales and services 100.0 Transas Navigator Ltd. Russia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Digital Technologies, JSC Russia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ibérica S.A. Spain Production, sales and services 100.0 Burriel Navarro S.L. Spain Sales and services 100.0 Trident Las Palmas S.L. Spain Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Puregas Solutions AB Sweden Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Sweden AB Sweden Production, sales and services 100.0 Transas Marine International (TMI) AB Sweden Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Services Switzerland AG Switzerland Sales and services 100.0 Quantiparts B.V. The Netherlands Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Netherlands B.V. The Netherlands Production, sales and services 100.0 Trident B.V. The Netherlands Sales and services 100.0 Transas Benelux B.V. The Netherlands Sales and services 100.0 The Americas Wärtsilä Argentina S.A. Argentina Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Brasil Ltda. Brazil Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Canada Inc. Canada Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Chile Ltda. Chile Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Colombia S.A. Colombia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Dominicana Inc. Dominican Republic Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ecuador S.A. Ecuador Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Guatemala S.A. Guatemala Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Operations Guyana Inc. Guyana Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä de Mexico SA Mexico Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Panama Services S.A. Panama Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Peru S.A.C. Peru Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Caribbean, Inc. Puerto Rico Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Uruguay S.A. Uruguay Sales and services 100.0 American Hydro Corporation USA Sales and services 100.0 Greensmith Energy Management Systems Inc. USA Sales and services 100.0 Guidance Marine LLC USA Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Defence Inc. USA Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Dynamic Positioning Inc. USA Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä North America, Inc. USA Sales and services 100.0 LOCK-N-STITCH Inc. USA Sales and services 100.0 Transas Americas Inc. USA Sales and services 100.0 Asia PT. Wärtsilä Indonesia Indonesia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Azerbaijan LLC Azerbaijan Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Bangladesh Ltd. Bangladesh Sales and services 100.0 SAM Taihang Electronics Ltd. China Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Propulsion (Wuxi) Co. Ltd. China Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Services (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. China Sales and services 100.0 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 234 Wärtsilä Ship Design (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China Sales and services 95.0 Wärtsilä Suzhou Ltd. China Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä-CME Zhenjiang Propeller Co. Ltd. China Production, sales and services 55.0 Transas Marine (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Hong Kong Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä China Ltd. Hong Kong Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä India Ltd. India Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Japan Ltd. Japan Production, sales and services 99.7 Wärtsilä (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Pakistan (Pvt.) Ltd. Pakistan Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Philippines Inc. Philippines Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Doha WLL Qatar Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Power Contracting Saudi Arabia Ltd. Saudi Arabia Sales and services 60.0 Guidance Marine Pte Ltd Singapore Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ship Design Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Voyage Pacific Pte Ltd Singapore Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Korea Ltd. South Korea Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Lanka Ltd. Sri Lanka Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Taiwan Ltd. Taiwan Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä-Enpa A.S. Turkey Sales and services 51.0 Wärtsilä Gulf FZE United Arab Emirates Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Hamworthy Middle East (FZE) United Arab Emirates Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä LLC United Arab Emirates Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ships Repairing & Maintenance LLC United Arab Emirates Sales and services 100.0 Transas Middle East DMCEST United Arab Emirates Sales and services 100.0 Other Wärtsilä Australia Pty Ltd. Australia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Burkina Faso Burkina Faso Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Central Africa Ltd. Cameroon Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Egypt Power S.A.E Egypt Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Energy Mauritanie SAU Mauritania Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Central Africa Gabon Gabon Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä West Africa Guinea Guinea Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Eastern Africa S.A. Kenya Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Mauritanie SA Mauritania Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Mocambique LDA Mozambique Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Muscat LLC Oman Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä New Zealand Ltd New Zealand Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Marine & Power Services Nigeria Limited Nigeria Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä PNG Ltd Papua New Guinea Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä West Africa S.A. Senegal Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä South Africa (Pty) Ltd. South Africa Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Tanzania Ltd Tanzania Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Uganda Ltd. Uganda Sales and services 100.0 Non-controlling interests are not significant in the Group's activities and cash flows in individual subsidiaries. The list excludes subsidiaries, which do not have an impact on the profit or assets of the Group. A complete list of shares and securities in accordance with the Finnish Accounting Ordinance is included in the official financial statements of the parent company prepared with the Finnish Accounting Standards (FAS). This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 235 Anchor 35. Events after the balance sheet date On 30 January 2019, Wärtsilä announced plans to realign its operations and resources to secure future profitability and competitiveness. The Group-wide programme emphasises sustainable savings and actions that increase customer value. The planned actions include an increased focus on targeted sales activities, developing the agreements-based and “as-a-service” business, reviewing the cost structure, as well as optimising the business portfolio and organisation. The programme is expected to lead to a reduction of approximately 1,200 employees globally. The reductions will impact all businesses and support functions. With these actions Wärtsilä seeks annual savings of EUR 100 million. Savings are expected to materialise gradually during the second half of 2019, with full effect by the end of 2020. The costs related to the restructuring measures are expected to be EUR 75 million. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 236 Anchor Par Parent ent company financial statements Anchor Parent company income statement (FAS) MEUR 2018 2017 Note Other operating income 80 72 1 Personnel expenses -26 -63 2 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments -4 -4 3 Other operating expenses -104 -91 Operating rresult esult -55 -87 Financial income and expenses 4 Income from financial assets 300 146 Interest income and other financial income 74 41 Exchange gains and losses -1 1 Interest expenses and other financial expenses -77 -38 296 151 Result befor beforee appr appropriations opriations and taxes 241 64 Change in depreciation difference 1 1 Group contribution 76 99 Result befor beforee taxes 318 164 Income taxes -10 -3 5 Result for the financial period 308 161 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 237 Anchor Parent company balance sheet (FAS) MEUR 2018 2017 Note ASSETS Fixed assets 6 Intangible assets Other long-term expenditure 3 6 Construction in progress 8 2 12 8 Tangible assets Land and water 7 7 Buildings and structures 1 Machinery, equipment and other tangible assets 1 2 Construction in progress 6 14 9 Financial assets Shares in Group companies 950 950 Other shares and securities 1 1 951 951 Total fixed assets 976 968 Non-curr Non-currentent rreceivables eceivables Receivables from Group companies 100 104 7 Loan receivables 1 1 101 105 Curr Current ent rreceivables eceivables Receivables from Group companies 2 308 1 786 8 Other receivables 2 2 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 16 35 9 2 327 1 823 Cash and bank balances 291 195 Total curr current ent assets 2 719 2 123 Assets 3 696 3 090 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 238 MEUR 2018 2017 Note EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 10 Share capital 336 336 Share premium reserve 61 61 Retained earnings 730 841 Result for the financial period 308 161 Total equity 1 435 1 399 Accumulated appr appropriations opriations Depreciation difference 1 2 Provisions 15 16 Liabilities 11 Non-curr Non-currentent Loans from credit institutions 741 508 741 508 Curr Current ent Loans from credit institutions 56 75 Loans from pension insurance companies 8 Trade payables 18 10 Liabilities to Group companies 1 327 985 13 Other current liabilities 2 1 Accrued expenses and deferred income 102 85 12 1 504 1 165 Total liabilities 2 245 1 673 Equity and liabilities 3 696 3 090 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 239 Anchor Parent company cash flow statement (FAS) MEUR 2018 2017 Cash flow from operating activities: Result before appropriations and taxes 241 64 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 4 4 Financial income and expenses -296 -151 Cash flow before changes in working capital -51 -82 Changes in working capital: Assets, non-interest-bearing, increase (-) / decrease (+) -28 -9 Liabilities, non-interest-bearing, increase (+) / decrease (-) 23 39 -5 30 Cash flow fr from om operating activities befor beforee financial items and taxes -56 -52 Interest and other financial expenses -78 -37 Dividends received from operating activities 300 146 Interest and other financial income from operating activities 74 41 Income taxes paid -5 -3 291 148 Cash flow fr from om operating activities 235 96 Cash flow fr from om investing activities: Investments in tangible and intangible assets -13 -3 Proceeds from sale of other investments 1 Cash flow fr from om investing activities -13 -2 Cash flow after investing activities 223 93 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 240 Cash flow fr from om financing activities: Loans receivables, increase (-) / decrease (+) -492 270 Current loans, increase (+) / decrease (-) 344 -242 Proceeds from non-current borrowing 280 90 Repayments and other changes of non-current loans -84 -99 Group contributions 99 34 Dividends paid -272 -256 Cash flow fr from om financing activities -126 -203 Change in cash and bank balances, incrincrease ease (-) decrease ease (+) / decr 96 -110 Cash and bank at beginning of period 195 304 Cash and bank at end of period 291 195 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 241 Anchor Accounting principles for the par parent ent company The financial statements of the parent company, Wärtsilä Corporation, have been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Finnish Accounting Standards (FAS). The preparation of the financial statements requires management, in compliance with the regulations in force and good accounting practice, to make estimates and assumptions that affect the measurement and timing of the reported information. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Transactions denominated in for foreign eign curr currencies encies and derivatives Business transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the transaction date. Receivables and payables on the balance sheet date are valued at the exchange rates prevailing on that date. Exchange gains and losses related to business operations are treated as adjustments to other operating income and operating expenses. Exchange gains and losses related to financing operations are entered under financial income and expenses. Derivatives are measured at fair value. Open currency derivatives, including interest components, are valued at the balance sheet date. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated by discounting the future cash flows. Derivative changes in fair value are immediately recognised in financial income or expenses in the statement of income. Resear Research ch and development costs Research and development costs are expensed in the financial period in which they occur. Receivables Receivables are valued to acquisition cost or to a lower probable value. Fixed assets and depr depreciation eciation and amortisation Fixed assets are valued in the balance sheet at their direct acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and amortisastion. Certain land areas also include revaluations. Depreciation and amortisation is based on the following useful lives: Other long-term expenditure 3-10 years Buildings 20-40 years Machinery and equipment 5-20 years Leasing Lease payments are treated as rentals. Pr Provisions ovisions Provisions in the balance sheet comprise those items which the company is committed to covering either through agreements or otherwise, but which are not yet realised. Changes to provisions are included in the income statement. Income taxes Income taxes in the income statement include taxes calculated for the financial year based on Finnish tax provisions, as well as adjustments to taxes in prior years. Taxes allocated to extraordinary items are shown in the notes to the financial statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 242 Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors are not recorded in the financial statements until they have been approved by the Annual General Meeting. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 243 Anchor Notes to the par parent ent company financial statements Anchor 1. Other operating income MEUR 2018 2017 Rental income 1 1 Services to Group companies 78 71 Other 1 1 Total 80 72 Anchor 2. Personnel expenses MEUR 2018 2017 Wages and salaries -19 -57 Pension costs -5 -5 Other compulsory personnel costs -1 -1 Total 26 -63 Salaries and remunerations paid to senior management The President and CEO and his deputy and members of the Board of Directors -5 -3 The President and CEO has the right to retire at the age of 63 years. The members of the Board of Management are entitled to retire on reaching the statutory retirement age. One member of the Board of Management is entitled to retire earlier, on reaching 60 years of age. The company's Board of Directors decides the remunerations of the President and CEO and his immediate subordinates. Additional information about Management remuneration can be found in Consolidated Financial Statements Note 30. Personnel on average during the year 371 324 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 244 Anchor 3. Depreciation and amortisation MEUR 2018 2017 Depr Depreciation eciation and amortisation accor according ding to plan Other long-term expenditure -3 -4 Total depreciation according to plan -3 -4 Impairment losses on non-current assets -1 Tax depreciations -4 -4 Depreciation difference 1 1 Depr Depreciation eciation dif differ ference ence Depreciation difference on 1 January 2 2 Change in the depreciation difference -1 -1 Depreciation Depr eciation dif ference differ ence on 31 December 1 2 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 245 Anchor 4. Financial income and expenses MEUR 2018 2017 Dividend income From Group companies 300 146 Total 300 146 Other interest income From Group companies 28 22 From other companies 1 1 Total 29 22 Other financial income From Group companies 24 10 From other companies 20 9 Total 45 19 Exchange gains and losses -1 1 Interest expenses To Group companies -6 -5 To other companies -9 -8 Total -14 -13 Other financial expenses To Group companies -21 -10 To other companies -42 -15 Total -62 -25 Financial income and expenses, total 296 151 Anchor 5. Income taxes MEUR 2018 2017 Income taxes For the financial period -4 -3 For prior financial periods -6 Total -10 -3 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 246 Anchor 6. Fixed assets Intangible assets Other long-term Construction Total Total MEUR expenditures in progress 2018 2017 Acquisition cost at January 1 121 2 123 122 Additions 1 6 7 3 Disposals -5 -5 -1 Acquisition cost at December 31 117 8 125 123 Accumulated amortisation at January 1 -115 -115 -113 Accumulated amortisation on disposals and other changes 5 5 1 Amortisation during the financial period -3 3 -4 Accumulated amortisation at December 31 -113 -113 -115 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 3 8 12 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 6 2 8 Tangible assets Machinery, Land Buildings equipment and and and other tangible Construction Total Total MEUR water structures assets in progress 2018 2017 Acquisition cost at January 1 7 2 4 13 13 Additions 6 6 1 Disposals -2 -3 Acquisition cost at December 31 7 2 2 6 17 13 Accumulated depreciation at January 1 -2 -3 -5 -4 Accumulated amortisation on disposals and other changes 2 3 Impairment losses on non-current assets -1 Accumulated depr depreciation eciation at December 31 -2 -1 -3 -5 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 7 1 6 14 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 7 1 2 9 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 247 Shar Shareses and securities Shares in Shares in Group other Total Total MEUR companies companies 2018 2017 Acquisition cost at January 1 950 1 951 951 Disposals -1 Acquisition cost at December 31 950 1 951 951 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 950 1 951 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 950 1 951 Anchor 7. Non-current receivables MEUR 2018 2017 Receivables frfrom om Gr Group oup companies Loan receivables 100 104 Total 100 104 Anchor 8. Current receivables from Group companies MEUR 2018 2017 Trade receivables 16 6 Loan receivables 2 153 1 657 Derivatives 54 19 Other receivables 76 99 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 10 4 Total 2 308 1 786 Anchor 9. Prepaid expenses and accrued income MEUR 2018 2017 Derivatives 12 32 Other financial items 1 Insurance receivables 1 Other 4 3 Total 16 35 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 248 Anchor 10. Shareholders' equity MEUR 2018 2017 Shar Sharee capital Share capital on January 1 336 336 Share capital on December 31 336 336 Shar Sharee pr premium emium rreserve eserve Share premium reserve on January 1 61 61 Share premium reserve on December 31 61 61 Retained ear earnings nings Retained earnings on January 1 1 002 1 097 Dividends paid -272 -256 Result for the financial period 308 161 Retained earnings on December 31 1 038 1 002 Total shareholders' equity 1 435 1 399 Distributable equity 1 038 1 002 Free share issue approved by Wärtsilä Corporation’s Annual General Meeting on 8 March 2018 increased the total number of Wärtsilä shares to 591 723 390. Anchor 11. Liabilities MEUR 2018 2017 Non-curr Non-current ent Interest-bearing 741 508 Total 741 508 Curr Current ent Non-interest-bearing 155 133 Interest-bearing 1 349 1 032 Total 1 504 1 165 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 249 Debt with maturity prprofile ofile 2018 Current Long-term MEUR <1 year 1-5 years >5 years Total Loans from financial institutions 56 491 250 797 Total 56 491 250 797 2017 Current Long-term MEUR <1 year 1-5 years >5 years Total Loans from financial institutions 75 342 166 583 Loans from pension institutions 8 8 Total 83 342 166 591 Anchor 12. Accrued expenses and deferred income MEUR 2018 2017 Income and other taxes 5 Derivatives 79 45 Personnel costs 11 35 Interest and other financial items 3 3 Other 5 4 Total 102 85 Anchor 13. Liabilities to Group companies MEUR 2018 2017 Trade payables 9 3 Other current liabilities 1 293 950 Derivatives 24 29 Accrued expenses and deferred income 2 3 Total 1 327 985 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 250 Anchor 14. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category 2018 Carrying At fair amounts value of the Measured through statement at the of financial amortised statement position Fair MEUR cost of income items value Non-curr Non-current ent financial assets Interest-bearing receivables from Group companies 100 100 100 Other receivables 1 1 1 Curr Current ent financial assets Interest-bearing receivables from Group companies 2 153 2 153 2 153 Trade receivables from Group companies 16 16 16 Derivatives 12 12 12 Derivatives from Group companies 54 54 54 Other receivables from Group companies 8 8 8 Cash equivalents 5 5 5 Cash and bank 286 286 286 Carrying amount by category 2 569 65 2 635 2 635 Non-curr Non-current ent financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 741 741 747 Curr Current ent financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 56 56 56 Interest-bearing debt to Group companies 1 293 1 293 1 293 Trade payables 18 18 18 Trade payables to Group companies 9 9 9 Derivatives 79 79 79 Derivatives to Group companies 24 24 24 Other liabilities 3 3 3 Carrying amount by category 2 120 103 2 223 2 229 Information about the fair value hierarchy and valuation principle can be found in Consolidated Financial Statements Note 16. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 251 2017 Carrying At fair amounts value of the Measured through statement at the of financial amortised statement position Fair MEUR cost of income items value Non-curr Non-current ent financial assets Interest-bearing receivables from Group companies 103 103 103 Other receivables 1 1 1 Curr Current ent financial assets Interest-bearing receivables from Group companies 1 657 1 657 1 657 Trade receivables from Group companies 6 6 6 Derivatives 32 32 32 Derivatives from Group companies 19 19 19 Other receivables 2 2 2 Other receivables from Group companies 3 3 3 Cash equivalents 16 16 16 Cash and bank 179 179 179 Carrying amount by category 1 969 51 2 019 2 019 Non-curr Non-current ent financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 508 508 515 Curr Current ent financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 83 83 83 Interest-bearing debt to Group companies 950 950 950 Trade payables 10 10 10 Trade payables to Group companies 3 3 3 Derivatives 45 45 45 Derivatives to Group companies 29 29 29 Other liabilities 3 3 3 Other liabilities from Group companies 1 1 1 Carrying amount by category 1 557 74 1 631 1 639 Information about the fair value hierarchy and valuation principle can be found in Consolidated Financial Statements Note 16. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 252 Anchor 15. Derivative financial instruments With external financial With Group MEUR institutions companies Total 2018 Nominal values of derivative financial instruments Currency forwards, transaction risk 2 821 2 799 5 620 Interest rate swaps 270 270 Cross currency swaps 238 238 6 128 Fair values of derivative financial instruments (level 2) Currency forwards, transaction risk -55 30 -25 Interest rate swaps -4 -4 Cross currency swaps -8 -8 Total -37 With external financial With Group MEUR institutions companies Total 2017 Nominal values of derivative financial instruments Currency forwards, transaction risk 1 927 1 707 3 635 Interest rate swaps 165 165 Cross currency swaps 74 74 3 874 Fair values of derivative financial instruments (level 2) Currency forwards, transaction risk 6 -10 -4 Interest rate swaps -2 -2 Cross currency swaps -17 -17 Total -23 Foreign currency forward contracts are against transactional risks and are matched against the hedged cashflows. Interest rate swaps are denominated in euros and their average interest-bearing period is 48 (18) months. The average maturity for cross currency swaps is 29 (40) months. Anchor 16. Financial risks General Wärtsilä has a centralised Group Treasury with two main objectives: 1) to arrange adequate funding for the Group’s underlying operations on competitive terms and 2) to identify and evaluate the financial risks within the Group and implement the hedges for the Group companies. The Group Treasury is organisationally within the Parent Company. The details about the management of the Group's financial risks are in Note 31 of the Consolidated Financial statements. As the Group's liquidity and interest rate risks are managed at the parent company level the group reporting applies fully to the Parent Company. For Foreign eign exchange risk Operative foreign currency risks are followed and hedged at the subsidiary level. The Group Treasury acts as a counterparty to these hedges, if that is allowed by local regulations. To enable netting of intragroup currency flows and to reduce the amount of external transactions the Group Treasury This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 253 is allowed to have minor unhedged exposures in different currencies. Any gains/losses from the Group Treasury's operations are booked directly into the financial items and we do not expect any material foreign exchange gains/losses from the Group Treasury's operations. Anchor 17. Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments MEUR 2018 2017 Guarantees and contingent liabilities On behalf of Group companies 3 215 2 902 Total 3 215 2 902 Futur Futuree nominal lease payments Payable within one year 4 3 Payable after one year 32 36 Total 36 39 Anchor 18. Related party loans and other commitments There are no loans receivables from senior management and the members of the Board of Directors. No pledges or other commitments were given on behalf of senior management or shareholders. In Note 30 in Consolidated Financial Statements, related party disclosures are specified. Related parties comprise the Board of Directors, the President and CEO, the Board of Management as well as the associated companies and joint ventures. In Notes 8 and 13 in Parent Company financial statement, receivables and liabilities from Group companies are specified. Anchor 19. Auditors' fees and services The following fees were paid to auditors and accounting firms for audits and other services. In 2018, the AGM appointed the audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy as Wärtsilä Corporation's auditor. Auditors' fees TEUR 2018 2017 Audit 524 399 Other services 6 85 Total 528 484 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 254 Anchor Pr Proposal oposal of the Boar Board d The parent company’s distributable funds total EUR 1,037,972,039.58, which includes EUR 308,072,530.42 in net profit for the year. There are 591,723,390 shares with dividend rights. The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that the company’s distributable earnings be disposed of in the following way: EUR A dividend of EUR 0.48 per share be paid, making a total of 284 027 227.20 That the following sum be retained in shareholders’ equity 753 944 812.38 Totalling 1 037 972 039.58 The dividend shall be paid in two instalments. The first instalment of EUR 0.24 per share shall be paid to the shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the dividend record date of 11 March 2019. The payment day proposed by the Board for this instalment is 18 March 2019. The second instalment of EUR 0.24 per share shall be paid in September 2019. The second instalment of the dividend shall be paid to shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the dividend record day, which, together with the payment day, shall be decided by the Board of Directors in its meeting scheduled for 18 September 2019. The dividend record day for the second instalment as per the current rules of the Finnish book-entry system would be 20 September 2019 and the dividend payment day 27 September 2019. No significant changes have taken place in the company’s financial position since the end of the financial year. The company’s liquidity is good and in the opinion of the Board of Directors the proposed dividend will not put the company’s solvency at risk. Helsinki, Finland, 29 January 2019 Mikael Lilius Tom Johnstone Maarit Aarni-Sirviö Kaj-Gustaf Bergh Karin Falk Johan Forssell Risto Murto Markus Rauramo Jaakko Eskola, President and CEO This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 255 Anchor To the Annual General Meeting of Wärtsilä Corporation Auditor’ Auditor’ss Report (T (Translation ranslation of the Finnish Original) Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements Opinion In our opinion • the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the group’s financial position and financial performance and cash flows in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the parent company’s financial performance and financial position in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements in Finland and comply with statutory requirements. Our opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee. What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Wärtsilä Corporation (business identity code 0128631-1) for the year ended 31 December 2018. The financial statements comprise: • the consolidated balance sheet, income statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, statement of cash flows and notes, including a summary of significant accounting policies • the parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, statement of cash flows and notes. Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Our responsibilities under good auditing practice are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Independence We are independent of the parent company and of the group companies in accordance with the ethical requirements that are applicable in Finland and are relevant to our audit, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. To the best of our knowledge and belief, the non-audit services that we have provided to the parent company and to the group companies are in accordance with the applicable law and regulations in Finland and we have not provided non-audit services that are prohibited under Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014. The non-audit services that we have provided are disclosed in note 32 to the Financial Statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 256 Our Audit Appr Approach oach Overview • We have applied an overall group materiality of € 25 million. • The group audit scope included Wärtsilä Corporation parent company and all significant operating companies, as well as a large number of smaller companies, covering the vast majority of revenues, assets and liabilities. • Revenue recognition of long-term contracts • Valuation of goodwill • Business combinations • Valuation of trade receivables As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where management made subjective judgements; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements on the financial statements as a whole. Overall group materiality € 25 million How we determined it 5 % of profit before tax Rationale for the materiality benchmark applied We chose profit before tax as the benchmark because, in our view, the performance of the Group is most commonly measured by using this criteria, and it is a generally accepted benchmark. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 257 How we tailor tailored ed our gr group oup audit scope The group audit scope was tailored to take into account the structure of the Group and the size, complexity and risk of individual subsidiaries. Using this criteria we selected companies and accounts into our audit scope and at the same time ensured that we get sufficient coverage to our audit, in order to issue an audit opinion for the Group. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. Key audit matter in the audit of the gr group oup How our audit addr addressed essed the key audit matter Revenue recognition of long-term contracts Refer to accounting policies for the Our revenue testing included both testing of the consolidated financial statements and notes 1 company’s controls, as well as substantive audit and 4. procedures targeted at selected major long-term projects. The group has significant revenue from Our substantive testing focused on estimates applied by construction contracts and long-term management in the accounting. operating and maintenance agreements. Our procedures included, among others things, the These long-term contracts are often complex following: customised solutions and meet the definition • Ensured that the revenue recognition method applied for revenue recognition over time in was appropriate based on the terms of the accordance with IFRS 15. arrangement; Revenue related to these construction • Agreed the total project revenue estimates to sales contracts and long-term operating and agreements, including amendments as appropriate; maintenance agreements is recognised using • We obtained an understanding of the processes and the percentage of completion method, where tested relevant controls, which impact the revenue progress is determined by comparing actual recognition; costs incurred to date, with the total estimated costs of the project. Revenue recognition for • We assessed the reliability of management’s estimates long-term contracts includes management by comparing the actual results of delivered projects to judgment in a form of estimates, which are previous estimates; subject to management experience and • We challenged the management estimates and expectations of future events. The most assumptions in projects, which were considered to important judgment relates to the estimated include specific risk factors; and total costs of the project. • Recalculated the revenue based on the stage of Revenue recognition of long-term contracts is completion of the projects. Ensured that the stage of a key audit matter in the audit due to the high completion is correct by comparing actual costs per the level of management judgement involved in the company’s accounting records to the estimated total project estimates. costs of the projects. Valuation of goodwill Refer to accounting policies for the Our audit focused on assessing the reasonableness of the consolidated financial statements and note 13. determination of cash generating units, which forms the basis for the goodwill impairment testing and assessing This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 258 Goodwill is one of the most significant balance the appropriateness of management’s judgments and sheet items and amounts to € 1 355 million. estimates used in the goodwill impairment analysis. Our The determination and whether an impairment procedures relating to the impairment analysis included the charge is required involves significant following: management judgement, including identifying • We tested the methodology applied in the goodwill on which cash generating unit level the impairment analysis as compared to the requirements goodwill is tested and estimating the future of IAS 36, Impairment of Assets; performance of the business and the discount • We evaluated the process by which the future cash flow rate applied to these future cash flows. forecasts were drawn up, including comparing them to Valuation of goodwill is a key audit matter in the latest Board approved targets and long term plans; the audit due to the size of the goodwill • We tested the key underlying assumptions for the cash balance and the high level of management flow forecasts, including sales and profitability forecasts, judgement involved. discount rate used and the implied growth rates beyond the forecasted period; • We compared the current year actual results included in the prior year impairment model to consider whether forecasts included assumptions that, with hindsight, had been optimistic; and • We considered whether the sensitivity analysis performed by the management around key assumptions of the cash flow forecast was appropriate by considering the likelihood of the movements of these key assumptions. Business combinations Refer to accounting policies for the For the intangible assets, we assessed the methodology consolidated financial statements and note 2. adopted by management for calculating the fair value of During 2018 Wärtsilä acquired Transas in the technology, customer relationships and trademark related UK for a total consideration of € 183 million. assets. We also audited the key assumptions in the The acquisition is accounted for as a business valuation model, particularly in respect of the: combination (IFRS 3) and includes a number of • cash flow forecasts used in the valuation process; significant and complex judgments in the • royalty rates assumed for the acquired technology and determination of the fair value of the assets trademark; and liabilities acquired. • assumed useful lives of the recognized intangible The primary element of the valuation and assets; and purchase price allocation process was to assess the fair value of intangible assets (€ 55 • discount rate applied in the fair valuations. million) in the form of technology, customer relationships and trademarks. Resulting goodwill amounted to € 113 million. The allocation also considered other assets and liabilities. The purchase price allocation is reported as preliminary in the consolidated financial statements. Business combinations is a key audit matter in the audit due to the high level of management judgement used in determining the fair value for the net assets acquired. Valuation of trade receivables This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 259 Refer to accounting policies for the For trade receivables and the management’s estimations consolidated financial statements and notes for trade receivables impairment provision, our key audit 16 and 31. procedures included the following: Net trade receivables amount to € 1 271 • We obtained trade receivables balance confirmations; million, including an impairment provision of € • We analysed the aging of trade receivables; and 62 million. The trade receivables include € 49 • We obtained a list of long outstanding receivables and million long-term trade receivables. assessed the recoverability of these through inquiry with Trade receivables are recognised at their management and by obtaining sufficient corroborative anticipated realisable value, which is the evidence to support the conclusions. original invoiced amount less an estimated valuation allowance. Valuation of trade receivables is a key audit matter in the audit due to the size of the trade receivable balance and the high level of management judgement used in determining the impairment provision. We have no key audit matters to report with respect to our audit of the parent company financial statements. There are no significant risks of material misstatement referred to in Article 10(2c) of Regulation (EU) No 537/ 2014 with respect to the consolidated financial statements or the parent company financial statements. Responsibilities of the Boar Board ectors and the Managing Dir Directors d of Dir Director ector for the Financial Statements The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, and of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of financial statements in Finland and comply with statutory requirements. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for assessing the parent company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The financial statements are prepared using the going concern basis of accounting unless there is an intention to liquidate the parent company or the group or to cease operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’ Auditor’ss Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with good auditing practice will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with good auditing practice, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 260 • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the parent company’s or the group’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the parent company’s or the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the parent company or the group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events so that the financial statements give a true and fair view. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Other Reporting Requir Requirements ements Appointment We were first appointed as auditors by the annual general meeting on 2 March 2017. Our appointment represents a total period of uninterrupted engagement of two years. Other Information The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the report of the Board of Directors and the information included in the Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. With respect to the report of the Board of Directors, our responsibility also includes considering whether the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018. Wärtsilä Corporation Annual Report 2018 Financial review 261 In our opinion • the information in the report of the Board of Directors is consistent with the information in the financial statements • the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Other Statements We support that the financial statements should be adopted. The proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the use of the distributable funds is in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support that the Members of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO should be discharged from liability for the financial period audited by us. Helsinki 29 January 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Authorised Public Accountants Merja Lindh Authorised Public Accountant (KHT) This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2018.
