2018 Sustainable Business Report INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX About Scotiabank Scotiabank is Canada’s international bank and a leading financial services provider in the Americas. We are dedicated to helping our more than 25 million customers become better off through a broad range of advice, products and services, including personal and commercial banking, wealth management and private banking, corporate and investment banking, and capital markets. With a team of more than 97,000 employees and assets of CAD$998 billion (as at October 31, 2018), Scotiabank trades on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: BNS) and New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: BNS). For more information, please visit www.scotiabank.com and follow us on Twitter @ScotiabankViews. Our Strategic Agenda Our long-term strategic agenda includes five focus priorities: • Increase customer focus • Enhance leadership depth, diversity and deployment • Better serve our customers while enhancing enterprise productivity • Drive a digital transformation • Align our business mix with deeper customer relationships For more information on the above please visit our website www.scotiabank.com or our 2018 Annual Report. 1 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX About This Report Scotiabank’s 2018 annual Sustainable Business Report Companion Documents shares our performance and achievements related to The following documents are companion pieces to the environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors Sustainable Business report: and outlines how we engage with our stakeholders. We continue to evolve our approach in line with our stakeholders’ expectations. This year’s Sustainable Business Report focuses on priority ESG topics that Scotiabank and our stakeholders consider to be most important to the Bank, providing highlights of our progress in 2018 on our Sustainable Business priorities. Scotiabank has used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2018 GRI Index and Task Force on framework for sustainability reporting since 2005. This UNGC Communication Climate-related Financial report is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards, on Progress Disclosures (TCFD) fulfilling the requirements of a Core report. Scotiabank reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. This report also constitutes our UNGC Communication on Progress and describes the actions we are taking to integrate the Ten Principles into our business strategy, culture and operations. Fundamental to this commitment is our global Human Rights Statement and approach. 2018 Annual Report 2018 Management Proxy Circular www.scotiabank.com/csr Scope of Reporting The scope of reporting for this Sustainable Business Report and associated GRI Index includes information for the Fiscal Year 2018, from November 1, 2017, through October 31, 2018, for Scotiabank and its fully owned or major operating subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. The 2017 Employment Equity Public Accountability report provides an overview of our priorities and selected Report – Canada Statement (PAS) – Canada initiatives for our fiscal year 2018. Table of Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Sustainable Business. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Contents Trust. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Climate Change . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 Economic Inclusion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 Young People . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63 Appendix. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75 UNGC Communication on Progress. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78 GRI Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX A Conversation With Our President and CEO We sat down with our President and CEO, Brian Porter, to get his views on Scotiabank’s 2018 Sustainable Business Report. Q In your view, what is the role that banks play in society? A I believe Scotiabank is an important part of the economic and social fabric of the communities in which we live and work. That means giving our 25 million customers a great banking experience and delivering for our shareholders. It also means making a positive and lasting difference for people across our footprint. The Bank has been giving back to our communities for almost 200 years – our employees should be very proud of that. Q Why is Trust one of the pillars of our Sustainable Business Report? A There is no question about the necessity of trust in our business. Trust is one of the most important assets we have – we will never take it for granted. We protect and maintain our customers‘ trust by acting ethically in everything that we do. Supporting our communities is another way that we demonstrate our values and maintain trust. By investing in our employees to prepare for a digital future, by partnering with communities and supporting young people, and by helping our customers reach their financial goals, we are reinforcing our role as a force for good in society. Q Building on this foundation of Trust, how do our other sustainable A Our four sustainability priorities complement our focus on building a better bank over the longer term. Economic inclusion is critical and multifaceted. It includes access to banking business priorities support the and financial services, as well as education about their finances. Economic Bank’s Strategic Agenda? inclusion is also about diversity – inside and outside the Bank. For example, we aspire to be the go-to bank for female business leaders. To that end, we 3 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX A Conversation With Our President and CEO recently launched the Scotiabank Women Initiative, which provides female business leaders with access to capital, mentorship and education. Internally, we are working to create an inclusive culture to ensure that our current and future leadership team reflects our customers and employees. Last year we refocused the Scotiabank Inclusion Council, which I am very proud to chair. Supporting economic inclusion is helping us grow and establish a more diversified and resilient customer base and a more engaged workforce. Assessing and managing the negative effects of climate change are also critical. We have been reporting annually to the CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project) since 2004 and have started to implement the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in this report and in our 2018 Annual Report. I should also note that in 2018, we financed more than $8.5 billion to the renewable energy sector, up from $4.7 billion in 2017. The Bank is proud to work with many philanthropic partners that do tremendous work for young people in our communities. Our approach to supporting young people is focused on removing barriers to success, supporting programs that help build confidence and character, and initiatives that encourage young people to be leaders professionally and in their own communities. In 2018, Scotiabankers contributed more than 371,000 hours of volunteering and fundraising time in their respective communities and the Bank invested $80 million in community organizations through donations, sponsorships and other forms of assistance. Of that, 70% was focused on our commitment to supporting young people. I believe Scotiabank is an important part of the economic and social fabric of the communities in which we live and work. Q What do you want readers to take away from the Bank’s Sustainable A Firstly, I want readers to know that we are committed to being a force for good in the communities in which we live and work. It’s a responsibility that we take seriously, and we look forward to sharing our progress. Secondly, I want our customers to know that we deeply value Business Report? their trust and will never take it for granted. And finally, I want to thank our employees for their commitment to the Bank and our customers. 4 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX A Conversation with the Chairman of the Board Our Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary and Chief Corporate Governance Officer, Julie Walsh, sat down with the Chairman of Scotiabank’s Board of Directors, Thomas C. O’Neill, to discuss the evolution of CSR to Sustainable Business. Q Tom, you have served as Chairman of the Board at Scotiabank for the past A I am very proud of our culture. A core component of that culture is how the Bank has continuously focused on building the trust of our customers. As directors, our fiduciary responsibilities speak directly to protecting our customers’ interests. Our customers need to know and believe four years. What are you most that protecting their interests and valuing the trust they have put in us is proud of? a continuous focus. That focus involves offering an exceptional experience, protecting data and respecting privacy, and ensuring we are delivering value-added products and services that help customers build their future prosperity. Maintaining our customers’ trust also involves actively demonstrating how we create value for society and the communities where we operate. I’m proud of how our Bank has significantly improved in how we listen to our customers, which has been key to our success and will only intensify going forward. I am very proud of our culture. A core component of that culture is how the Bank has continuously focused on building the trust of our customers. Q How have you seen the importance of environment, social and A I think the Bank has long been a leader in corporate governance practices. But our focus on notable environmental and social issues has deepened considerably over the last few years. Both the Bank and our stakeholders have an increasingly sophisticated view of how ESG issues can governance (ESG) issues both support the Bank’s purpose, and how and where they may present risks. evolve? ESG issues are highly complex and interconnected and require a strategic and 5 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX A Conversation with the Chairman of the Board multi-disciplinary approach in their management. We welcome continued and constructive engagement from investors and other stakeholders so that together we can tackle issues like climate change and human rights. We must continue to leverage our core competencies as an international financial institution to help create solutions to some of the world’s most difficult challenges. Q How should Scotiabank prepare for the next phase of its sustainability A We have made great progress and continue to evolve our governance and sustainability practices to reflect best-in-class standards. How our customers bank is always changing, and the role of financial institutions is evolving in exciting ways, presenting tremendous opportunities for us. Our goal journey? is to be a leader in demonstrating the positive impact that banks can have while serving our shareholders over the long term. To deliver on this, responsibility starts at the top, with the Board of Directors and through the CEO and his management team, and we must ensure we are creating a diverse culture for employees to thrive, innovate and work together now, and in the future. I am privileged to be a part of Scotiabank’s 186-year journey, and am proud of our employees and customers for making Scotiabank the leading bank we are today. 6 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Sustainable Business We believe banking is a calling. Financial services support economic progress, allow people to pursue ambitions and create more widespread future opportunities. We deliver on this through our focus on Sustainable Business. Commitment to Sustainable Business As part of our commitment to sustainable business initiatives, we are supporters, signatories or members of the following: * *Scotia Global Asset Management, MD Financial Management and Jarislowsky, Fraser Limited are signatories of PRI INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Sustainable Development Goals The 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) collectively create an agenda to transform the world by overcoming barriers to economic, social and environmental progress by 2030. As an international bank, our activities have the potential to connect and influence many of the SDGs. Of the 17 SDGs, we identified six in which we can make the most progress. Poverty can manifest in several ways – f rom social exclusion to a lack of participation in decision-making. Banks can help fight poverty by developing specialized products and services for vulnerable groups, supporting young people to become leaders in their communities and combatting financial crime. Ensuring healthy lives at all ages is essential  to sustainable development. Banks can support health and well-being by ensuring employees and their families lead healthy and balanced lives, and by supporting community programs focused on mental and physical health, especially for young people. Quality education provides an important foundation for sustainable development. When people are better informed, they can make better decisions for themselves, their families and the communities around them. Banks can leverage their core competencies in finance to promote financial knowledge and education, reaching out to customers Providing women and girls with equal access directly and through partnerships with to education, decent work and representation academic institutions. in political and economic decision-making benefits societies and humanity at large. Banks can play a direct role by actively fostering a culture of inclusivity, removing barriers for women in the workplace, and supporting businesses that champion gender Sustainable economic growth requires people equality with banking products and services. to have quality jobs that stimulate the economy without harming the environment. Banks can support economic growth by increasing access to financial services that help lead to productive investments, and by investing in employees to help them prepare for the digital economy. Climate change is affecting every country on every continent. Banks can fight climate change by financing solutions to a sustainable future. Learn more about the UN Sustainable Development Goals: un.org/sustainabledevelopment/ 8 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Value Chain and Impacts Scotiabank seeks to create economic, social and environmental value for our stakeholders through our business. As a leading financial services provider with more than 97,000 employees and 25 million customers worldwide, we seek to conduct business in a way that enables all of our various stakeholders to create the future they want. Here are some of the ways in which we created value in 2018. 97,000+ EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE Employee Value CAD$73.9 million invested in training & development Salaries and beneﬁts CAD$7.45 billion Shareholder Value Environmental Value Return on Equity 8.87% reduction 14.9% in Scope 1 and 2 emissions globally Dividends CAD$4 billion Sustainable 15,000 Business SUPPLIERS GLOBALLY Supplier Value Customer Value Supplier relationships 25 million range from local providers customers globally to large multinational Digital Adoption organizations 33% Community Value CAD$80 million Contributed to the community in donations, sponsorships and other forms of assistance Taxes Paid CAD$3.7 billion 9 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Our Sustainable Business Strategy We believe that the long-term success of our Bank and the world around us are fundamentally intertwined. By paying careful attention to the areas where we feel we can have the biggest impact – Trust, Climate Change, Economic Inclusion and Young People – we create economic, social and environmental value for our customers, employees, communities and our planet, while also delivering returns for our shareholders. TRUST CLIMATE ECONOMIC YOUNG CHANGE INCLUSION PEOPLE SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS FOR THE FUTURE Our Priorities TRUST ECONOMIC INCLUSION Building and enhancing trust by acting with Enabling economic inclusion for our customers integrity in everything that we do and employees CLIMATE CHANGE YOUNG PEOPLE Supporting the transition to a low-carbon Supporting young people in the community economy with resources to shape their future 10 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Material ESG Topics and Stakeholder Engagement Our Material ESG Topics We strive to ensure we are addressing the ESG topics that matter most to our business and to our stakeholders, and on which we stand to make the greatest positive impact (our material ESG topics). In 2017, we worked with an external party to complete a stakeholder engagement process and materiality assessment using a dedicated digital platform in which stakeholders were asked to rank the importance of ESG topics. Responses were collected globally from employees, customers, investors, government, non-government organizations (NGOs), philanthropic partners and academic partners. Our material topics helped to inform the shaping of our Corporate Social Responsibility strategy, which included seven priorities. In 2018, we decided to refine these even further, to ensure we have a focused approach. In 2018, through dialogue with senior management and external partners, we evolved the name of our strategy from Corporate Social Responsibility to Sustainable Business to reflect how ESG is both incorporated into the core of our business and also supports our long-term longevity. In addition, we narrowed our focus to the four priority areas we felt Scotiabank could have the biggest impact on – Trust, Climate Change, Economic Inclusion and Young People. We have mapped our previous material topics to these refined priorities. We plan to complete a thorough stakeholder engagement exercise and update of our material topics in 2019. Priority Description Material ESG Topics Customers entrust us with their livelihood when they • Governance of operations do business with us – so they expect us to act legally, • Corporate structure ethically and with integrity – and rightly so. We lead with trust and adhere to strict corporate governance • Transparency of operations practices that let us respond to the diverse challenges, and services opportunities and interests facing our Bank. • Human rights With every decision we make – whether upholding • Fair labor practices human rights, protecting our customers’ money, privacy • Customer service and data or promoting a culture of inclusion – it’s Trust through trust that we lay foundations for the future, • Data privacy and security helping us create and enable greater opportunity and • Fair design and sale of responsible progress for everyone. products and services • Talent attraction, engagement and development • Sustainable/responsible procurement supply chain • Commitment to external sustainability/CSR initiatives 11 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Material ESG Topics and Stakeholder Engagement Priority Description Material ESG Topics Addressing climate change is an essential part of • Environmental footprint creating a sustainable future. As a bank, we can play a (e.g. GHG emissions, paper use) fundamental role in addressing climate change through • Environmental/social risk our core business activities. management in lending Climate By financing sustainable solutions that support the • Creation of products with Change transition to a low-carbon economy, setting an internal environmental benefits price on carbon emissions and factoring climate change-related risks and opportunities into lending and investment decisions, we are helping lay foundations that will sustain us for decades to come. From large increases in global population to widespread • Financial education/literacy use of digital technologies, our world is changing • Innovation/digitization rapidly. In a world where the only constant is change, we must thrive in change. • Financial inclusion/access We believe that building a better, more resilient future • Creation of products with means supporting all of our stakeholders, as our social benefits Economic Inclusion success is intrinsically related to the success of those • Diversity and equal opportunity around us. Whether that means providing access to • Employee health and well-being financial tools and education or supporting employees with a diverse, inclusive workplace where they can grow and succeed, we strive to enable economic inclusion for every customer and employee, providing them with opportunities to build the future. Long-term social and economic prosperity in our • Community investment and communities depends on future generations. When philanthropy young people in the community succeed, families, • Health and well-being and businesses and entire societies are positioned to benefit education of youth for years to come. Young With the right support, children can realize their People potential and unlock a future of sustained success that benefits, them, their family and their entire community. That’s why Scotiabank invests in a range of programs that build young people’s confidence, grow their character, and provide them with resources to shape better communities. 12 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Material ESG Topics and Stakeholder Engagement Listening to our stakeholders and understanding their interests and needs is essential to growing our business and delivering on our Sustainable Business priorities. We engage with stakeholders on ESG and other issues through a variety of methods and channels, both formal and informal, across the various business activities of the Bank. How We Interact With Stakeholders Stakeholder Group Topics of Interest in 2018 How We Interact • Sales practices • Public engagement • Cybersecurity and data privacy • Government and regulator engagement • Investments/financing in the energy • The Pulse (NPS), ongoing customer feedback sector • Office of the Ombudsman; complaint • Sponsorships resolution process Customers • Philanthropic community commitment • Social media • Access to banking • Contact Centre • Problem or complaint resolution • Conference attendance and presentations • Customer Experience improvement opportunities • Professional development and • Online through internal social networking reskilling for a digital future platform “Workplace,” email and intranet • Human rights in the workplace • Town halls and team meetings • Knowledge and tools to enable even • Annual engagement survey Employees greater customer focus • Assessment of benefits used to determine • Diverse and inclusive work most valued environment • Compensation benchmarking • Local community support and volunteerism • Mergers and acquisitions • First ever All-Bank Investor Day ran in • Share performance and valuation February 2018 • Canadian housing and consumer • Management participation in investor Shareholders, indebtedness conferences Investors, • Shareholder calls and one-on-one meetings • Geopolitical and macroeconomic issues Rating Agencies • Digital transformation • Shareholder proposals and enquiries and Research • Taskforce for Climate-related Financial • Annual meeting and quarterly earnings Analysts Disclosures (TCFD) update calls • Human rights and Aboriginal relations • Gender Equality and Equal Pay 13 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Material ESG Topics and Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Group Topics of Interest in 2018 How We Interact • Cybersecurity and data privacy • Dialogue with policy makers and • International trade government officials • Digital transformation of global • Public submissions to government financial sector consultations • Diversity and Inclusion • Contributed to Canadian government Government • Business competitiveness in Canada External Panel on Sustainable Finance interim report • Payments modernization in Canada • Member of joint public-private sector Sustainable Finance Working Group (SFWG) of the Institute of International Finance • Supplier Code of Conduct • Sustainability assessment of • UK Modern Slavery Act and prospective suppliers Suppliers human rights • Third Party Management (TPM) Program • Environmental and social risk • Helping young people thrive • Community partnerships NGOs, • Ensuring youth have access to job • Conferences, events and webinars Community opportunities • Employee volunteerism and corporate Development • Financial literacy and education volunteer days Organizations and Academia • Support to local communities and • Work with Business for Social Responsibility academia (BSR) on human rights • Transparency on ESG risks • Public support of the Financial Global and • Carbon pricing Stability Board’s Secretariat Taskforce for National • Gender equality Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Sustainability • UN SDGs • Participant in UN Global Compact Canada Organizations initiative on gender equality 14 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Our Progress and KPIs Our Progress We have identified targets to help drive continuous improvement for each Sustainable Business priority. TRUST 2017 Performance 2018 Performance 2019 Target Aspiration for each 33% 38% Board of Directors gender diversity gender to be female board members female board members at least 30% Percentage of employees that attest 100% 100% 100% to the Scotiabank Code of Conduct ECONOMIC INCLUSION 2017 Performance 2018 Performance 2019 Target Global: 33% Global: 34% Percentage of women in VP+ roles (Canada: 39% (Canada: 39% Global ≥35% Outside Canada: 20%) Outside Canada: 21%) Increase in access to banking for Aboriginal communities +7% +10% +10% (year-over-year; by customers; Canada) Total small business loans +9.2% +11.4% +15% (year-over-year growth; Canada) 79% 79% ≥ Financial Services Employee engagement score +5 points higher than +4 points higher than (global) norm Financial Services norm Financial Services norm CLIMATE CHANGE 2017 Performance 2018 Performance 2019 Target Decrease in Scope 1 and 2 10% reduction GHG emissions 7.74% reduction 8.87% reduction by 2021 (global, from 2016 baseline) (based on 2016 levels) Internal Carbon Price $15 $15 Maintain at $15 (CAD$ per tonne CO2e) YOUNG PEOPLE 2017 Performance 2018 Performance 2019 Target 60% 70% 70% Percentage of total young people young people young people community investment in the community in the community in the community to support young people 40% 30% 30% foundational giving foundational giving foundational giving 15 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Our Progress and KPIs 2018 Performance In addition to the above targets, we have a number of Key Performance Indicators that are used to measure and manage our progress. TRUST 2017 2018 • Included in DJSI North American Index Inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Not met • Top 1% of global financial Index (DJSI) North America institutions for corporate governance practices Customer Experience – Total number of Approximately 200,000 Approximately 430,000 follow-up calls made to retail customers Employee turnover rate (global)1,2 13% 16% ECONOMIC INCLUSION 2017 2018 Total number of Scotiabank Peru customers with Billatera Movil (BIM) 90,000 104,000 product (enabling mobile banking free from cell and data charges)3 Total number of new Colpatria “Zero-Fee” accounts opened in Colombia (increasing +366,897 +403,612 access to banking) Percentage of women in executive positions (1-2 reporting lines from the 32% 35% CEO, global) Overall % of employees with disabilities 3.8% (2016) 3.7% (2017) (Canada) 4,5 Overall % of visible minority employees 28.4% (2016) 26.7% (2017) (Canada) 4,5 Overall % of Aboriginal people employees 1.2% (2016) 1.1% (2017) (Canada) 4,5 16 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Our Progress and KPIs Total invested in employee training and $69.9 million $73.9 million career development (CAD$) Average number of training hours per 25 33 employee6 CLIMATE CHANGE 2017 2018 Total financed in renewable energy sector $4.7 billion $8.5 billion (CAD$, global) Total GHG globally (tonnes of CO2e) 7 140,191 145,486 Scope 1 13,950 13,476 Scope 2 108,181 111,990 Scope 3 18,060 20,020 YOUNG PEOPLE 2017 2018 Total invested in the community through donations, sponsorships and other forms $80 million $80 million of assistance (CAD$, global) Total number of hours volunteered by 403,500 371,000 employees (global) 8 1 Excludes casual staff, and affiliates and subsidiaries where breakdowns are not available due to different reporting systems. 2 The increase in voluntary employee turnover in 2018 is due to pension plan changes in Canada. 3 As of December 31. 4 Data from previous year’s Employment Equity Report, available on our website. 5 Representation is disclosed on voluntary survey basis and is reflective of Canadian based employee population responses only. 6 Figure excludes compliance training. 7  Calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, including emissions factors for electricity purchases, natural gas and fuel. 8 In 2018, we updated guidelines for our employee programs across our operations globally, resulting in a decrease. 17 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Awards & Recognition Scotiabank is proud to have been recognized for our strong ESG performance through awards, inclusion on global indices, and other recognitions. Internationally, these include: We were also recognized with other awards across our global footprint. Some of these include: • 2018 Excellence in Innovation Award by Women in • Colpatria ranked 29th out of 131 companies, for Capital Markets for approaching gender diversity leadership in gender equality practices, by Aequales with an innovative lens and taking bold steps to • 18th on the 2018 LinkedIn Top Companies in Canada improve Diversity and Inclusion in Canada • One of 50 Most Engaged Workplaces in Canada, • Scotiabank Peru recognized on the Good Corporate according to Achievers Governance Index by the Lima Stock Exchange (BVL) and EY • Named on the Most Attractive Employers list by Universum as an ideal employer • Scotiabank Mexico’s 11th time in a row to be named a Socially Responsible Corporation by Centro Mexicano • Scotiabank Peru ranked as one of 10 Most Admired para la Filantopia (CEMEFI) Companies in Peru by PWC and El Diario Gestion • Recognized in the top 50 companies for Responsibility • Scotiabank Peru recognized by the Peruvian Institute and Corporate Governance in Chile by Monitor of Business Administration for excellence in Empresarial de Reputación Corporativa (Merco) promoting education for young people • Showcased as one of 12 successful cases Great Place to Work Awards of Sustainability in the Financial Industry by Scotiabank Recognized Internationally as a Great Place to Work ASOBANCARIA in Colombia in 2018: • Scotia Wealth Management recognized as the Best • Top 25 in the World Wealth Management Provider in Canada by the • Scotiabank El Salvador, Panama and Costa Rica ranked within World Finance Wealth Management Awards Top 15 in Central America9 • Top 15 in both Peru and Chile10 • 5th on Hired.com’s Top Technology Employers list in Canada • Top 15 Multinational in Latin America • 3rd in Mexico10 and 15 years in the Hall of Fame Ranking • 3rd Safest Bank in North America and 27th in the World according to Global Finance magazine’s • 4th in the Caribbean for Scotiabank Dominican Republic and their 11th consecutive year to be recognized ranking of the World’s 50 Safest Global Banks • Best Workplaces in Canada in Financial Services and Insurance 9 Among companies with more than 1,000 employees. 10 Among companies with more than 5,000 employees. 18 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust Across Our Value Chain Customers entrust us with their livelihood when they do business with us – so they expect us to act legally, ethically and with integrity – and rightly so. We lead with trust and adhere to strict corporate governance practices that let us respond to the diverse challenges, opportunities and interests facing our Bank. With every decision we make – whether upholding human rights, protecting our customers’ money, privacy and data or promoting a culture of inclusion – it’s through trust that we lay foundations for the future, helping us create and enable greater opportunity and progress for everyone. 2018 Highlights Looking Forward • Scotiabank was recognized by the Dow Jones • Continue to invest in our capabilities to combat Sustainability Index as being in the top 1% of money laundering and terrorist financing, and its global financial institutions in terms of corporate abuse of the financial system governance practices • The Pulse for our commercial customers is now • Our Board of Directors is now 38% female live in Canada, Colombia and Peru, with Chile • We will invest CAD$250 million over the next and Mexico to follow in 2019. decade to help our employees adapt to the digital economy • We were the only bank to be recognized on the global Top 25 World’s Best Workplaces list • We expanded our customer feedback platform, The Pulse, to employees to help improve the customer experience through the eyes of our front line • Scotia Global Asset Management became a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 19 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From The Top of Our Business Board Diversity Why it Matters Our commitment to strengthening our business through Diversity and Inclusion Integrity and accountability is reflected in our Board of Directors. Board directors are regional, national, at the highest level of and international business and community leaders who contribute world-class Scotiabank – the Board of expertise across a variety of disciplines. We are proud of the gender, age, Directors – is vital to our ethnic and global diversity reflected by our Board. Fourteen of our 16 directors success. A solid approach are independent and six of them – 38% – are women. We remain committed to governance enables us to the Catalyst Accord, which aims to increase the average percentage of to protect the interests of women on boards and in executive positions in corporate Canada to 30% or shareholders, and maintain greater by 2022. We will continue to enrich the diversity of our Board as part the trust of all stakeholders. of our continued focus on Diversity and Inclusion. Fourteen of our 16 directors are independent Our Approach and six of them – 38% – are women. We take a principles-based approach to corporate governance and are committed The Scotiabank Code of Conduct to a framework that supports The Scotiabank Code Of Conduct (the “Code”) is essential for upholding our leading practices and protects high standard of ethics and integrity and managing risk – as it sets out how the long-term interests of our we expect our employees to behave in relation to our company, customers, stakeholders. Scotiabank has communities, shareholders and each other. We require all employees, officers long been a market leader in and directors to acknowledge compliance with our Code on an annual basis. robust corporate governance practices; and our commitment The six guiding principles of the Code are: to good governance is at the heart of our strong risk culture. • Follow the law wherever Scotiabank does business Our Board oversees Scotiabank’s • Avoid putting yourself or Scotiabank in a conflict of interest position strategy, policies and culture. • Conduct yourself honestly and with integrity • Respect confidentiality, and protect the integrity and security of assets, communications, information and transactions • Treat everyone fairly, equitably and professionally • Honour our commitments to the communities in which we operate 20 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From The Top of Our Business In 2018, we reviewed and enhanced the Code to bring it conduct review, conduct risk and setting the Bank’s in line with the Bank’s most current related policies. Key ethical standards. In 2018, they supported the integration changes in 2018: of the TCFD disclosure in the Annual Report. • The Code highlights and clarifies options available The Human Resources Committee of the to employees on raising concerns or reporting Board has oversight for leadership, succession planning Code breaches, leveraging the Need Help Raising and total rewards, which includes ensuring our a Concern guide (which replaced the Pathways compensation programs are consistent with our risk to Resolution guide) management programs. In 2018, they oversaw the • The Code continues to encourage employees leadership strategy and succession planning process, to raise concerns and provides protection from which includes key accountabilities for increasing the retaliation to anyone who, in good faith, reports representation of women at senior management levels. any actual, suspected or potential breach • A new section on Close Personal Relationships in the workplace has been added with enhanced guidance on disclosure Sustainable Business Governance Oversight of our social, economic and environmental impacts is a shared responsibility of the Board of Directors, and specific areas are addressed at individual Board Committees. The Corporate Governance Committee of the Board has primary oversight of our Sustainable Business strategy and reporting, including evaluating our environmental and social performance and discussing best practices for non-financial disclosure. In 2018, the Committee reviewed the evolution of our Sustainable Business priorities. The Risk Committee of the Board retains primary oversight of climate change risk and opportunities, as well as any climate-related natural disasters. Climate change risks are captured within a quarterly Enterprise Risk Management report and other special reports. In 2018, the Risk Committee reviewed a Future of Energy report as part of its industry analysis and review of climate change risks and discussed and provided direction on the Bank’s adoption and integration of the TCFD. In addition, the Audit and Conduct Review Committee of the Board oversees our climate change-related disclosure as part of our financial reporting and is responsible for 21 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From The Top of Our Business Robust Anti-Money Laundering and for strengthening human rights considerations into our business, in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Terrorist-Financing Policies and Practices Business and Human Rights. Activities such as money laundering and terrorist In 2018, we made progress on identified priority areas financing have harmful legal, economic and social including Equal Pay, Accommodation, Harassment, consequences. Supply Chain and Due Diligence. Accommodation In 2018, we continued to invest in Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and In 2018, we undertook a pilot project in Chile to assess the “Work Plan for Accessibility and Inclusion of Anti-Terrorist Financing (ATF) capabilities People with Disabilities,” to ensure we were addressing to protect our clients and our business. accommodation needs for our customers and employees. A thorough gap assessment was completed, including Our program includes policies and internal controls interviews with cross-departmental representatives, to with respect to client identification and due diligence, identify areas of opportunity. This led to an established transaction monitoring, investigating and reporting of work plan with four priority areas: remote customer suspicious activity, and evaluation of new products and service channels, branches, employees, and policies services to prevent and detect activities that may pose and governance. unacceptable risks. The program includes an annual This three-year plan will help Scotiabank Chile take Bank-wide AML/ATF risk assessment process and we the lead in strengthening our inclusive culture by ensure that all employees, as well as the Board of improving the accessibility of employees and customers Directors, undergo initial and ongoing training. through technical training, improved technology and Scotiabank is strictly opposed to entering into digital channels, and planning that considers persons relationships with businesses or individuals engaged with disabilities. in illegal activities, or with businesses engaged in The learning from this pilot will also help to inform other improper, quasi-legal or inappropriate activities. We markets and areas of the Bank. We have already begun are committed to sustaining secure financial systems in a second pilot focusing on our Contact Centers, where the countries around the world in which we maintain we see an opportunity to learn from the work in Chile operations by taking the necessary action and using a in ensuring we are living our human rights commitment risk-based approach. to its fullest. This will continue throughout 2019. Human Rights Harassment At Scotiabank, respect for human rights is fundamental In 2017, we finalized an enhanced Global Harassment to the way we do business and is part of our core values Policy to ensure that we are applying consistent global across all of our business activities and operations. standards and processes. In 2018, we furthered these In 2016, we formalized this with a Human Rights efforts by ensuring all employees were aware of the policy Statement, signed by our President and CEO, Brian Porter. by highlighting this in our mandatory training. Additional mandatory training was added for all employees on topics This Statement put into writing the work we had including harassment, accommodation, accessibility, been undertaking with human rights experts, Business violence at work and gender identity. This is now a for Social Responsibility (BSR) for a number of years. mandatory aspect for all new employees as part of their Following a comprehensive human rights risk and official on-boarding process. impact assessment, we created a multi-year strategy 22 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From The Top of Our Business Equal Pay representation of women at more senior levels. We As part of our commitment to diversity and inclusion, recognize there are some areas within the Bank that and discrimination-free decision making, we review are less balanced on gender than others, and we have and analyze information in relation to gender and a number of programs in place to increase diversity remuneration. A thorough review of our Canadian and inclusion across the Bank. business was conducted in 2018 as part of this human By strengthening our talent pipeline and ensuring rights workstream. all employees have equal access to advancement In order to ensure a like-for-like comparison, we reviewed opportunities, we aim to build a high performing team total median remuneration by gender for roles at the and be recognized as a leader in business performance. same level in Canada. As the table below demonstrates, Please see Page 25 for more on these efforts. the analysis found less than a 5% variance predominantly Supply Chain as a result of demographic and role differences. While this gap may be small, we recognize we have more to A review of human rights risks in our supply chain in do in order to close this gap. We remain committed to 2017 identified the high risk categories and markets for ensuring our remuneration design and decision making is human rights considerations. Following this review, we fair, transparent and based on performance in role. have taken an approach to screening of new suppliers that fall into one of these identified categories and/or markets. In 2018, this included an updated Supplier Code Total Median of Conduct, and continued ESG reviews in the request for Remuneration12 proposal (RFP) process when selecting new supplies, with Role11 Female % a particular focus on human rights in these identified Relative To Male categories. In 2019, we will focus on enhancing human rights risk reviews for more suppliers and operationalizing Vice Presidents, a formal process. For more on responsible procurement 98% Senior Vice Presidents see Page 32. Management – Due Diligence 95% Seasoned Professional In 2018, we conducted a pilot project which aimed to enhance our due diligence guidelines for our commercial Professional, Administrative lending practices to consider human rights risks. This 99% and Operational project will continue in 2019, and we plan to roll it out to more of our markets. As part of our regular review of the allocation of base salary adjustments, incentive awards and individual Looking Ahead performance for 2018, we found a marginal difference As part of a subsequent review of our Human Rights in favour of females compared to males (less than 5%). Statement, we noted we could be more direct about The proportion of employees receiving an incentive award how we address Indigenous Peoples’ rights in our was the same for both females and males. due diligence processes. We also noted we could be We continue to provide line managers with tools to more explicit by stating we acknowledge and respect support bias-free decision making and continue our the rights of Indigenous Peoples, consistent in the efforts in accelerating the advancement of women countries where we operate. In recognition of our into more senior roles and addressing the lower respect for human rights and the rights of Indigenous 11 T o ensure a like-for-like comparison, all employees in full-time roles within Canada were included, excluding those in front-line sales or participating in specialized incentive plans. 12 Total remuneration includes base salary, short-term incentives and long-term incentives (where applicable). 23 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From The Top of Our Business Peoples, we plan to update our Human Rights Statement to this effect in 2019. Scotiabank is committed to providing its employees with education on the histories, cultures and traditions of Indigenous communities in order to build and maintain respectful relationships with Indigenous peoples and create an inclusive space for Indigenous employees. We are currently developing a comprehensive curriculum for employees to receive further education about the histories, culture and traditions of Indigenous Peoples, which will be rolled out in 2019. Elements of the curriculum will focus on creating opportunities for employees to receive traditional teachings from Elders and respected community members in order to increase employees’ understanding of Indigenous cultures. In addition in 2019, we plan to continue the initial work started in the workstreams mentioned here, as well as furthering our human rights strategy to our customers. This includes exploring discrimination and privacy. We are also planning an employee engagement campaign to further educate our employees on our human rights ambitions, and the role they play in executing on our commitment. 24 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From Our Employees Why it Matters Our most important investment is the one we make in our people. Our customer focus starts with taking care of our more than 97,000 employees (affectionately called Scotiabankers) around the world. That’s why we work to grow and diversify talent and engage employees in a performance-oriented culture. The Importance of Culture and Employee Engagement Scotiabank has made a conscious commitment to creating a culture that Our Approach will motivate and engage employees, deliver for our customers and keep us focused on the future. In 2018, we launched a new online internal Supporting our employees collaboration and engagement platform that allows employees to more means continuously striving for easily access and share information, providing a forum for connecting, higher levels of engagement, idea-sharing and support. We have 77,000+ employees on the platform with fostering an internal culture a monthly engagement rate of over 50%. We also launched a campaign that of trust and well-being, and empowers employees to identify areas where we could be more productive. investing in knowledge and Our hope is to actively foster a culture where employees have a voice, feel skills for the digital economy. ownership and bring big ideas to the table. As we continue on our journey, we added a new category to our annual employee awards called Culture Catalyst to celebrate individuals who inspire their colleagues and serve as role models for the culture we seek to build. We recognize that our industry, like the rest of the world, is shifting rapidly. In a business climate where constant change and adaptation is the new norm, we believe our culture can help us thrive.” — Ilyse Smith, Vice President, Culture and Strategy 25 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From Our Employees Employee Engagement ViewPoint, our annual employee engagement survey, is a key Transforming The way that we measure employee Way We Work (W3) sentiment and engagement. In 2018, our employee engagement score remained steady at 79% for the second year in a row. This score At our headquarters in Toronto, Canada, our Way We Work (W3) measures our employees’ depth initiative is bolstering employee engagement by creating innovative of commitment, sense of pride Activity-Based Working environments, referred to as “Ecosystems.” and level of satisfaction working Activity-Based Working provides employees a flexible work environment at Scotiabank. with a variety of work stations for each activity they engage in during the day. State-of-the-art tools and technology make for a high degree of mobility and connectivity within the workspace. Without assigned Our 2018 employee desks, Scotiabankers are empowered to choose how, when and where engagement score (79%) they work, based on what makes them, their teams and colleagues exceeds the financial services most effective. industry average (75%). Activity-Based Working is revolutionizing our approach to work and encouraging a culture of trust. By doing away with traditional barriers that can sometimes separate departments, we have created The score exceeds the global a shared space where employees can better collaborate, innovate, financial services industry average problem solve and pursue common purposes. By January 2019, 3,200 of 75% – reflecting our focus on employees were moved into Activity-based Working environments. supporting our employees with a Employees in Ecosystems report better collaboration, productivity, positive, inclusive work environment technology and pride in their workplace. Eighty percent of employees and our commitment to listening in Ecosystems reported they would not go back to a traditional way of to their perspectives. Additionally, working if given the choice. 87% of employees globally agree that there is a strong customer W3 is also helping us reduce our environmental footprint by using less focus within the Bank, and 86% space, and less paper. Read more in our Climate Change section, Page 47. of employees believe Scotiabank is a socially and environmentally responsible company. I love Activity-Based Working and all the 86% of employees options that W3 has given us. Open areas, quiet believe Scotiabank is a areas, collaboration areas, focus rooms, call rooms, socially and environmentally conference rooms, huddle space and little nooks throughout give us many different configurations responsible company. to work with. I often say that now everyone can have the corner office – and it’s true!” — Scotiabanker in Toronto, Canada 26 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From Our Employees Employee Engagement 2018 2017 2016 Index Scotiabank 79% 79% 77% Industry average13 75% 74% 74% In 2018, Scotiabank received several awards from the Great Place to Work Institute. Scotiabank named Top 25 World’s Best Workplaces by Fortune and their partner, Scotiabank employees participated in more than 40,000 Great Place to Work. We are leadership courses. Additionally, our Leadership Resource particularly proud that we’re Planning Process actively identifies and develops future the only bank globally to make the list. leaders to ensure that the right people are ready to move into key leadership roles. The Bank ranked #15 in the Multinationals category in Latin America of the Great Place to Work Top 25 companies in the region. Employee Training 2018 2017 2016 Average training hours Attracting, Developing and per employee (excluding 33 25 22 compliance training) 14 Retaining Talent By strengthening our talent pipeline and providing all Average training hours employees with access to advancement opportunities, we per full-time employee aim to build high-performing teams and be recognized 42 33 29 (including compliance as a leader in business performance. To develop future training) 14 leaders, we offer Scotiabank employees the opportunity to take advantage of thousands of learning activities through our online portal, me@scotiabank. The portal Total training investment, is available in English, Spanish and French, and includes $73.9 $69.9 $71.5 in millions CAD$ activities such as classroom learning, e-learning, and virtual instructor-led courses. In 2018, Scotiabank employees participated in more than 2.7 million The large increase in training hours in 2018, compared courses. iLEAD, our global management and leadership to 2017, is due to an increase in Onboarding, Leadership development program provides employees with and Customer-focus training. tailored support at every stage of their career. In 2018, 13 IBM research calculated this average using employee engagement scores among the top 10% of global financial services organizations. 14 Including only full-time employees participating in training via our centralized Learning Management System. 27 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From Our Employees Our annual Performance and Development cycle plays an essential part in supporting employees. Our A CAD$250 Million Annual Performance Plan enables employees to set, align, track Investment in and report progress against their Our People performance and development goals. It also provides a consistent measurement framework that allows managers to effectively recognize and reward high performance. To support our high-performance culture, we put a strong emphasis on regular We understand that digital technology is dramatically changing coaching conversations to ensure the nature of work. Over the next decade, we are investing employees are supported in CAD$250 million to help our employees adapt to the digital economy. pursuing their goals. This re-skilling initiative was announced by our President and CEO, Brian Porter in April 2018. As new roles emerge – and potentially displace existing roles – the Nearly 19,000 employees need to equip our employees with the skills of the future has never moved into new roles within been more important. We are conducting extensive research to map the Bank globally. out roles predicted to change and identify critical current and future skills needed to be successful in a rapidly changing business climate. Our goal is to build, curate and provide learning that will bridge the We are committed to providing competency gap for employees in both current and future roles. employees with opportunities to grow and are proud that nearly In 2019, we will focus on creating an environment that fosters 19,000 employees moved into new curiosity, learning agility and personal ownership for development – roles within the Bank globally, filling so that employees can thrive in the new world of work. To enable 44% of all vacancies. We also hired continuous opportunities to develop in-demand skills, we will be more than 3,000 interns last year in launching a new Scotiabank Virtual University that will be available to Canada through partnerships with all employees with pilots planned in 2019 in Canada, Chile, Colombia, top Canadian universities. Mexico and Peru. We will also offer training through accredited institutions with a focus on new and enhanced skills to prepare employees for emerging roles at Scotiabank. 28 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From Our Customers Why it Matters Our success as a financial institution relies on trust. Our ability to meet the changing needs of customers depends on maintaining their trust. Our Approach We strive to offer an unparalleled customer Connecting With Our Customers Through The Pulse experience by focusing on At Scotiabank, customers are the centre of our business, and we strive to highly engaged and instill a customer-focused culture at the Bank. To help drive this, we have knowledgeable employees The Pulse, our Net Promoter System (NPS), which provides us with a globally, ready to go above and beyond. consistent approach and operating model for gathering real-time feedback Obtaining feedback from both from our customers. After an experience with Scotiabank, customers are employees and customers on emailed a short, four-question survey. Over 12 million survey invitations were how to improve is critical. sent to retail customers in 2018. Employees from across the globe made a total of 430,000 phone calls to follow up and gain a deeper, more personal understanding of the customers’ experience. The Pulse is fully live across our retail branches, contact centres and digital channels in Canada, the Caribbean, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru. Over 12 million survey invitations were sent to retail customers in 2018. Employees from across the globe made a total of 430,000 phone calls to follow-up and gain a deeper understanding of the customers’ experience. The Pulse for our commercial customers is now live in Canada, Colombia and Peru, with Chile and Mexico to follow in 2019. The Commercial Pulse Program sent 20,000 survey invitations, and we made a total of 3,500 follow-up phone calls to our commercial customers. 29 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From Our Customers Our first year using Employee Pulse was 2018. Employee In 2018, we strengthened our policies and processes Pulse helps us improve the customer experience through an enterprise sales conduct framework. We by examining it through the eyes of our front-line monitor and enhance sales practices and processes on employees. Unlike The Pulse for customers, our an ongoing basis to ensure we consistently meet our employee program is 100% confidential, which gives customers’ needs. We value hearing from our customers senior management an honest and balanced view into about what we can do better and actively seek feedback the day-to-day successes and challenges of our frontin real-time from more than one million each year. If a line employees. These views are incorporated into customer is unable to resolve a concern at their local decision-making for changes to customer experience branch or through our contact centre, they can raise initiatives, products, service levels, and branch design and it to the Office of the President or to the Office of the placement. Employee responses are analyzed alongside Ombudsman. customer feedback, allowing us to prioritize initiatives raised by both stakeholders. Data Privacy and Security Complying with privacy regulations and effectively managing privacy risk is fundamental to the success of Scotiabank and the well-being of our customers. The Pulse puts the customer’s voice Individuals trust us to properly safeguard their at the centre of all we do. We listen, we personal information. learn and we act on the feedback from We comply with privacy laws and regulations in all our customers to make improvements in of the jurisdictions in which we do business through our processes, products and services in a three lines of defense model that operationalizes all our markets.” privacy compliance through the business line itself, — Carolyn Saunders, Senior Vice President, the Enterprise Privacy Office (EPO) and Internal Audit. Global Customer Experience Our approach is guided by our Privacy Policy. In 2018, we undertook initiatives to protect customer data and privacy, and to ensure we are using customer data responsibly. We reviewed all customer data used Responsible Sale of Products and Services in our applications and completed a global rollout of Scotiabank advisors are focused on the needs of our the Privacy Impact Assessment process. In 2019, we will customers. We never compromise ethics for the sake of focus on developing guidelines for the use of customer meeting sales, profit, or other targets or goals. This is a data in analytics and a review of our incident and breach core value that is stated clearly in our Code of Conduct management procedures. and articulated through our Global Sales Principles. SCOTIABANK’S SIX GLOBAL SALES PRINCIPLES 1 2 3 4 5 6 Put your Be an Be transparent Always get Keep your Act honestly customer first ambassador with your your customer’s customers and and with for the Bank customers consent and our Bank safe integrity protect their information 30 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From Our Customers Artificial Intelligence management. We have undertaken cyber simulation exercises and made improvements in identity management Artificial Intelligence (AI) is defining a new age in technologies for both customers and employees. customer service and risk management, with Canada poised to lead the way in AI applications. As a culture of In 2018, we strengthened the resiliency of cyber protection diverse strengths, we have an unprecedented opportunity for key payment systems. We improved our Virtual Private to re-imagine how AI can transform the economics of Network (VPN) access security and invested in sophisticated how we do business at Scotiabank. Our new statement automated technologies to improve our incident response on responsible interactive AI development plays a capabilities with the goal to reduce time between the significant role in anchoring AI development with our occurrence of event and our investigation and response to core values: it. We have also focused on cybersecurity risk mitigation capabilities by strengthening metrics collection and • Be useful reporting on key risk indicators throughout the year. • Be transparent • Be respectful • Be safe • Be accountable • Be adaptable How we value the costs and benefits of AI is essential as we work together to realize and integrate its advantages for our customers, partners and stakeholders. Pursuing better outcomes for them means we have to build solutions responsibly and consider wide-ranging implications for how we use digital tools and data. How we value the costs and benefits of Artificial Intelligence is essential as we work together to realize and integrate its advantages for our customers, partners and stakeholders. Cybersecurity Like all technology-focused companies, Scotiabank is exposed to cybersecurity risks. We have invested in technologies and other forms of advanced security controls to lower the risk caused by new and complex attacks. In 2018, we made significant investments to recruit additional security professionals and experts to support functions such as cyber hunting, threat intelligence, digital forensics and vulnerability 31 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From Our Suppliers As an international bank, Scotiabank partners with thousands of suppliers Why it Matters globally. We strive to manage our supplier relationships in an efficient way, while also minimizing our exposure to ESG risks. Our updated Supplier Code Scotiabank has approximately of Conduct helps communicate our expectations to all current and prospective 15,000 suppliers. All suppliers invited by Global Procurement Services to participate in a formal Request for Proposals are assessed and evaluated based on a set suppliers globally. of quantitative and qualitative criteria, which includes ESG factors. Suppliers We seek to have a positive are asked to explain and provide documentation related to their sustainability influence by integrating strategy, Code of Conduct, whistle-blower mechanisms, energy and sustainability criteria into our GHG reduction initiatives and targets, human rights, countries of purchasing decisions. operations, environment, health and safety (EHS) audits and diversity and inclusion initiatives. In 2018, we enhanced the third-party risk assessment module in Vista, our Our Approach Supplier Sourcing and Third Party Management system, enabling a more streamlined process for vetting potential new supplier relationships. This In September 2018, we released further ensures proper strategic sourcing and contracting processes are a revised Supplier Code Of adhered to on 300 to 1,000 new supplier arrangements per month. Conduct. The new Supplier Code We also introduced additional procurement tools in 2018 in order to enhance outlines the obligations that efficiencies for our business and for our supplier partners. Employees can now third-party suppliers, service request goods and services online through our SmartBuy tool for a growing list providers, intermediaries and of suppliers. By modernizing the purchasing process, orders are automatically independent contractors – sent to preferred suppliers and fulfillment is completed quicker. Invoices are including their employees and also passed through SmartBuy electronically avoiding paper and allowing for representatives – must comply faster payment to suppliers. with when conducting business with or acting on behalf of Scotiabank. SCOTIABANK’S SUPPLIER SPEND, BY CATEGORY (2018) 7% 9 % 33 % n IT, HR and Marketing. . ..................... 33 % n Professional Services....................... 23 % n Real Estate..................................... 15 % 13 % n Banking Operations. . ....................... 13 % n Miscellaneous Business Services.......... 9 % n Corporate Services............................. 7 % 15 % 23 % 32 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From Our Community Why it Matters Communities are a critical part of the economic and social fabric of the world. When communities thrive, customers, businesses and entire societies do as well. Our Approach We have a long history and strong culture of supporting the communities in which we operate. In 2018, we invested CAD$80 million globally in donations, sponsorships and other forms of assistance. By investing time and energy Employees Are Our Ambassadors and giving back to people As our employees live and work in our communities, they can most effectively who need help most, we are serve as ambassadors for Scotiabank. Our employees are proud to be engaged helping build more vibrant, citizens in their communities, and we encourage this. resilient communities. Through the Scotiabank Employee Volunteer Program (SEVP), individual employees who have volunteered for at least 50 hours a year with a qualifying community organization can apply for funding of up to CAD$1,000 for that organization. Through the Scotiabank Team Community Program (STCP), we encourage groups of employees to raise funds for charity that is important to them. We match funds when two or more employees raise funds for a qualifying community organization. For teams under 30 employees, funds raised are matched up to CAD$3,000 and CAD$15,000 by teams of 30 or more 33 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From Our Community employees. For example, employees in Nova Scotia, Responding to Disaster in Our Communities Canada participated in a fundraiser for The Youth In 2018, many of the communities where we work Project, an organization that provides a safe and inclusive experienced devastating natural disasters and tragedies. space for LGBT+ youth. Employees helped raise over CAD$5,000 which was matched by Scotiabank. In 2018, In April 2018, Scotiabank joined Canadians, the Scotiabankers donated CAD$7.3 million through SEVP hockey community and people from around the world and STCP Programs, and volunteered a total of 371,000 in mourning the devastating loss endured by the hours, through the Employee Volunteer Program Humboldt Broncos Junior hockey team, their families or through Bank-led employee volunteer days. and the province of Saskatchewan, Canada. After this horrific accident, Scotiabank committed CAD$300,000 in support to the community, with CAD$50,000 In 2018, Scotiabankers volunteered immediately donated to Shock Trauma Air Rescue Society, 371,000 hours, either through the Employee who were among the first responders at the site of the accident. The remainder of the donation is to help the Volunteer Program or through Bank-led community – especially young people – to recover from employee volunteer days. emotional trauma caused by the tragedy. This included a CAD$180,000 commitment over three years to Partners Since 2009, Scotiabank in El Salvador has partnered Family Services and a CAD$70,000 commitment over with Club Rotario San Salvador Cuscatlán to carry two years to the Saskatoon Crisis Intervention Service. out an annual school backpack campaign. Each year, We also donated CAD$330,000 to relief efforts our employees help provide students throughout that continued into 2018 following Hurricane Irma’s the country with supplies that facilitate learning, catastrophic effects on communities in late 2017. encouraging students to continue to pursue Overall, Scotiabank donated CAD$830,000 to organizations education. In 2018, Scotiabank volunteers distributed assisting with rescue and relief efforts globally. approximately 700 backpacks filled with school supplies to students throughout El Salvador. In November 2017, more than 30 Scotiabankers in London, United Kingdom, participated in Centrepoint’s annual Sleep Out. For one night, these employees swapped their beds for sleeping bags in order to raise money and awareness for homeless youth. Their actions raised over GBP£35,000 (CAD$59,000) for Centrepoint to help homeless youth. As part of United Way Trinidad and Tobago’s National Day of Caring 2018, 500 Scotiabankers, their families and friends put together emergency preparedness and relief packages for communities throughout the country. The packages contained emergency relief items that had been donated by employees or purchased by Scotiabank. The packages were then delivered to the Office of Disaster Preparedness and Management. 34 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From Our Investors Engaging With Investors On ESG Why it Matters Investors are increasingly interested in how ESG topics play a role in creating ESG topics are an important value and sustaining shareholder returns. We continue to maintain trust component of delivering with our investors by engaging on these topics and demonstrating how we superior, long-term investment are balancing short-term results while ensuring the long-term sustainability performance. Our Sustainable of the Bank. Business priorities help us We are committed to transparency and clear disclosure in our reporting to ensure we are balancing investor ensure investors have the information they need on our ESG performance. demand for short-term results This includes through our annual Sustainable Business report, as well as while creating mediumto longour response to ESG rating firms. We respond annually to the Dow Jones term value. Sustainability Index, CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Index), and review data collected by Sustainalytics, MSCI and Institutional Shareholder Services. We also welcome focused engagement from investors. This dialogue helps us to Our Approach understand the issues most important to them. We strive for transparency Principles For Responsible Investment with our stakeholders, including investors, in our As a financial institution, we are also committed to responsible investing. ESG disclosure. We achieve Incorporating ESG factors into investment processes helps us to enhance this through our annual returns and manage risks, ultimately helping us to deliver on our commitment Sustainable Business report, to customers and investors. responding to ESG ratings A key component of the investment process at Scotia Global Asset firms and through ongoing Management is direct engagement between investment professionals and the one-on-one dialogue and management teams of the entities in which we invest. This enables better, engagement with shareholders. more informed investment decisions while allowing us to communicate any views and concerns on ESG-related and other issues. In order to formalize our continued commitment to responsible investment, Scotia Global Asset Management signed the UN-supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) in autumn 2018. As a signatory, Scotiabank has joined a global movement of companies in reporting in our responsible investment activities. This annual reporting for investors ensures a standardized transparency tool for reporting, and an opportunity for the Bank to receive feedback on our approach for further development. Recently acquired firms Jarislowsky, Fraser Limited and MD Financial Management are also signatories of the PRI. 35 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Trust From Our Investors Sustainable Investing in Canada In 2017, Scotia iTRADE offered Sustainable Canada’s first sustainable investing Investing at tools for direct investors that help combine financial investments with Jarislowsky Fraser positive social impact. In partnership with Sustainalytics, comprehensive performance ratings based on In February 2018, we announced the acquisition of Jarislowsky, ESG factors are provided for over Fraser Limited (Jarislowsky Fraser), which enhances our institutional 1,200 companies on the Toronto investment capabilities across Canada. As one of Canada’s largest Stock Exchange and Russell® institutional money managers, Jarislowsky Fraser has built a 1000 Index. Users can map out distinguished reputation as a long-term investor in quality businesses. their own particular views and With a history of collaborative engagements, it has held companies beliefs pertaining to issues such as accountable for the fair and equal representation of all stakeholders deforestation, water scarcity, labour and urged management teams to focus on long-term value creation. standards and governance issues to help identify companies to invest in A founding member of the Canadian Coalition for Good Governance, that align with their values. In 2018, member of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Alliance around 28,000 users interacted with and signatory to the UN-supported Principles for Responsible the tool. Investment, Jarislowsky Fraser has established its own Sustainable Investment Policy which it applies across all its strategies and mandates. We have also created an online Its approach is differentiated by the fact that ESG analysis, proxy voting series of learning modules for our and company engagements are fully embedded into its investment customers interested in learning process, and carried out by its in-house global research team. more about sustainable investing. In these online modules, sector experts from Sustainalytics and Scotia iTRADE explain the importance of understanding ESG risks and opportunities to customers. Experts from Scotia iTRADE also Preserving and growing our customers’ wealth is a demonstrate how the tool can be responsibility we take very seriously, so we take all factors, used on the trading platform. Initial including environmental, social and governance issues into modules cover how to develop an overall approach to sustainable account when making investment decisions. Signing the investing, with separate modules Principles for Responsible Investment allowed us to formalize that go into detail on ESG topics. the commitment we have long held around these issues.” — Glen Gowland, Executive Vice President, Global Wealth Management 36 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Climate Change Addressing climate change is an essential part of creating a sustainable future. As a bank, we can play a fundamental role in addressing climate change through our core business activities. By financing sustainable solutions that support the transition to a low-carbon economy, setting an internal price on carbon emissions and factoring climate change-related risks and opportunities into lending and investment decisions, we are helping lay foundations that will sustain us for decades to come. 2018 Highlights Looking Forward • Announced our support of the Financial Stability • Continue to formalize our approach to climate Board (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related change risks and opportunities through an Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and included enterprise-wide climate strategy disclosures in our 2018 Annual Report and • Further enhance our transparency on climate this report change risk through TCFD reporting and our • Provided more than CAD$8.5 billion in financing CDP submission to the renewable energy sector, up from • Achieve a 10% absolute reduction of Scope 1 CAD$4.7 billion in 2017 and 2 GHG by 2021, compared to 2016 levels, • Implemented our Internal Carbon Price and prepare for a review of progress in 2020 at CAD$15/tonne CO2, for Scope 1 and 2 emissions, using these funds to support the business case for long-term energy efficiency initiatives 37 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Focus on the Environment Environmental Policy Why it Matters Scotiabank’s Environmental Policy governs our approach to managing our Climate change and impacts impact on the environment. This includes our day-to-day operations, lending on the environment pose a and investing practices, supplier agreements, management of real estate significant risk to the global holdings and external reporting. Reviewed every two years, the Policy applies economy and society as a to both Canadian and international operations, as well as to all wholly owned whole. There is also an or controlled subsidiaries of the Bank. It addresses both direct and indirect opportunity for Scotiabank impact, with direct impacts including water, waste and energy use in office to support the transition to buildings and branches, as well as business travel. Indirect environmental a low-carbon economy and impacts occur largely through the Bank’s lending and investing activities, more sustainable environmental and result from environmental risks of our customers. solutions. As a major financial Our Global Risk Management and Sustainable Business teams share institution, we have both responsibility for the Policy and work closely with key partners across the responsibility and the the Bank to review internal processes, industry best practices, regulatory opportunity to take action developments and emerging trends. The Policy is overseen by senior that will improve the wellmanagement and approved by the Board of Directors every two years. being of our customers and the environment. SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Our Approach Our Environmental Principles shape our Environmental Policy and define our approach to managing our direct and indirect environmental impacts: To safeguard Scotiabank and its stakeholders, climate and Comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations 1 and voluntary standards and initiatives adopted by the Bank. environmental risks have been integrated into company-wide risk identification, assessment Contribute to operational efficiency that is consistent with reducing 2 environmental impacts and promoting responsible actions. and management processes. We strive for clear disclosure on Incorporate environmental risk assessment and mitigation criteria our direct and indirect impacts 3 into risk management procedures. and how we are managing environmental risks. Contribute to ongoing dialogue with relevant stakeholders, 4 such as customers, employees, government, NGOs and industry associations. Measure and report publicly on the Bank’s environmental 5 performance on at least an annual basis. 38 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Focus on the Environment Task Force On Climate-related Financial to climate-related risk. Please refer to our 2018 Annual Report, pages 87 and 88 for our initial disclosure. Disclosures (TCFD) Initially launched by the FSB, the TCFD has helped to Governance provide meaningful information to investors and other The Board of Directors, through its committees, stakeholders on the financial risks and opportunities oversees climate change, as this topic requires a businesses will be facing due to climate change. In multidisciplinary approach. July 2017, the Task Force published recommendations for voluntary disclosures on climate risk that aim to The Board reviews and discusses the risks and ensure consistent, comparable and clear data across a opportunities of climate change and related disclosures broad range of sectors. The recommendations focus on as it pertains to the Bank’s lending, investing and our enhancing climate-related disclosure in the following own portfolio. areas: Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and In particular, the Risk Committee of the Board Metrics and Targets. retains primary oversight for climate change risks Scotiabank recognizes that climate change poses a and opportunities for the Bank. As climate change is significant risk to the global economy and to society as identified as an emerging risk, updates are provided a whole. As a major financial institution, we have both to the Committee on a quarterly basis. the responsibility and opportunity to take action, which The Corporate Governance Committee of the Board is why we fully support the TCFD recommendations. oversees the Sustainable Business strategy (of which Following our public commitment by our President climate change is a key priority) and the annual and CEO in February 2018, we have had significant CSR/Sustainable Business report. The Audit and engagement with a number of investors, NGOs and Conduct Review Committee of the Board oversees governments, to discuss climate-related impacts in the our climate change-related disclosure as part of our short-, mediumand long-term. We began reporting financial reporting. according to the TCFD recommendations in our 2018 At the management level, the management of climate Annual Report. change risk is ultimately overseen by the Chief Risk Officer, who reports directly to the CEO. This is aided As a major financial institution, we have through a cross-departmental senior management committee on Reputational Risk, chaired by the both the responsibility and opportunity to Executive Vice President and General Counsel, which take action on climate change, which is why we meets quarterly. fully support the TCFD recommendations. Strategy We recognize that the implementation of the TCFD The implementation of the recommendations across recommendations is a multi-year journey. We are Scotiabank will be a multi-year journey, involving developing an enterprise-wide climate change strategy, various business areas including Retail, Corporate and which will support further climate-related disclosures. Commercial Lending, Asset Management, Real Estate and This strategy will aim to address the two main risk types a number of corporate functions such as Environmental associated with climate change: and Social Risk. • Transition Risks: the risks and opportunities that flow In this first year of implementation, we focused on from moving towards a low carbon economy, our corporate and commercial lending activities, as e.g. emerging regulations, new innovations this was deemed to have the biggest potential exposure 39 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Focus on the Environment • Physical Risks: physical impacts of climate change, • Began investigating the use of geospatial analysis e.g. sea level rise, extreme weather events to better understand and assess the climate-related These risks present both challenges and opportunities physical risks that may be incurred by clients based in the short-, mediumand long-term. For example, on their location in the short-term, we have the opportunity to support Metrics and Targets our customers investing in sustainable solutions – our Global Banking and Markets division financed more than We set, monitor and report on climate change-related CAD$8.5 billion in the renewable energy sector in 2018, targets annually in this Sustainable Business Report. up from CAD$4.7 billion in 2017. Meanwhile in the midWe also report to CDP and a copy of our submission can to longer-term, the physical impacts of climate change, be found on our website. such as the increased frequency of severe weather events, Since we have the most control over our own operations, pose a risk to our operations and our customers globally. we decided to set our own targets to reduce GHG first Scenario planning will form part of our strategy in and foremost. the coming years to help us better understand how We are proud these include: our customers and the Bank might be affected under • 10% Scope 1 and 2 GHG reduction target by 2021 different climate change scenarios. (See Page 45 for full emissions data) Risk Management • Implementation of an Internal Carbon Price of At Scotiabank we have robust systems in place to identify CAD$15/tonne CO2, to be reviewed every two years and manage risk. Climate change has been identified As we continue to develop a fulsome climate strategy, as an environmental risk and as such the identification, we will aim to set further metrics and targets to continue assessment and management of climate-related risks is measuring our progress. part of our enterprise-wide risk management framework. For further reference on how Scotiabank has Central to our risk management framework in our reported against the TCFD recommendations, lending activities are the Credit Risk Policy, Credit Policy please see Page 75 in the Appendix. Manual and Credit Administration Handbooks applicable to each business line. These documents provide guidance on assessing potential climate change risks. The Global Risk Management team also has a dedicated Environmental and Social Risk team that manages the day-to-day initiatives underway to identify, assess and report on climate-related risks. In 2018, we continued integrating climate change risk management into our lending activities. This included: • Updated 26 main industry reviews to include climaterelated risks and opportunities • Updated and enhanced due diligence guidance and incorporated a climate change risk module into mandatory environmental risk training for banking officers and credit adjudicators 40 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Sustainable Finance Why it Matters The provision of finance and lending helps fund economic activities that stimulate job creation and encourage the economy to grow. Applying a sustainable lens to financing activities allows us to mitigate risks and helps us enact a better, more sustainable future for both Scotiabank and our stakeholders. Environmental and Social Risk Management There has been increased interest in sustainable finance in 2018 across the globe. In the spring of 2018, the Government of Canada appointed Our Approach an Expert Panel on Sustainable Finance to identify opportunities sustainable finance could bring to the Canadian economy. The Chair of the Expert Panel We base lending and finance is a member of Scotiabank’s Board of Directors. The Bank has provided input decisions on a number of factors, into the recommendations of the Expert Panel presented through its Interim including risks and opportunities Report, and we look forward to continuing discussions on the opportunities related to environmental addressing climate change presents to our business. and social considerations. In addition, our renewable energy In 2018, our Environmental and Social Risk (E&S Risk) team provided financing supports the global environmental technical advice on 159 loan transactions involving real estate shift to a low carbon economy. as security and guidance on procedures for another 300 loan transactions. Equator Principles Scotiabank has been a signatory to the Equator Principles (EP) since 2006. The EP provide companies with an environmental and social risk management framework to help understand the potential impact of major projects on people, communities and the environment. At Scotiabank, banking and credit teams are required to assess transactions to determine if a potential deal could trigger the application of the EP. In 2018, we screened 13 transactions for EP eligibility. Four projects met the EP transaction requirements in 2018, for which extensive environmental and social risk due diligence was completed. 41 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Sustainable Finance Renewable Energy In 2018, we continued to focus on providing products and services to support the development of renewable energy. Scotiabank’s Global Banking and Markets division provided bank financing totaling CAD$8.5 billion to the renewable energy sector globally, up from CAD$4.7 billion in 2017. This includes: • CAD$3.0 billion in Canada15 • CAD$1.9 billion in the United States15 • CAD$3.6 billion in authorized credits in Latin America15 A YEAR OF SUSTAINABLE ENERGY TRANSACTIONS Our Global Banking and Markets division was involved in the following renewable energy transactions in fiscal 2018. 2017 November 2017: Scotiabank acted as Joint Bookrunner on a USD$1.2 billion, 5and 10-year bond offering for TerraForm Power Operating, LLC to refinance existing debt. TerraForm Power is a renewable 2018 energy company that owns and operates a 3,600 MW diversified portfolio of high quality wind and solar assets January 2018: in North America and Western Europe. Scotiabank acted as Joint Bookrunner on a USD$700 million, 30-year bond offering for MidAmerican Energy Company to January 2018: finance eligible green projects, including investments Scotiabank acted as Joint Lead Bookrunner and Fronting in their 2,000 MW Wind XI project and certain existing Bank on GBP£150 million of three and a half year facilities for wind facilities. MidAmerican Energy Company, a subsidiary Brookfield Renewable UK Hydro Ltd. to finance their stake in of Berkshire Hathaway Energy, is a regulated utility company, the U.K.’s largest pumped storage portfolio located in North serving 1.6 million electric and gas customers in four Wales, U.K. The portfolio represents 50% of the U.K.’s Midwestern states. hydroelectric capacity and is a critical component of the electrical system. January 2018: February 2018: Scotiabank acted as a Joint Bookrunner on the CAD$250 million Preferred Unit Offering by Brookfield Renewable Partners L.P. Scotiabank acted as Joint Bookrunner on a USD$400 million which operates one of the world’s largest publicly traded, 10-year bond offering for Terraform Global Operating, LLC pure-play renewable power platforms with a portfolio of (“TerraForm Global”) to refinance existing debt. The Bank hydroelectric, wind, solar and storage facilities in North America, also acted as Joint Lead Arranger and Joint Bookrunner on a South America Europe and Asia totaling over 17,000 MW of USD$45 million revolving credit facility. TerraForm Global is a installed capacity and an 8,000 MW development pipeline. renewable energy company which owns and operates a 952 MW portfolio of wind and solar energy generation facilities located in Brazil, India, China, Thailand, Malaysia and South Africa. 15 C  alculated based on each client’s credit exposure multiplied by the client’s renewable energy generation capacity as a percentage of its total power generation mix. Proportion of each client’s renewable energy generation was obtained from client produced publicly available sources and reporting documents. 42 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Sustainable Finance 2018 March 2018: Scotiabank acted as co-advisor to Canadian Solar Inc., on the sale of a subsidiary’s interests in three solar photovoltaic projects totaling 235 MWac/309 MWp. The Korea Electric Power Corporation (“KEPCO”), South Korea’s largest electric utility acquired the interests, which marks KEPCO’s March 2018: largest investment in the U.S. solar market. KEPCO Scotiabank acted as Sole Lead and Bookrunner on the reopening partnered with the Corporate Partnership Fund, a Korean (CAD$15 million) of the 2032 amortizing bonds for Northland private equity fund to make the acquisition. Power Solar Finance One L.P., the bonds are backed by six solar projects which sell all electricity to the Ontario electricity grid. March 2018: Scotiabank acted as Administrative Agent and Lead Arranger on a MXN$570 million five year senior secured credit facility June 2018: for a subsidiary of Canadian Utilities Limited (“CUL”) to finance the acquisition of a 35 MW fully contracted hydroelectric Scotiabank acted as Joint Bookrunner on a CAD$150 million generation facility and 4.3 km transmission line located in common share offering for TransAlta Renewables Inc., which Veracruz, Mexico. CUL, a subsidiary of ATCO Ltd., is a diversified is among the largest publicly traded renewable independent global energy infrastructure company with operations in North power producers in Canada with over 2,400 MWs in owned and South America, Europe, Australia and Mexico. generating capacity across wind, hydroelectric, solar and natural gas technologies. June 2018: Scotiabank acted as Co-Documentation Agent on a CAD$1.25 billion bank financing for Northland Power Inc., a September 2018: Canadian-based independent power producer with ownership Scotiabank acted as Joint Lead Bookrunner on a interests in a diversified portfolio of onshore and offshore CAD$300 million, 10-year green bond financing for wind, natural gas and solar energy generation facilities Brookfield Renewable Partners ULC, with proceeds used located across Canada and Europe. The company also has to finance and/or refinance investments in renewable ownership interests in an advanced and early stage development power generation. The transaction represented the first pipeline, including two offshore wind projects in Germany non-government, non-financial green bond issued and Taiwan. in Canada. September 2018: Scotiabank acted as Joint Lead Agent on an approximately October 2018: USD$80 million U.S. Private Placement for TerraForm Scotiabank acted as Joint Bookrunner on Fondo Especial para Falcon 1, LLC, a 51 MW portfolio of utility scale solar projects Financiamientos Agropecuarios MXN$5.4 billion green bond in California, Colorado and North Carolina, as well as a offering, which is the only green bond positively endorsed portfolio of smaller distributed generation solar assets in the by two second party opinions from Sustainalytics and Northeastern U.S. Scotiabank also provided the project with Climate Bond Initiative. Also, in October 2018, Scotiabank a letter of credit facility. The project portfolio is owned by acted as Joint Bookrunner on Productos Tissue del Peru S.A.C TerraForm Power Operating, LLC. inaugural PEN 100 million green bond transaction, which was the first green bond public offering in Peru. 43 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Sustainable Finance CrediAuto® In 2018, Scotiabank Mexico continued its CrediAuto program, which offers customers an incentivized credit plan to purchase an electric or hybrid vehicle. The initial cost of such vehicles can sometimes be higher than conventional vehicles. To offset this difference in cost, CrediAuto’s Green Credit Program offers benefits including a preferential interest rate and a cash-back “environmentally friendly bonus.” In 2018, bookings increased by 162% compared to 2017. Along with fuel savings and government incentives, the program seeks to make owning cleaner-running vehicles accessible to more people. Lending under CrediAuto continues to increase year-on-year. In 2018, bookings increased by 162% compared to 2017. 44 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Operational Footprint Greenhouse Gas Emissions Why it Matters In 2017, we set a new global GHG emissions reduction target: a 10% As global populations increase, absolute reduction of Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2021, compared to 2016 demand for energy and natural levels. In 2018, we are well on our way to achieving a 10% reduction by 2021, resources are also increasing. having achieved an 8.87% decrease in Scope 1 and 2 emissions since 2016. Building a better more Our Scope 3 emissions increased by 10.85% in 2018, compared to 2017. sustainable future for our This rise was caused largely by more robust reporting on international travel. customers and our Bank In 2019, we will continue to look at opportunities to address this increase. means minimizing resource GHG emissions are verified on an annual basis by an independent verifier. consumption to reduce our Our letter of assurance can be found on Our Website. impact on climate change. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Global) Metric Tonnes CO2e* Our Approach Source 2018 2017 2016 2015 Scotiabank owns or leases over 2.2 million square metres Scope 1 13,476 13,950 12,409 15,314 of real estate globally. We work to manage and reduce Scope 2 111,990 114,183 125,053 133,930 our operational footprint by focusing on reducing Scope 3 20,020 18,060 15,445 9,803 greenhouse gas emissions, increasing energy efficiency, reducing our waste and TOTAL 145,486** 146,193 152,907 159,047 monitoring water consumption. *Calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Resources Institute and the Our shift to digital, and our World Business Council for Sustainabile Development (www.ghgprotocol.org), including emission factors flexible approach to how for electricity purchases, natural gas and fuel. we work is helping us reduce ** The completeness and accuracy of our total GHG emissions has been verified by an independent third our footprint. party. In 2018, proxy data amounting to 6% of our Scope 2 emissions was not subject to verification. Note: Scope 2 emissions from 2015-2017 have been restated due to new locations acquired internationally. 45 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Operational Footprint Energy Efficiency Initiatives To achieve our GHG emissions reduction target, we have a number Scotiabank’s of energy efficiency initiatives Internal Carbon underway. These help us to not only reduce the amount Price of energy we consume, but also reduce our operating costs. Over the course of 2018, we have As part of our commitment to the Carbon Pricing Leadership densified our head office space in Coalition, we implemented an internal carbon price in 2018. After Toronto, Canada, which will result in consultations with external experts and a thorough peer review, a reduction in absolute emissions for we established an internal tax of CAD$15 per tonne of CO2 for our all renovated premises. In 2018, we global Scope 1 and 2 emissions. This allowed us to fairly compare also retrofitted one of our Toronto projects that required higher upfront costs (but delivered longer office buildings with a green term energy savings), with those that were more cost-effective but roof, providing energy reduction short-term solutions. benefits through insulation, slowing stormwater runoff and regulating In year one of implementation, this enabled HVAC replacements in building temperature. Canadian branches, and the kick off of a pilot solar panel project in the Caribbean. A number of our major office locations have environmental HVAC Upgrades: Through a retrofit initiative, 80 branches in accreditations: Canada were upgraded in 2018, resulting in an estimated savings of 555,629 kWh, or 413 tCO2e. A total of 156 branches have been • Scotiabank Plaza in Toronto, upgraded since the initiative started and 147 branches are due to be Canada – LEED Platinum upgraded by the end of 2019. • Broadgate Tower in London, We plan to further the HVAC retrofit project across our international United Kingdom – Building branch network in FY2019 and beyond. Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Solar panels: In 2018 we kicked off a solar panel initiative in Method (BREEAM) certified Jamaica. Not only will this take advantage of the sunny region, but it will also reduce pollution as the energy supply in Jamaica is heavily • Brookfield Place in reliant on fossil fuels. We plan to extend this initiative in FY2019 to New York, USA – LEED Gold our operations in the other Caribbean countries. We plan to make several upgrades to our Head Office in Toronto – such as a adding a cooling tower and heat exchanger, upgrading our building automation system and modernizing elevators. 46 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Operational Footprint Energy Efficiency in Branches We also help our customers reduce their fossil fuel consumption by encouraging electric vehicles. ThirtyWe have also reduced the footprint of our new branches eight of our branches in Canada are equipped with in Canada, which now range from 1,500 to 4,000 square electric vehicle charging stations. feet, compared to previously occupying 5,000 to 6,500 square feet. Additionally, central control of Waste Reduction workstations in our branches automatically turns off In 2018, Scotiabank continued to reduce the amount unused computers during non-working hours, helping of paper consumption through a variety of initiatives. us to save energy. Scotiabank’s large-scale strategic move to digital products is saving a substantial amount of paper across We’ve reduced the footprint of our global footprint. The Canadian Banking Paperless our new branches in Canada, which now Program aims to increase customer adoption of digital statements, fulfillment materials and communications by range from 1,500 to 4,000 square feet, strengthening digital document capabilities. We digitally compared to previously occupying 5,000 delivered over 95 million documents in 2018, resulting in to 6,500 square feet. over 300 million pages of paper conserved. In our international operations digital advances are In 2018, we upgraded old thermostats to new devices enabling further paper savings. For example, in Colombia that can automatically and efficiently adjust temperatures digital products such as the Zero Account, credit cards to save energy. We annually investigate utilities at and Certificates of Deposit have enabled us to reduce high-consuming premises. Where appropriate, we our paper use by an average of three sheets of paper, implement metrics to reduce environmental impact. per product. For our digitalized Zero Account, almost half a million pages were conserved. In addition, our new digital branches in both Latin America and Canada allow customers to use technology to complete their banking Paper independence means needs, limiting the use of paper. employees print if it helps them review Scotiabank’s newly implemented Activity-Based Working information, but we no longer store culture is allowing us to dramatically reduce our use of or share paper. When combined with paper and our need for square footage. In year one, workplace and technology changes, we reduced paper use by 2.2 million sheets. Once fully implemented, based on initial trials, we estimate that this we’ve seen an 80%+ printing decrease new way of working will reduce paper consumption by year-over-year. Less paper also means approximately 86% compared to the more traditional less space devoted to storage and less workplace culture. Activity-Based Working also enables shredding. It becomes a large cumulative us to reduce the space needed per employee by 40%. By environmental impact.” mid-2019, we will have exited over 300,000 square feet — Gus Scaiano, Vice President, of space at our offices in downtown Toronto, Canada. For Workplace Transformation more information on the Activity-Based Working concept, see Page 26 on the Scotiabank Way We Work initiative. 47 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Operational Footprint Water Consumption We measure water consumption across our Canadian footprint and a portion of our portfolio outside of Canada. We also work with property managers to obtain accurate water consumption data for large buildings where we lease office space. Water Consumption (Canada)* 2018** 2017 2016 M3 M3 M3 Total Use intensity Total Use intensity Total Use intensity (per square metre) (per square metre) (per square metre) 696,067 0.65 719,778 0.67 451,492 0.66 Water Consumption (International)* 2018** 2017 2016 M3 M3 M3 Total Use intensity Total Use intensity Total Use intensity (per square metre) (per square metre) (per square metre) 326,099 0.72 430,331 0.88 418,727 0.88 *The above information was collected from the best available data and methodologies, which includes information directly captured from invoices processed for payment from various water vendors. We continue to expand the geographic scope of our reporting boundary with the objective of reporting total consumption. The above represents the full Canadian portfolio and a sample of the International portfolio. When necessary, some buildings were estimated using consumption data found in similar regions and building types. ** From 2017 onward, our figures represent the full Canadian portfolio. In 2018, our Canadian figures are based on a combination of owned/leased retail locations and office buildings occupied by the Bank across Canada, representing approximately 1,065,504 square meters. In 2016 our Canadian figures only covered a portion of our Canadian portfolio, which is why the total use consumption figure is smaller in 2016 compared to 2017 and 2018. Our International figures are based on a combination of owned/leased retail locations and office buildings occupied by the Bank in Chile, Costa Rica, Colombia, El Salvador, Mexico and Peru, representing approximately 453,417 square meters. 48 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Economic Inclusion From large increases in global population to widespread use of digital technologies, our world is changing rapidly. In a world where the only constant is change, we must thrive in change. We believe that building a better, more resilient future means supporting all of our stakeholders, as our success is intrinsically related to the success of those around us. Whether that means providing access to financial tools and education or supporting employees with a diverse, inclusive workplace where they can grow and succeed, we strive to enable economic inclusion for every customer and employee, providing them with opportunities to build the future. 2018 Highlights Looking Forward • Recognized in the Thomson Reuters • Roll-out the newly announced Scotiabank 2018 Diversity and Inclusion Index and the Women Initiative to enhance access to capital 2019 Bloomberg Gender Equality Index and education for women-led businesses for our work on Diversity and Inclusion • Implement Aboriginal Financial Literacy and • We acted as a Joint Lead Manager for a Education Training in four pilot communities CAD$1 billion World Bank Sustainable followed by all 27 Aboriginal Banking Centres, Development Bond focused on supporting in partnership with AFOA Canada (Aboriginal women and young people Financial Officers Association of Canada) • We maintained a “Gold Level” in the Canadian • Continue to develop new and exciting Council for Aboriginal Business (CCAB) programming to enhance financial education Progressive Aboriginal Relations (PAR) review for customers across our global footprint process. This demonstrates our commitment to working with Aboriginal communities. 49 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Economic Inclusion NO POVERTY For Customers Why it Matters Providing access to financial services and an understanding of how to use them is an essential part of building a better, more inclusive society. According to The World Bank, financial inclusion has been identified an enabler for many of the UN SDGs. With proper financial education and tools, customers can build skills and confidence to manage their financial futures. Our Approach Across our international Newcomers to Canada footprint, we strive to empower customers to succeed by More than 300,00016 people were expected to make Canada their home in providing them with tools and 2018 – and we were delighted to welcome them. education to effectively manage Our StartRight Program addresses the unique banking needs of newcomers their finances. We also support in Canada, and helps them to establish a firm footing to reach their financial specific vulnerable groups such goals. We also support CanPrep, a national pre-arrival program delivered by as students, newcomers to JVS Toronto in partnership with the Toronto Region Immigrant Employment Canada, Aboriginal customers Council and other community organizations in Canada. Scotiabank employees and small businesses access to provide online and in-person mentorship and facilitate interactive webinars for finance. By addressing potential people across the globe looking to move to Canada. barriers these vulnerable groups In 2018, we developed financial literacy webinars tailored specifically to the face, we can contribute to a needs of International Students, Foreign Workers and Permanent Residents. more inclusive future. We also added a “New to Canada” feature to our online branch tools, reducing the time a financial advisor needs to onboard a new customer, and increasing the time to provide advice and explore solutions. We also offer a free chequing account for all students, as well as other discounted services for other customer groups. Our 2018 Public Accountability Statement highlights these products and services. 16 canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/news/notices/supplementary-immigration-levels-2018.html 50 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Economic Inclusion For Customers Access to Finance Through Digital Transformation Technology is providing Two years ago, Scotiabank embarked on a digital unprecedented opportunities for the transformation journey to better serve our customers banking industry to better serve our and become more efficient. customers and make a significant impact Advances in digital technology are making it easier for in our communities. Peruvian entrepreneurs to obtain loans from CrediScotia, our consumer lending and microenterprise division in Scotiabank’s digital transformation has Peru. Technology has made it possible for CrediScotia to created new digital and mobile tools that finance a business loan in under an hour – a process that are giving more consumers and small took up to 48 hours previously. businesses access to the financial system, and finding customized solutions that In 2018, CrediScotia’s Mobile Wallet – help all our customers succeed.” ‘BIM’ – has seen an average of over 4,000 — Ignacio “Nacho” Deschamps, Group Head, International Banking monthly transactions, double that of last year. and Digital Transformation Also in Peru, CrediScotia’s Mobile Wallet – known as Billetera Movil, or BIM – is a cell phone-based banking In addition, our focus on digital transformation is also tool that makes sending and receiving money easier, helping more Colombians join the formal financial without incurring cell phone fees or using data. BIM has system. In 2018, Colpatria’s digital account opening 100,000 users – a 13% increase from 2017 – and sees an process contributed to more than 100,000 new accounts average of over 4,000 monthly transactions, double that being opened. New digital tools dramatically reduced of last year. the amount of time to open a bank account – 10 minutes Microlending – providing loans in small amounts – instead of 25. Formal documents, fingerprints and helps encourage entrepreneurship and economic physical signatures are no longer required to open a growth in developing nations. Making the loan process savings account, and the time for debit card delivery faster and easier is one of the ways in which Pronto!, decreased from 10 days to less than three. Helping the microlending division of Scotiabank Uruguay, is people access basic banking serves as a gateway to other improving access to finance in the country. Existing financial services, such as credit, which can be used to customers can use Pronto! to gain access to small loans invest in their businesses. in just 3 to 7 minutes at self-service kiosks across the country. In 2018, over 75,000 customers interacted with Fee-free Accounts Pronto!, with nearly 57,000 loans and over 4,000 credit cards disbursed. Of these customers, 61% were women. Another way Scotiabank supports financial inclusion is by offering basic banking accounts with no monthly fees in In Panama, we opened our first digital branch in select locations. Basic banking accounts with no fees help La Chorrera in 2018. At this branch, customers learn attract a new customer base who may have viewed fees the power of self-service digital banking from an as a disincentive to joining the formal financial system. in-person service coordinator, learning how easy, safe and comfortable it is to conduct transactions Peru’s Free Account allows free transactions throughout using digital platforms and channels. the country, as well as withdrawals without commissions from ABMs of allied banks abroad. The Free Account 51 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Economic Inclusion For Customers aims to provide customers with an easy and secure sessions for Canadian employees that focused on the option to make deposits and payments instead of relying inclusion of Aboriginal peoples as employees and clients. on cash. The Free Account is the only banking product In 2019, we plan to offer a comprehensive curriculum in Peru that allows customers to access funds at no for employees about the histories, cultures and traditions additional cost from locations outside of the country. of Aboriginal peoples. Elements will focus on creating opportunities for employees to receive traditional teachings from Elders and respected community members to increase Between October 2017 and September 2018, employees’ understanding of Aboriginal cultures. the Zero Fees strategy in Colombia has led to To support Aboriginal youth, we continue to partner over 400,000 new accounts. with Relay Education, promoting renewable energy education to Canadian youth. Working collaboratively with First Nations and Metis communities, Relay provides Similarly in Colombia, Scotiabank’s subsidiary Colpatria educational workshops for Indigenous individuals to build also implemented a Zero Fees strategy that eliminated interest in skills in renewable energy and sustainability. traditional transaction fees, minimum deposit amounts Our sponsorship of Relay’s Green Collar Careers Program and consultation fees. Between October 2017 and encourages Indigenous youth to explore a career in September 2018, the Zero Fees strategy at Colpatria led sustainability. In 2018, over 4,400 students participated, to over 400,000 new accounts. and of those surveyed nearly two-thirds indicated they Other examples of access to finance products and were highly interested in a career in sustainability months services in Canada can be found in the 2018 Public after the initial workshop. Accountability Statement, available on our website. Aboriginal Banking in Canada We have been committed to the Canadian We are also working to have a positive impact on Council for Aboriginal Business since 2001, and Aboriginal people, communities and businesses. Our are proud to maintain a “Gold Level” standing. 27 Aboriginal Banking Centres across Canada, including four on reserves, offer banking specialists who are ready to provide our full range of banking services. In addition, Supporting Small Businesses Commercial Banking provides custom on-reserve lending services to Aboriginal economic development A Government of Canada report highlights that smallorganizations and band councils. We proudly align to to medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) employ over 90% the CCAB Progressive Aboriginal Relations (PAR) review of Canada’s private workforce17. And according to the process. We have been committed to the PAR Program UN’s Economic Commission for Latin America, SMEs since 2001, and are proud to maintain a “Gold Level” “account for 99% of the industrial fabric and create the standing, which demonstrates our sustained leadership majority of jobs” in Latin America and the Caribbean18. in Aboriginal relations and commitment to working with Access to finance is key to the creation, growth and Aboriginal communities and businesses. productivity of SMEs, so we strive to support these businesses through products, programs and partnerships. In 2018, we achieved our target and grew our Aboriginal customer base by 10%, and aim to grow this by an In Costa Rica, we developed a training program that additional 10% in 2019. In 2018, we provided training helped provide guidance and business advice to over 17 Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada. KEY SMALL BUSINESS STATISTICS. June 2016. ic.gc.ca/eic/site/061.nsf/vwapj/KSBS-PSRPE_June-Juin_2016_eng-V2.pdf/$file/KSBS-PSRPE_June-Juin_2016_eng-V2.pdf 18 cepal.org/en/topics/micro-small-and-medium-sized-enterprises-msmes 52 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Economic Inclusion For Customers 490 SMEs. The course covered topics such as branding, time management and driving performance. It also allowed entrepreneurs to network with each other and build their client base. Since 2017, over 3,000 small business representatives from 133 organizations – 59% led by women – have been trained through Scotiabank’s partnership with CARE Peru. At Scotiabank, we believe that run financial knowledge workshops. In 2018, with the if our local businesses thrive, so do support of local governments, knowledge-building our communities. That’s why we’re workshops were held to deliver skills related to committed to supporting businesses of entrepreneurship, financial well-being and social security. all sizes. It is a priority for us as a bank For example, in Arequipa, Peru, a workshop on obtaining and a critical driver of our country’s and using seed capital resulted in 20 organizations economic growth and international implementing their business plans, which ranged from footprint.” textile manufacturing, catering and 3D printing. To date, over 3,000 small business representatives from 133 —Jason Charlebois, Senior Vice President, organizations – 59% led by women – have been trained Small Business Banking in Peru. In addition, 105 organizations were trained in a second phase to deepen their skills. In Canada, we are committed to supporting a In Dominican Republic, our subsidiary dedicated to thriving business environment. In 2018, we invested microfinance, Soluciones Scotiabank, offers products in technology that automates credit approvals up to and services, such as quick loans, to microentrepreneurs. CAD$100,000 for small business customers in Canada, The 2018 annual workshop invited experts to coach reducing the processing time from two weeks to less than around 1,000 microentrepreneurs on resource 30 minutes for many. We also continued to enhance our management, savings and development for the growth digital business account opening platform and further of their businesses. strengthened our digital fraud and AML processes to Our Small Business division in Mexico, meanwhile, protect customers opening accounts online. Through our served over 140,000 small business customers in 2018, partnership with the Canadian Federation of Independent which amounted to over 5,000 credit transactions worth Business (CFIB), we continued to offer CFIB members Mex$2.7 billion (CAD$187 million) in credit and exclusive discounts on banking products and services. Mex$62 billion (CAD$4.3 billion) in deposits. Our annual sponsorship of Startup Canada provides us In 2018, we marked the second of a three-year with a platform to share best practices and advice with partnership with CARE Peru to help improve the new businesses through live tweet chats and podcasts, economic situation of families living in poverty. and opportunities to celebrate their successes through We provide financial support to run programs, and regional and national awards programs. Promotional Scotiabank employees volunteer their time to help activities throughout the year, including those focused 53 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Economic Inclusion For Customers around Small Business Month, kept our Advisors and solutions accessible to more small business Scotiabank Women Initiative customers in Canada. Last year, Small Business Advisors (SBAs) across Canada facilitated branch-level meetings between business owners and local business experts to leverage expertise on how to overcome pain points and challenges. Scotiabank Social was launched, providing resources for SBAs to share relevant business content online with their connections. As well, the Small Business Advisor Excellence Program was introduced, equipping our advisors to better support our customers. Helping Plan For On December 5, 2018, we launched The Scotiabank Women Initiative, The Future a comprehensive program that will advance women-led businesses in Canada through access to capital, education and mentorship. In January 2017, Colpatria Women-owned businesses generate CAD$117 billion in economic established the Financial Education activity in Canada and make up 16% of SMEs in Canada, yet research Committee to help ensure that both cites obtaining access to financing as a major obstacle. We see the customers and employees had the opportunity: we want to be the go-to bank for female business information and tools they needed leaders and combat the unconscious bias that prevents women from to make good financial decisions. taking their business to the next level. We are committed to equal The committee has shared financial access to our full suite of financing solutions. tips on both internal and external social media channels, granted over The program, led by our President and CEO of Tangerine, and an 10,000 customers and employees Advisory Board comprised of various leaders from different business access to Midatacredito, (a thirdlines across Scotiabank, will help women grow their business through party online financial management mentorship sessions to discuss real, topical business challenges and tool) and gave away over 2,200 complex business situations. Through UnMentorship Boot Camps™, copies of a book titled “Personal we will “un-teach” traditionally-held ideas about how to succeed. Finance: Your Best Plan of Life,” The Scotiabank Women Initiative will help us better understand and that Colpatria co-authored with the support women business leaders, so we can become a valued partner Universidad de los Andes. in their success. Visit scotiabankwomeninitiative.com to learn more. 54 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Economic Inclusion For Customers In Canada, the Scotiabank Mapping Tomorrow™ Program is a financial planning tool used by our advisors to create customized plans for customers, based on key We have an important role to play life stages, including education and retirement savings. in helping customers make informed Our online calculators help customers understand the decisions about their finances. Doing our value of creating budgets and saving plans, including part to close the financial literacy gap our Scotiabank Retirement Savings Calculator and our enables customers to meet their financial Scotiabank Money Finder Calculator. goals and fosters trusting relationships. Because, without an understanding of Our online calculators help customers financial concepts customers may not be understand the value of creating budgets and prepared to make the right decisions. saving plans, including our Scotiabank Retirement — Sarah Jordan, Savings Calculator and our Scotiabank Money Senior Vice President, Customer Experience & Omni Channel Strategy Finder Calculator. In 2018, we implemented a new, early engagement In Colombia, we developed a “Healthy Finances” program for our day-to-day banking customers in campaign to engage employees on improving their Canada. The program has been designed to strengthen financial knowledge. We shared financial tips and our customer relationships by providing a personalized addressed topics such as investments, retirement, experience. We provide customers with key information budgeting and managing expenses. We also offered on how to manage and use their accounts, with an intensive training program called “My Finances, topics varying from how to use online banking, setMy Responsibility” to develop personal financial plans up automatic direct deposits, and using our mobile for more than 60 employees. banking app. Our Credit Card Early Engagement Program helps new credit card customers understand Bank At Work the details of these products. The program allows us to As people become increasingly time pressured, we are provide customers with timely and relevant information, working to take financial services out of the Bank and which leads to better product awareness and improved bring them to new and existing customers through our customer experiences. Bank at Work Program. Through commercial banking partnerships, Scotiabank financial advisors visit our customer companies to deliver financial support to their employees. This program allows these employees to develop and implement a personalized financial plan and receive ongoing support from a mobile advisor – without needing to take valuable time out to visit a branch. In the 12 months following its launch in January 2018, advisors completed 500 appointments in Canada, and this is expected to increase with further rollout of the program across the country. 55 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Economic Inclusion For Customers In Costa Rica, we gave 42 face-to-face financial that are both new to investing and those with advanced education workshops at 33 client company’s facilities. knowledge. Our Ask the Expert service allowed customers The talks are given in Spanish and English and cover to ask industry experts about specific investment types. topics such as budgeting and tips to get out of debt. Once the training is completed, participants are encouraged to open a savings account and offered advice on how to manage debt. 89% of attendees Since the launch of the Bank from Work Program gave the Scotia iTRADE in 2018, advisors completed 500 appointments webinars a favourable in Canada, and this is expected to increase with further rollout of the program across the country. rating Online Education In 2018, Scotia iTRADE, our Canadian direct investing platform, delivered over 100 educational webinars to more than 2,000 customers. Topics included sustainability, options trading and investing advice, with each module tailored to be helpful to customers 56 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Economic Inclusion For Employees Why it Matters A diverse, inclusive workforce allows us to better serve the needs of our customers and employees. We respect and appreciate all individuals and strive to create an inclusive culture where our differences and similarities are embraced Scotiabank Inclusion Council across our global footprint. Chaired by our President and CEO, Brian Porter, the Scotiabank Inclusion Council is comprised of senior leaders across all areas of the organization that can affect change within their respective business lines. A key focus of the Our Approach Council is to advance inclusion within Scotiabank and to improve the diversity of our talent pipeline of future leaders. In 2018, the Council met six times and Our Diversity and Inclusion set aspirational goals focused on improving the representation of: strategy seeks to enable every • Women at specific middle management levels employee to reach their fullest • Aboriginal peoples potential. We have a global strategy for Diversity and • Visible minorities Inclusion while also supporting • Persons with declared disabilities local initiatives and activities. The Council has also set a high standard for transparent and open communication through newsroom-style reporting following each council meeting. All council minutes are made available to all employees through our intranet. Scotiabank Named A Top 100 Company For Diversity and Inclusion Globally Scotiabank was proudly included in the Thomson Reuters Diversity & Inclusion Index of the top 100 most diverse and inclusive workplaces globally out of 7,000 evaluated. 57 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Economic Inclusion For Employees Employee Resource Groups and Diversity In the United Kingdom, the Diversity and Inclusion committee facilitated 21 events, activities and initiatives and Inclusion Committees ranging from a mentorship program to breakfast clubs Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are employee-led with leaders, and fundraising events for local charities. initiatives that support underrepresented groups in contributing to our business goals, while promoting Focus on LGBT+ Inclusion greater affinity and understanding. Scotiabank has Scotiabank is committed to LGBT+ inclusion in the 13 formal ERGs, with individual chapters of each active workplace. Since 2016, we have been members of across our global footprint. Each ERG actively works to Pride Connection, a network of companies that seeks provide meaningful opportunities for advancement for to promote inclusive work spaces for sexual and gender their groups. Our recently revitalized enterprise mentorship diversity and generate ties to attract LGBT+ talent. program is being leveraged by various ERGs to promote In 2018, Scotiabank Peru was a founding partner development and increased visibility for ERG members. in launching Pride Connection Peru, which seeks to create a more inclusive culture. Through the initiative, Scotiabank has 13 Employee Resource Groups we advanced our commitment to promote work environments that respect and support the professional across our operations, with individual chapters development of members of the LGBT+ community. of each active across our global footprint. In Uruguay, leaders from Scotiabank worked with several other companies to form a local chapter of We have a global focus on Diversity and Inclusion. For Pride Connection. example, in Colombia, Colpatria formed a Diversity and Inclusion committee that hosted a series of workshops on “Conscious inclusion, Unconscious bias.” Through these workshops, 44 Colpatria leaders were provided Scotiabank Included in with tools to help them identify their own bias, promote diversity and generate a culture of inclusion. In Canada, “Best Places to Work for 667 employees completed a Conscious Inclusion course. Directed at managers, the 2.5 hour in-class course lets LGBT+ Equality” List employees examine their own perceptions of others, identify unconscious biases that they might hold and by Human Rights Campaign Foundation identify the impacts of biases on daily behaviours. in 2018 We are proud to have been recognized for our efforts in supporting the LGBT+ community. In Mexico, we were listed on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2018 “Best Places to Work for LGBT+ Equality” list. Scotiabank Pride Mexico hosted various LGBT+ events in 2018, including the third annual Pride Connection Summit and the Empower LGBT+ Conference. In 2018, we ranked 8th out of more than 30 top Canadian employers in Pride at Work Canada’s Inclusion Index. 58 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Economic Inclusion For Employees A Month-long Celebration of Pride LGBT+ inclusive customer service and environments. Scotiabank Pride in Canada also sponsored Start Proud’s We celebrate June as the global month for Pride and Out on Bay Street Conference, to help promote career LGBT+ inclusion – which is a year-round priority area development in the financial services sector. for Scotiabank. In June 2018, over 1,000 Scotiabankers marched in Pride parades across Canada, Scotiabank Peru Mexico, Costa Rica and other countries. Shows What LGBT+ We celebrate Pride Month around the world in a number Support Looks Like of ways. In June 2018, more than 1,000 employees marched in parades across Canada, Mexico, Costa Rica and other countries. We also introduced a Global Pride marketing campaign on social media and digital channels, at branches and on ABM screens featuring LGBT+ Scotiabankers and allies across our global footprint, and raised flags in support of LGBT+ rights at our corporate headquarters in Mexico, Uruguay, Costa Rica, Peru and at locations across Canada. I was honoured to be approached by a colleague who was transitioning their gender. I immediately reached out to our LGBT+ Council of Chairs for resources about how I could best support them. The response was phenomenal. Now I feel at ease knowing how to best support them in a process I know will be important and impactful.” In 2018, Scotiabank Peru demonstrated that — Scotiabank Employee in Canada we fully support the LGBT+ population. We lit up our building for Pride, which garnered many comments on social media. We were the first bank in Peru to remove gender Scotiabank Pride in Canada hosted a Global LGBT+ from all applications. An internal survey Forum with trans Olympic athlete Chris Mosier as the conducted after these changes were made keynote speaker. As part of the forum, Scotiabank Pride showed that 93% of survey respondents in Canada promoted the International Day of Pink by thought Scotiabank was a diverse bank and hosting young people for a roundtable that explored 84% saw that inclusion was a priority. 59 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Economic Inclusion For Employees Women in Leadership In 2018, we joined Gender Equality Leadership in The proportion of women in our organization in senior the Canadian Private Sector, a partnership between management positions (vice president level or above) 20 companies, the UN Global Compact Network Canada reached a record high of 34% globally in 2018, a 9% and Status of Women Canada. Through this three-year increase since 2013. In 2018, we maintained the number project, we are helping define what gender equality of women in senior management positions at 39% in looks like in the workplace, and contributing to the Canada and increased it to 21% outside of Canada. development of tools and best practices. To continue to strengthen our commitment to women at Scotiabank, we have developed external partnerships with Women of Influence, the Women’s Executive We are working hard to be a Network, The Art of Leadership for Women, Women’s Forum for the Economy and Society and Catalyst destination workplace for women Canada. Our Chairman and CEO have signed pledges seeking careers in the financial of commitment in Canada for the Catalyst Accord, and services industry. We continuously the Canadian Chapter of The 30% Club – initiatives solicit feedback from our employees, that encourage corporate Canada to increase Inclusion Council and employee resource representation of women on boards of directors groups to identify opportunities for the and in executive positions. Bank, because we recognize that it is the thoughts and ideas of our employees Our Chairman and CEO have signed pledges of that can help take us to the next level.” commitment in Canada for the Catalyst Accord, — Darryl Wright, and the Canadian Chapter of The 30% Club. Senior Vice President, Talent 60 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Economic Inclusion For Employees Promoting Gender Equality in Chile In February 2018, Scotiabank Chile was invited to share best practices for Gender Equality at the 4th Global Forum of Companies for Gender Equity, an event organized by the United Nations Development Program, the Government of Chile, UN Women and the International Labour Organization. Scotiabank Chile was the only private bank Scotiabank Chief Human invited to participate in the meeting. Resources Officer Further, as part of Gender Equality month in March, Scotiabank Chile Recognized hosted a panel titled Women in Senior Management: Just a Fad? The panel featured members of the Executive Committee and Board of In 2018, Barbara Mason, Group Directors who spoke about the representation of women in senior Head and Chief Human Resources management, and how the Bank has integrated diversity within our Officer, received the first Canadian culture and corporate values. Employment Equity Champion Award From The Government Of In April, we took part in a forum to discuss advances of female Canada. This award recognizes an representation in advertising and mass media. The initiative was executive leader for their proven inspired by the Unstereotype Alliance, created by UN Women, and track record of championing seeks to eradicate the stereotyped representation of women in mass employment equity within their media and marketing. organization, as well as their overall contribution to diversity in the workplace. Barbara also moderated an inspiring fireside chat with Malala Yousafzai at the annual 2018 Art of Leadership for Women event in 2018, which was attended by more than 2,500 women and men from high-school age to senior business leaders, and provided the welcoming remarks at the Women’s Forum Canada event held in Toronto, Canada in May 2018. 61 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Economic Inclusion For Employees International Women’s Day Our Price of Equality campaign allowed women The advancement of women in the workplace is a to purchase products and services at Scotiabankyear-round priority, but each year, the celebration of affiliated stores at 29.2% discount – the wage International Women’s Day on March 8th provides us gap between men and women in Peru. with an opportunity to remember that gender equity is everyone’s responsibility (reaffirming our support of Sustainable Development Goal 5: Gender Equality). The message behind The Price of Equity proved to be This year in Canada, Scotiabank joined the UN Global timely. On December 28, 2017, the Peruvian congress Compact to ring the opening bell of the Toronto Stock passed a law stating that women should be making the Exchange to celebrate women in business on International same amount of money as men. Women’s Day, joining 40 other stock exchanges globally. In Barbados, we presented an event that featured a panel Scotiabank participated in discussion with women business leaders. The discussion #GirlsTakeover Campaign focused on pursuing one’s passion, overcoming obstacles and succeeding in non-traditional roles. When the barriers that hold girls back are removed and girls are provided equal opportunities, they can transform Also as part of our celebration of International Women’s their lives and communities. On the UN-Declared Day 2018, Scotiabank Peru carried out a campaign called International Day of the Girl, we participated in Plan The Price of Equality to address the gender wage gap in International’s #GirlsTakeover campaign. In October, three Peru, known to be the highest in Latin America. girls, ages 11 to 16, filled the positions of CEO, President The campaign allowed women to purchase products and Director of Human Resources in Peru, Colombia and services at Scotiabank – affiliated stores at a 29.2% and El Salvador respectively. The young women had the discount – the wage gap between men and women in opportunity to meet with female leaders, executives and the country. A widely-watched Video was created to inclusion committees. They discussed the importance of spread awareness for the campaign, which received striving for equal opportunities for girls, as well as the awards at the 2018 Cannes Lions International Festival importance of creating equitable workplaces. of Creativity, Eye of Latin America (Ojo de Iberoamérica) and Festival of Media LatAM (FOMLA). Bond Highlights The Benefits of Investing in Women and Youth In 2018, Scotiabank served as one of three Joint Lead Managers on a CAD$1 billion Sustainable Development Bond issued by the World Bank in Canadian currency. The bond was issued as part of a World Bank Sustainable Development initiative to engage investors on the importance of investing in the health and nutrition of women, children and adolescents, strongly aligning it with our commitment to create a better life for the people we serve around the world. 62 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Young People Long-term social and economic prosperity in our communities depends on future generations. When young people in the community succeed, families, businesses and entire societies are positioned to benefit for years to come. With the right support, children can realize their potential and unlock a future of sustained success that benefits them, their family and their entire community. That’s why Scotiabank invests in a range of programs that build young people’s confidence, grow their character and provide them with resources to shape better communities. 2018 Highlights Looking Forward • Contributed CAD$80 million to the community • Through our new 20-year partnership with in donations, sponsorships and other forms of the Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment (MLSE) assistance of which 70% was focused on our Foundation, we will be working to help young commitment to supporting young people in people in the Greater Toronto Area by the community leveraging the power of sport with a focus • Our Scotiabank Fútbol Club Program reached on community hockey over 450,000 kids across Latin America and • Develop 18 other FútbolNet festivals the Caribbean across six countries over three years in • Reached one million kids and counting partnership with FC Barcelona and the through our commitment to community FC Barcelona Foundation hockey across Canada 63 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Young People In The Community Why it Matters More than 1.8 billion young people19 exist in the world today – more than at any point in history. Our shared future rests in their hands, so it’s important that we invest in them now and provide them opportunity to succeed. Our Approach Youth development is complex and multifaceted, with multiple, Our Strategy: Young People In The Community inter-related factors at play. In 2018, we took a refined view of our approach to helping young people. Scotiabank is committed to The Scotiabank Young People in the Community (YPC) framework is based helping young people reach on six focused disciplines: mind, body, family, community, living space and their infinite potential by education. Although the weighted importance of each of these disciplines investing in the complete varies between individuals and situations, positive youth development requires picture of their development. effort in all of these areas. By supporting positive youth development, we hope our young people today develop internal characteristics such as competence, confidence, compassion, character and a sense of caring. All of which help young people grow into healthy adults and make meaningful contributions to their communities. In 2018, we contributed CAD$80 million to the community – of which 70% was focused on our commitment to supporting young people. 19 worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2015/10/13/addressing-the-youth-employment-crisis-needs-urgent-global-action 64 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Young People In The Community Below, we highlight our 2018 initiatives according to our new strategy focus areas. SCOTIABANK YOUNG PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY STRATEGY Scotiabank and its employees are focused on enriching the lives of young people and their communities. We are dedicated to supporting the success of young people for the long term. We recognize what is possible when young people have the guidance, confidence and tools they need to achieve their dreams. Young people are our future leaders and Scotiabank’s goal is to help ensure that they have the necessary skills and resources they need to support their success. We know that how we support young people today can prepare them for tomorrow, and that’s why we want to help them thrive. Scotiabank is committed to helping young people reach their infinite potential by investing in the complete picture of their development. We believe this is an investment in the long-term security, stability and growth of our communities. EDUCATION FAMILY Improve the quality of Provide resources and and access to education support to the family home MIND BODY Improve mental Improve physical health and foster YOUNG health and encourage the development of PEOPLE a healthy lifestyle positive behaviours LIVING SPACE COMMUNITY Build a living space that is Create a vibrant, inclusive safe, resilient and toxin free and nurturing community 65 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Improve Physical Health Young people should have the tools and knowledge title sponsor of FitSpirit Celebrations. Our support will required to develop and maintain a healthy body. increase the number and size of Celebration events in By supporting programs and activities that promote Canada, allowing FitSpirit to amplify their message and healthy lifestyles, foster positive behaviours and enable even more young women to participate. encourage wellness among young people, we are helping build a better, more vibrant future. In 2018, Scotiabank committed to donating CAD$1 million to FitSpirit over a five-year period to help young women stay active. We will also serve as the title sponsor of FitSpirit Celebrations. Our support will increase the number and size of Celebration events in Canada, allowing FitSpirit to amplify their message and enable even more young women to participate. Leveraging The Power of Sport Through our new 20-year partnership with the MLSE Foundation, we will be working to help young people in the Greater Toronto Area by leveraging the power of sport with a focus on community hockey. MLSE’s Sport For Development methodology is supported by extensive research that suggests the intentional use of sport and physical activity effectively builds healthy Vanessa Cyr Photographie communities and helps young people reach their full potential. MLSE LaunchPad gives youth facing barriers a Physical Fitness place to use sports to recognize and reach that potential. For more than 10 years, FitSpirit has inspired teenage The LaunchPad’s focus is on achieving sustainable, girls to rediscover their love of physical activity. The wide-ranging social outcomes for those youth facing program aims to help girls stay involved with sport – barriers through a Sport for Development approach. which has been linked with increased confidence and skills and resources that promote girls’ future success. Hockey To help support the important work of FitSpirit, in 2018, We support hockey at all levels in Canada: from grassroots we committed to donating CAD$1 million to FitSpirit hockey to the National Hockey League and the Canadian over a five-year period. We will also serve as the Women’s Hockey League. 66 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Improve Physical Health Whether at work, at school or on the ice, we believe that and Uruguay and reaches over 25,000 children on being part of a team is a living example of how we’re over 1,800 community teams. better together – and hockey serves as a compelling Through another program, FútbolNet, in partnership example for Canada’s youth. with FC Barcelona Foundation, we held sports-based In 2018, we continued to celebrate our milestone of festivals in Costa Rica, Mexico, Chile, Peru, El Salvador reaching one million kids and counting through our and Colombia in 2018. These festivals aim to foster commitment to community hockey across Canada. the values of humility, effort, ambition, respect and teamwork among youth. We partnered with local charities, NGOs and soccer federations to ensure each FútbolNet Festival reached populations that would not otherwise have the chance to participate in such an event. Since 2017, more than 6,300 youth participated in the FútbolNet Festivals. This year, 40% of the participants were girls. Over the next four years, an additional 24 FútbolNet Festivals are being planned across six countries, expected to have a positive impact on more than 24,000 children. Soccer (Fútbol) Internationally, we leverage fútbol as a means to encourage positive youth development. Through our Scotiabank Fútbol Club programs, we reach over 450,000 kids across Latin American and the Caribbean. Since 2017, more than 6,300 youth participated in the FútbolNet Festivals. This year, 40% of the participants were girls. One of these programs is Campeonato Infantil (Youth Championships and Leagues), which runs across Chile, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Mexico, Peru 67 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Improve Physical Health We are also working to provide youth with more access to fútbol facilities and equipment. We have built a total of 11 community soccer Supporting fields across five countries: Costa Children in Rica, El Salvador, Mexico, Peru and Uruguay through our Campos Latin America de Fútbol program. To date, this program has benefitted more than Through Fútbol 42,000 children. Baseball SOÑANDO Con El FÚTBOL More than 800 children from In 2018, we worked with FOX Sports Latin America and National 21 communities played in the Geographic TV (NatGeo) to create SOÑANDO con el FÚTBOL, an 2018 Scotiabank Small League inspiring reality documentary series that encourages children in Latin Classic baseball tournament in the America to develop their infinite potential through sport. Dominican Republic. SOÑANDO con el FÚTBOL tells the story of 12 children from Since its creation in 2014, more challenging socio-economic circumstances in Latin America and than 3,000 children have benefitted Canada. Three 30-minute episodes tell the children’s stories through from an event that provides joy and interviews with them, their family members, teammates, coaches, healthy recreation to participants school teachers and friends. and their families while promoting values such as responsibility, SOÑANDO con el FÚTBOL emphasizes the importance of integrity, teamwork and respect. determination, respect, passion, inclusion and teamwork and highlights the positive impact that soccer has had on the lives of these children, including academic performance and social skills. 68 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Improve Mental Health Children who develop healthy cognitive and We also donated CAD$30,000 supporting the Skylark emotional capabilities are more apt to thrive; they Foundation, a leading community health charity are more capable of bettering themselves and more helping young people and their families overcome the likely to improve their relationships with others. emotional, social and psychological effects of mental As one of the six focus areas of our YPC strategy, health challenges. Our donation supports counselling we support activities and initiatives that empower and Skylark’s YouthCan Initiative, which is designed to youth, promote mental health and encourage the provide free, walk-in mental health services for children, development of positive behaviours. youth and their families. We continue to support the Ontario Shores Centre for Mental Health Services through our three-year CAD$75,000 commitment. Our support is focused on the foundation’s commitment to supporting Adolescent Mental Health Literacy. In 2018, more than 100 parent participants attended a mental health information event to promote, educate and train families around mental health literacy. 69 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Improve the Quality of, and Access to Education During the second year of the “Economics for Success 2.0” digital platform, we reached over 3,700 young people in 10 countries. For the second year, Junior Achievement and Scotiabank also organized national and regional Innovation Camp challenges. Youth in 11 countries were asked to dream up creative solutions to financial challenges such as debt, financial planning and the use of digital tools. The winning idea came from a team of girls, whose “Bank Your Selfie” interactive campaign encouraged financial literacy. They were awarded a trip to Scotiabank’s offices in Mexico City and to the Junior Achievement Global Youth Forum in Morelos, Mexico. According to the UN20, access to quality education is the foundation for sustainable development. In addition, our Junior Achievement partnership in Children need access to well-designed and delivered Canada organized the“Dollars with Sense” and “More educational programs that present a diverse array than Money” programs – both fun, interactive programs of content. By investing in skills programs and designed to teach youth key financial skills and develop upgrading the quality of education, we can help entrepreneurial spirit. These programs reached over 1,600 propel young people into the future. students through workshops delivered by Bank volunteers in 2018. Financial Education Since 2015, we have supported TakingITGlobal and Cisco We have a long history of partnering with Junior with the Connected North Program, providing virtual Achievement (JA) and their objective of advancing education to students in remote Indigenous communities entrepreneurship, work readiness and financial literacy across Canada. With a focus on financial literacy, Scotiabank in youth, through workshops and activities. In 2018, our supports the high school curriculum with interactive partnership reached over 12,500 youth – a 6% increase modules on budgeting and financial planning, suited to from the previous year – across 14 countries in Latin the unique realities of the Indigenous communities. The America and the Caribbean. program reaches over 9,500 students in more than 40 schools across five provinces and three territories. JA’s “Economics for Success (EFS) 2.0” digital platform enables a larger number of children than ever to access JA programs digitally. The platform is an innovation to Young Entrepreneurs the previous paper-based EFS platform and is unique In 2018, we supported two youth challenges with to Scotiabank’s partnership with JA. During 2018, our Enactus, an organization that rallies the energy of second year using this platform, participation grew to students to use business as a way to address social issues. reach over 3,700 youth in 10 countries. The Scotiabank Youth Empowerment Challenge and the 20 un.org/sustainabledevelopment/education/ 70 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Improve the Quality of, and Access to Education Scotiabank EcoLiving Green Challenge are both Canadian Scotiabank is proud to partner with CICan to launch competitions that encourage post-secondary students to the CICan/Scotiabank Global Mobility Program, a new develop solutions to challenges facing young people and pilot project that provides Canadian students with the the environment. opportunity to gain valuable international experience and In 2018, 1,332 Enactus students logged 95,131 volunteer contribute to an increasingly globalized world. In 2018, hours in the Scotiabank EcoLiving Green Challenge, we sponsored two students from Canadian colleges. coming up with sustainable solutions to pressing They joined teams at our Digital Factory in Mexico to help environmental issues. Meanwhile, 1,615 students tallied redesign screens for all Scotiabank ATMs across Mexico, 109,692 hours in the Youth Empowerment Challenge. A among other projects. total of 34,091 community participants and youth were Academic Partnerships directly impacted by these projects. In 2018, we invested over CAD$5 million in In Peru, we continued our support of Plan International’s Canadian academic institutions to support our digital Formando Emprendedores del Mañana (“Forming the transformation strategy, with a focus on encouraging entrepreneurs of tomorrow”) Program in 2018. Since its more digital learning among students. In addition to inception, this program has helped more than 120,000 the established digital-driven partnerships with some of primary and secondary school students across 120 Canada’s most reputable universities, including the Smith educational institutions and 5,400 teachers build their School of Business, Ivey Business School, Rotman School financial and entrepreneurial skills, improving the social of Management and UBC Sauder School of Business, and economic capacities of children and adolescents in 2018 saw two new agreements with the University of the Lima and Piura regions. Waterloo and the University of Alberta. In January 2018, The Scotiabank $20 Challenge was created by the FactoryU, a new research and experiment centre, was Barbados Entrepreneurial Foundation to engender established in Waterloo Ontario, one of Canada’s fastestentrepreneurial skills in youth and encourage them to growing technology hubs. In the latter part of 2018, create actual business plans, sell products and donate we worked with the University of Alberta to establish a portion of profits to charity. the CAD$1.25 million Scotiabank Centre for Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence and amplified our academic partnerships strategy through the creation of Skills for the Future programming to support aligned college partners. Further in 2018, we supported 150 Canadian researchers, professors and students and contributed over CAD$2.5 million in scholarships to enable young people to pursue post-secondary studies. 71 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Create a Vibrant, Nurturing and Inclusive Community Youth are best positioned for success when they We are proud to be the Co-Presenting Partner of the Rick grow up in communities that treat everyone Hansen Foundation School Program. The program, which well. We work to advance vibrant and robust had 1,500 new educators register last year, provides communities that are high-functioning, open educators and students with a comprehensive set of and inclusive to all. resources to raise awareness and change attitudes about accessibility and inclusion. Through You Can Play’s hockey programs, we made a CAD$20,000 donation to support educational outreach to youth community hockey leagues. The Scotiabank Regional Solidarity Funds Program allows Scotiabank branches in Chile to apply for funding to support youth organizations in their local communities. In 2018, Concepción and Chilean branches received the maximum funding amount of CLP$1,200,000 (CAD$2,370) to support youth living with disabilities, chronic disease and in vulnerable conditions. Helping All Youth Be Engaged In 2018, we supported several organizations dedicated to promoting inclusion among youth. Through You Can Play’s hockey programs, we made a CAD$20,000 donation to support educational outreach to youth community hockey leagues. The donation will also be used to host workshops designed for coaches to create inclusive team environments, in order to increase LGBT+ inclusion in team sports. 72 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Building a Living Space That is Safe, Resilient and Toxin-Free All youth need clean, safe and high-functioning communities and environments where they can grow into successful, thriving adults. We support programs that promote safe, resilient and toxinfree communities – giving kids the worry-free environment necessary for healthy development. We invest in programs for homeless and youth at risk of violence and abuse. In 2018, we continued our 18-year support of the Corporación María Ayuda, an organization in Chile that welcomes children and adolescents whose rights are violated through abandonment, violence and abuse. We provide support to the organization through philanthropic donations and employee volunteer efforts. In 2018, as the National Youth Program Sponsor, we helped Relay deliver renewable energy workshops to over 12,000 youth across Canada. We also support addressing climate change. In 2018, we sponsored students from Mexico City, Yellowknife January to November 2018, our sponsorship enabled and Eskasoni, Nova Scotia who participated in the over 12,600 youth in nearly 500 workshops to learn Students on Ice Foundation’s Arctic Expedition. Together more about renewable energy and the impacts of climate with 126 Canadian and international students and change. This represents a 64% increase in workshops 95 renowned educators and staff, this educational delivered compared to 2017, and 35% increase in youth journey focused on four important overall themes: participants. climate change, sustainable development, truth and reconciliation, and ocean conservation and literacy. In 2018, we became the National Youth Program Sponsor of Relay Education, a leader in renewable energy education. We support Relay’s elementary school workshops, the annual Kids’ World of Energy Festival based in Toronto and the Green Collar Careers Program. We also sponsor Relay’s elementary school programs for indigenous children and our green career workshops for indigenous youth (ages 15-29). From 73 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Provide Resources and Support to Families A strong family unit can often provide the resources Since 1981, Ronald McDonald House Charities® Toronto and support to nurture healthy child development. has served as a place to call home for families with Such families should be strengthened and supported. seriously ill children undergoing treatment. Our support Our support helps families to achieve long term for the Ronald McDonald House Child Life Program in economic stability, arms parents with knowledge Canada is designed for both patients and their siblings. and tools to nurture and develop children and The program provides a safe environment to ask medical provides secure and stable home environments. questions and receive answers in age-appropriate language. Our support enables the space to meet increased demand and offer its services 20 hours a week. We are the lead sponsors of the Canadian Foundation for Economic Education’s (CFEE) Talk with Our Kids About Money Day which helps teachers and parents have important conversations with kids about money. For the 14th consecutive year, Scotiabank El Salvador carried out its annual fundraising campaign for the non-profit TECHO, which raised CAD$24,000. We also made a corporate donation of close to CAD$40,000. Funds were raised thanks to the support of 1,500 of our We believe all youth should be able to confidently discuss employees and customers. Scotiabank El Salvador has money-related topics so they can make more informed helped TECHO in fundraising campaigns since 2004 with financial decisions throughout their lives. a focus on supporting low-income families, donating over We are the lead sponsors of the Canadian Foundation CAD$2 million since. for Economic Education’s (CFEE) Talk with Our Kids About Money Day which helps teachers and parents have important conversations with kids about money. The program offers activities that promote financial knowledge for youth and encourage conversations between parents and children about money. Talk with Our Kids About Money Day is held annually in April. In 2018, approximately 7,700 educators and an estimated 990,000 youth participated in the program across Canada – an increase of 40% over the previous year. 74 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix This Appendix contains disclosures for the following: Communication Global Reporting on Progress Index Pages 75-77 Pages 78-111 Pages 79-111 Appendix: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Scotiabank recognizes that climate change is one of the biggest challenges of our time. As part of this we are proud to join a global movement of like-minded businesses toward a low-carbon future. The table below is an Index using the TCFD, and is complementary to the language found on pages 39 and 40 of this report. Theme and Area Disclosure/Further Information for Reference GOVERNANCE: Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities. a) Board oversight • 2018 Annual Report: Climate Change (TCFD) and Governance of Climate Change risk (p. 87-88), Environmental Risk (p. 108) • 2018 Management Proxy Circular: Shareholder proposal – Commitment to Decarbonization (p. 24) • 2018 CDP Response: Governance C1.1a, C1.1b (p. 3-4) b) Management role • 2018 Annual Report: Climate Change (TCFD) and Governance of Climate Change risk (p. 87-88), Environmental Risk (p. 108) • 2018 Management Proxy Circular: Shareholder proposal – Commitment to Decarbonization (p. 24) • 2018 CDP Response: Governance C1.2, C1.3 (p. 4-6) 75 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Theme and Area Disclosure/Further Information for Reference STRATEGY: Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material. a) Risks and opportunities • 2018 Annual Report: Provision for Credit Losses (p. 29), Risk Identification and Assessment (p. 76), Climate Change Risks (TCFD) and Governance of Climate Change risk (p. 87-88), Environmental Risk (p. 108) • 2018 CDP Response: Risks and Opportunities C2 (p. 7-16), Business Strategy C3.1g (p. 19) b) Impact of climate risk and • 2018 Annual Report: Climate Change (TCFD) and Governance of opportunities on business Climate Change risk (p. 87-88), Environmental Risk (p. 108) • 2018 Management Proxy Circular: Shareholder proposal – Commitment to Decarbonization (p. 24) • 2018 Sustainable Business Report: Focus on the Environment (p. 38-40), Sustainable Finance (p. 41) • 2018 CDP Response: Risks and Opportunities C2.3, C2.4, C2.5 (p. 11-17) c) Resilience of corporate • To be completed in FY2019 and FY2020 strategy, considering climate scenarios RISK MANAGEMENT: Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses and manages climate-related risks. a) P rocess to identify and • 2018 Annual Report: Risk Identification and Assessment (p. 76), assess climate risks Environmental Risk (pg. 108) • 2018 Sustainable Business Report: Focus on the Environment (p. 38-40), Sustainable Finance (p. 41) • 2018 CDP Response: Governance C1 (p. 3-6), Strategy C2.1-C2.2c (p. 7-10), 2.3 (p. 11-13) 76 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Theme and Area Disclosure/Further Information for Reference b) Managing climate risk • 2018 Annual Report: Risk Identification and Assessment (p. 76), Environmental Risk (p. 108) • 2018 Sustainable Business Report: Material ESG Topics and Stakeholder Engagement (p. 11-14) • 2018 CDP Response: Strategy C2.2d (p. 10-11), 2.3 (p. 11-13) c) Integrating climate • 2018 Sustainable Business Report: Focus on the Environment (p. 38-40) risk into overall risk • 2018 CDP Response: Governance C1 (p. 3-5), Strategy 2.2 (p. 8-11) management METRICS AND TARGETS: Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material. a) Metrics used to assess • 2018 Annual Report: Credit Risk – Loans and Acceptances by type of climate-related risk and borrower (p. 122) opportunities • 2018 Management Proxy Circular: Shareholder proposal – Commitment to Decarbonization (p. 24) • 2018 Sustainable Business Report: Our Progress (p. 15, 17), Climate Change (p. 37), Climate Change – Sustainable Finance (p. 42-43); Climate Change – Operational Footprint (p. 45) • 2018 CDP Response: Governance 1.3 (p. 6-7), Targets and Performance, C4 (p. 19-23) b) GHG disclosure for • 2018 Sustainable Business Report: Our Progress (p. 15, 17), Scope 1, 2 and 3 Climate Change – Operational Footprint (p. 45), Appendix (p. 91) • 2018 CDP Response: CC5 Emissions Methodology, CC6 Emissions Data and CC7 Emissions Breakdowns (p. 25-37) c) Targets used to manage • 2018 Management Proxy Circular: Shareholder proposal – climate-related risks Commitment to Decarbonization (p. 24) and opportunities and • 2018 Sustainable Business Report: Our Progress (p. 15, 17), performance Climate Change (p. 37), Climate Change – Sustainable Finance (p. 42-43); Climate Change – Operational Footprint (p. 45) 77 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index UN Global Compact Communication Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) on Progress (CoP) Out of the 17 SDGs, we have the greatest positive impact Scotiabank reaffirms its support of the UNGC Global on six of the Goals and the associated targets through Compact and the 10 Principles. The Index below serves our Sustainable Business priorities. as our Communication on Progress, where descriptions SDG 1: NO POVERTY of our practical actions against UNGC principles can be 1.2 Reduce at least by half all people living in poverty found, as described below. 1.3 Social protection systems for the poor and vulnerable 1.4 Equal rights to economic resources Human Rights SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect 3.2 End preventable child mortality by supporting the protection of internationally proclaimed human primary healthcare rights. 3.4 Promote mental health and well-being 3.8 Achieve universal health coverage Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. SDG 4: QUALITY EDUCATION 4.1 Free primary and secondary education for all girls Labor and boys Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of 4.3 Ensure equal access for all to technical and tertiary education 4.4 Increase youth and adult vocational skills for employment association and the effective recognition of the right 4.5 Eliminate gender disparities in education to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination SDG 5: GENDER EQUALITY 5.1 End all forms of female discrimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5.5 Ensure equal opportunities for leadership at all levels Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. SDG 8: DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 8.2 Increase economic productivity through diversification Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of and innovation discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. 8.3 Promote job creation and entrepreneurship 8.5 Full and productive employment for all people with Environment equal pay 8.6 Reduce youth unemployment through education Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary or training approach to environmental challenges. 8.8 Protect labor rights and safe working environments Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives 8.10 Expand access to banking for all to promote greater environmental responsibility. SDG 13: CLIMATE ACTION Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 13.2 Integrate climate change measures 13.3 Improve climate change education Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 78 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index GRI Index This is Scotiabank’s second year reporting against the GRI Standards. The GRI Standards are an internationally recognized framework for disclosing economic, environmental and social performance. This 2018 report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Page numbers referencing where content can be located refer to the 2018 Sustainable Business Report, unless otherwise stated. SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-1 Name of the organization The Bank of Nova Scotia (Scotiabank) 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services See page 1 102-3 Location of Headquarters The head office of the Bank is located at 1709 Hollis Street, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada and its executive offices are at Scotia Plaza, 44 King Street West, Toronto, Canada. 102-4 Location of Operations 8.10 In Fiscal Year 2018, we operated in: North America: Canada, Mexico, United States; Central and South America: Belize, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Guyana, Panama, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela; Caribbean: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Curacao, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Grenada, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, St Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, St Maarten, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands, U.S. Virgin Islands; Asia Pacific: Australia, China, Hong Kong SAR, India, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand; Europe: Ireland, United Kingdom 102-5 Ownership and legal form The Bank is a Schedule 1 bank under the Bank Act (Canada) and is publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange and New York Stock Exchange. The Bank is widelyheld with no person or group being permitted to hold more than 10% of any class of shares of the Bank. 79 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles 102-6 Markets served See page 1 102-7 Scale of the organization See page 1 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 8.5 3 A. Total Workforce by Employment Contract and Gender*† Permanent Contract Total Female 42,686 5,156 47,842 Male 32,808 3,731 36,539 Total 75,494 8,887 84,381 B. Total Workforce by Employment Contract and Region* Permanent Contract Total Americas 74,484 8,840 83,324 Asia 634 21 655 Europe 364 26 390 Oceania 12 0 12 Total 75,494 8,887 84,381 C. Total Workforce by Employment Type and Gender*† Full-time Part-time Total Female 39,896 6,407 46,303 Male 34,301 2,000 36,301 Total 74,197 8,407 82,604 *Headcount as of October 31, 2018. Excludes casual staff, and affiliates and subsidiaries where breakdowns are not available due to different reporting systems. † Note while we have breakdowns by gender, this may not reflect actual gender identities of employees. 80 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles 102-9 Supply chain 12.7 1, 2 We have an indirect supply chain. See page 32 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain There were no significant changes to the organizational structure, size or ownership of Scotiabank or its supply chain during the 2018 fiscal year. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 13.3 7 Our Environmental Policy explains our precautionary principle approach. See page 38 for a summary of our Policy. 102-12 External initiatives 17 1, 10 Equator Principles, United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), United Nations Environmental Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), United Nations Guiding Principles on Business Conduct and Human Rights, Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, Global Reporting Initiative, Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), Dow Jones Sustainability Index, Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 81 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles 102-13 Membership of associations 17.7 Affiliations and memberships of members of the Board are listed below. Board Member Affiliation Nora A. Aufreiter Ivey School of Business, Member of the Advisory Board Scott B. Bonham C100 Association, Director Denmark Bridge, Director Vector Institute, Director Integrate AI, Advisory Board Canadian Institute for Advanced Research, CIFAR, Director Charles H. Dallara Tufts University, The Fletcher School, Vice-Chair of Board of Advisors National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) Inc. – Director at Large R. Tiff Macklem Global Risk Institute in Financial Services, Director and Chair Ontario’s Panel for Economic Growth and Prosperity, Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto, Chair of the Panel Asian Business Leaders Advisory Council, Asian Pacific Foundation, Member International Centre for Pension Management, Director Expert Panel on Sustainable Finance, Government of Canada Thomas C. O’Neill The Stephen J.R. Smith School of Business at Canada’s Queen’s University, Member of the Advisory Board Queen’s University, Smith School of Business, Advisory Board Eduardo Pacheco Universidad de los Andes, Member – Superior Council Colfuturo – Fundacion para el future de Colombia, Director Endeavor Colombia, Director ProBogota, Director Brian J. Porter Institute of International Finance (IIF), Vice-Chairman and Treasurer Council of the Americas, Director Business Council of Canada, Director 82 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles Board Member Affiliation Aaron R. Regent C.D. Howe Institute, Director Plan International Canada, Director Mining4Life, Co-Founder Trails Youth Initiatives, Member of the Board of Governors Indira V. Samarasekera Asia Pacific Foundation of Canada, Director The Trilateral Commission, Member Knightsbridge Robertson Surrette, Academic Advisory Council Canada’s Outstanding CEO of the Year, Advisory Board Susan L. Segal Americas Society, Director, Officer and President and CEO Council of the Americas, Director Officer and President and CEO Council on Foreign Relations, Member Tinker Foundation Benita M. Warmbold Queen’s University, Smith School of Business, Advisory Board Queen’s University, Board of Trustees, Vice-Chair Canadian Public Accountability Board, CPAB, Director In Canada, Scotiabank is also a member of this following: • Business Council of Canada • Canadian Chamber of Commerce • Toronto Finance International • Canadian Bankers Association 83 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles 102-14 Statement from the senior decision-maker See pages 3-4 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 16.7 1, 10 Scotiabank’s Values are: Respect, Integrity, Passion and Accountability. See page 20 102-18 Governance structure 5.5 See page 21 and 2018 Management Proxy page 28 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 17.6 See pages 11-14 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 8.8 1, 3 As of October 31, 2018, 14% of the total population at Scotiabank was covered by a collective bargaining agreement (CBA). Detailed numbers by country are in the following chart: Approx. # employees Total Population Country % covered by CBA (Union & Non-union) Brazil 69 69 100% Uruguay 1,444 1,395 97% Antigua & Barbuda 65 70 93% Saint Vincent 33 29 88% Saint Lucia 95 79 83% Grenada 51 41 80% Jamaica 1,973 1,469 74% Chile 7,580 5,161 68% 84 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles Approx. # employees Total Population Country % covered by CBA (Union & Non-union) Barbados 268 140 52% Mexico 12,989 3,386 26% Singapore 215 38 18% Peru 11,224 652 6% Colombia 7,360 154 2% Trinidad & Tobago 1,629 4 0% 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 17.6 See pages 11-14 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 17.6 See pages 11-14 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 17.6 See pages 11-14 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Please see list of principal subsidiaries in annual report, page 223 as of November 27, 2018. For more information about this report, see page 1. 85 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Material Topics Boundary 103-1 Management 103-2 Evaluation 103-3 Trust Material inside and Our management of Benchmarking, ESG Governance of outside Scotiabank, for these material topics rankings, customer and operations employees, customers, can be seen described employee feedback. investors and wider throughout the Trust Corporate structure stakeholders. section, on pages 19-36. Transparency of operations and services Human rights Fair labor practices Customer service Data privacy and security Fair design and sale of responsible products and services Talent attraction, engagement and development Sustainable/responsible procurement supply chain Commitment to external sustainability/CSR initiatives 86 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles Material Topics Boundary 103-1 Management 103-2 Evaluation 103-3 Climate Change Material inside and Our management of Benchmarking, sales Environmental footprint outside Scotiabank, these material topics results, transactions for employees, future can be seen described reviewed for social/ Environmental/social risk employees, customers, throughout the Climate environmental risk, total management in lending investors and wider Change section, on financed in renewable Creation of products stakeholders. pages 37-48. energy, GHG reduction with environmental target. benefits Economic Inclusion Material inside and Our management of Benchmarking, customer F inancial education/ outside Scotiabank, for these material topics services feedback, literacy employees, customers, can be seen described employee engagement investors, future throughout the Economic survey, as well as our own Innovation/digitization employees and the wider Inclusion section, on KPIs including: Financial inclusion/access community. pages 49-62. Increase in Aboriginal Creation  of products customer base with social benefits Increase in small business -D  iversity and equal banking loans opportunity Number of women in E mployee health and senior management well-being positions Employee engagement score Young People Material inside and Our management of Amount of funding to Community investment outside Scotiabank, for these material topics community organizations and philanthropy employees, customers, can be seen described globally, number of investors and the wider throughout the Youth employee volunteer Health and well-being and education of youth community. section, on pages 63-74. hours and total spent on donations, sponsorships and other forms of assistance towards young people. 87 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles 102-47 List of material topics See pages 11-14 and GRI 102-46 102-48 Restatements of information There are no material effects from restatements referenced in this report. 102-49 Changes in reporting We have evolved our CSR strategy to Sustainable Business, as described on page 9. Notwithstanding this, there have been no changes to Scope and Aspect Boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period The 2018 Fiscal year. This runs November 1, 2017 to October 31, 2018. 102-51 Date of most recent report The 2017 CSR Report was published on March 14, 2018. 102-52 Reporting cycle: Annual, on fiscal year 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report: csr@scotiabank.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards The 2018 Sustainable Business Report was prepared in accordance with GRI Standards Core guidelines. 102-55 GRI content index See pages 79-111 102-56 External assurance This report was not externally assured. An independent service provider assured our greenhouse gas emissions data. The report content is approved by Senior Vice Presidents, and reviewed by senior bank executives and by the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board. 88 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles ECONOMIC Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 5.1, 8.1, See pages 9, 27-28, 51-56, 64-74, 42-43, the Annual Report, and 8.2 Public Accountability Statement. 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 13 climate change pages 39-40, 42-43, Appendix pages 75-77, the Annual Report pages 87-88. 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 8.5 1 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations A. Estimated Value of Liabilities $4,883,047 as of November 1, 2017 B. Extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are 121% funded on a Going Concern Basis at estimated to be covered November 1, 2017 C. Funding strategy Follows Canadian legislative requirements for funding pension plans. D. Employee Contributions 4% of salary if employee participates in the Contributory portion of the plan or 0% to 4% if the employee participates in the Defined Contribution portion of the plan. The employer contributes the remaining amount needed to pay the pension benefit and matches the employee contributions into the Defined Contribution portion of the plan. E. Plan participation 35,009 as of November 1, 2017 Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 9.1, 13.1 See pages 42-43 89 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles Anti-Corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 10 From a total of 274 business units, 129 were assessed for risks related to corruption. This represents 47% of business units. No significant risks related to corruption were identified through the risk assessments. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 16.7 1, 10 Adherence to the Code is a condition of employment at Scotiabank, all employees, directors and officers are required to receive, read and comply with the Code, and any other applicable Scotiabank policies and affirm their compliance on an annual basis. Scotiabank Code of Conduct training is provided to all new hires and annually to existing employees. This course covers the six Principles as set out in the Code along with content relating to other key employee conduct policies. The course was rolled out to all employees globally during the 2018 Mandatory Learning. In addition to the Code training, a separate Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (‘ABAC’) course, a learning tool designed to provide training and guidance to employees on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption, was rolled out to all employees. This course is assigned to employees through the me@scotiabank learning platform, the International Learning Centre or local learning platforms. It includes detailed guidance, scenarios and a test. The Board of Directors reviews and approves the Scotiabank Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. A total of 93,232 employees completed the ABAC course in 2018, out of a total of 94,993 employees assigned the training, 98.1% participation rate. By Region: By Employee Category: Percentage Employee Percentage Region Completed Completed Complete Category Complete Asia 668 100% Casual 1,048 79.5% Caribbean and 11,726 100% Contract 7,956 96.4% Central America Europe 371 99.2% Regular 68,374 99.1% Latin America 42,903 96.8% Not Specified21 15,854 96.3% North America 37,564 99.2% Total 93,232 98.1% Total 93,232 98.1% Employees who do not have access to Scotiabank’s centralized Learning 21  Management System (LMS). Training completion records are tracked outside the LMS, but without the Employee Category attribute. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 10 Zero incidents 90 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles ENVIRONMENT Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 7.2, 8.4, 8 13.1 2018 Energy Consumption (Canada) Type of Energy Total Energy Use Total GHG GHG Intensity GHG Intensity Emissions* (per employee) (per square metre) Electricity (MWhs) – 235,555 31,361 Scope 2 Heat (GJs) – Scope 2 147,330 7,519 Fuel Purchases (GJs) 257,023 12,931 – Scope 1 Total Electricity 51,811 1,252,349 GJs 1.41 0.0486 and Fuel metric tonnes 2018 Energy Consumption (International) Type of Energy Total Energy Use Total GHG GHG Intensity GHG Intensity Emissions* (per employee) (per square metre) Electricity (MWhs) – 192,635 73,111 Scope 2 Fuel Purchases (GJs) 8,024 545 – Scope 1 Total Electricity 73,656 701,510 GJs 1.55 0.0626 and Fuel metric tonnes The above information was collected from the best available data and methodologies, which includes information directly captured from invoices processed for payment from various utility vendors. When necessary, some buildings were estimated using consumption data found in similar regions and building types. In 2018, our Canadian figures are based on owned and leased retail locations and the space occupied by the Bank in office buildings across Canada, representing approximately 1,065,504 square meters. Our International report is based on owned and leased retail locations and the space occupied by the Bank in office buildings Internationally, representing approximately 1,176,095 square meters. *Calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainabile Development (www.ghgprotocol.org), including emission factors for electricity purchases, natural gas and fuel. 91 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles 302-3 Energy intensity 7.2, 8.4, 8 The Bank uses FTE and square metres of real estate occupied as its denominators, 13.1 types of energy included in the intensity ratio are fuel, electricity, heating, steam. The ratio uses energy consumption within the organization. 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 8.4, 13.1 8, 9 See pages 45-47 Water 303-5 Water consumption 13.1 8 See page 48 GHG Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 13.1 8 See page 45 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 13.1 8 See page 45 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 13.1 8 See page 45 92 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles Emissions Factors Canadian Provincial Hydro Factors Province Hydro Factor Newfoundland 0.0000370 Prince Edward Island 0.0000250 Nova Scotia 0.0006800 New Brunswick 0.0003400 Quebec 0.0000013 Ontario 0.0000360 Manitoba 0.0000019 Saskatchewan 0.0006600 Alberta 0.0007600 British Columbia 0.0000111 Reference: Canada’s 2018 UNFCCC Submission – Annex 13 Unit: Metric Tonnes CO2e per MWH Other fuel factors Factor Units Gas 0.00188496 Metric Tonnes CO2e per Cubic Meter Oil 0.0029393 Metric Tonnes CO2e per Litre Propane 0.0016117 Metric Tonnes CO2e per Litre Reference: GHG Protocol V4.0 2010 Release 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 13.1 8 The Bank uses full-time employees and square metres of real estate occupied as its denominators. Direct (Scope 1), Energy Indirect (Scope 2) are included in the intensity ratio. CO2, CH4, N2O are gases included in the calculation. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 13.1 8, 9 See pages 45-47 93 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method This information is not currently available. For paper reduction initiatives, see page 47. Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 12 7 All new and existing suppliers invited by Global Procurement Services to participate in formal Request for Proposals were assessed and evaluated based on a set of quantitative and qualitative criteria, which includes ESG factors. SOCIAL 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 5.1, 8.5, 3, 6 8.6 A. Total number and percentage of new employee hires during the reporting period (by age group, gender and region). Region Number of Employees Percent Americas 25,064 99% Asia 145 1% Europe 75 0% Oceania 9 0% Total 25,293 Age Group Number of Employees Percent Under 30 years 14,167 56% 30 to 50 years 9,941 39% Over 50 years 1,185 5% Gender Number of Employees Percent Female 13,634 54% Male 11,659 46% 94 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles B. Total number and percentage of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. Region Number of Employees Percent Americas 20,151 99% Asia 136 1% Europe 78 0% Oceania 4 0% Total 20,369 Age Group Number of Employees Percent Under 30 years 8,039 39% 30 to 50 years 7,965 39% Over 50 years 4,365 21% Gender Number of Employees Percent Female 11,892 58% Male 8,481 42% 2018 2017 2016 Voluntary employee 16% 13% 13% turnover (global) Notes: Excludes casual staff, and affiliates and subsidiaries where breakdowns are not available due to different reporting systems. The increase in voluntary employee turnover in 2018 is due to pension plan changes in Canada. 95 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 3.2, 5.3, 1, 3, 6 temporary or part-time employees 8.5 Benefits that are provided to full-time, part-time, and temporary employees Benefit Full Time Part Time Temporary (Contract) Life Insurance ✓ ✓ ✓ (1 year) Health Care ✓ ✓ ✓ (1 year) Disability and invalidity ✓ coverage N/A for long-term ✓ ✓ disability (1 year) for short-term disability Parental leave ✓ ✓ ✓ Retirement provision ✓ ✓ N/A Stock ownership ✓ ✓ N/A Other: Optional Benefits Optional Life, AD&D, ✓ ✓ ✓ Out of Province/Country (1 year) Health Insurance, Critical Illness 96 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles Labour/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 8.6 1, 3, 6 A. Minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their representatives prior to the implementation of significant operational changes that could substantially affect them: In unionized locations in the English Caribbean, the following notice periods apply: Antigua and Barbuda: Scotiabank consults with the union three months in advance of lay off due to lack of work. Barbados: The Bank shall consult with Union three months in advance of lay off due to lack of work. Additionally, consultation with employees or the Union is required at least six weeks before any dismissals which will result in a reduction of 10% or another significant number. Grenada: The Bank shall notify the Union 90 calendar days in advance of lay off due to lack of work. Meetings are to be convened within 30 days of the Union receiving notice of position redundancies. St. Lucia: One week of notice is required if the period of employment is more than 12 weeks but less than two years; two weeks of notice is required if the period of employment is two years or more but less than five years; four weeks of notice is required if the period of employment is five years or more but less than 10 years. St Vincent: Scotiabank shall consult with the Union three months in advance of lay off due to lack of work. Jamaica: Reasonable notice is required based on the circumstances of each case of an employment lay off. In the unionized locations of Latin-America, the following notice periods apply: Mexico: Scotiabank’s general practice to maintain positive labour relations is to socialize the operational change in advance with the union. Peru: At least eight days of notice is required when there are changes related to work schedules. At Crediscotia, eight weeks of notice is required for changes in work schedules. Uruguay: Scotiabank’s general practice to maintain positive labour relations is to socialize the operational change in advance with the union. Brazil: Four weeks of notice is required. In the unionized locations in Asia Pacific, notice periods apply in the following jurisdictions: Singapore: Scotiabank’s general practice is to communicate with employees and their representatives (union) prior to the implementation of significant operational changes that could substantially affect their employment terms and conditions. Malaysia: A minimum of three months is required. 97 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles In non-unionized locations, notice periods apply in the following jurisdictions: Ireland: Minimum notice legislation and is based on length of service. While the notice entitlements under a contract of employment can exceed the minimum periods below, any provision for notice in a contract for less than the above is invalid. There is also legislation on ‘consultation periods’ with minimum consultation being 30 days, i.e. Four to five weeks. Japan: Four weeks is required (30 calendar days). Guyana: 30 days of notice is required. India: Three weeks of notice is required. B. Notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiations where Collective Bargaining Agreements exist. In the Caribbean the following notice periods apply: Antigua and Barbuda: Scotiabank will call a meeting with the Union if the Union Officials request within 14 days of getting notice of lay-offs. Barbados: The Bank shall consult with the Union three months in advance of lay-off due to lack of work. Grenada: The Bank shall notify the Union 90 calendar days in advance of lay-off due to lack of work. St. Vincent: Notice is to be given within a reasonable timeframe. Scotiabank will call a meeting with the Union, if the Union Officials request within 14 days of getting notice of lay-offs. Jamaica: Local legislation provides for periods of notice based on years of service. Trinidad and Tobago: Not less than 60 days’ notice is required. Scotiabank ensures compliance with local legal provisions. 98 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles Occupational Health And Safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 3.3, 8.8 1, 6 absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities Injury by Case – Provincial Breakdown Major Minor Other Under Province Total Reportable Reportable Reportable Investigation Alberta 6 1 1 15 23 British Columbia 8 1 8 11 28 Manitoba 2 1 2 4 9 New Brunswick 1 0 0 2 3 Newfoundland & Labrador 2 0 0 3 5 Nova Scotia 3 1 0 4 8 Ontario 85 11 17 47 160 Prince Edward Island 1 1 0 0 2 Quebec 3 0 1 4 8 Saskatchewan 4 0 0 3 7 Total 115 16 29 93 253 99 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles Injury by Gender Provincial Breakdown Province Male Female Location* Total Alberta 3 13 0 16 British Columbia 3 10 7 20 Manitoba 2 2 0 4 New Brunswick 1 3 0 4 Newfoundland 1 6 0 7 Northwest Territories 0 0 0 0 Nova Scotia 3 9 0 12 Ontario 23 152 0 175 Prince Edward Island 1 2 0 3 Quebec 1 7 0 8 Saskatchewan 3 1 0 4 Total 41 205 7 253 * Robberies are often reported by location, by transit (branch/department) – as no individual is identified. 100 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles Injury by Case Type Minor Other Under Sub-Category Major Total Reportable Reportable Investigation Robbery 23 1 0 15 39 Attempted Robbery 10 0 0 6 16 Bruises/Contusion 0 2 0 0 2 Burns 0 0 0 0 0 Cuts/Lacerations 0 0 4 3 7 Employee 20 4 17 2 43 Fracture 0 0 0 0 0 Fumes/Odours 0 0 0 0 0 Loss of Consciousness 0 0 0 0 0 MVA 5 0 0 0 5 Other 7 5 8 40 60 Overexertion 0 0 0 0 0 Psychological Distress 1 0 0 0 1 Repetitive Motion 1 0 0 3 4 Slip/Fall from a Height 7 0 0 3 10 Slip/Fall on a Flat Surface 12 1 0 5 18 Sprain/Strain 10 2 0 5 17 Struck Against Object 5 0 0 3 8 Struck By Object 5 0 0 6 11 Trip Hazard 9 1 0 2 12 Total 115 16 29 93 253 101 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles Injury by Case Type – Sum of Lost Time (Days), Provincial Breakdown Minor Other Under Province Major Total Reportable Reportable Investigation Alberta 148 0 0 0 148 British Columbia 125 0 0 0 125 Manitoba 0 0 0 0 0 New Brunswick 258 0 0 0 258 Newfoundland 56 0 0 0 56 Northwest Territories 0 0 0 0 0 Nova Scotia 15 0 0 0 15 Ontario 2,548 0 0 0 2,548 Prince Edward Island 0 0 0 0 0 Quebec 8 0 0 0 8 Saskatchewan 0 0 0 0 0 Total 3,158 0 0 0 3,158 Workplace Accommodation and Health and Safety (WAHS) has the primary responsibility for Hazardous Occurrence and Incident Reporting (HOIR). This includes preparing and submitting the annual report to Employment and Social Development Canada (ESDC) of all reportable Hazardous Occurrences Bank-wide. ESDC’s Hazardous Occurrence Report is completed by the individual unit manager/delegate and/or Health and Safety representative and then sent to WAHS. The HOIR is reviewed, investigated and reported as per policy and federal requirements. WAHS also reviews any expenses for eligibility for reimbursement by Manulife in the provinces not covered by Workers’ Compensation Boards; namely, Ontario, Manitoba, Alberta and Nova Scotia. WAHS reviews the report for completeness, ensuring that all relevant fields are complete and signatures are included. WAHS then makes a call to the injured/ affected employee and to the department, as appropriate. At this time, WAHS is mandated to determine whether the Hazardous Occurrence constitutes a workplace injury. It must be established that the occurrence and resulting injury occurred due to and in the course of the employment relationship (see below for further definitions). It may be necessary to add detail to the report, based on the information obtained in the telephone interviews. If this is the case, a copy of the revised report is forwarded back to the department by WAHS. 102 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles Among the resources we offer are: Topic Scotiabank’s Offering Human Resource policies Our new AskHR online repository makes it easier to find policies on wellness, and procedures benefits, occupational health and safety, flexible work arrangements and other workplace accommodations. Traumatic mental stress We provide resources and support to any employee in Canada who witnesses a traumatic mental stress event in the workplace and screen for indicators of mental stress. Work injuries We partnered with an impartial work injury service provider in Canada to ensure employees impacted by a work injury are given support for a safe return to the workplace. Ergonomics and workplace Our Ergonomic Policy outlines Scotiabank’s commitment to providing optimal working conditions. We adhere to recognized standards22 for office illumination, noise levels, air quality, humidity and temperature. Stress management training The Employee and Family Assistance Program in Canada supports employees and their families through times of personal challenges through short-term counselling services. Employee health and Core benefits coverage is provided to all regular-status employees and contract well-being employees after one year of continuous service in Canada. We also give these employees the option to allocate benefit credits to healthcare and well-being spending accounts. Flexible working hours Our Flexible Work Options Policy gives employees a variety of work arrangements, including flextime, compressed work week, job sharing, working from alternate locations, phased retirement and part-time arrangements. Childcare facilities or Employees are provided with a paid membership to a Canada-wide provider contributions of daycare and back-up childcare for children up to age 12. Parental leave Employees on maternity leave in Canada are eligible to receive a supplementary top-up to their employment insurance benefits for a six-week period. 22 The standards we adhere to in Canada are IESNA for lighting and ASHRAE for temperature control, as well as all relevant government standards and regulations. 103 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles Workplace Accidents Law: Accident includes • A willful and intentional act, not being the act of the worker • A chance event occasioned by a physical or natural cause • A disablement arising out of and in the course of employment Chance event: • A chance event is defined as an identifiable unintended event which causes an injury. An injury itself is not a chance event. Disablement: The definition of disablement includes: • A condition that emerges gradually over time • An unexpected result of working duties The following table represents coding information related to the HOIR. Type Name Definition Person Major • Disabling injury: one that “prevents an employee from reporting for work or from effectively performing all the duties connected with the employee’s regular work on any day subsequent to the day on which the injury or disease occurred, whether or not that subsequent day is a working day for that employee, or results in either the temporary or permanent loss of body member or function.” • All lost time (absence on the next scheduled working day or subsequent to the day on which the injury or disease occurred) occurrences except for illnesses. • Major incidents must be faxed within 14 days to ESDC (except in some cases thus 24 hours e.g., a fatality; a disabling injury to two or more employees; the loss by an employee of a body member or part thereof or in the complete loss of usefulness of a body member; the permanent impairment of a body function of an employee; an explosion; damage to a boiler or pressure vessel that results in fire or the rupture of the boiler or pressure vessel; any damage to an elevating device that renders it unserviceable or a free fall of an elevating device. 104 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles Type Name Definition Person Major • Robbery related incidents are considered major with above noted definitions applicable. Noted difference is these incidents have robbery related time missed. • All robberies must be faxed regardless of absence only in the province of British Columbia • “Intermittent Day” email should be sent to supervisor for absences (first day of absence is the day following the accident). The first three days should be coded as “special leave with pay.” Person Minor Reportable • No lost time • Medical attention received e.g., employees involved in robbery that sought medical; asthma attack related to IAQ issue and received medical attention; or cut finger with medical attention “Minor injury” means an employment injury or an occupational disease for which medical treatment is provided and excludes a disabling injury. [Note: Medical treatment is that which is provided at a medical treatment facility, which means at a hospital, medical clinic, or physician’s office at which emergency medical treatment can be dispensed and is not to be confused with first aid.] Event Other Reportable “Other hazardous occurrences” Any other situations where events have occurred that resulted in: • An explosion • Damage to a boiler or pressure vessel that results in fire or the rupture of the boiler or pressure vessel • Damage to an elevating device that renders it unusable, or a free fall of an elevating device • An electric shock, toxic atmosphere or oxygen deficient atmosphere that caused an employee to lose consciousness • The implementation of rescue, revival or other similar emergency procedures • A fire • Attempted robbery (e.g., ATM) • Bomb or phone threat 105 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 4.3, 4.4, 6, 10 4.5, 8.2, 8.5 Average training hours per employee Average training hours per employee Gender Including Excluding Employee Including Average compliance Compliance Category compliance Training Hours training Training training Female 40.5 30.9 Casual 29.8 15.5 Male 44.0 35.0 Contract 21.3 11.5 Average 42.0 32.7 Regular 44.7 35.6 Average 42.0 32.7 For more information on employee training and investment, see pages 27-28. 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 8.2, 8.5 6 See page 28 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 8.5 6 development reviews 96% of employees who were eligible to participate received a performance and career development review in 2018. See page 28 106 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 5.1, 5.5, 3, 6 8.5 A. As of October 31, 2018, for the Board of B. All employees Directors: Age Group Percent Age Group Percent Under 30 years 0% Under 30 years 28.3% 30 to 50 years 18.75% 30 to 50 years 57.3% Over 50 years 81.25% Over 50 years 14.4% Gender Percent Gender Percent Female 38% Female 56% Male 62% Male 44% Note: Headcount as of October 31, 2018. Excludes casual staff, and affiliates and subsidiaries where breakdowns are not available due Geography (residence) Percent to different reporting systems. We do not have other global diversity data at this time. Canada 62.5% See p. 20 for more information on Board Diversity. U.S. 25% Other/International 12.5% The Board is diverse in experience, expertise, geographic background, and personal characteristics as noted in our written board diversity policy which forms part of the Board’s corporate governance policies. 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 5.1, 8.6 1, 2, 6, 10 In the context of disclosure, an “incident” of discrimination refers to an official legal action filed with the governing authority of the jurisdiction or a complaint filed through Scotiabank’s internal complaints procedures where the claim of discrimination is found, either through judicial proceedings or internal formal investigation and fact-finding procedures and processes, that there is a breach or non-compliance with established corporate policies, governing statutes or regulatory regimes. Substantiated cases of sexual harassment were included within the reporting data of an “incident” of discrimination. There have been 19 incidents* across all Bank jurisdictions. *The Bank has reported an increase in the total number of incidents of discrimination in FY2018 compared to FY2017. The reported incidents of discrimination in FY2018 demonstrates the Bank’s improvements in fostering a culture of encouraging our employees, partners and customers to come forward with concerns in accordance with the Bank’s Global Harassment Policy and Global Principals of Non-Discrimination in the Workplace. 107 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 8 1, 2, 6 assessments In 2015-6 Scotiabank commissioned a human rights assessment to understand how the Bank impacts the human rights of its employees, customers, contractors, business partners and community members in both positive and negative ways. Scotiabank engaged two external human rights experts to conduct the assessment and develop recommendations for the Bank: The Danish Institute for Human Rights and Business for Social Responsibility (BSR). The assessment was conducted in our key markets: Canada, Mexico, Peru, Chile, Colombia and Caribbean. In 2016, we put into writing this work, and formalized our respect for human rights as a fundamental way to do business, with a Human Rights Statement, signed by our President and CEO, Brian Porter. We also created a three-year human rights strategy as a result of this impact assessment, which was put in place in FY2017. In 2018, we made progress on identified priority areas including Equal Pay, Accommodation, Harassment and Supply Chain and Due Diligence. For more information see pages 22-24. 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments and 4.4 3 development programs 100% of the markets where we do business are actively engaged in local community development programs. Year-end reports from our corporate development partner organization are provided annually, and we are increasing our focus on evaluating and comparing metrics to measure and further drive more meaningful impact through our community investment initiatives. 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 5.2, 8.6 1, 2, 3 All new and existing suppliers invited by Global Procurement Services to participate in formal Request for Proposals were assessed and evaluated based on a set of quantitative and qualitative criteria, which includes ESG factors. 415-1 Political contributions In Canada political contributions are not permitted federally, municipally and in many provinces. In an effort to be consistent across all our operations, Scotiabank made the decision in 2016 to end political contributions, effective 2017. 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data There were no Privacy Breaches with a Real Risk of Significant Harm. 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 10 There have been no significant fines identified for non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area. 108 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific 10 environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose See page 44 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening Equator Principles Transaction Reporting Project Finance and Project-Related Corporate Loans The total number of project finance loans and project-related corporate loans that reached financial close during the Bank’s fiscal year ending October 31, 2018 was 10. The breakdown is as follows: Project Finance Project-Related Coporate Loans Sector Category Category Category Category Category Category A B C A B C Mining 1 0 0 0 0 0 Infrastructure 0 1 5 0 1 0 Oil & Gas 0 1 0 0 0 0 Power 0 0 0 0 0 0 Others 0 0 1 0 0 0 Sub-total 1 2 6 0 1 0 Region Category Category Category Category Category Category A B C A B C Americas 1 1 6 0 0 0 Europe, Middle 0 0 0 0 0 0 East and Africa Asia Pacific 0 1 0 0 1 0 Sub-total 1 2 6 0 1 0 109 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles Country Category Category Category Category Category Category Designation A B C A B C Designated 0 2 6 0 1 0 Country23 Non1 0 0 0 0 0 Designated Country (automatically generated) Sub-total 1 2 6 0 1 0 Independent Category Category Category Category Category Category Review A B C A B C Yes 0 2 6 0 0 0 No 1 0 0 0 1 0 (automatically generated) Sub-total 1 2 6 0 1 0 Category A – Projects with potential significant adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented. Category B – Projects with potential limited adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures. Category C – Projects with minimal or no adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts. 23  esignated Countries (previously named High-Income OECD Countries) are those countries deemed to have robust environmental and social governance, D legislation systems and institutional capacity to protect their people and the natural environment. For the list of Designated Countries, go to: http://www.equator-principles.com/index.php/ep3/designated-countries 110 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRUST CLIMATE CHANGE ECONOMIC INCLUSION YOUNG PEOPLE APPENDIX Appendix: GRI Standards, CoP and SDG Index SDG UNGC GRI Indicator Link Principles FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by 1.3, 1.4, 2 type 8.10 See page 52 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 1.3, 1.4, 2 See pages 51-52 8.10 111 | 2 0 1 8 S C O T I A B A N K S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T ® Registered trademark of The Bank of Nova Scotia. ™ Trademark of The Bank of Nova Scotia.
