Peace Myanma M ar Groupp Co., Ltdd. UN Global G l Comp pact Co ommu unication on Progre P ess 6th March 20018 7th March, 2019 2 Peace Myanma M ar Group p Compaany Ltd. No..1, Corner of Zawtikaa Lane & Bayint B Naun ng Main Ro oad, Warrd (4), Kam mayut, Yan ngon, Myan nmar Tel: +95 (01) 5384122, 538413 Fax: F +95 (001) 510553 Website: www.pmgg.com.mm P a g e 1 | 16 Peace Myanma M ar Groupp Co., Ltdd. Statem ment of Committment H.E. Baan KiMoonn Secretarry-General United Nations N New Yoork, NY 100 017 USA Dear M Mr. Secretaryy-General, On behaalf of my orrganization,, Peace Myaanmar Grouup Co., Ltd.., I am pleassed to acknoowledge that wee support thhe Ten Prinnciples of thhe United Nations N Gloobal Compaact, in the areas of Human Rights, Lab bor, Environnment and Anticorrupt A tion. With thhis communnication, we w express our intent to advancee those priinciples witthin our organizzation and our o stakehollders. We arre committeed to makin ng the Glob bal Compact and its principlles part of the strategy, culture anda day-to--day operattions of ouur company, and to engaginng in collabborative prrojects whicch advancee the broadder develop pment goalss of the United N Nations, paarticularly thhe Millenniuum Developpment Goalls. Peace Myanmar M Grooup Co., Ltd. wiill make a clear statem ment of thiis commitm ment to our stakeholdeers and the general public. We recoognize that a key requuirement fo or participattion in the Global G Com mpact is thee annual submisssion of a Co ommunicatiion on Prog gress (COP) that describbes how wee effort to gradually g developpment and maintain thhe ten prinnciples of the t United Nations Global G Commpact. It includes, how we practices teen principlees to integrrate our com mpany policcies, organiizational culture, and structuure. Sincerelly yours, Mr. Tunn Linn Managiing Directorr Peace M Myanmar Grroup Co., L Ltd. P a g e 2 | 16 Peace Myanma M ar Groupp Co., Ltdd. HUM MAN RIG GHTS PR RINCIP PLES Principple 1: BusinessB should support and resp pect the protectiion of internaationally proclaimed p d human rights; r Principple 2: Makke sure thaat they aree not compplicit in hu uman righht abuses. We stroongly respecct and follow w the Univeersal Declarration of Huuman Rightss. The proteection of Human Rights is embedded in our num merous operrating proceesses and control c mechanisms across aall of our departments and all lev vels of the organization o n. From sen nior manageement to entry leevel operatioons, we enssure that ouur business practices arre not compplicit in anyy human right abbuses. Employyees are partts of our keyy assets and d we are moost proud off the growthh in our peopple after fulfillinng their careeer planningg and development. We coach andd train our employees e not n only for com mpany beneefit but also for theirr career andd life. We provided with w the neecessary knowleddge and skiills to perforrm their day y to day jobbs; for exam mple inductiion training for new employyee, on the job traininng, in housse training and externnal training are providded. We supportt professionnal growthh of our employees e by encouraaging indiv viduals’ crreativity, innovattion and dev velopment, creating brrain storminng session which w enabbles each inndividual to buildd his/her skill sets. We infoorm our em mployees innternally aboout new projects and seek the viiews of com mmunity and respect the rig ght to inforrmation andd participatiion. Compaany providees employm ment and fair wagges to workkers and suppports rightt to work, to t adequate standard of living. We W assign work too each employee to fit withw their sk kills and to get more exxperiences for f their carreer. We give faiir wages too our emplooyees at thee start of eevery monthh and we close c all thee public holidayys announced by Goverrnment. Our em mployees are provided health caree and we contribute c t the rightt to health. For the to health ofo employeees, vaccinattions of anti B hepatitiis virus andd medical chheckups connducted. Blood ddonation at the t nationall bank is alsso our prouddly CSR efffort. Since 2014, 2 we haave been engagedd in 15th blood b drivess. We givee all our em mployees a chance too give backk to the commuunity by donnating muchh needed bllood suppliees at the Myanmar M Naational Bloood bank. At the moment, ouur employeees and friends of the company have h donateed over 25000 blood bags. WWhile this huugely benefi fits the commmunity, thesse blood driives also creeate bondinng and P a g e 3 | 16 Peace Myanma M ar Groupp Co., Ltdd. workplaace happineess for ourr employees. They geet their blood checkedd (for exam mple, an employyee discoverred he had Hepatitis C and the company haas contributeed significaantly for his meddical expensses to get treeatment) annd they enjooy a day of free. f A Comm mittee has been b formedd for Safetyy and Prevenntion of Acccidents and ear plugs area given a have to be worn to prevent to be worn to prevent damagee to the earss due to noisse; masks also damagee to the lung gs due to dust d and ashhes and othher safety eqquipment have h been provided. The privvate clinic with w a nurse is placed at the comppany and we w can give urgent treattment to employyees if the acccidents aree happened. Our managgement also o made for safety s of em mployees by orgaanizing Fire safety com mmittee and safety trainings are also given to employees. e Donatedd the PMG purified drrinking watter 0.3-Literr (5016) boottles , 0.5-L Liter (2000)) bottles and 1-LLiter (400) bottles b M for Myanmar Trraditional Boxing B Festiival, Deboeer Scholarshhip Fund Raisingg Event, Women W Daay's event, Tournameent Organiization My yanmar, Ruun Free P competiition, etc. PMG familly never heesitates in donation. d D Donations have h been made m by going too places suuffering from m Flood annd providinng drinking water and other essenntials to victims of floods annd storms. Beside from CSR R activities,, our comp pany holdss annual ch harity activvities accorrding to Myanm mar Tradition nal and cullture. The Warso W occasion, Thadiingyut offerrings, Kahtiina robe offeringg and donatiion to monaastic educatiion are exam mple for events of charrity activity. P a g e 4 | 16 Peace Myanma M ar Groupp Co., Ltdd. BLOO OD DONAATION OF O PMG FAMILY F TO NAT TIONAL BLOOD B B BANK P a g e 5 | 16 Peace Myanma M ar Groupp Co., Ltdd. Vaccinatiions of an nti B hepaatitis virus P a g e 6 | 16 Peace Myanma M ar Groupp Co., Ltdd. DONATION OF DRIINKING G WATE ER P a g e 7 | 16 Peace Myanma M ar Groupp Co., Ltdd. THADDINGYUUT LIGH HTING FESTIV VAL KATH HINA ROBE R OFFFERINNG P a g e 8 | 16 Peace Myanma M ar Groupp Co., Ltdd. LABO OR PRIN NCIPLE ES Principple 3: Bussiness shouuld upholdd the freeddom of asssociation and the efffective recognnition of th he right too collectivee bargainiing; Principple 4: the eliminatio e on of all foorms of forced and compulsor c ry labor; Principple 5: the effective e a abolition o child laabor; and of Principple 6: thee eliminattion of discriminatiion in resspect of employme e ent and occupaation. PMG Company C uppholds the freedom f of association and the efffective recoognition of tthe right c to colleective bargaaining. We created W a Workers Maanual with standards s frrom the Minnistry of Labors for the resp ponsibility of employeers and empployees. Ouur HR depaartment stattes clear written policies off employee rights r and responsibilit r ties for com mpensation & benefits, rules & regulatiions. We alsso emphasizze on comppany policy to uphold the t freedom m of associaation and coollective bargainning. We praactice 44 hoours' work week w and 2 times t overtiime allowannces for exttra hours in our ccompany's Workers Manual M cleaarly. We haave no form m of forced d labor. Wee do not practicee child laboor; our empployment policy p is peersonnel abbove 18 yeaars old. We create favorabble workplacce with the fresh air, clleaning diniing room. WeW also hav ve open dooor policy with ouur employeees. All the employeess can work in large sppace happilly together without discrim mination andd working closely c withh managers and colleag gues of diffferent backkgrounds can havve teamwork k. We follow the law of the Laboor Union off Myanmar and a then wee welcome them t to eduucate our HR deppartment and attend thee training annd workshoop held by the t Labor Union U of Myanmar. M HR deppartments shhare update informationn to the mannagement an nd employeees internallly. Our genneral HR beenefits are as a follows: monthly saalaries & ovvertime allo owances, traavel and meal alllowances, transportattion provisiion, Social Security Insurances I at Social Security Board ffor the emplloyees, yearrly leave enntitlements; 6 days of casual c leavee, 10 days of earned leave, 114 weeks off maternity leave, 15 days d of paterrnity leave, 30 days off fully paid medical leave arre clearly exxpressed in Workers Manual M of ouur companyy. Apart from these leaaves, our companny also alloow to emplloyees to get g 7 days of o Leave forfo Funeralss and Bereaavement which is not mentiooned in laboor law. P a g e 9 | 16 Peace Myanma M ar Groupp Co., Ltdd. There iss opportunitty for each individual regardless r oof race, coloor, gender, religion, r nattional or ethnic oorigin, disabbility, marittal status, veteran v statuus, or any other o occuppationally irrrelevant conditioon. In our employmeent program m, we stroongly emphhasize nonn-discriminaation on workerss and among g workers. Then we haave a good genderg balaance in PMG G, female allso have equal oppportunity to male. We W give fullyy maternity leave to prregnancy acccording to law and we do nnot discrimiinate againsst women an nd violate thhe right to work w for fem male. Moreover, all workerss have rightt to believe and practicee their religgions. ENVIIRONM MENT PR RINCIPL LES Principple 7: Bussiness shoould suppoort a precautionary approach h to enviroonment challennges; Principple 8: und dertake initiatives too promote greater en nvironmennt responssibility; and Principple 9: enncourage the development and diffuusion of environm mentally friendlly technologies. Althouggh the Staate had offficially fixxed the programs p for f Conservvation of Natural environnment, the Company C w its ownn awareness has been carrying out the cleannsing of with waste water w projecct beginningg from May 2005 to till in stages and a is now carrying ouut the 6th project with amend dments. The waastes from the t factory are disposed systemaatically. Foor example – broken rice r and paste arre sold off as a animal feed, boiler ashes are givven to agricultural farm ms free of chharge, in order thhat the wastee products do d not affecct the naturaal environm ment, the wasste paste aree sold to fish breeeding pond ds as fish feed whichh is beneficcial to the factory and d at the samme time providinng fish feedd for the fissh. In additiion to that to t lessen thhe emission of smoke fromf the Chimneey of the facctory, FBC boiler has been b used, four stages; Air Zone,, Fire Tube out, Air preheateer, Cyclonee separator has h been maade to reducce the dust and a particlees from the 100 feet chimneyy. And the final f stage, a machine for suction of the samee has been installed i in the base of the chhimney. P a g e 10 | 16 Peace Myanma M ar Groupp Co., Ltdd. As the bboiler ashess are not invvolved fromm the Dust Collector C ch himney, Carrbon Dioxidde, Acid Rain wiill not be haappened, andd also the environmentt is also protected from m air pollutioon. Other waste w water are sent too the sedimmentation poonds and the clear watter is alloweed to be cool in the undergrround tank in stages an nd at the last stage thee filtration of o the clear water is done exxclusively and a then diisposed intoo the river by concrette pipes. Too reduce thhe water resourcees and not to t lose fertillity and top psoil, water is used systtematically and the useed water is recyccled and wasste to the drrain by conccrete pipe. To reduuce the electtricity, we uused the Spaark Proof Lights and en nergy savinng LED Lighht in our companny. A fish pond p with a small garden and othher flowerinng plants and a shady trrees has placed iin the comppound to enssure greenerry and relievve the peop ple from mental fatiguee. Then, w we also redduce the papper using by b using thee two sidess of paper in i copying and our departmments are co onnected with w local neetwork and we distribu utes the customer ordeer form, meetingg minutes, work w instrucction with thhe e-mail orr office outllook insteadd of using paaper. Mini--Garden n with green plan nts and lake filled with recycle r w water P a g e 11 | 16 Peace Myanma M ar Groupp Co., Ltdd. Clean ning and d Safety activities a s P a g e 12 | 16 Peace M Myanmaar Groupp Co., Ltdd. P a g e 13 | 16 Peace Myanma M ar Groupp Co., Ltdd. ANTII-CORR RUPTION N PRINCIPLE Principple 10: Bu usiness shoould work k against corruption c n in all its forms, inccluding extortiion and brribery. Providee continued education for f all level of employeees up to about corruptiion, as well as what to do iff one shouldd encounterr it. Commiitment is maade in comppliance witth all relevaant laws, includinng anti-corru uption lawss within the company aand among the t stakehollders. We insstruct our employees e not to enggage in coorrupt practtices. We feature artiicles on corruptiion and bribbery to let thhe people knnow the desstructive consequencess on society,, and we promotee transpareency as a way to heelp in anti--corruption. Again, we w educate to new employees, exitingg employeees and busiiness partneers though our anti-coorruption policy p to ensure tthat the entiire companyy’s activities are actingg in accordannce of thesee rules. Our auddits make audition a to each deparrtment withhin our com mpany monnthly, quarteerly and yearly nnot only thhe procedurres to meett the ISO 9001:2015 9 s standard buut also pracctices to ensure there is no o bad practices in acccordance wiith the antii-corruptionn policy. Thhen, the report oof each deppartment dirrectly goes to top mannagement for fo any pressence of briibery. If there iss any practiice that vioolates the annti-corruption policy, these are reviewed r annd taken necessaary action. P a g e 14 | 16 Peace Myanma M ar Groupp Co., Ltdd. ISO 9001: 9 20115 Certiification of PMG G Co., Lttd. P a g e 15 | 16 Peace M Myanmaar Groupp Co., Ltdd. P a g e 16 | 16
