FAME Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Address FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. No.20, Mingyi Mahar Min Gaung Road, Zone (3), Hlaing Tharyar City of Industry, Yangon, Myanmar. Ph : +95-1-3685 609, 3682 199, 3685 083, +95-9-731 422 16 Fax : +95-1-3680 122, www.famepharma.com, FAME Pharmaceuticals FAME Organic Pharming Project No. (706), Kywal Nar Htauk Village, Anee-sa-khan Railway Station Road, Pyin Oo Lwin Township, Mandalay Division, Myanmar. Ph : +95-9-793 877 207 www.famepharm.com The period covered by Communication on Progress (COP) of FAME Pharmaceuticals is from February 2018 to February 2019. Contents Statement of Continued Support ............................................................................. 1 Message from Managing Director ............................................................................. 2 Certificates and Awards ......................................................................................... 3 Implementation on Human Right Principles .................................................................................... 6 Labour Principles ............................................................................................ 14 Environmental Principles ............................................................................... 25 Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery Policy ....................................................... 35 Conclusion ................................................................................................................... 39 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Mr. Antonio Guterres Secretary – General United Nation New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. SecretaryGeneral, I am honored and pleased to confirm that FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co., Ltd attests its participation in United Nation Global Compact in the fields of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we represent our continuing actions to upgrade the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business structure, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our customers, colleagues and stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Dr. Khin Maung Lwin Managing Director FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. 1 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR Our main priority is ‘‘Better Health and Brighter Future for people from Myanmar to worldwide through leading innovation in Organic Herbal Medicines.” Thus, FAME has been building a common vision for eco-innovation by implementation awareness of innovation project. Our innovation policy is focus on alignment of market based innovation with National Health Needs. Now, FAME Pharmaceuticals has been five years for being member of United Nation Global Compact by implementing the principles of UNGC since 2014. On the other hand, we are performing our CSR activities continuously. FAME’s CSR Goal is “To embrace responsibility for the corporate action and encourage a positive impact through activities on the consumers, employees, communities and environment”. In addition, we also encourage our stakeholders, business leaders and self-contractors for co-operation in CSR activities. We are proud to share these ideas and principles with the United Nation Global compact and everyone affected with our daily operations. FAME’s Communication on Progress clearly embellishes how we have embedded policies and procedures which comply with 10 principles of UN Global Compact. We take clear actions on these principles and improve our performance year-on-year. This is the fifth report of our activities and progress during 2018. For coming years and future, I hope that we strongly commit to support both UN Global Compact and our CSR activities to fulfil more and more with sustainable ways. I believe that our corporate social responsibilities can be carried out by not only voluntary approach but also developing our responsible practices with accleration. Dr. Khin Maung Lwin Managing Director FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. 2 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. ISO 9001:2015 OHSAS 18001:2007 ISO 14001:2015 U.S FDA Registration Organic (Myanmar) UN Global Compact USDA Certificate GMP 3 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. ASEAN BUSINESS AWARDS For CSR in 2010 (Finalist) ASEAN Energy Award (Winner) in 2013 ASEAN BUSINESS AWARDS 2014 (2nd Runner UP) Most Admired ASEAN Enterprise Innovation National Winner 2014 President’s Excellent (Myanmar) Performance Award Most Admired ASEAN in 2014 Enterprise Innovation 4 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. ASEAN-OSHNET ASEAN Business Awards Excellence Award 2016 for Innovation SME Excellence Award Winner 2017 ASEAN Business Awards SME Excellence-Employment Country Winner 2018 CLMV SME Excellence in Workplace Environment EXCELLENCE AWARD 2016 Gold Winner 2017 5 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Human Rights Principles Business should support and respect the protection of internationally Principle 1: proclaimed human right. Principle 2: Business should make sure they are not complicit in human right abuses. Our objective is to create the happy and healthy workplace for employees and then they can do their duties to the best of quality according to Universal Declaration of human right. So, we take the actions of current and future plans concerning with the employees. We are providing technical and education trainings, entertainment programmes and health and safety system for employees. Moreover, we support all employees for equality of opportunity with no discrimination on race and color, sex and gender. I. Training Programmes We continuously invite internal and/or external trainers from local and foreign for capacity building of our employees. The skilful trainers give the application trainings and technical trainings to the responsible employees as job requirements. We also send employees to foreign countries for learning the knowledge and technical know-how to be able to abreast internationally. We aim to become more skilful persons and to give and share more knowledges to other employees. In 2018, there were (22) external trainings including Foreign (7) and Local (15) and regular internal trainings including education programme, departmental meetings and trainings and monthly management system trainings. External training Business innovation & Organization Development 26 SEP 9 OCT 2018 (Japan) 6 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Product Stability and Workshop on Stability Cloud Mill ( FAT) Prediction Tools 18-24 MAR 2018 (Thaiwan) 28-30 JUN 2018 (Singapore) Solving Human & Organizational Problems 9-22 MAY 2018 (Japan) We also make a supporting programme related with new machines. When we purchase a new machine from external suppliers, their experts provide the technical and application trainings to our responsible employees to be more proficient and familiar with that machine. Application Training for Aflatoxin Testing by Eurofins (Singapore) 7 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Internal training We have training programmes for new employees who firstly join to our workplace. The aim of these trainings is to be friendly with the company’s systems and to be able to collaborate well. Training period is not more than 10 hours and trained by responsible managers. 1. HR manager explains in house HR Rules and Regulations. 2. QMS MR explains Quality Management System (ISO 9001:2015). 3. QA manager explains Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). 4. OHSAS Officer explains Occupational Health and Safety Assessment System (OHSAS 18001:2007). 5. EMS MR explains Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2015) 6. CSR MR explains Corporate Social Responsibility 2.0 Policy (ISO 26000) And then, we make evaluation programme after each training. After all that, they have to learn on job training from their respective managers in their department and departmental training monthly. System trainings are required not only for new employees but also for all employees as refreshment trainings. New Employee training Departmental training Departmental training 8 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. II. Education and Entertainment We have Saturday programme in alternative week and HR department manages the employees into (4) groups: group A, B, C, D and make the schedules for education and entertainment programmes. The system representatives give the education trainings at theatre alternatively and we also invite external speakers and the famous Myanmar authors for Symposium Programme to improve general knowledges and motivation. Improving general knowledges needs for employees because it helps with personal growth, good citizenship, and a stronger society. In the same way, entertainment programmes are arranged to employees for mind relaxation. Each employee can relax by seeing the film during working hours three times per year. Education Programme by External Speaker Education Programme Entertainment Programme 9 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. III. For Safety and Health care of employees, For the Health and Safety of employees by OHSAS 18001:2007 system, new employees have been made medical checked-up for infectious diseases such as HIV, TB, HBV, HCV etc.We also support the medicines free of charge. If we have emergency case, the employee is admitted to contracted Pan-Hlaing Siloam Hospital. We provide a First Aid box at each department and well-trained First Aider from each department. We also give First Aid training to First Aider as required. Moreover, we check regularly body mass index (BMI) of each employee to be able to keep the healthy body weight. For safety, we supply proper training, supervision, personal protective equipment (PPE) and facilities to meet the requirements. In addition, we continually enhance on our work safety performance from time to time by controlling potential hazards. IV. Refreshment Myanmar New Year Refreshment 10 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Thing Gyan Decoration Green Pathway Cafeteria 11 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. We create a pleasant and comfortable working area, library with up to date pharmacopoeias, medicinal books and references, cafeteria, transportation and theatre for our employees. Comfortable and clean working area Professional Library Transportation Theatre 12 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. CSR Journal CSR journals have been distributed since 2013 and publish once per year. All employees are willing to participate in CSR journals. In CSR journals, they share their own feelings, poems, novels, motivation, environmental technologies, education, religious knowledges and health awareness letters. Thus, we can improve internal communication between all employees. CSR journals are available to our employees, stakeholders and business partners free of charge to know more about our company activities 13 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Labour Principles Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 3: recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation For supporting Human Right in working area, we allowed freedom of association and collective bargaining in our factory. So, we organize Social Accountability (SA 8000) Team to avoid conflicts by building mutual understanding between employer and employees. Social Accountability (SA 8000) team was organized with SA members since 2008. SA 8000 Team In SA 8000 Team, a member from each department and SA leader are elected by voting system once a year and has a SA representative of SA Executive Committee. Every SA member has opportunity to discuss on behalf of his or her department at SA meeting which holds monthly. In meeting, each department discusses their problems, needs and expectations. After that, the employer decides and negotiates the required decisions. We display the principles board of SA 8000 team and follow the guidelines. 14 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. SA Meeting photo SA Meeting FAME volunteer task force(FVTF) has volunteering activity by donation of cash and in-kind to orphanage house, nursing home, flood-victims, etc. This consists of not only monastery donation and aid given to local people but also to help build on the health knowledge and skills to attain sustainable development. It has been 36th donation of FVTF activity. Donation at Pan Pyo Latt Monastic School 15 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. All Employees are eligible to monthly salaries, overtime allowance for extra hours, travelling allowance, supporting transportation, Social Security Insurances at Social Security Board for employees and for yearly leave entitlement; causal leave, earned leave, maternity leave, lactation leave, paternity leave, funeral leave, fully paid extended medical leave and blood donors leave. We offer salary to our employees according to basic salary policy of Local Labour Organization. We practice labour policies and regulations settled by Local labour laws and ILO. There is no forced and compulsory labour and overtime is voluntary. There is no discrimination on a person’s race, colour, gender and religion which are not related to a person’s ability. In our factory, we do not appoint any person who is under 18 years old. Moreover, our business contractors do not hire under 18 years old person. Not only in our factory but also in our business contractors follow the abolitions of child labour. We always provide vacation plans especially for serviced employees working at FAME Pharmaceuticals. Human resource department arranged 2 recreation vacations in 2018; one was Ngapali Beach vacation and another was Taunggyi-Innlay vacation for relaxation in Myanmar NewYear holidays. Annual Vacation to Taunggyi-Innlay Annual Vacation to Ngapali Beach 16 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. For first time, we arranged “Stipending Ceremony” for FAME employees’ children in this year. Employees took part together with their children (from primary to university students) in this ceremony. Managing Director furnished financially but also school accessories. Senior executives also participated by donating necessaries for students. Furthermore, we annexed lucky draw programme for fun. As for students from rural areas, we gave in cash to their parents instead of them. 17 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. We celebrated new year staff party on 28th December. In that party, we appreciated and awarded to outstanding employees without taking leaves and blood donors. Besides, we honoured outstanding OHSAS members and FVTF donors according to donation amount during the whole year. Moreover, we arranged interesting programmes like singing content, lucky draw programme, tranditional dance, providing foods and so on. New Year Staff Party 18 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. For Employees’ health and safety, we are implementing Occupational Health and Safety Assessment System (OHSAS 18001:2007) since 2006. We have future plan to upgrade to ISO 45001:2018 (Occupational Health and Safety Management System) in the coming year. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH POLICY 1. FAME Pharmaceuticals implements occupational health and safety management system which is appropriate to the nature and scale of the organization’s occupational health and safety risks. 2. FAME Pharmaceuticals will maintain a safe and healthy work environment by controlling potential hazards as much as we can and will document and maintain the implemented the Occupational Health and Safety management system according to the ISO (OHSAS 18001) international standard guidelines. 3. FAME Pharmaceuticals will comply with current applicable occupational health and safety legislation and where Myanmar legislation is inadequate, will comply with international standards and go beyond to the requirements. 4. FAME Pharmaceuticals will provide proper training, supervision, safe equipment and facilities and sufficient resources to meet our requirements. 5. FAME Pharmaceuticals will continually strive to improve on our work safety performance from time to time by controlling potential hazards so as to ensure safety and health for every parties involved. 6. FAME Pharmaceuticals OSH Policy is available to all interested parties. 7. FAME Pharmaceuticals reviews the OSH Policy periodically to ensure that it remain relevant and appropriate to our organization 19 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. For Occupational Health, we support OHSAS activities as follows; 1. Pre-employment medical checking 2. Yearly medical check-up 3. Internal clinic for employees and appoint a doctor for healthcare 4. BMI (Body Mass Index) checking 5. First Aid Training and Exercises 6. Blood donation 7. Sharing the awareness letter concerned with health. We have internal clinic for employees and support the medicines free of charge. Every employee can consult or get medical attention with OHSAS doctor at FAME internal clinic for medical problems. If we have emergency case, the employee is admitted to contracted Pan-Hlaing Siloam Hospital and transfered to Labour Hospital. Blood Donation Yearly Medical Check-up Medical Treatement at Internal Clinic For Occupational Safety, we implement the guidelines such as 1. General Safety ( Laboratory Safety, Biological safety, Electrical Safety, Chemical Safety, Machine Safety, Construction Safety, Confined Space Safety, Working at height procedure, proper handling and storing of materials and tools and so on). 2. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Management 3. Vehicle Safety 4. Proper Housekeeping 5. Hazards Identification and Risk Management 6. Accident Incident and Near Miss Investigations and reporting 7. Emergency and Major incident plan 8. Fire management plan 9. Occupational Safety Training OHSAS officer and safety officer regularly check on various risks associated with our work activities, including fire hazards, machinery hazards, electrical hazards, etc. 20 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Chemical Safety Biological Safety Electrical Safety Warning Sign Machine Safety Machine Guard 21 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Construction safety Storage of Materials Vehicle Safety (Alcohol Testing and Black Box Checking) Clean & Tidy Workplace 22 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Sample Wearing PPE Notice Board We describe Lost Time Injury (LTI) board to aware employees’ health and safety as a part of safety performance in OHSAS System. LTI board 23 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. For fire safety, fire drill training and exercise was done twice a year (in March and December) in collaborating with Hlaing Thar Yar Fire Brigade. All the employees from the whole factory participate in Fire Drill. Fire Drill Excercise Fire Hose Reel UsageTraining Fire Pump and Hose reel Testing 24 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Environmental Principles Businesss should support a precautionary approach to environmental Principle 7 : challenges Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 9 : technologies ISO 14001:2004 ISO 14001:2015 As Organic herbal medicines manufacturing company, we control the risk of environment caused by our factory leading to create the green environment. In April 2016, Environmental Management System was upgraded to 2015 version. According to Guidelines of Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2015), we always need to consider product life cycle and update the EMS risk assessment register for our factory especially for our interested parties requirements (1) internal, and (2) external interested parties like Employees, Government sectors, Environmental technological companies, Engineering service companies, External Analytical lab, Communities, etc. Also update the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for all chemicals which can affect the environment and human health. In MSDS that mentioned how to prevent environment risk and human health. 25 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. To reduce the risk of these environmental impacts, we clearly set objectives and target upon this. (1) Energy conservation (2) Soil pollution control (3) Water pollution control (4) Air pollution control For precautionary approach, we are practicing spillage exercise for emergency chemical spillage and distribute awareness letters concerned with environmental issues as EMS activities. Environmental Policy 1. FAME Pharmaceuticals implement Environmental Management System to improve its Environmental Management and ultimately, to reduce the environmental impacts of its operation, activities and products. 2. Environmental Management organizations will clearly define responsibilities and authorities. This shall be established to ensure conformance with legislation and regulation of the nations and with other related requirements to which the organization subscribes related to its environmental aspects. 3. The environmental impact caused by our production activities, products and services shall be precisely analyzed and assessed. The objectives, targets and measure for improving the environment shall be established, implemented and reviewed considering technical and economical possibility. 4. Activities for suppression of waste, energy saving and material conservation should be promoted. 5. All persons working for this Environmental management system should be given full understanding of this environmental policy through environmental education and internal information. All the persons concerned oneself should be interested in an environmental problem and be able to act. We are implementing continually our EMS policy by Internal Environmental Management Committee. I. Energy Conservation Sources : Electricity, Diesel fuel, Water To promote energy and natural resource conservation and reduce use of water, Main objective : electricity & diesel fuel by developing energy management systems. To develop energy saving programmes, better maintenance and evaluation Operational control : of energy leakage. Monitoring & Measurement : Checking the actual usage of records. 26 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. 1. Electricity Sharing Knowledge for energy saving Lobby Area with Natural Light Herbal drying process in Glass House Preservation of Energy Energy Saving with LED lights Warning stickers for saving electricity usage Sleep when no use and water resources 27 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. 2. Diesel fuel Pharmaceutical Grade Compressor House 3. Water Aircon outlet Mopping water storage tank Handwashing Reuse waste water from Air-cons Waste water collected from one Air-con 8 liters/ 8hrs Waste water collected from three Air-con 24 liters/ 8hrs Capacity of Air-con waste water tank 300 liters Capacity of waste water usage 24 liters/ 8hrs 28 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. II. Soil Pollution Control 1.Waste Management Objectives : To prevent soil pollution and pay back money from wastes Programmes : Waste bin segregation, practice chemicals and oil spillage exercise Operational Control : Give training to all employees about waste types and awareness of spillage response procedure. Monitoring & Measurement : Monthly resale records and departmental spillage exercise records Customer information Waste Bins for recycling waste Oil Spillage Exercise 29 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. 2. Paper Objectives : Prevent deforestation Programmes : Communicating and reporting via intranet and internet mailing system, E-form, outlook mail, using double sided copying, reusing free sided papers Operational Control : All departments use A4 paper within their limitation and don’t print the paper if not necessary. Monitoring & Measurement : Monthly review of departmental A4 usage To Reduce PAPER Usage 30 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. 3. Plastics Objectives : Reduce plastics as much as we can Programmes : Using PET bottles, PP plastics for our product packaging and biodegradable bags in our product selling Operational Control : EMS departmental checklist for plastic control and resold recyclable plastic waste to local buyer Monitoring & Measurement : Plastics resale records Using PET bottles Packing with PP plastics Reducing usage of plastics and substitute biodegradable bags 31 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. III. Water Pollution Control Statement : Waste Water Management Objectives : Prevent water pollution and bad smell from drainage Protect death of living organisms in water due to disposal of waste water Programmes : Testing of waste water from our factory Operational Control : Daily site inspection and monthly cleaning of wastewater treatment tank and other devices Monitoring & Measurement : Waste water test result Treated water use as gardening purpose Treated water use as washing car Store the treated water Filter the impurities of waste water by sand, coconut shells and rock Future Plan for Waste Water Treatment : We already contracted with KUBOTA waste water treatment company for new machine installation 32 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. IV. Air Pollution control Statement : Carbon dioxide emissions Objectives : Protection of the health of surrounding air system and to perform positive impact on environmental air quality Programmes : Fame Organic Pharming Project plan, glass house drying and natural air drying system and plantation around the factory Operational Control : Inspect to all departments which apply energy conservation practices or not, practise the spillage exercise to prevent the wastage of diesel oil, check diesel pipes to impede leakage and regular maintenance of generator filter and car exhaust, use R410A aircon gas to prevent ozone depletion Monitoring & Measurement : Monthly data records of carbon dioxide emission and absorption R410A aircon gas Plantation around Our Factory Glass House drying 33 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. We have been building a common vision for eco-innovation by implementation eco-friendly policies, programmes and practices for organizational awareness of innovative organic farming project. Thus, Fame Organic Pharming Project was first established in Pyin Oo Lwin, Mandalay in 2003. The purposes of Fame Organic Pharming Project are 1. To develop the organic Agriculture techniques in Myanmar 2. To minimize the risk of hazards to the environment 3. To conserve the endangered medicinal plants in Myanmar 4. To share the knowledge concerning with side effect of using synthetic pesticides and Genetic modified food 5. To distribute our organic raw materials and products to local markets and foreign markets By doing Fame Organic Pharming Project, we can not only get the qualified organic raw materials but also save the environment. FAME Organic Pharming Project (Plants use CO2 for photosynthesis and emit O2 to atmosphere) 41.1% of CO2 can reduce in 2018 1367.4149 805.9545 2018 CO2 emission 2018 CO2 reduction Comparison of equivalent CO2 emission and reduction 34 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery Policy Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including Principle 10: extortion and bribery Policy Statement FAME Pharmaceuticals has a well-established reputation in conducting all of our business in honest and ethical manners. We also take zero tolerance approach to corruption and bribery by any of our employees, third-party representatives. Furthermore, we are committed to conducting our business in all applicable laws, rules and regulations and the highest ethical standard. Handbook of anti-corruption Distribute this book to all departments for implementation of Anti-corruption policy Implementation We conduct training for all new employees and provide relevant training on how to implement and adhere to anti-corruption policy for all existing employees. Annually we ask all employees to formally accept conformance to this policy. Our zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption must be communicated to all those who are working with us including suppliers, contractors and business partners at the outset of our business relationship with them and as appropriate thereafter. In case of gifts and hospitality, Employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals do not made with the intention of influencing a third party to obtain any business advantage, or to reward the provision or retention of business, or explicit or implicit exchange for benefits. It is given openly, not secretly according to applicable national laws and conformity with Local custom. Employees not offered to, or accepted from, government officials or representatives, or politicians or political parties. Employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals who received appropriate gifts contribute what they received to charitable donations for vulnerable community. 35 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery Principle All employees follow principles in interactions with the Government 1. FAME Pharmaceuticals will proactively seek dialogue and co-operation with the Government of Republic of the Union of Myanmar provided such engagement is necessary, appropriate and mutually beneficial to both parties. 2. FAME Pharmaceuticals will build its dialogue with Government Officials on its active involvement in and close link to civil society including Non-governmental organizations. 3. FAME Pharmaceuticals is committed to honesty and integrity when in its interactions with Government Officials, by adopting a transparent and responsible behavior, respecting all applicable local laws. 4. In their interactions with Government Officials, employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals are expected to take all reasonable steps to ensure the truth and accuracy of all statements made or information provided by them. 5. Employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals shall always identify themselves openly and correctly when representing and their specific function. 6. Employees shall not misrepresent their status or the nature of their inquiries to Government Officials nor shall they create any false impression in relation thereto. Facilitation Payments and Kickbacks Either employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals or person acting on behalf of FAME Pharmaceuticals may not make or accept any kind of facilitation payments and kickbacks. “Facilitation payment” is defined as payment made to a government officials to facilitate approval of some type of business transaction or activity. “Kickbacks” is defined as “Payments made to commercial organizations in return for a business advantage, such as a payment made to secure the award of a contract”. Employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals avoid any activity that might lead to a facilitation Payment or Kickback will be made. 36 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Donations FAME Pharmaceuticals do not make any donation or contribution whether in cash or kind to any political parties or candidates. As part of FAME Pharmaceuticals Corporate Social Responsibilities, we are committed to support in the development of our community therefore we accept to make charitable support and donations for the development of local people, whether of in-kind services, knowledge, time, or direct financial contributions. However, every employee of FAME Pharmaceuticals do careful to ensure that charitable contributions are not used as a scheme to conceal bribery. We only make charitable donations that are legal and ethical under local laws and practices. We, FAME Pharmaceuticals publicly disclose information of the charitable donations every time we make. 37 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Record-Keeping All documentations related to anti-corruption policy are kept in Document Control Centre. Monitoring and measurement are done on Yearly basis. We keep financial records and have appropriate internal controls in place which will evidence the business reason for making payments to third parties. Responsible persons are ensure that books, records and overall financial reporting are also transparent. They accurately reflect each and all underlying transactions. We declare and keep a written record of all hospitality or gifts accepted or offered which will be subject to Document Control Center managerial review which is usually held twice a year. We also ensure all expenses claims relating to hospitality, gifts or expenses incurred to third parties are submitted in accordance with our expenses policy and specifically record the reason for the expenditure. All accounts, invoices, memoranda and other documents and records relating to dealings with third parties, such as clients, suppliers and business contracts, should be prepared and maintained with strict accuracy and completeness. No accounts must be kept “of-book” to facilitate or conceal improper payments. Monitoring and Review Top level management which includes Board of Directors are responsible for monitoring and measurement on the sustainable effectiveness of FAME’s anti-corruption policy and review the implementation of this policy, regularly considering its suitability, adequacy and effectiveness. All employees are responsible for the success of this policy and should ensure they use it to disclose any suspected danger or wrongdoing. Employees are invited to comment on this policy and suggest ways in which it might be improved. Comments, suggestions and queries should be addressed to the Board of Directors. This policy does not form part of any employee’s contract of employment and it may be amended at any time. 38 FEB 2018-2019 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Conclusion As FAME has a vision to create the best workplace for our employees not only in Myanmar but also in ASEAN countries, our MD manages to fulfill the requirements of the employees in various sections such as infrastructure, facilities, transportation, recreation, education, health and safety. Our MD is an innovative person and he practises the clan culture. Thus, our communication style among the colleagues is like the family type. He leads us as a mentor and guides us the more effective management style and practices as he is a well-known knowledgeable person. Therefore, our Strategy involves having the right sort of management (good at decision making) and the ability to recognize customer needs, the right resources (financial, human etc.), appropriate technological capability (ability to work with new ideas and technologies), and the products that match customer demand. FAME increases market share through innovation, strengthening customer relationships, smart hiring practices, and acquiring competitors. Effective collective leadership will help us make the most of the opportunities, creating sustainable growth for the future. FAME with the high market share in our industries almost invariably have the most skilled and dedicated employees. Bringing the best employees on board reduces expenses related to turnover and training, and enables companies to devote more resources to focusing on our core competencies especially to meet market demand. Offering competitive salaries and opportunities is one proven way to attract the best employees. Some employees are promoted with more important duties and responsibilities. Some are transferred of department and designation to get the chance of learning related with the different job nature and external training for the development of some specific skills. We also reward Monthly and yearly attendance bonus, Special allowance for the designation and Promotion according to their contributions and performance. Furthermore, our company has Social Accountability team. MD attends monthly Social Accountability meeting and listen the voice of employees. After that, he bargains the needs and wishes of employees. Therefore, we achieved ASEAN Business Awards; SME Excellence – Employment (Country Winner) in 2018. 39 FEB 2018-2019
