COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS 2018 2 Our story Danoffice IT was established in 1995 and provides IT infrastructure to InternationalOrganisations & Businesses operating worldwide. We provide IT equipment and services more than 170 countries worldwide. Our Vision is to “Improve the world through IT”. Technology is contributing to our happiness in many ways; communication, information, education, practicalities, less physical tasks and expand of lifetime. The publication “Happy Planet” by New Economics Foundation concludes the degree of happiness is related to use of technology. Danoffice IT portfolio include hardware, software, consulting and services and covers all leading brands. Our technical staff have a broad and deep knowhow in IT infrastructure and assist our clients from Denmark, Switzerland and USA. Since 1995 we elaborate of experience on exclusively supplying and servicing International Organisations, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organisations and B2B partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of having the United Nations as client. We cooperate very closely with our clients throughout the entire process from analysing needs, supplying the needed IT equipment, installing the solution and offer a number of valuable after sales services. A holistic approach which bring VALUE to the client and return on their investment. Our logo represent two hands embracing the entire World for a better future. DANOFFICE IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 3 Our commitment Danoffice IT is a signatory to the UN Global Impact and the Ten Principles which cover: −− Human rights −− Labour standards −− Environment −− Anti-corruption We have a strong commitment to transparency and high standards of governance and business ethics. We at Danoffice IT promotes a zero-tolerance policy against bribery and corruption. In supplying UN Agencies the business is expected to meet extensive procurement procedures and criteria to reduce the risk of bribery and corruption in the procurement process. Danoffice IT also have strict criteria when contracting with customers to ensure high standards of business practices, including: −− Confirming that customers are responsible for the entire value chain −− Ensuring the financial relationship is between Danoffice IT’s head office and client head office −− Not providing bonuses or other incentives for reaching sales targets −− Using own staff in-country or trusted third party Whilst we can demonstrate a good record and profile on Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) started a formal assessment of ABC risks, greater transparency around policies, processes and reporting of ABC performance. We expect to have ISO37001 during 2019 in place, the process was launched in 2018. Since 2009 Danoffice IT has executed on our “Protect Mother Earth” circular economy and recycling program. In partnership with our United Nations clients and our vendors, we are focused in enforcing this sustaining our partners on circular economy and recycling programs. For more information, please visit www.danofficeit.com or contact us at danoffice@danofficeit.com Submitted, July 12th, 2019 by Lars Baun Jensen CEO Danoffice IT DANOFFICE IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 4 Facts about Danoffice IT Offices: Founded D&B Denmark, Switzerland & USA 1995 AA +750.000Units 170 End user countries 70 Employees Public & Private # languages customer segment +4500Orders mastered 9 CSR +400 Customers served +600Travel days per year DANOFFICE IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 5 Content Corporate Social Responsibility & The Global Compact 6 Danoff ice IT CSR – RUN for a purpose 8 Danoff ice IT CSR – SDG`s & COP 9 Communications on Progress (COP) 2018 10 −− Human Rights 10 −− Labour 11 −− Environment 13 −− Anti-Corruption 14 CSR & Corporate Values 15 DANOFFICE IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 6 C o r p o r at e s o c i a l R e s p o n s i b i l i t y Danoffice IT CSR is built on our Corporate Values, our DNA. The commitment of our employees and shareholders to live those core values is in our DNA. With our CSR programme we wish to be responsible for the impact our activities have on colleagues, partners, clients and communities around the world. Our CSR is two-folded and based on The Global Compact and The Sustainable Develvopment Goals: The Sustainable Development Goals Path Danoffice IT supports and initiate activities on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (the SDGs) also known as the Global Goals, and the need to identify, develop and accelerate initiatives. Responsibility is in our DNA and we always support our customers with sustainable products and solutions. Anchoring our strategy to the SDGs was a natural continuation of our long lasting work with the United Nations, leading global businesses and organisations as an ongoing process to accelerate solutions to meet the SDG challenge. The Global Compact Danoffice IT is proud of our membership of “The Global Compact” and fully support its policies. Our Communications on Progress (COP) ensure transparency on what we do, how we operate and how we invest. The COP drive us to perform with the highest standards of good governance and ethics through how we do business. Danoffice IT is member of the UN Global Compact which is the worlds largest sustainability & citizenship initiative. A network based initiative with the Global Compact Office and six UN agencies at its core. The Global Compact involves all relevant social actors: companies, whose actions it seeks to influence; governments, labour, civil society organisations, and the United Nations as an authoritative convener and facilitator. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Corporate sustainability starts with a company’s value system and a principled approach to doing business. This means operating in ways that, at a minimum, meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Responsible businesses enact the same values and principles wherever they have a presence, and know that good practices in one area do not offset harm in another. By incorporating the Global Compact principles into strategies, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, companies are not only upholding their basic responsibilities to people and planet, but also setting the stage for long-term success. The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles are derived from: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. DANOFFICE IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 7 C o r p o r at e s o c i a l R e s p o n s i b i l i t y Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies We all have a responsibility for the environment and for looking after each other, but as an international company with influence and means we carry an even greater responsibility than the ordinary man. Danoffice IT is devoted in making UN Global Compact a success and alongside with other dedicated members, strive to create awareness and set new standards for good governance. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. At Danoffice IT we consider corruption as a substantial obstacle to economic and social development around the world. It has negative impacts on sustainable development and predominantly sustains poverty. Danoffice IT position on corruption is not take part, or to accept, any form of fraud or corruption. The company is determined to prevent, detect and deter any form thereof. This has been our position since our foundation in 1995 and we are proud to say that our company has never been involved, accused or convicted of any form of fraud or corruption. The company defines bribery as an act on offering or receiving money, goods or other forms of recompense from a business associate in exchange for an alteration of their behavior to the benefit or interest of the giver that the recipient would otherwise not alter. DANOFFICE IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 8 C o r p o r at e s o c i a l R e s p o n s i b i l i t y Whistle Blower Hotline If any business associate to Danoffice IT has knowledge or suspicion of fraud and corruption on a staff member of Danoffice IT or any associated business partners to the company, it is strongly requested immediately to engage the anti-corruption whistle blower hotline on any knowledge or information of corruption. Any business associate is requested to use whistleblower@danofficeit.com to inform the company management of this crime. Staff comitment on anti-bribery All staff members of Danoffice IT have signed acknowledgement letter confirming to have read and understood the company’s policies on anti-bribery. #SDG10 Danoffice IT CSR RUN for a purpose Our staff is our most important resource wherefore we strive at keeping our staff mentally and physically fit. We have implemented a “healthy diet” program, with natural foods, organic foods, whole foods and vegetarian foods, in our daily cantina and follow WHO recommendations on healthy diet to maintain health and prevent risk of obesity, heart disease and diabetes. We also participate in sport activities. Every year Danoffice IT sponsor running gear to all our employees to support an active healthy lifestyle. During the year we all “RUN for a purpose!”. Danoffice IT find a project we wish to support and thereafter all employees runs once or twice a week and end year Danoffice IT donate a fixed $ amount per km. DANOFFICE IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 9 Danoffice IT CSR Our SDG #SDG4 #SDG8 #SDG10 #SDG12 #SDG4 Quality Education #SDG10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES At Danoffice IT we act At Danoffice IT we are United Against Corruption Danoffice IT has together with La Châtaigneraie InterAt Danoffice IT we consider corruption as a substantial national School of Geneva Ecolint, sponsored a humanobstacle to economic and social development around itarian project at two orphanages in Katmandu Nepal. the world. It has negative impacts on sustainable develBoth the orphanages Sagarmantha and Punarbal has opment and predominantly sustains poverty. received PC’s for educational purposes of the children. Danoffice IT position on corruption is not take part, or to “ This has been the biggest surprise gift for us. I have attached the accept, any form of fraud or corruption. The company picture of the children operating it. And once again our gratitude for the is determined to prevent, detect and deter any form very unexpected and the best gift ever for our children. thereof. This has been our position since our foundation Best Regards, Sunila ” in 1995 and we are proud to say that our company has never been involved, accused or convicted of any form “ Words like thank you, gratitude is small thing for what you all have of fraud or corruption. done to us and our children. Their life have changed a lot children are happy, content, have good health with better medication, educated and above all they have hope to lead a better life now. The company defines bribery as an act on offering or Lots of love and regards from Punarbal children ” receiving money, goods or other forms of recompense from a business associate in exchange for an alteration #SDG8 Decent Work And Economic Growth of their behavior to the benefit or interest of the giver At Danoffice IT we empower vulnerable women in that the recipient would otherwise not alter. Kenya #SDG12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PROWe buy coffee beans through the NGO NGUVU who DUCTION buys directly from local female farmers cutting all the At Danoffice IT we Protect Mother Earth middlemen giving the women higher yield. The women agrees on a contract where the NGO seSince 2009 Danoffice IT has executed on our “Protect cures education of their children and other necessities. Mother Earth” recycling program. In partnership with This way we can support the women and their children our United Nations clients and our vendors, we collect with food, clean water, medical treatment and educaused toners and cartridges from the UN missions all tion. over the world and recycle them in Europe. Our combined efforts have reached several tens of thousands of One of the stories: units collected so far and still counting. Vulnerable women like Betty is daily fighting to keep her small farm with around 300 coffee trees. It is a struggle to provide her three children with food, clean water and medical treatment. Betty’s biggest dream is to give her children an education, so they can get a future with possibilities. Betty’s dream can now come true, because she is part of the NGUVU coffee initiative. She is not only getting financial support, so she can give her children an education. She also gets 3-4 times more yield on her coffee beans than before and she is getting skill development, so she can continue optimising her harvest. DANOFFICE IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 10 C o m m u n i c at i o n s o n P r o g r e s s (COP) 2018 Danoffice IT wishes to demonstrate our continuing commitment by documenting our progresses made on the ten principles in an annual Communication On Progress (COP) report. The ten CSR principles have been integrated in all organisational levels from strategic, to tactical to operational level. Our COP report will communicate the progresses made to the international society for documentation and inspiration. Our CSR and progresses on the subject are communicated to our partners and staff through company staff manual, posters placed within premises and on the Danoffice IT web site: www.danofficeit.com Human Rights: Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. At Danoffice IT we believe that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. We respect all people regardless of nationality, race, religion, class or political opinions. Danoffice IT promote social interaction between people and cultures and aim at a mix organisational culture. We embrace culture and have employees from 10 different nationalities, coming from South America, USA, Europe and Middle East. Our organisation mix is balanced with 45% women & 55% men and we span over various religions. Moreover, we have employees who came to Denmark as refugees from Syria and Croatia. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Danoffice IT supports all human rights and legal rights, at a national level and within international law and only accept partners who do the same DANOFFICE IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 11 C o m m u n i c at i o n s o n P r o g r e s s (COP) 2018 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Danoffice IT staff have the right to be members of trade unions, collective bargaining and to strike if necessary. Trade unions can assist with negotiations of wages, work rules, complaint procedures, rules governing hiring, contract termination and promotion of workers, benefits, workplace, safety and policies. Danoffice IT staff has a representative who works as a contact person between employees and management whose mission it is to ensure that all labour standards are fulfilled and that all employees can contact someone for personal matters, ideas for improvement or health & safety conditions. Danoffice IT has a work-life balance policy encouraging flexible working hours and tolerance for personal and family issues and or needs. Danoffice IT HQ in Denmark was build in 2007 and won a prize for its architecture and for its working environment. The building is designed to incorporate a series of innovative green building techniques while operating within tight cost constraints. Functional, economic, and architectural criteria were used as the basis for the design. In addition, a minimal amount of material and technology is used throughout the design while maximising the quality of the working environment and the building’s energy performance. A modern building with technologies within ventilation, heating, shutters and water consumption. All staff has ergonomic chairs, lighting done by experts and height adjustable desks. Our Staff Manual is another tool to inform and update staff on our values, company profile, history, global strategy and information on working terms and conditions: illness and absence, overtime, annual staff interviews and regulations. Continuously we strive to educate and develop our employees professionally and personally through seminars, workshops and through daily coaching. Biweekly management gather all staff to share knowledge of professional character or to inform about the work we do with our customers in the field. Here we also learn about cultural differences in order to understand the diversity of the world we live in. DANOFFICE IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 12 C o m m u n i c at i o n s o n P r o g r e s s (COP) 2018 ... Principle 3 continued Communication and information within a company is key for success and employee satisfaction. Therefore we have a very clear and transparent communication of our strategy plan where staff is attending biweekly company meeting and weekly department meetings where status on current business and future initiative is discussed in a open and inclusive way where everyone can ask questions and receive information on the strategy and the business. #COP DANOFFICE IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 13 C o m m u n i c at i o n s o n P r o g r e s s (COP) 2018 Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour At Danoffice IT we do not use any form of forced or compulsory labour nor do we accept partners who do. Vendors, partners and clients have to confirm the same behavioral policy before a cooperation and future Business endeavor can take place. Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour At Danoffice IT we do not use any form of child labour nor do we accept partners who do. Vendors, partners and clients have to confirm the same behavioral policy before a cooperation and future Business endeavor can take place. Danoffice IT labour policy prohibit employment of any person under the age of 16 years. Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. With our presence in Denmark, Switzerland and USA our department constantly strives at building a workforce with balance of nationality, sex, race, religion, class and political opinions. Our mix of personnel is balanced between all before mentioned groups and all employees receive equal conditions and rights regardless of location or background. To balance the gender best possible we seek to have at least one of each gender represented among the last three candidates in the hiring process. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges DanofficeIT only works with internationally recognised vendors with environmental friendly policies. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Since 2009 Danoffice IT has executed on our “Protect Mother Earth” recycling program. In partnership with our United Nations clients and our vendors, we collect used toners and cartridges from the UN missions all over the world and recycle them in Europe. Our combined efforts have reached 254.000 units collected so far and still counting. DANOFFICE IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 14 C o m m u n i c at i o n s o n P r o g r e s s (COP) 2018 The Danoffice IT warehouse is using 100% bio-degradable materials and we try to reduce weight and volume to a minimize shipment and Co2 pollution. Packing waste is destroyed under environmental recycling friendly conditions. And the Danoffice IT office building is saving energy. Thermostat fan switch to ”auto” to save energy, automatic block of the sun from overheating by use of shades, changing the filters in our heating system every 6 month for optimum efficiency. Outside trees to provide shade on the sunny side of the office. We use laptops – they use less energy than desktop computers. Also our computers go to sleep or hibernate mode instead of using a screen saver so it uses less electricity during periods of inactivity. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Danoffice IT encourages its clients to look at the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) as well as Total Impact on Environment (TUE). A cost saving solution combined with a green solution with minimum environmental impact. We strive at a TCO/TIE solution with low power consumption, minimum of consumables, best quality and longest sustainable lifespan. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Danoffice IT promotes a steadfast zero tolerance policy against corruption in all its forms. Corruption is damaging for the world growth and creates yet a bigger gap between rich and poor. Corruption can be most easily defined as the manipulation or perversion of a system for the benefit of a single party rather than for the benefit of the public or the intended beneficiaries. Any Danoffice IT employee is obliged by code of ethics, to immediately report any suspicious conduct, corruptive communiqué or malign rule or transaction linked with corruption, to closest work-parent, manager and or top management. Danoffice IT aspires to be a dependable partner who always acts responsibly, honestly and fairly, whether dealing with colleagues, clients, vendors, investors or competitors. DANOFFICE IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 15 C S R & C o r p o r at e Va l u e s Danoffice IT CSR is built on our Corporate Values / DNA. The commitment of our employees and shareholders to live those core values. With our CSR program we wish to be responsible for the impact our activities have on colleagues, partners, clients and communities around the world. We are proud of our membership of “The Global Compact” and fully support its policies. This Communications on Progress (COP) ensure transparency on what we do, how we operate and how we invest. The COP drive us to perform with the highest standards of good governance and ethics through how we do business. Lars Baun Jensen CEO Danoffice IT DANOFFICE IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 16 w w w. d a n o f f i c e i t. c o m DANOFFICE IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com
