Corporate, social & environmental report UNGC Communication in Progress 2019 UN Global Compact Report Content 01 Letter from CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board Cees van Gent 3 02 Who we are Our approach 4 5 03 Planet Improving air quality and marine life Promoting a circular economy 6-7 8 04 People Inclusive workspace Listening to our employees 10 11 Compliance and conduct 12 05 Appendix 14 2 UN Global Compact Report Letter from CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board, Cees van Gent “As a global company that serves customers in 90 countries, we understand how interconnected the world is and the importance of global trade. We’re committed to making logistics easy for everyone and providing customers with services, solutions and tools to make the transport of their goods sustainable.” Our strategies are informed by global geo-political, environmental and ethical issues and activated by our in-country office teams to specifically tackle the difficulties and challenges faced by their local market. Since 1844, freight forwarding has been the foundation of the Hillebrand business with a focus on the wine trade; an industry that relies on attention to international regulation, local legislation and a unique requirement for product care. We remain flexible to global changes in regulation such as the IMO 2020, geo-political legislation and how a shift in the planet’s environment can affect the quality of products in transit. Hillebrand’s customers are at the core of our business and their requirements, along with industry led priorities, inform the company’s research, development and implementation of new services and protocols. We are proud to be part of the UN Global Compact and are committed to inciting positive change within our global community. Cees van Gent, CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board 3 UN Global Compact Report Who we are Who we are? Hillebrand is the global leading €1,3bn service provider in the forwarding, Revenue transport and logistics of wine, spirits, beer and other products that require special care. Through our global carrier network, we manage the careful and thoughtful 2,400 movement for any quantity from a Employees single bottle to bulk, from all origins to all destinations, for all modalities. 90 Countries 600,000 TEUs shipped 25,000 companies connected Individualized solutions Honest & transparent Always tailored to the Straightforward and reliable specific needs of each in our approach. of our customers. Innovative tools & services Care and sustainability Effective solutions that stay We make every effort to a step ahead of the market. care for our customer’s products, supply chain and the environment. Collaboration & co-creation We care for our employees Aligned with our customers’ by encouraging a diverse ambitions to build successful and inclusive workspace. futures. 4 UN Global Compact Report Who we are Our approach Our approach “We, the Board and Executive Committee, have a responsibility to guide our organization in best practise and ethical conduct, taking charge of our workspace and the environments in which we operate, both socially and corporately.” Cees van Gent CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board · We never strive for a business result that comes at the expense of compliance with the law. · We support and advocate for the International Labor Organization (ILO), Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We comply with all local employment acts and regulations and local Health and Safety regulations and strive for a diverse and inclusive workplace. · We comply with environmental laws and regulations and expect our partners to do the same. · We work hard to minimize the environmental impact of our operations, undertaking initiatives to ensure both we, and our partners, minimize our carbon footprint. · We compete vigorously, based on service, innovation, price and our people and we do not act with business partners to exclude rivals or competition. · We have a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. 5 UN Global Compact Report Planet Planet We’re Improving air quality and marine life focused on: From 1st January 2020, The International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Improving air quality Ships (MARPOL) and the International Maritime Improving marine life Organization (IMO) will enforce vessel operators to use marine fuels with a maximum Sulphur Promoting a circular economy content of 0.5% compared to the current limit of 3.5% (apart from ECA – Emission Control Areas). PRINCIPLE 7 Their objective is to decrease air pollution from Support a precautionary approach Sulphur emissions by around 70% globally by 2025 to environmental changes. with the ultimate goal to significantly improve public health. The projection is that the number PRINCIPLE 8 of people effected by lung cancers, asthma and Undertake initiatives to promote greater other pulmonary diseases will decrease. This environmental responsibility. regulation focuses on reducing Sulphur emissions, not reducing CO₂ emissions. So, whilst there is no PRINCIPLE 9 direct benefit towards global warming, the IMO Encourage the development and diffusion regulation aims to prevention of marine of environmentally friendly technologies. and atmospheric pollution. Hillebrand supports the IMO 2020 regulation fully and believe it is a positive step for anyone connected to global shipping. To support customers through this transition, a bunker formula has been designed so that freight payers can anticipate how the evolution of fuel prices will affect transport costs. 6 UN Global Compact Report Planet Planet Hillebrand have also made available for its customers a new report that quantifies not only Proud to say Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions but also the 29% emissions of air pollutants: Sulphur oxides (SOx), Nitrogen oxides (NOx), PM10 (Particulate Matter), NMHC (Non-methane hydrocarbon), equally damaging to public health and to the environment. Reduction in CO₂ This is a versatile new report that includes emissions per container transport mode, origin/destination country, (un) loading city, port of loading and port of discharge since 2008 amongst other filters. Our goal by 2025 45% The new Hillebrand emission report quantifies emissions for any tradelane and shipments by any modality, ship, road or train. The tool enables import and export customers to quantify their impact on the environment and public health in terms of GHG and air pollutant emissions. It will Reduction in CO₂ also allow them to aggregate yearly emissions, set emissions per container lower targets for the following year and inform the decision making for future shipments. 7 UN Global Compact Report Planet Planet Promoting a circular economy Proud to say We’re fully committed to undertaking initiatives to 77% 26% 60% reduce our impact on the planet. Together with our customers, we aim to achieve a circular economy for the flexitank equipment used in our bulk wine shipments. Bulk wine Industrial bulk Bulkheads flexitanks flexitanks recovered recycled globally recycled globally and reused globally Our goals · Incorporating recycled polymers into the outer layers of our flexitanks. · Reduce packaging by reducing thickness of film without compromising on integrity. · Increase recycling of industrial bulk flexitanks to 50% by 2022. · Manufacturing our oxygen barrier layer from a recyclable material. · Using valves that are 100% recyclable. · Increase bulkhead recoveries to 75% by 2021. 8 UN Global Compact Report Planet We participate in non-profit forums to promote environmental best practice. Hillebrand USA received a certification with Smartway® Transport Partnership; a collaboration These include: between United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and industry that provides a · Clean Cargo (a B2B initiative managed by BSR/ framework to assess the environmental and energy Business for Social Responsibility) efficiency of the movement of goods. · Fédération internationale des Vins et Spiritueux (FIVS) Hillebrand USA will contribute to the Partnership’s · The Porto Protocol savings of 215.4m barrels of oil, $29.7b in fuel costs and 103m tons of air pollutants. This is equivalent · European Petrochemical Association to eliminating annual energy use in over 14 million · Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association homes. · European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) · Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats Associations (FOSFA) 70% of employees in Hillebrand Latvia now commute to the office by bicycle, public transport or electric scooter. We promote solutions to minimize the impact of our operations: · We move liquids in bulk that allows to Our Malaysian office went greener. Thanks to an reduce transport costs while decreasing the investment in thermal transparent film to cover carbon emissions per litre by up to 50%. the glass, the heat use was reduced by 30% and · We developed an insulation liner as an air conditioning had a reduction of 3ºC. A new environmental friendly alternative to shipping lightening system allowed a 67% reduction on in refrigerated containers (which required consumption. approximately 30% more energy to refrigerate for the same tonnage). · We offer a green solution for beverage disposal in the USA, EcoBev. Hillebrand Argentina collects the cardboard packaging from its flexitanks, sells it to a recycling · We encourage brewers to use steel kegs instead facility and donates the profits to the charity of plastic kegs. Steel kegs are fully recyclable and “Fundación CONIN”. Over 3000kg of cardboard have a expectancy life of 30 years. We developed was recycled in the last year. Kegspediter, our solution to return empty kegs faster. This means using steel kegs might also be cheaper than single use plastic kegs. · All our offices and employees got the “10 tips Hillebrand has obtained an EcoVadis silver to save energy” document to promote energy recognition award for business sustainability, savings. placing us among their top 30% of performers. 9 UN Global Compact Report People People We’re Inclusive workspace focused on: Connecting the world through international trade is at the heart of our business, and we believe Inclusive workspace that differences in culture, gender, ability and Employee engagement perspective makes us stronger as a company and as a global community. We strive to attract Compliance and conduct and retain talented people whilst broadening the diversity of our company at all levels. PRINCIPLE 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights . PRINCIPLE 2 Non-complicit in human rights abuses. PRINCIPLE 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5 Uphold the effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6 Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PRINCIPLE 10 52% of our Work against all forms of corruption, including workforce extortion and bribery. is female 28% Over 20 of our ethnicities are management represented team in Hillebrand is female 10 UN Global Compact Report People People Listening to our employees During October 2019, 2,089 employees completed the Hillebrand employee engagement survey, which represents 93% of our organization. Independently administered by GLINT, this anonymous survey provided insight and feedback from employees into their beliefs and opinions on how the company is perceived and operates. Results show that our people feel very safe at work and have strong manager team relationships. They find the work they do meaningful, feel empowered to make decisions and they understand how what they do links to the company’s success. The results from the survey have been assessed and meaningful actions will be taken throughout 2020, both locally as well as globally. In other areas of the business, a number of programs will be introduced to the organization to enhance learning and leadership, recruitment, international mobility, on-boarding and mentoring. 11 UN Global Compact Report People People “We promote a compliant workplace giving tools to our employees to help them to do the right thing in the right way” Cees van Gent CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board Compliance and conduct Hillebrand is an organization with strong values of At Hillebrand, we are committed to an environment responsibility and integrity. Our Code of Conduct, where open, honest communication is a principle, launched in 2019, contains general guidelines for not an exception. conducting business with the highest standards of ethics. We want our people to feel comfortable in approaching their supervisor or management To raise the knowledge and awareness of the team in instances where they believe violations of principles outlined in our Code of Conduct, we our policies or ethical standards have occurred. launched a series of short interactive training In situations where our employees may not feel modules to elaborate on the topics within the comfortable to speak to these persons, we’ve Code such as bribery, bullying in the workplace introduced a new protocol for reporting concerns and raising concerns. The completion of the in confidence or anonymously. course by every employee ensures that our ethical standards are strongly embedded in our We’ve implemented a space where people can feel company DNA. This interactive training is part safe in the reporting of any misconduct through an of our continuous ethics & compliance training online form or a telephone hotline managed by a programme and will be followed by other bespoke specialised third party expert. e-learnings in the years ahead. 12 UN Global Compact Report People Hillebrand China donated six PC’s to Dan Ma Primary School in Dun Hua County, Qing Hai Province China. The school is located in an underprivileged area with little funding to support the education of the community’s children. These PC’s enable the school to provide the children with the basic skills they need to operate a computer in an ever-digital world. The team in Hillebrand Argentina took part in an event called ¨Noche Buena en Mendoza¨ (Christmas Eve in Mendoza). Working with a local church, they provided boxes of full of food, drinks and even presents for family’s and their children who were unable to provide for themselves during the festive period. As members of the The Glasgow Freight Former CEO of Hillebrand’s keg division Kevin Club committee and long-term supporters, Brady donated $25,000 USD to the Golden Valley Hillebrand Scotland hosted 6 tables at their Community Foundation Fund from his “Brady annual dinner and dance, helping to raise Charity Foundation” to help the families over £120,000 for The Theatre Fund, a division of Sierra Nevada Brewery who lost their homes of The Glasgow Children’s Hospital Charity. and possessions in the devastating “Camp Fire” wildfire, northern California. Team Hillebrand South Africa came together to create and donate supplies for new born babies that had been abandoned. Boxes filled with essential toiletries, clothes and other much needed items were delivered to the Phoenix Child & Family Welfare Society to help care for the infants. In 2019, Hillebrand Germany continued their support of providing work placements to young adults in the local community by employing another 6 apprentices. This program has been so successful, that today around 30% of the Hillebrand Germany workforce is made up of former apprentices. 13 UN Global Compact Report Appendix Certifications / Accreditations We are member of: AEO · European Petrochemical Association ISO 9001 · Juice Products Association OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 * · PIP programme by CBSA FSSC 22000 ** · FENEX Kosher Certification · IIFA IDCP Halal Certified GMP Good Manufacturing Practices · Helsinki Chamber of Commerce SQAS · WSTA · The Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG, * subsidiary offices in UK, Scotland and a B2B initiative managed by Business for Social Sweden received ISO 14001 accreditation for Responsibility) environmental initiatives. · The Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats ** flexitank manufacturing facilities in China and Associations (FOSFA) South Africa received ISO 14001 and FSSC 22000 · The European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) accreditations for their systematic approach to reducing physical, chemical, and biological /risks in · Gulf Petrochemical Association (GPCA) production processes. · American Fats and Oils Association (AFOA) · American Feed Ingredients Association (AFIA) · Independent Lubricants Manufactures Association (ILMA) · The Marine Ingredients Organisation (IFFO) · National Institute of Oilseed Products (NIOP) Sources: https://www.wineindustryadvisor.com/2018/02/28/glass-collective-fundraising-fire-relief https://www.epa.gov/smartway/smartway-logistics-company-partner-tools-and-resources 14 www.hillebrand.com 15
