THE BORREGAARD GROUP 1 2 THE BORREGAARD GROUP THE BORREGAARD GROUP 3 Sustainability and corporate responsibility Responsible business ............................................................................ 6 A: Sustainable business model ......................................................... 13 B: Climate, environment, health and safety ..................................... 15 C: Employee and competence development .................................... 26 D: Suppliers and business partners .................................................. 28 E: Contribution to society ............................................................... 31 2018 4 THE BORREGAARD GROUP THE BORREGAARD GROUP 5 CERTIFIED RAW MATERIALS RESEARCH EFFORTS 92% 190 OF 1,000,000 M3 WOOD MILL NOK ENERGY EMISSION REDUCTIONS 63% 40% RENEWABLE ENERGY REDUCTION IN CO2 OVER THE LAST 10 YEARS CLIMATE RATING DIVERSITY A 25% CDP’S CLIMATE CHANGE A LIST FEMALE EMPLOYEES 6 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS1 Borregaard’s main objective is to develop sustainable solutions based on renewable raw materials and its unique competence. Borregaard’s entire business model centres around sustainability, and therefore this is always a natural component of its overarching goals. The company’s Board of Directors emphasises the importance of sustainability as an integral part of the company’s operations and development. GLOBAL CHALLENGES AND SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS with the level required to keep the global temperature rise Borregaard’s innovative solutions can play an important role below 2oC compared with pre-industrial temperatures6. in addressing the world’s greatest sustainable development See page 15. challenges; population growth and climate change. BORREGAARD’S CONTRIBUTION TO UN predicts population growth of 12% by 20302, which THE UN’S 2030 AGENDA will generate extraordinary demand for climate friendly Borregaard has prioritised six of the seventeen Sustainable solutions for infrastructure, housing, energy, jobs and food Development Goals set out in the UN’s 2030 Agenda for production. Sustainable Development. The priorities were selected based on the global challenges the world faces, as well as the One urgent challenge the world is currently facing is climate solutions the company can contribute. The six prioritised change3. The Paris Agreement and the UN Climate Panel Sustainable Development Goals are: (2) Zero hunger; (8) have defined specific sustainability goals and measures Decent work and economic growth; (9) Industry, innovation, within areas such as access to raw materials, energy, food and infrastructure; (12) Responsible consumption and and infrastructure. These initiatives are expected to increase production; (13) Climate action; and (15) Life on land. demand for sustainable products, which will provide Borregaard can have an impact in these areas through its Borregaard with a broad platform for developing innovative unique biorefinery concept and its sustainable products. solutions. The six prioritised Sustainable Development Goals are Borregaard will, as a company, take climate action closely linked to Borregaard’s core operations and are and demonstrate how its business can help to advance in line with the company’s business strategy. They are sustainable development by both minimising negative used as a framework for guiding, communicating and environmental impacts and maximising positive reporting on the company’s strategy, goals and activities. environmental impacts. The Intergovernmental Panel on Borregaard will continue its work on identifying future Climate Change (IPCC)4 provides a clear description of business opportunities associated with specific Sustainable the world’s challenges through the Special Report where it Development Goals. stresses the dramatic difference between an increase in the global average temperature to 2°C above preindustrial levels Specific targets and KPIs are presented in this report under and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to the relevant topics. You will find a complete overview of 1.5°C above preindustrial levels. Borregaard’s contributions to all seventeen Sustainable Development Goals on pages 34 and 35. Borregaard joined the Science Based Targets Initiative5 in 2017 and has defined a science-based target that is in line 1 Borregaard ASA has a statutory duty to comply with the reporting requirements for corporate social responsibility in Section 3-3c of the Norwegian Accounting Act. This requires Borregaard to account for “what the company is doing to integrate respect for human rights, labour rights and social issues, the environment and anticorruption in their business strategies, in their daily operations and in their relationship with stakeholders.” 2 UN. Dugarova, Esuna & Gulasan, Nergis. (2017). Global Trends: Challenges and Opportunities in the Implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. 3 IPCC, 2013: Summary for Policymakers. In Climate Change 2013: The Physical Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change [Stocker, T.F., D. Qin, G.-K. Plattner, M. Tignor, S.K. Allen, J. Boschung, A. Nauels, Y. Xia, V. Bex and P.M. Midgley (eds.)]. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, United Kingdom and New York, NY, USA. The consolidated figures in Borregaard’s Sustainability Report do not include figures from the Group’s joint venture in South Africa. Borregaard in Sarpsborg accounts for about three-quarters of the Group’s operations (revenues and employees) and thus faces the biggest challenges with respect to EHS, climate and social issues. 4 IPCC, 2018: Summary for Policymakers. In: Global warming of 1.5°C. An IPCC Special Report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels and related global greenhouse gas emission pathways, in the context of strengthening the global response to the threat of climate change, sustainable development, and efforts to eradicate poverty [V. Mas son-Delmotte, P. Zhai, H. O. Pörtner, D. Roberts, J. Skea, P.R. Shukla, A. Pirani, W. Moufouma-Okia, C. Péan, R. Pidcock, S. Connors, J. B. R. Matthews, Y. Chen, X. Zhou, M. I. Gomis, E. Lonnoy, T. Maycock, M. Tignor, T. Waterfield (eds.)]. World Meteorological Organization, Geneva, Switzerland, 32 pp. 5 Partnership between CDP, UN Global Compact, WRI and WWF. 6 The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC AR5), the Fifth Assessment Report. SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 7 BORREGAARD’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE SDGS GROWING POPULATION CLIMATE CHANGE GLOBAL CHALLENGES THE SIX PRIORITISED SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS OUR CONTRIBUTION SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE FOOD PRODUCTION BUSINESS INDUSTRY PRODUCTION BIOREFINERY RAW MATERIAL • Efficient and • Profitability as • Market-driven • Full utilisation • The biorefinery • Bio-based raw sustainable feed a prerequisite in innovation that of raw materials concept with materials from products addition to involves the entire sustainable responsibly environmental organisation • Continuously products is an managed and • Growth and social improved lifeessential part of certified sources stimulants for dimensions in • Uses a significant cycle impact the business model food plants the sustainability share of revenues • Chain of Custody scope on innovation • Sustainable • Science-based certified in • Improved and sourcing target for reduced accordance with sustainable crop • High value • New and improved programme GHG footprint FSC® and PEFC solutions and creation and products with better forest certification protection local partners performance • Continuous • Environmental/ standards and suppliers productivity climate impact • Raw materials do create substantial • Delivers sustainable improvements, part of investment not compete with ripple effects products and including digitalproject evaluation food production in society solutions to the isation construction • Investments in • Profitability allows industry • Improved renewable energy investments, R&D chemical safety and competence development 8 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FOREST SAWMILLS LUMBER HOUSES LARGE BUILDINGS C0 2 Paper, Waste to Chemicals, Waste paper packaging energy materials and fuel WOOD PROCESSING BIOREFINERY SOCIETY 02 THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND CASCADING USE are natural components of Borregaard’s operations. The OF BIOMASS IN BORREGAARD company’s most important raw material, Norway Spruce, In a circular economy, the aim is to make the best possible is sustainable and harvested from certified forests with use of society’s resources for as long as possible. This can be short transport routes. Borregaard utilises around 85% of done by reducing the use of raw materials, waste, emissions a log for its products, and therefore has limited quantity of and energy consumption, as well as by reusing products, residual biomass for energy. At the biorefinery in Sarpsborg, either for their original purposes or for completely different Borregaard obtains energy from electricity as well as purposes. One of the basic principles is to view waste as a bioenergy from self-produced biogas and residual material resource and design products in a way that ensures materials from its bioproduction, the incineration of sorted household can be recovered more efficiently. waste at two different waste incineration facilities connected to the biorefinery, from a boiler that burns biofuel and from The efficient utilisation of side streams and cascading use a steam boiler fuelled by natural gas. Constantly increasing are cornerstones of a circular economy. In this context, Borregaard’s energy efficiency, as well as streamlining cascading means that the biocarbon is utilised in several production, decreases the input factors per tonne of product stages instead of it being emitted. In the final stage, the produced and thus continually reduces the products’ CO2 energy value of the products is utilised. This allows the footprint. raw materials and final products to be used for as long as possible by society before their life cycle ends. The wood-based industry is by its nature a circular bioeconomy. Wood from forests is sent to both sawmills Borregaard aims to develop and deliver sustainable solutions and wood processing. Side streams such as wood chips, based on renewable raw materials and unique competence, sawdust and bark from the sawmills end up in the pulp and and therefore both circular economy and cascading use paper industry, in the production of construction boards SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 9 and in energy production. Paper and packaging are returned customers, is part of an intricate and well-established to the industry for recovery once they are no longer of cascading system for bio-based products, intermediate use elsewhere in society. Biorefineries such as Borregaard products and side streams. In other words, Borregaard’s receive waste, which is used to generate energy for the biorefinery is built on the principles of both cascading and operation of production facilities and to deliver a range of circular use. sustainable products back to society. RISK MANAGEMENT There are a number of ways in which the principle of Identifying and managing risks and opportunities are cascading can be implemented. Products can be reused integrated multidisciplinary parts of the Group’s business as they are, or transformed into new products, be sent processes. Borregaard has established a system for risk to recovery and, ultimately, converted into energy via assessment and management in which climate risk comply incineration or the production of biogas. The basic principle with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures is that resources should be reused as materials for as long as (TCFD). Each member of the executive management team possible before they are incinerated. is responsible for internal control and risk assessments within their respective areas. Risk assessments are reviewed Wood chips represent a side stream from sawmills, but are annually by the company’s board of directors. Borregaard’s an important raw material for Borregaard. A log consists physical, regulatory, market, cost, and legal risks associated of cellulose, lignin and sugar. The sugar and lignin, which with climate change are featured on page 16 of the are traditionally viewed as side streams from cellulose Sustainability Report, as well as on Borregaard’s webpage. production, are used in the production of bioethanol, lignin products and vanillin, respectively. The residual streams that The stakeholders’ perspective is taken into consideration are left over are used as raw materials in the production of when assessing and managing risks with potential biogas, which is used as a source of energy in Borregaard’s environmental, social and economic impacts throughout the production processes. company’s value chain. Some side streams from production are also sold to other industries, which in turn use them as raw materials in their production. One example is knot pulp, which is removed from the cellulose and sold to manufacturers of packaging materials. DID YOU The residual energy from Borregaard’s production processes KNOW THAT… is the main source of energy for the district heating plant in The international climate Sarpsborg, replacing oil heating. In this way, Borregaard, organisation CDP gave both internally and together with external suppliers and Borregaard an A for its contribution to positive climate change? Only 1.8% of the reporting companies received this grade globally. DID YOU KNOW THAT… Borregaard uses more than 85% of a log of wood for products? The rest is used for bio-energy for the production processes. INVESTORS AND LENDERS 10 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS ORGANISATION AND RESPONSIBILITY that have the greatest impact on stakeholders’ assessments Borregaard must comply with a number of guidelines and and decisions. reporting procedures as part of its corporate responsibilities. The main documents have been approved by the company’s As a basis for this analysis, Borregaard surveyed the groups, THE BUSINESS board of directors, which also sets the overarching goals for organisations AUTHORITIES and individuals that are either impacted PARTNERS by the the areas covered by this report. company’s operations or which, in a variety of ways, have an impact on the company’s strategy and goal achievement. Guidelines7: Borregaard’s stakeholders include investors and lenders, • General Guidelines for Environment, Health, Safety current and potential employees, theLOCAL authorities, current and Climate SUPPLIERSsuppliers, and potential customers, COMMUNITIES local communities • Human Rights Policy and neighbours, partners, organisations and the media. • Anti-Corruption Manual The model below shows which groups of stakeholders are • Corporate Responsibility regarded as most important for Borregaard: • Code of Conduct • Corporate Governance Principles • Responsible Sourcing Policy INVESTORS • Competition Law Compliance Manual AND LENDERS The Group’s executive management team bears overall EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS responsibility for monitoring the company’s goals, measures and results. Their daily implementation is a line management responsibility in Borregaard. This means that corporate responsibilities are an integral component of all of the operations of Borregaard’s subsidiaries, as well as in various BUSINESS management teams, units and departments. AUTHORITIES PARTNERS SUSTAINABILITY BOARD In 2017, Borregaard established the Sustainability Board. The board addresses and monitors important topics, and also LOCAL initiates processes in which guidelines, goals and measures SUPPLIERS COMMUNITIES are developed within the areas covered by this report. The Sustainability Board reports to the CEO and is chaired by the Senior Vice President of Organisation and Public Affairs. Borregaard has also identified the company’s most STAKEHOLDER AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS important and relevant risks and opportunities based on the Borregaard fulfils its corporate responsibilities by developing company’s core operations and the geographical locations and running its operations profitably and in a manner that of its units, customers and suppliers. The results are based conforms with fundamental ethical values and respect for on Borregaard’s values, guidelines, risk assessments and individual people, society as a whole and the environment. strategy, as well as how Borregaard as a company impacts its stakeholders financially, environmentally and socially. The This approach includes maintaining a dialogue with the areas also reflect the topics the company’s stakeholders are Group’s most important stakeholders. They are taken into interested in. account when running the business and when decisions are made. Maintaining contact with the company’s various The focus areas defined as the most important are described stakeholders is an important means of building trust in in more detail in Borregaard’s Sustainability Report, chapters Borregaard, as well as understanding the role the company A to E, and reflect the company’s five main areas: plays in local communities and society as a whole. • A sustainable business model Borregaard has conducted a stakeholder and materiality • Climate, environment, health and safety analysis based on the Group’s sustainability strategy. • Employee and competence development The analysis identifies the economic, social, climate and • Suppliers and business partners environmental consequences of the company’s operations • Contribution to society 7 Read more at: https://www.borregaard.com/Sustainability/Corporate-responsibility/Policies. SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 11 Each unit in the Borregaard Group must assess issues that are relevant to the relationship between the company and society as a whole, facilitate good dialogues and ensure that complaints and other enquiries from external stakeholders are dealt with in a proper manner. The need to implement improvement projects in areas with specific challenges must DID YOU be assessed on an ongoing basis. KNOW THAT… ”All in all, Borregaard is perceived as a Based on the results from the stakeholder and materiality good company”, 7.8 out of 10. analysis, Borregaard has Sustainable Development Goals set Borregaard’s annual reputation survey out in the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. among the general public in Østfold Borregaard has linked its strategy to the most important county shows that Borregaard has a very topics in the Sustainable Development Goals such that they good reputation. are in line with the UN’s 2030 Agenda (see the illustration on page 7). The illustration below specifies the degree of importance for Borregaard’s stakeholders, as well as what is important and relevant for Borregaard. More important IMPORTANT FOR THE COMPANY’S STAKEHOLDERS A Sustainable and climate-friendly products B Climate and environment E Contribution to society and D Responsible sourcing economic ripple effects B Public and process safety D Human rights D Business ethics and anti-corruption A Access to raw materials and energy A Innovation and productivity C Access to human capital and competence development C Diversity and gender equality B Safe and healthy working environment Important IMPORTANT AND RELEVANT FOR THE COMPANY More important The coloured boxes refer to the main areas described in the Sustainability Report. 12 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 13 MAIN AREAS Main areas A) Sustainable business model B) Climate, Environment, health and safety C) Employee and competence development D) Suppliers and business partners E) Contribution to society Main areas Main areas areas Mainmodel A) Sustainable business A) Sustainable business B) Climate, Main model A) Sustainable business model areas B) Climate, Environment, Environment, A) Sustainable C) Employee B) Climate, Environment, business and competence C) Employee model D) Suppliers and competence C) Employee and competence D)Environment, andB) Climate, Suppliers E) Contribution and to D) Suppliers C) Employee and and competence E) Contribution to E) Contribution D) Suppliers and to E) Contribution to health and safety development health and safety business partners development businesssociety partners society health and safety health and safety development business partners development businesssociety partners society Sustainability and corporate responsibility is a broad and materiality analysis, Borregaard has defined the concept that covers many areas. Based on the stakeholder following main areas: A B C D E SUSTAINABLE CLIMATE, EMPLOYEE AND SUPPLIERS CONTRIBUTION BUSINESS MODEL ENVIRONMENT, COMPETENCE AND BUSINESS TO SOCIETY HEALTH AND SAFETY DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS Main areas A) Sustainable business model B) Climate, Environment, C) Employee a health and safety development A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODEL BORREGAARD’S BUSINESS MODEL • Renewable raw materials • High raw material utilisation • Environmentally friendly substitutes for petrochemicals Borregaard’s understanding of sustainability and corporate concept, which could provide further lignin raw materials responsibility derives from the fact that the business in the long-term. The concept is based on extracting lignin model itself, how the Group is run and the company’s from various forms of biomass, including agricultural waste. products are sustainable and meet global needs. The The technology is not yet in commercial operation, but world faces numerous different challenges associated with represents an option for the future. population growth and urbanisation in the years ahead. Borregaard’s wood-based products are alternatives to oilCLEANTECH based products. The wood is harvested from sustainable Cleantech is an industry term used to describe products or sources and the company is constantly working to reduce services that improve operational performance, productivity its carbon footprint and the total environmental impact of its or efficiency, while minimising costs, raw materials, energy production processes. Innovation plays an important role in consumption, waste or pollution. Borregaard is thus a good improvements, both in terms of reducing process emissions example of cleantech. The Group’s bio-based products and improving product performance. do well from a climate perspective when compared with petrochemical products. Borregaard has also made efforts SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in its production Borregaard’s biorefinery utilises bio-based raw materials that processes, including by elimination of heavy fuel oil and meet environmental and sustainability criteria. The Group increasing the amount of energy supplied from more ecoattaches great importance to sourcing wood from forests friendly energy sources. that are managed in a proper, sustainable and eco-friendly manner. LIFE CYCLE ANALYSIS Borregaard has engaged an independent third party, Ostfold The Group’s production units outside Norway mainly obtain Research, to conduct a life cycle assessment (LCA) based on lignin raw materials from nearby cellulose plants. All of the ISO 14044/48 standard. This analyses the environmental these suppliers use wood from certified (Forest Stewardship impacts Borregaard’s products have from raw materials to Council® (FSC)) sources. This is described in more detail in finished products. The study was carried out for the first time chapter D. Borregaard has also developed the patented BALI in 2008 and has since been updated on several occasions, 14 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY most recently in 2015. The analysis confirms that the Productivity efforts lead to better ways of making products environmental and climate impacts of Borregaard’s products through new use of technology, competence development have diminished over time. and a more efficient organisation. Ostfold Research has conducted an analysis in which Digitalisation is one important approach to productivity Borregaard’s products were compared with competing improvement. Borregaard has increased the use of new products. All of the comparisons covered a number technology and digital solutions to monitor, control and of environmental impact categories. The analysis analyse the production systems. In addition, new digital confirmed that Borregaard’s products provide better solutions are developed and implemented both within environmental performance than the alternatives in almost marketing and in financial and administrative processes. all environmental categories and indicate environmental A number of digitalisation projects are ongoing, and benefits from replacing the alternatives with the company’s Borregaard exchanges knowledge and solutions across products. production units. Training and organisational development are important parts of these improvement projects. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D) Innovation and R&D are important for renewing operations KEY INITIATIVES AND RESULTS IN 2018 and also necessary to strengthen the company’s financial Reductions in emissions in most categories, as well and environmental sustainability. as further development of new bio-based products, strengthened Borregaard’s sustainability profile in 2018. Borregaard’s R&D and innovation efforts in 2018 amounted to NOK 190 million. This represents 4% of the company’s In 2018, Borregaard completed an upgrade of the revenues. production facility for bioethanol, as well as a facility for capturing and storing biogas. The upgrade has enabled Borregaard has an R&D team of 97 employees, including 34 Borregaard to increase its production volume of water-free PhDs. The R&D primarily takes place at the Group’s research bioethanol for fuel. This market is growing, driven mainly centre in Norway, which at year-end 2018 employed 67 by increased demand for bioethanol as a fuel additive. people from nine different countries. R&D activities also The project involved the installation of modern production take place at the sites in Spain, South Africa, India and technology, which has substantially reduced the energy the US. Some R&D work is carried out in partnership with consumed in the production process. Energy consumption customers, universities and research institutions in several per litre of produced water-free bioethanol has fallen by countries. 67% following the upgrade. In 2018, Borregaard recognised NOK 90 million (NOK 85 Innovation plays an important role in maintaining million) in support for ongoing R&D projects, mainly from sustainable development. Borregaard measures the the EU’s Horizon 20208 programme, the Research Council of company’s innovation rate as the proportion of revenues Norway, Innovation Norway and Skattefunn9. coming from new products launched in the past five years. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT AND DIGITALISATION In 2018, Borregaard’s innovation rate was 13% (13%). The To maintain sustainable operations, continuous improvement average innovation rate for the last five years is 15% (15%). is important and an integral part of Borregaard’s strategy. RAW MATERIALS PROCESSES PRODUCTS Natural, renewable, Investment in reduced emissions Biochemicals that sustainable and greener energy sources replace petrochemicals 8 Support from the Bio-Based Industries Joint Undertaking (BBI) under the EU’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme in grant agreement no. 709746. 9 A government program designed to stimulate research and development (R&D) in Norwegian trade and industry. SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 15 KEY TARGETS 2018 RESULTS COMMENTS R&D efforts to develop bio-based sugars, improved lignin products Further development of new bio-based products On going and new cellulose-based products Completed investment in a 100,000 mtds lignin plant in Florida and Increased production capacity for bio-based products Achieved increased capacity of fuel grade (100%) bioethanol An innovation rate of 15% Not achieved 13% in 2018, average innovation rate last 5 years is 15% Improved energy solution for bioethanol. No major changes in other Improved sustainability from an LCA perspective Achieved production/transportation set-up KEY TARGETS 2019 Continued development of new bio-based products Increased sales and production of bio-based products An innovation rate of 15% Further improvement of sustainability from an LCA perspective Main areas A) Sustainable business model B) Climate, Environment, C) Employee and competence D) Suppliers and health and safety development business partners B CLIMATE, ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Environment, health, safety (EHS) and climate are an CLIMATE CHANGE – GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS integrated part of both Borregaard’s business model and Borregaard has chosen a target based on the most ambitious its sustainability strategy. The Group is actively working pathway for greenhouse gas cuts10 (the IPCC’s Representative on measures that can contribute to sound environmental Concentration Pathway (RCP) 2.655) which is in line with and resource management. Borregaard’s ambitions and the Norwegian Climate Act, meaning that the Group will guidelines within climate and EHS are set out in a separate assume responsibility for its share of the reduction in policy document (see the overview on page 10). The General greenhouse gases necessary to transition to a low-emission Guidelines for Environment, Health, Safety and Climate was society. The target is also within the industry range which updated in 2017 to underscore Borregaard’s ambitions in is specified in the Special Report, projected to be 65-90% this area. Borregaard’s overall EHS and climate goals are that lower in 2050 relative to 2010. the company and its activities will contribute to sustainable solutions, with no harm to people or to the environment. Borregaard aims to cut the direct and indirect emissions associated with the production of its products (scope 1 Borregaard has dedicated support functions for EHS and risk and scope 2) by 50% by 2030 and by 75% by 2050 (base management. The stakeholder analysis provides important year 2009). An assessment of Borregaard’s future emissions data for the risk assessment process and is therefore revised indicates that it is possible to achieve this target by further frequently. Risk management covers every aspect of reducing energy consumption and increasing the use of Borregaard’s activities and self-assessments are conducted in renewable energy. Direct and indirect emissions have been relation to EHS. The risk management process systematically cut by around 34% since the base year. Emissions from identifies injury, fire, explosion and unwanted hazardous activities in the value chain (scope 3) will be reduced by substances emission risks. The Board of Directors reviews 75% by 2050 (base year 2017). Cuts will especially be made the Group’s risk picture at least once a year. within transport solutions and the procurement of goods and services. The biorefinery’s products are made from wood Borregaard monitors EHS and climate parameters and (a renewable raw material) and therefore generate no extra reports on these in monthly KPI reports, as well as in CO2 emissions, either in their usage phase or the end of life expanded interim reports. EHS and climate results are treatment phase. reported monthly to the company’s board of directors. This is also a separate item on the agenda of each board meeting. Borregaard has disclosed information to the CDP investor initiative since 2015. The initiative has evolved into an The Sustainability Board discusses ambitions and measures internationally leading system for climate and environmental regarding EHS and climate to ensure common practices reporting, and is backed by more than 800 institutional throughout the Borregaard Group. investors. The goal of CDP is to enable companies to measure and manage environmental impact. Borregaard has 10 IPCC Representative Concentration Pathway 2.6. 16 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY been highlighted as a global leader on corporate climate risk for Borregaard. However, milder winters could raise action by environmental impact, achieving a place on the the cost of harvesting and transporting wood in the Nordic CDP Climate Change A List for its reporting for 2018. region. Costs could also increase as a result of increased competition for this raw material in connection with the Greenhouse gas emissions are reported in accordance transition to a more bio-based society. Borregaard sources with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), which wood from several different areas in order to reduce the is a standard for calculating and reporting greenhouse risk. The Group also has well-established solutions for gas emissions associated with operations, both direct and transporting wood by road, rail and sea, in addition to indirect, from the production of products, as well as from all flexible storage of wood. activities in the value chain. The most important transition risk is that the costs associated Climate risks and opportunities with greenhouse gas emissions will increase, for example One important element of Borregaard’s operations involves as a result of the EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS). utilising renewable raw materials for the production of Borregaard has managed this risk by establishing a long-term climate-friendly alternatives to products from fossil raw climate and energy strategy in which its use of renewable materials. Wood-based products from sustainably managed energy sources has increased, while energy consumption in forests are considered part of the solution to the climate production has decreased. In the last decade, Borregaard’s challenges11. operations in Sarpsborg has replaced the use of heavy oil with more climate and eco-friendly sources of energy. As far as greenhouse gas emissions from a life cycle During this period, the Borregaard Group has reduced its perspective are concerned, Borregaard’s bio-based products direct CO2 emissions by 40%. Given this, Borregaard will are considered more climate-friendly than petrochemical have surplus of free allowances until 2020. In the period alternatives. Borregaard’s most important contribution will, 2020-2030, the EU ETS will provide fewer free allowances therefore, be the further development of its business model and it is likely that energy costs will increase. Borregaard’s in order to meet future demand for advanced, renewable favourable position with respect to the use of renewable and climate-friendly biochemicals and biomaterials. At the energy, as well as the Group’s planned measures for cutting same time, greenhouse gas emissions in both production CO2 in the long-term, have substantially reduced the risk processes and throughout the value chain must be cut. associated with an increase in CO2 costs. Borregaard has set ambitious, science-based targets for this area. Society has established various support schemes to Technologies for further reduction in energy consumption meet the needs of a low-emission society, and Borregaard and availability of more renewable sources like electricity already receives support for measures within both energy from hydropower and biogas are important tools to achieve reduction and new products. the company’s ambitious GHG emission reduction targets (science-based targets). Development in technologies for The potential impacts of climate change, such as extreme Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) or sustainable Carbon precipitation and drought, pose a relatively low operational Capture and Use (CCU) may be a prerequisite. Borregaard in Sarpsborg has signed an agreement with a cluster of companies in the region to make a possibility study regarding technologies and value chains for CCS and CCU. Energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions DID YOU Borregaard’s direct emissions of the greenhouse gas CO2 KNOW THAT… mainly stem from fossil fuels used in the production of heat Borregaard reduced its direct CO2 energy. emissions by over 40% over the last 10 years? 93% of Borregaard’s direct CO2 emissions in 2018 originated from the operations in Sarpsborg, 5% from the German operations and the remaining 2% from the company’s operations in the US, Spain, the Czech Republic and the UK. Borregaard’s operations in Sarpsborg and Germany hold ISO 50001 certification for energy management. 98% of the Borregaard Group’s total energy consumption is thus covered by certified management systems. 11 http://www.ipcc.ch/ipccreports/tar/wg3/index.php?idp=167 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 17 Borregaard’s operation in Sarpsborg currently meets its eco-friendly source of energy. NOx cleaning, so-called base need for heat energy (base load) in the form of steam Selective Non-Catalytic Reduction (SNCR) technology, will through energy recovery from waste, bioenergy and heat be implemented in 2019. Borregaard has two spray dryers recovery from production. Borregaard stopped using heavy that used propane and biogas as an energy source. In 2018, fuel oil for steam production in 2013 when a new multipropane was replaced by LNG and the supply of biogas fuel boiler that mainly uses liquefied natural gas (LNG) was from Borregaard’s water purification plant increased. The commenced. CO2 emissions associated with LNG are 25% investment cost NOK 78 million and will receive NOK 25.9 lower than those from heavy fuel oil. Peak load production million from Norwegian industry’s NOx Fund. is now based on a combination of LNG and electricity. The CO2 emissions associated with the production of heat In 2018, greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1 and scope 2) energy will, therefore, vary from year to year, depending on increased by 9% as more LNG than electricity was used for the energy source for peak load and production volume. In peak-load energy at the plant in Sarpsborg compared with 2018 the main source for peak load was LNG. previous years. Borregaard’s operations in Germany and Florida use LNG in Overall, total energy consumption in Borregaard was steam production and focus on energy optimisation. reduced by 17% from 1,612 GWh in 2017 to 1,595 GWh in 2018. This was due to the effect of the energy efficiency Key initiatives and results in 2018 programmes at the production site in Sarpsborg. The specific In 2017, Borregaard completed a three-year energy heat energy use at Borregaard in Sarpsborg fell 2%, in line efficiency programme intended to reduce energy with to the Group’s target in 2018. consumption at the plant in Sarpsborg by better utilisation of surplus heat. 2018 was the first year with the full effect of Borregaard supplies surplus heat from low-temperature all of the measures and annual energy consumption was cut water to the district heating system in the municipality of by 73 GWh. The programme received financial support from Sarpsborg. In 2018, Borregaard supplied 10.3 GWh (9.7 Enova12 equivalent to 42% (NOK 46 million) of the total GWh). investment of NOK 107 million. Energy and climate results are shown in the table on During the period 2016-2018, Borregaard also conducted page 25. an energy efficiency project in the company’s fine chemicals operations in Sarpsborg, where three out of four projects Initiatives in 2019 were supported by Enova. The main objective was to The science based targets for long-term GHG emission increase heat recovery by improving heat exchangers and reductions will likely be approved within the first half of using heat pumps. In 2018, the project resulted in a saving 2019. Borregaard will establish specific action plans based of 20.6 GWh annually, compared with 2015. The project is on climate scenario analyses in order to achieve the target expected to deliver further savings in 2019. for 2030. In 2018, Borregaard invested NOK 63 million in upgrading A new spray dryer for lignin is under construction at the bioethanol production plant. The project included a Borregaard’s plant in Sarpsborg. Thus, in 2019, more lignin facility for storing biogas that will increase the amount will be dried at the plant in Sarpsborg, which will result of renewable energy used in Borregaard’s processes. The in an increase in direct greenhouse gas emissions locally. project also involved the installation of modern production However, the emissions associated with transport and drying technology which has reduced specific energy use in this elsewhere in the world will be cut, hence the net effect will plant by 67%. The biogas project is showing promising result in reduced GHG emissions. results. The increased use of biogas has replaced propane as an energy source, equivalent to 45 GWh annually. The Borregaard is planning to carry out further rebuilding of project received NOK 18.9 million in support from Enova the bioboiler so the proportion of renewable fuels can be and was completed in the first quarter of 2018. increased. This project will potentially result in the capture of 33 GWh of bioenergy, which is equivalent to a reduction Borregaard’s bioboiler for liquefied fuels converts residues in CO2 emissions of 1,320 tonnes. from production into steam. Waste oil was previously used as a supplementary fuel, which resulted in emissions of Transport and greenhouse gas emissions NOx and CO2. In 2018, Borregaard rebuilt the bioboiler Borregaard aims to reduce the environmental impact from and waste oil was replaced by LNG, a considerably more transport of raw materials and finished goods. Infrastructure 12 Norwegian government agency that promotes eco-friendly changes in relation to energy use, renewable energy production and new energy and climate technology. 18 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY for instance by replacing road transport by multi-modal and seaborne transport options. Rail transport has generally played a steadily smaller part in the design of the European transport network in recent decades. However, rail is important for Borregaard’s transport of wood for its operations in Sarpsborg. In 2018, DID YOU 190,000 tonnes (22%) of wood were transported by rail. The goal is to transport 23.5% by rail in 2019, which is KNOW THAT… equivalent to cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 1,700 An upgrade of the ethanol plant resulted tonnes. in reduction of energy consumption per litre of produced bio-ethanol by 67% Borregaard has increased its fleet of electric vehicles for local transport and has installed a number of EV charging stations at the company’s site in Sarpsborg. In 2018, Borregaard installed sixteen EV charging stations to reduce CO2 emissions associated with the employees’ vehicle use. and capacity limitations will be overcome by a focus on non-traditional solutions. Production units for lignin on three ENVIRONMENT continents reduce the need to transport both raw materials Environmental risks and opportunities and finished products over long distances. Borregaard’s bio-based products have a documented favourable environmental footprint in relation to oil-based In 2018, Borregaard’s operations in Sarpsborg transported or non-renewable alternatives. This position provides 50% of its products by sea, 35% by road and 15% by rail. the company with opportunities in markets that value sustainability. Borregaard prioritises innovations and Borregaard has commenced a study looking at options activities that can improve the products’ environmental for future zero-emission solutions for transport between impact, such as water and waste management and energy Borregaard in Sarpsborg and the Port of Borg in Fredrikstad. efficiency. These processes are supported by certified ecoFollowing the study, Borregaard has set up an internal, management systems. The highest-risk production units interdisciplinary group tasked with surveying and assessing are certified by ISO 14001 Environmental Management all aspects of, and opportunities for, implementing (see the overview of certifications on page 32). Emissions environmentally friendly transport solutions in Borregaard from the various production units are also regulated by the in the coming years. Based on this, the Group will suggest authorities. measures and targets for sustainable transport and report its progress to Borregaard’s Sustainability Board. The highest environmental risk is associated with the main production facility in Sarpsborg. Emissions of organic matter Borregaard has committed to assuming its share of the effort to water (chemical oxygen demand (COD) or biological needed for a green shift within heavy goods transport by oxygen demand (BOD)) affect the aquatic environment in signing the environmental organisation ZERO’s declaration: the river Glomma. Emissions of sulphur dioxide (SO2) to air “A green shift for renewable heavy goods transport”. affect local air quality. Borregaard has established action Borregaard’s contracts with transport service providers plans to cut these emissions, and substantial reductions in require eco-friendly transport that uses engines that, as a emissions have been achieved over time. Organic matter has minimum, satisfy the Euro 5 emission standard. In 2018, been cut by around 40% and SO2 has been cut by almost 100% of the Borregaard’s inbound transport of logs and 90% in the past eight years. wood chips was transported by vehicles that satisfy the Euro 5 standard or higher. In 2018, this requirement was Water management and emissions to water introduced for all inbound and outbound road transport Borregaard has a sustainable water management system. from Borregaard in Sarpsborg. Most of the water consumption and emissions are linked to Borregaard’s operations in Sarpsborg. The plant is selfMarine transport and combined transport solutions are sufficient and has access to water from the river Glomma integral parts of Borregaard’s eco-friendly logistics solutions. via its own water treatment facility. Water is important in Around 540,000 tonnes of Borregaard’s transports are Borregaard’s production processes and is used for cooling, already on marine solutions, and efforts to increase use of steam production and hot water production, as well as the most environmental friendly alternatives will continue, washing and transporting biomass in the production SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 19 processes. However, almost all of the water used is returned for the river Glomma’s wild salmon stock. As a result, its to the river Glomma. Opportunities for reducing water ecological status varies between poor and very poor. NIVA’s consumption are assessed in connection with investment measurements of chemical status in accordance with the projects. This is also motivated by the potential gains WFD standards show a good status. associated with energy savings and more efficient water treatment. A large proportion of the process water is treated Borregaard’s emissions of organic matter has been reduced to keep emission levels of halogenated organic compounds by 40% since 2010. New analyses show that the conditions (AOX) and COD in line with Borregaard’s discharge permits. in the river Glomma downstream Borregaard has improved. The company’s wastewater treatment facility reduces BOD by 98%. In partnership with two energy companies, Borregaard constructed and financed a salmon cultivation facility on its The EU’s BREF standards (best available technology (BAT)) premises in 2012, due to low natural reproduction of salmon apply to the Sarpsborg production plant and include limits in the river. Borregaard has paid most of the operating costs on water and air emissions. Borregaard has submitted an associated with the facility since 2017. Surveys conducted assessment of the environmental technology at the site in by NIVA in 2018 shows that only 5% of the salmon in the Sarpsborg to the Norwegian Environment Agency. river originated from the cultivation facility at Borregaard, which indicates that the natural reproduction of salmon in This was done in compliance with the recently updated the river is high compared to 2012. In 2016, NIVA suggested BREF standards for the industry. The assessment provided the continued operations as the natural reproduction still basis for the authorities’ revision of Borregaard’s discharge requires some assistance from the cultivation plant to make permits. The discharge permits will apply from the second a sustainable salmon stock. quarter of 2019 and contain stricter emission limits for a number of environmental parameters. The current discharge The long-term goal of the WFD regulation is to achieve permit for COD is for 69 tonnes per 24-hour period. a good ecological status in the river Glomma in 2027. Emissions will be reduced to 59 tonnes per 24-hour period Borregaard has identified both short-term and long-term (on average over the year) in 2019 in order to comply with goals for cuts in COD emissions. The first goal is to comply BAT levels for emissions to water and Borregaard’s new with the new permit for water which applies from 2019. The discharge permit. next step involves R&D activities in the field of sustainable water treatment solutions as well as technological Borregaard and the Norwegian Institute for Water Research improvements that will have a positive effect on the (NIVA) monitor the river Glomma in accordance with the emissions of organic matter to water. requirements and standards in the EU Water Framework Directive (WFD). This monitoring shows that emissions of The water volumes used at Borregaard’s facilities for lignin easily degradable organic matter (BOD) from Borregaard production outside Norway are relatively low, about 1% has caused a proliferation of bacteria covering riverbed of the company’s total water consumption. The water is sediments close to the plant. This causes poor oxygen sourced from public waterworks or adjoining industrial conditions, which has implications for the growth conditions areas. Borregaard’s lignin plant in Florida uses process water from a ground water source, the Floridan aquifer system, which is one of the world’s most productive aquifers. Results 2018 The Borregaard Group did not exceed any of its permits for emissions to water in 2018. The figures in the table on page DID YOU 25 only show emissions from the plant in Sarpsborg, since KNOW THAT… the Group’s other activities have no significant emissions to SO2 emissions from Borregaard’s water. operations in Sarpsborg have been cut by almost 90% over the past eight years. Borregaard in Sarpsborg has reduced emissions of COD from 66 to 61 tonnes per 24-hour period. In 2018, emissions of lead, phosphorus and zinc were substantially reduced and were 80%, 20% and 50% lower, respectively. 20 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Initiatives for 2019 In 2018, the total emissions of SO2 was reduced by about 2019 will be the first year a new discharge permit from the 20% due to measures at the plant in Sarpsborg. The increase Norwegian Environment Agency applies to Borregaard’s in total dust emissions of 4,3% was due to the increased plant in Sarpsborg. The company has drawn up a plan for production of lignin in powder form in connection with the the various measures that must be implemented to achieve new lignin facility in Florida and from increased production the new requirements in the permit. The plan is intended to of powder at the operation in Sarpsborg. ensure compliance with the new discharge permit, which is expected to become effective from the third quarter of 2019. Initiatives for 2019 In 2019, Borregaard will invest in greater scrubber capacity Emissions to air in the bioethanol plant to reduce diffuse emissions of SO2. Borregaard’s emissions to air of SO2, NOx and dust particles affect local air conditions and derive from A new lignin spray dryer with modern cleaning energy production, drying processes and the use of SO2 technology will be completed at the plant in Sarpsborg in production processes (Sarpsborg). SO2 emissions from in the third quarter of 2019. The spray dryer will double production processes derive from the cooking acid used to lignin drying capacity. Depending on how much of this separate lignin from cellulose. These emissions are generally capacity is utilised, this will result in an increase in dust cleaned in scrubbers, but also result in some diffuse emissions, although they will remain within the applicable emissions. requirements for the air quality criteria for dust. The authorities have set limits for SO2 concentrations in NOx cleaning with SNCR technology will be implemented the air. The municipality of Sarpsborg measures local air on Borregaard’s bioboiler in Sarpsborg in the first half of quality with respect to SO2 content. The measurements 2019. This is expected to further reduce NOx emissions from show a general reduction in concentrations of SO2, and the energy production by 24% in 2019. air in Sarpsborg remains within current limits more than 98% of the time. Borregaard’s programme for reducing Waste management and recovery SO2 emissions from chimneys and scrubbers has reduced Borregaard’s waste management system covered by the ISO emissions by nearly 90% in the last eight years. Borregaard 14001 certification includes source separation. 99% of the and the municipality of Sarpsborg maintain an ongoing waste from operations in Sarpsborg was source separated dialogue regarding the implementation of corrective and and processed by certified waste treatment providers in preventive measures with respect to exceeding local air 2018. The plant has waste plans, both for the industrial quality regulations. The target is zero instances of exceeding facilities and the company’s own harbour. Total waste local air quality limits. amounted to 22,360 tonnes (18,360 tonnes) in 2018, while the amount of hazardous waste was 4,903 tonnes (3,316 Burning fuels for heat energy produces NOx emissions. tonnes). The energy and material recovery rate is high and Switching from using heavy oil to more eco-friendly was 70% in 2018. 80% of the hazardous waste is fly ash alternatives has reduced these emissions by around 50% from the waste incineration plant. The main reason for in the last ten years. Spray drying lignin products results in increase in the hazardous waste is due to operational issues some emissions of NOx (from the fuel) and dust particles in this plant. (lignin). Soil Polution Results 2018 Use of the Opsund landfill, a waste disposal site on NOx emissions from Borregaard increased by 14% due Borregaard’s premises in Sarpsborg, was discontinued in to slightly higher emissions in the beginning of 2018 from 2009. In 2015, a plan for permanent closure of the landfill the operations in Sarpsborg and from the start-up of the by the end of 2019 was approved by the Norwegian lignin plant in Florida. In October, the NOx emissions were Environment Agency. The closure project is progressing and reduced due to the transition from waste oil to LNG in the the main part will be finished by the planned end date. The bioboiler at Borregaard in Sarpsborg. vegetation layer on the top of the landfill will be postponed until the spring of 2020. In 2018, fifteen (six) incidents were registered where the hourly limits were exceeded and two (zero) incidents where From 1949 to 1997, Borregaard used mercury-based the limits for a 24-hour period were exceeded for SO2 technology for chlor-alkali production at the site in levels in the air around Borregaard’s plant in Sarpsborg. The Sarpsborg. This process led to pollution of the soil in increase was due to two individual incidents in the process the area surrounding the plant. In 1994, a ground water control system of SO2 gas in connection with stoppages in barrier was built, and a water monitoring programme was the plant. Corrective measures have been implemented. established. In 2015, an increased level of mercury was SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 21 detected. Borregaard has undertaken measures to improve In 2017, Borregaard updated its safety report based on the ground water barriers in order to prevent mercury the revision of Seveso III. The report provided an updated leakage from the discontinued technology. During 2016, the picture of the overall risk of major accidents at the plant in Norwegian Environment Agency approved planned actions Sarpsborg and provides a basis for prioritising risk mitigation and Borregaard made a provision in the ﬁnancial statements measures. Borregaard has also updated its strategy for according to estimated costs. The concentration of mercury preventing major accidents in line with Seveso III (Section 7, in ground water wells and in the sewerage systems has Annex 3) and is currently implementing an updated process decreased due to these actions. Borregaard reports progress safety management system. to the Norwegian Environment Agency every quarter. In 2019, areas downstream from the groundwater barriers will SO2 is an important input chemical in production processes be cleaned to prevent the spreading of mercury. in the biorefinery and cannot be replaced by other chemicals. Risk analyses show that a large discharge of The Industry Emission Directive (IED) obliges Borregaard’s sulphur dioxide could have serious consequences for third plant in Sarpsborg to submit baseline report for land and parties, especially from the storage of liquid sulphur dioxide. groundwater. Borregaard has conducted a number of surveys Borregaard has decided to introduce new technology that in the last 30 years. The company has a good overview of will substantially reduce the amount of SO2. the plant’s activity history and monitors contaminated areas. The industrial site is divided into five areas. The survey of Borregaard has several lignin spray dryers in its facilities. the first area will be completed in 2019. The baseline report The risk of a dust explosion has been surveyed and risk must be submitted to the Norwegian Environment Agency mitigation measures have been implemented. for approval. The Norwegian Tank Regulations (Norwegian Pollution PUBLIC AND PROCESS SAFETY Regulations, Chapter 18) were introduced in Norway in Process safety at Borregaard’s facilities has increased 2014 with the intention of surveying and reducing the over time due to the systematic monitoring of risk and environmental risks associated with tank storage. All the implementation of measures aimed at mitigating risk. storage tanks had to be equipped with physical barriers Borregaard has focused on communication to create trust for the collection of chemicals in case of accidents by 1 among people who live and work near the production January 2019. Borregaard has assessed environmental risk facilities. for around 500 tanks with respect to the requirements of the Regulations. The projects that have been implemented Sometimes risks can be eliminated through technical, include everything from upgrading existing tank reservoirs to organisational or business measures. Borregaard’s building brand new tank storage facilities for some elimination of chlorine risk by converting the elemental chemicals. chlorine to hydrochloric acid, implemented in 2012, is one example of this. Borregaard continuously assesses safety in relation to the wider community outside the company. This applies in particular to Borregaard’s large plant in Sarpsborg, which is subject to the Norwegian Major Accident Regulations13. These are based on an EU Directive (Council Directive 96/82/EC (“Seveso III”)) intended to prevent accidents that could potentially cause large-scale harm. DID YOU Borregaard, in cooperation with independent expertise, has KNOW THAT… carried out extensive risk assessments in line with guidelines Borregaard Sarpsborg has reduced from the Norwegian Directorate for Civil Protection (DSB). its emission of NOx by 50% over the Based on this work, DSB has proposed consideration last ten years. zones for the area surrounding Borregaard’s operations in Sarpsborg. Borregaard, therefore, expects the longterm development of the area surrounding the plant to be harmonised in line with the expectations of the Seveso III. 13 The Council Directive 96/82/EC 22 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Results 2018 International and national chemicals legislation require Borregaard reported one (three) fire in 2018. The fire resulted tests and registrations with the authorities before products in minimal damage. The risk of fire will be further reduced can be safely and legally placed on the market. Animal through the implementation of a four-year plan (2017-2020) testing might in some exceptional cases hence be necessary at the plant in Sarpsborg, which includes renewing fire in order to ensure compliance with relevant directives. A alarm systems and improving standards in accordance with procedure for approval and performance of animal testing is the Norwegian Fire Regulations. in place. The risk of incidents related to the storage and use of Borregaard has procedures to ensure that all new chemicals chemicals at the plant in Sarpsborg was reduced in 2018. subject to labelling due to potential risk are assessed for Waste oil, as a supplemental fuel for the bioboiler, and possible substitution by a dedicated committee, before they propane, as a fuel for the spray dryers, have been replaced are introduced in the production processes. The existing by LNG. Tank storage has been upgraded in accordance portfolio of chemicals is subject to periodical assessment with the Tank Regulations’ requirements for products such for possible substitution. In the planning and development as ethanol, sulphuric acid and chlorine dioxide. Among process for new products, substances used as input factors other things, this has further improved process safety in the are evaluated with a view to risk and toxicity before they are facilities. approved. Borregaard in Sarpsborg distributed updated information SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKING ENVIRONMENT leaflets about plant safety to its neighbours in 2018. A safe and healthy working environment is a fundamental right for all employees, and essential for ensuring stable and Initiatives for 2019 efficient operations. Borregaard will continue to implement an updated process safety management system. The company will prioritise the Borregaard’s ambition is to promote a safety culture areas with the highest potential inherent risk in terms both that results in the avoidance of injuries to employees or of EHS and profitability. Process safety related to SO2 will third parties, as well as material damage resulting from be prioritised. Borregaard has decided to introduce new its activities. This will be achieved through good risk technology that will substantially reduce the amount of SO2 management, systematic efforts to prevent injuries and stored at the plant in Sarpsborg in order to further improve occupational diseases (both physical and mental), and safety. This technology will be implemented in 2020. the involvement of all employees. Safety is an integral component of all aspects of Borregaard’s operations due to CHEMICALS AND PRODUCT SAFETY an proactive approach that involves safe job analyses, safety Borregaard’s main products are lignin and speciality barriers and the principle of “safety first”. cellulose, representing about 80% of the revenues. Both are exempted from registration under the REACH Some of Borregaard’s units are certified pursuant to OHSAS regulation, which means that they are associated with 18001. Norwegian EHS legislation (Internal Control a low risk in use. About 20% of the revenues are from Regulations) includes a requirement for a management products that are subject to classification according to system that systematically monitors safety, identifies hazards the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and and involves employees. Borregaard has also added its own Labelling of Chemicals (GHS). Substances which are subject requirements and guidelines to ensure high EHS standards to registration under the REACH regulation undergo a for its operations. thorough hazard and risk assessment according to regulatory requirements. An electronic chemical health, environmental Borregaard’s overall target is zero lost time injuries (LTI). and safety system is used for the identification and Some of Borregaard’s production units have maintained a monitoring of substances of concern (REACH Candidate List, zero LTI level for many years. REACH Authorisation List). Borregaard does not produce substances listed on these lists. The classification (according The management has long prioritised a focus on safety in the to the CLP Regulation) of all products placed on the market workplace to eliminate injuries. Borregaard has a worldwide are being evaluated based on intrinsic properties of the safety programme called Zero Harm. Important measures for ingredients and/or toxicological data on the product. The eliminating injuries include basic EHS training to strengthen Safety Data Sheets are regularly revised and updated. The the safety culture, focusing on personal responsibility for risk for hazardous conditions and unexpected exposure due one’s own safety, clear safety management, reviews of to use of chemicals is considered as low. rules for, and the practical use of, protective equipment, and requirements for order and tidiness in the workplace. SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 23 The Group has a systematic procedure for investigating the for SO2 in the workplace atmosphere. Complying with the root causes of incidents, before corrective and preventive requirements is demanding and Borregaard has, therefore, measures are implemented. This provides valuable input reinforced its action plan for reducing concentrations of SO2 for the risk assessment process and documents the lessons in the working environment. learned. Results 2018 Historically, exposure to chemicals has been the main There were no fatal or high consequence injuries in category of injuries, but systematic efforts over many years Borregaard in 2018 (zero). The number of absences resulting to reduce chemical exposure through training and safety from injuries increased from 2017 to 2018. The increase management are now showing results. was not linked to the actual operation of the facilities. There were seven absences due to injuries in the Group (two). An Borregaard in Sarpsborg holds a weekly safety meeting employee at the plant in Sarpsborg slipped on ice and broke in which the management and employee representatives a leg (absent for 20 days), another one crushed a finger address various safety issues. One safety topic to which (absent for seven days) and one injured their back when additional attention will be paid is selected each month. performing a heavy lift (absent for two days). There were two Topics include the risk associated with sharp objects, absences due to injuries at the sales office in Germany: one walking/tripping hazards in connection with slippery employee injured their thumb in a traffic accident (absent for conditions or the risk of chemical exposure. This systematic ten days) while another slipped on a wet floor in a hotel and procedure means that the entire organisation gets involved hurt their back (absent for 29 days). At the facility in Florida, and is critical for improving the individual’s understanding an employee was splashed by hot liquid (absent for one day) of risk. and another at the Rothschild facility tore a tendon in their shoulder when tightening a bolt (absent for 19 days). Borregaard strives to ensure that working conditions are conducive to the good health of its employees. The company Proactive safety indicators show that the Group’s safety strives to ensure a good, inclusive working environment with culture is improving. meaningful tasks, support and feedback from colleagues and managers. The health of the employees is regularly The sick leave rate14 in Borregaard was reduced in 2018 and monitored through medical examinations and working ended at 3.5% (3.8%). environment surveys. The working environment is generally considered to be good, and efforts are continually being Initiatives for 2019 made to improve it through various measures. In order to achieve the target of zero absences due to injuries, Borregaard will continue the work to ensure it has Borregaard particularly focuses on sick leave and has a motivated and proactive organisation in relation to safety, an ambitious goal of further reducing sick leave. This is with a high degree of awareness of their responsibility to why both preventive activities and initiatives have been mitigate risk. The work on reporting, analysing underlying introduced to reduce any stressful aspects in the working causes, implementing measures in connection with nearconditions. There is an emphasis on closely following up accidents and hazardous situations, as well as frequent those on sick leave and on adapting tasks for individual inspections at the facilities, will continue in 2019. employees. Temporary adaptations in the working environment, with suitable duties, or shorter working Borregaard will continue its monthly safety topics hours for a limited time, are examples of measures for programme with greater focus in 2019 in order to build employees with different needs. Training, health and lifestyle a strong safety culture and increase the understanding of counselling, vaccinations and stress management are other risk. The training for external workers who are working for examples. Borregaard will be improved in 2019. The potential for exposure to substances that are harmful to Borregaard will continue to focus on appropriate health forms part of the risk assessment process. Measures health promotion measures and preventive working are implemented to reduce or eliminate substances that environment measures in close cooperation with employee may have a negative impact on health. The precautionary representatives in 2019. The long-term target for sick leave principle is fundamental and personal protective equipment rate is 3.0%. is compulsory when a risk of exposure exists. In 2018, the Norwegian authorities introduced a new threshold value 14 Total hours of sick leave/possible work hours. 24 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY KEY TARGETS 2018 RESULTS COMMENTS CLIMATE Establish science-based target for long-term CO2 emissions Achieved Target approval pending. Reduce CO2 emissions to 100 kg of CO2/MWh of energy consumption Not achieved due to the use of more LNG and less at Borregaard Sarpsborg Not achieved electricity in steam production. ENVIRONMENT DeNox not commissioned due to technical NOx reduction in Sarpsborg 40% Not achieved difficulties. COD emissions below 64 tonnes per 24-hour period Achieved 61 tonnes No instances of SO2 exceeding local air quality limits Not achieved 15 1-hour period and two 24-hour period exceedings Reduce specific heat energy consumption pr tonnes of cellulose by 2% (Borregaard Sarpsborg) Achieved 2% HEALTH AND SAFETY Sick leave rate below 3.8% Achieved 3.5 No absences resulting from injuries (LTI) Not achieved 3.5 TRANSPORT Increase wood transport via rail to 23.5% Not achieved 21% Ship 50,000 tonnes to Europe via the sea in 2018 Not achieved 40,000 tonnes All road transport using, as a minimum, Euro 5 engines Achieved 100% KEY TARGETS 2019 CLIMATE Establish specific action plans in order to achieve the science based target for 2030 (Group) Reduce CO2 emissions to 100 kg CO2/MWh of heat energy consumed Sarpsborg by 2025 ENVIRONMENT NOx reduction Sarpsborg 24% run rate from base year 2018 to end 2019 COD emissions below 59 mt/day (Sarpsborg) Zero exceedances of local air quality SO2 Sarpsborg, average emissions pr hour HEALTH AND SAFETY Sick leave below 3.5% (Group) LTI rate of 0 Group TRANSPORT Increase rail transportation of logs to 23.5% (Sarpsborg) Surpass 40,000 mt by sea to Europe in 2019 (Sarpsborg) 85% of road transport by minimum Euro 6 engines (Sarpsborg) SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 25 GRI ref* UNIT 2018 2017 2016 302 ENERGY 302-1 Total energy consumption GWh 1,593 1,612 1,618 302-1 Renewable energy part of total energy consumption GWh 1,007 1,083 n/a 302-1 Heat energy part of total energy consumption GWh 1,069 1,093 1,093 302-1 Electricity part of total energy consumption GWh 524 519 525 302-4 Heat energy consumption at Borregaard Sarpsborg GWh/tonne per tonne of cellulose cellulose 21.6 21.9 22.7 303 WATER 303-1 Surface water usage Borregaard Sarpsborg (river Glomma) mill m3 24.5 23.9 23.2 303-1 Ground water usage Borregaard Sarpsborg mill m3 0 0 0 303-1 Surface water usage Borregaard other facilities mill m3 0.09 n/a n/a 303-1 Ground water usage Borregaard other facilities (Florida) mill m3 0.15 n/a n/a 305 EMISSIONS TO AIR 305-1 Direct (Scope1) GHG emissions mt CO2e 139,856 128,414 134,176 305-1 Direct biogenic GHG emissons mt CO2e 129,303 108,258 108,152 Direct GHG emissions within EU-ETS system mt CO2e 126,284 114,259 121,639 305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions mt CO2e 58,484 58,213 60,785 305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions mt CO2e 301,083 301,083 n/a 305-4 Direct and indirect GHG emission (scope 1 and scope 2) pr revenue mtCO2e/mNOK 41 40 43 Direct and indirect GHG emission (scope 1 and scope 2) pr total 305-4 energi consumption mtCO2e/mNOK 115 106 112 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions from basis year 2009 (total scope 1 and scope 2) % 34 37 35 305-7 Emissions of SO2 mt 69 84 80 305-7 Emissions of NOx mt 197 167 189 305-7 Emissions of dust particles mt 70 67 50 306 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE (BORREGAARD SARPSBORG) 306-1 Emissions of COD to water (organic material) t/day 61 66 63 306-1 Emissions of AOX to water (halogenic organic material) t/day 0.27 0.30 0.28 306-1 Emissions of suspended solids (fibers) to water t/day 4.0 3.3 4.0 306-1 Emissions of phosphor to water kg/day 36 37 35 306-1 Emissions of nitrogen to water kg/day 369 436 409 306-2 Ordinary waste t 17,457 15,044 16,756 306-2 Hazardous waste t 4,903 3,316 3,105 306-2 Total amount of waste t 22,360 18,360 19,861 306-2 Degree of waste sorting % 99 98 97 306-2 Energy and material recovery rate of waste % 70 71 61 307 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Number 0 0 0 403 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 403-2 Number of fatal accidents Number 0 0 0 403-2 LTI; Lost time injuries per million worked hours Number 3.5 1.1 1.6 403-2 TRI; Total recordable injuries per million worked hours Number 8.6 8 7.7 403-2 Number of injuries for independent contractors Number 12 6 5 403-2 Lost days due to work related injuries Number 87 46 66 403-2 Sickleave % 3.5 3.8 4.0 * GRI = Global Reporting Initiative. 26 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Main areas A) Sustainable business model B) Climate, Environment, health and safety C) Employee and competence development D) Suppliers and business partners E) Contribution to society C EMPLOYEE AND COMPETENCE DEVELOPMENT The total number of full-time equivalents (FTEs) in Since Borregaard’s production processes are very complex Borregaard was 1,097 at the end of 2018 (1,065). All of and involve a high degree of integration, great importance the Group’s units experience generally low turnover. The is attached to knowledge and competence in the areas of turnover rate15 in Sarpsborg was 2.8% in 2018. production and biorefining. Borregaard arranges extensive training programmes for its operators and apprentices CORPORATE CULTURE (Norway and Germany). The Group also has a “Knowledge Borregaard has developed a strong corporate culture over Plant” for training. In 2017, Borregaard established a many years and through changing times, which helps create “Production Academy” based on the LEAN method that a common mindset, core values and an understanding of the focuses on continuous improvement in all parts of the business across functions, business areas and geographical Group. The aim is to offer this training to all of Borregaard’s boundaries. A sound corporate culture that supports employees in order to strengthen the company’s corporate Borregaard’s objectives and strategies provides a vital basis culture within continuous improvement. In 2018, 92 for the development of the company and its employees. employees participated in the “Production Academy”. Borregaard’s culture and values, “The Borregaard Way”, are As part of Borregaard’s commitment to competence building, an integral part of the various introduction and development the company implemented a new and comprehensive programmes. The corporate culture and core values also e-learning system in 2018. include standards and objectives for sound business ethics. Borregaard has a set of guideline documents for corporate Borregaard Innovation Conference, was held in the spring responsibility and ethical guidelines, as well as manuals of 2018. This is a forum that is intended to contribute to and more specific guidelines for different areas such as inspiration and the exchange of ideas across internal R&D anti-corruption, competition legislation, responsible groups, departments and business areas. The conference sourcing, environment, health and safety, and human rights. lasts for two days and is arranged every two years. The next conference will be arranged in the spring of 2020. Borregaard’s guidelines for corporate responsibility are integrated into the Group’s introduction and managerial The Group invests significant resources in management training programmes. training. Borregaard’s mission is to recruit most of its managers from within the company with the aid of career DEVELOPING CORE COMPETENCE development plans and by having replacement candidates Borregaard’s core competence lies within sales and and programmes that combine management training and marketing, R&D and production. Today, the Group’s corporate culture development. In order to help increase the competence within these areas, and the interaction number of female managers and strengthen the company’s between them, is Borregaard’s most important competitive international competence, women and managers from advantage. Therefore, it is crucial that the Group manages operations outside Norway are overrepresented in these to retain and strengthen this unique base of competence, programmes. both through recruitment and employee development. The Group’s introduction programme provides new employees Borregaard underlines the importance of creating an internal with an introduction into Borregaard’s strategy, corporate job market and favours a high degree of job rotation and governance, culture and values. New employees also take internal recruitment to fill vacancies. There were several part in continuous improvement and innovation courses. 19 examples of internal recruitment between divisions and new employees from various parts of the Group took part in business areas in 2018. This is an important element of the main introduction programme in 2018. strengthening competence, innovation and continuous improvement in the company, and also creates career Borregaard has set up internal training programmes within opportunities for employees. its areas of core competence. 14% of the company’s employees work within sales, marketing and customer Two trainees were recruited to the trainee programme service. It is important to know the various customers’ needs in 2018. The trainees work within R&D, marketing, and the value of Borregaard’s products and solutions. With sustainability and finance. a view to maintaining this knowledge, Borregaard operates, both an “Application Academy” and a “Sales Academy”. 15 The number of employees that left the company as a percentage of the total number of employees by year-end. Employees retired are not included in the numbers. SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 27 RESTRUCTURING AND ORGANISATIONAL the proportion of women in R&D, customer service, HR DEVELOPMENT and finance is above 50%. Three of the members of the Borregaard strives specifically to maintain its global company’s board of directors are women (43%). Overall, competitiveness through world-class innovation and 25% (29%) of managers in Borregaard are women, while the productivity. Comprehensive training programmes, executive management team includes one woman (11%). together with the introduction of new technologies and organisational development, are key elements of the Borregaard has gender-neutral guidelines and pay systems company’s continuous improvement work. that contribute to equal pay for equal work. Borregaard has the same working hours for men and women. The degree of The Borregaard plant in Sarpsborg is also assuming greater part-time employment is low. responsibility for training skilled workers through targeted contact with and providing lessons in schools, as well In a survey conducted in 2018 by SHE community/EY, as by increasing the number of apprentices it takes on. Borregaard was rated number eight out of fifty companies The company has a training and presentation centre, the for gender equality reporting and performance at Oslo Stock “Knowledge Plant” available for this purpose. Exchange. Based on the current age composition of the workforce, Borregaard is a global organisation with people from 25 Borregaard in Sarpsborg will experience a growing need for different nationalities. The company believes employing qualified employees in coming years. In order to meet these people with diverse ethnic and cultural backgrounds challenges, Borregaard has recruitment activities and school is a strength and uses diversity as a resource within the programmes to encourage interest in an industrial career and organisation. The diversity of nationalities also affects how relevant qualifications. the Group’s training programmes are put together and staffed. Borregaard in Sarpsborg took on nineteen new apprentices in 2018. There were a total of 42 apprentices at the WHISTLEBLOWING PROCEDURES operations in Sarpsborg, as well as three apprentices at Borregaard wants transparency and a strong corporate Borregaard’s operations in Germany. culture to help ensure that difficult or undesirable situations are discussed and resolved. There may be situations where DIVERSITY employees see or experience something that conflicts with Borregaard wishes to enhance diversity among its employees the company’s guidelines or expectations. and is committed to avoiding discrimination based on gender, ethnicity, religion and age. The Group has specific Ideally, the company would like these issues to be dealt guidelines for this area. Borregaard has, among other things, with where they occur. However, situations may arise initiatives aimed at promoting the recruitment of female where reports from employees about adverse situations managers and employees. do not reach the right person or where they feel unfairly treated and cannot find a solution to their problems. In The Group deliberately have a high proportion of women in such circumstances, there are established procedures for management and technical programmes, as well as in the and guidelines on whistleblowing, both to various specific company’s recruitment base. functions in the organisation or via a dedicated telephone number or email address. These guidelines are translated In 2018, 25% (25%) of Borregaard’s employees were into several languages and distributed to the company’s units women. 32% of all new employees were women in 2018. worldwide. The lowest proportion of women is in production, while KEY TARGETS 2018 RESULTS COMMENTS Implement a senior executive programme Achieved One class with 11 participants completed Implement the “Production Academy” at at least two units Achieved 92 participants Increase the proportion of female employees to 30% and 32% of all new employees and 25% of all female managers to 35% by 2022 In progress managers were women in 2018 KEY TARGETS 2019 Conduct 4 regional Sales Academies, including sustainability training Conduct Production Academy at minimum two production sites Increase the proportion of female employees to 30% and female managers to 35% by 2022 28 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Main areas A) Sustainable business model B) Climate, Environment, health and safety C) Employee and competence development D) Suppliers and business partners E) Contribution to society D SUPPLIERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS BORREGAARD’S APPROACH Based on this risk assessment, suppliers are deemed Borregaard works with suppliers and business partners either qualified or not qualified. Alternatively, suppliers around the world. Some relationships are well-established are subjected to a more detailed analysis. Borregaard and long-term. This contact and cooperation must be also assesses and approves relevant products or services. characterised by trust, integrity and mutual respect, and Everything is documented in a change management system. transactions and business practices must comply with the laws, regulations and internationally recognised ethical Supplier evaluation standards. Borregaard conducts annual supplier evaluations. These evaluate registered suppliers’ non-conformance and Borregaard strives to identify risks in relation to violations observations, any new legislation and specific areas for of labour rights, EHS conditions, environmental legislation improvement. The evaluation is summarised in a report with and anti-corruption legislation by the Group’s suppliers. an action and audit plan. When such violations are identified, the Group implements measures to improve the situation. In this way, Borregaard In 2018, Borregaard focused on EHS for independent contributes to sustainable business operations, while contractors. Fourteen audits were planned and fourteen reducing commercial risk and strengthening its long-term conducted. In 2019, the focus will be on the topic of the competitiveness. environment. Ten audits are planned for 2019. Several guidelines have been drawn up to regulate matters Existing suppliers and help employees cultivate good relationships and On behalf of Borregaard, Sedex16 conducted an advanced sound business practices. The guidelines cover corporate assessment of the company’s suppliers. Fewer than 0.5% of PRELIMINARY RISK ASSESSMENT governance, anti-corruption, competition laws, and the company’s suppliers belonged to the high-risk group, responsible purchasing. while 94% were in the low-risk group. 0.4% PRELIMINARY RISK ASSESSMENT 5% Borregaard has conducted an assessment of the risk of PRELIMINARY RISK ASSESSMENT corruption to ensure that relevant anti-corruption measures are in place and being complied with. No high-risk 0.4% 5% corruption factors were identified. 0.4% 5% Training High Risk In 2018, Borregaard provided selected employees with Medium Risk Low Risk 94% training in anti-corruption and competition legislation, as well as practical training within responsible sourcing. High Risk Medium Risk High Risk Low Risk 94% SUPPLIERS Medium Risk Low Risk 94% The Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) is based on the High Risk Medium Risk Low Risk principles of the UN Global Compact. Borregaard’s suppliers Borregaard has encouraged high and medium-risk suppliers High Risk Medium Risk Lo are required to comply with SCoC or its equivalent, to register with Sedex, complete a questionnaire and share irrespective of their country of origin. the information with Borregaard. Relationships with three suppliers were terminated in connection with this process; New suppliers nine suppliers were approved and eight are still being New suppliers are subject to approval in relation to written evaluated. procedures and risk assessments. This involves answering a questionnaire covering quality assurance, the environment, In 2019, Borregaard will implement a tool for evaluating corporate social responsibility and responsible sourcing. risks among the Group’s suppliers and partners. 16 Sedex is a collaborative platform for sharing responsible purchasing data in supply chains. The system is used by more than 43,000 members in over 150 countries to measure their performance in relation to labour rights, EHS and business ethics. SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 29 SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS production. In 2018, Borregaard and Rayonier Advanced Wood Materials (RYAM) built a new lignin facility adjacent to Borregaard sources wood from forests that are managed RYAM’s pulp mill in Florida, USA. in a proper, sustainable and eco-friendly manner. The company complies with the applicable guidelines, laws and OTHER BUSINESS PARTNERS regulations in the countries where the wood is sourced. LIGNOTECH SOUTH AFRICA LignoTech South Africa (LTSA) is a 50:50 joint venture One million solid cubic metres of wood is purchased each between Borregaard and Sappi. The company employed 107 year for Borregaard’s biorefinery in Sarpsborg. In 2018, 79% FTE as of 31 December 2018, including trainees. Borregaard of the wood came from Norway, 19% came from Sweden is represented on the board of the company. LTSA produces and the remaining 2% came from Germany. All the wood lignin products based on raw material from Sappi Saiccor’s is harvested in accordance with the country of origin’s laws pulp mill. on felling, silviculture and biodiversity. 92% of the wood purchased in 2018 was certified in accordance with PEFC/ The company has its own Social and Ethics Committee FSC17. tasked with monitoring social and economic development, corporate citizenship, environment, health and public safety, In November 2018, Borregaard became Chain of Custody customer relations and labour and employment issues. (CoC) certified in accordance with the FSC and PEFC forest The Committee is composed of members of the company’s certification standards. management team and chaired by an LTSA director. LTSA subscribes to the OECD guidelines with respect to antiBorregaard does not purchase wood that is: corruption measures. In addition, the company has an • harvested illegally Audit and Risk Committee composed of LTSA directors. • felled in protected areas or areas that are subject to The Committee is tasked with monitoring assurance review, unless the harvesting clearly complies with arrangements, integrity of reporting, risk governance and national conservation regulations delegation of financial responsibility to management. • harvested in forests with a high conservation value defined by the Living Forest standard in Norway or by The company has developed a comprehensive governance the High Conservation Value Resource Network compliance programme to monitor legal and other (HCVRN) compliance activities and staff retraining on key policies, • genetically modified (GMT/GMOs) standards and procedures is scheduled for 2019. Borregaard’s goal is to cut the greenhouse gas emissions The company again organised its annual “Safety Day”, associated with transporting wood by increasing payloads demonstrating how to care for our people and planet by and transferring more goods from truck to railway, thereby building and illustrating a Safety House concept consisting utilising transport capacity more efficiently. of actions as foundations and values as pillars. All new employees undergo hazard awareness training and testing, Lignin and sign a safety pledge when joining the company as Borregaard’s production units outside Norway receive lignin preparation for being absorbed into the Zero Harm systems. raw materials from adjacent pulp mills. All of them purchase wood from FSC certified sources. Supplies of lignin can be The company is involved in reducing the effects of the social affected by a number of factors, such as the profitability of and financial consequences of HIV/AIDS. One important suppliers of raw materials and general market conditions, area has been to prevent discrimination based on the regulatory considerations, loss or closure of production, as disease, to disseminate information about the disease and its well as a number of industry-specific factors, including the treatment, and to carry out voluntary counselling and testing supply and cost of raw materials. for employees. In addition, the company supports education as a priority and supports local schools and day care centers Producing the lignin feedstock Borregaard uses in for disadvantaged children and provides donor funding to production requires a sulphite pulping process. Only a the two largest universities in Durban for disadvantaged limited number of pulp producers use this process. Some of students. Borregaard’s former sources of lignin feedstock have ceased 17 PEFC is an international non-proﬁt organisation that promotes sustainable forest management. FSC is a global non-profit organisation that sets standards for responsible forest management. 30 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY LignoTech South Africa is consciously striving to ensure LignoTech South Africa paid income taxes totalling NOK that the profile of its labour force reflects the country’s 14 million in 2018. demographics, with a particular focus on representation in management. The company is B-BBEE (Broad-Based Black Certifications in LignoTech South Africa: Economic Empowerment) certified, with the common goal • ISO 9001 (Quality Management) to distribute wealth across as broad a spectrum of previously • ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) disadvantaged South African society as possible. As part • GMP+ Production of Feed Additives and Premixes of the B-BBEE engagement, LignoTech South Africa has • OHSAS 18001:2007 Health and Safety Management partnered with the Hope Factory initiative to support small • B-BBEE Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment and medium-sized enterprises and informal businesses to grow and develop. The company continued its financial support of the Hope Factory in 2018. KEY TARGETS 2018 RESULTS COMMENTS All new suppliers must be approved in accordance with established guidelines and procedures Achieved Fourteen supplier audits Achieved Implement tools for assessing and managing financial and ethical risk among suppliers/partners Not achieved Postponed to 2019 KEY TARGETS 2019 All new suppliers subject to approval in accordance with established policies and procedures 10 supplier audits Implement a tool for reviewing and addressing financial and compliance risk amongst suppliers/business partners Improved documentation of environmental and climate footprint for raw materials Main areas A) Sustainable business model B) Climate, Environment, C) Employee and competence D) Suppliers and E) Contribution to health and safety development business partners society SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 31 E CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY Profitable and sustainable jobs are a prerequisite for welfare In 2018, the company contributed around NOK 4 million and social security. This manifests itself through income to support measures that benefit both the company and and meaningful activity for individuals, as well as through the region, with the overall goal of boosting the company’s financial contributions through taxes and duties that reputation as an employer. Borregaard’s sponsorship companies and their employees pay in the countries and strategy has two main pillars. One covers cultural and local communities in which they operate. Those countries sports experiences and activities that help make the city where Borregaard has production operations see significant and region more attractive. This is important to Borregaard ripple effects from suppliers and other activities around the in terms of creating a long-term source of recruitment. The plants. other area supports measures intended to help young people understand and get interested in disciplines important to As of 31 December 2018, Borregaard employed 1,097 FTEs Borregaard and society as a whole. This is illustrated by in plants and sales offices in 16 countries. The Group has Borregaard’s support and cooperation with the Inspiria production units in Norway, the UK, Germany, Spain, the Science Centre, the Young Entrepreneurship scheme and the Czech Republic and the US, as well as a 50:50 joint venture company’s own Knowledge Plant. in South Africa. COLLABORATION WITH EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS NOK 143 MILLION IN INCOME TAX PAYMENTS Borregaard works closely with schools and educational Borregaard paid income taxes totalling NOK 143 million in institutions in the Sarpsborg area. The Group has establised 2018 (NOK 170 million). The income taxes paid in Norway its own Knowledge Plant, which functions as both an inamounted to NOK 129 million, while income taxes paid house training centre and as a showroom and venue for in the rest of Europe was NOK 3 million, NOK 7 million in school visits. It offers educational programmes that tie in the Americas, NOK 3 million in Asia and NOK 1 million in with schools’ curricula, using examples taken from the Africa. company. In 2018, 1,629 students visited the Knowledge Plant from schools taking part in an educational programme Borregaard seeks to comply with the spirit as well as the combining technical training, careers advice and a company letter of the tax law in countries where Borregaard has presentation. commercial activity. The company will not enter into arrangements which could be considered artificial or Borregaard also contributes to a University Educated Teacher which have tax avoidance as their sole or main objective. II scheme within chemistry for upper secondary schools in Borregaard uses the OECD guidelines for internal pricing, Østfold County in which researchers from Borregaard have which is an important factor in ensuring that profits and created a company-related teaching plan in chemistry. Every taxes are distributed fairly among different countries. year, students from a number of higher education colleges and universities carry out practical tasks and projects or get SHARED INTERESTS WITH LOCAL COMMUNITY internships at the company. Borregaard’s companies impact and interact with the local communities where they are located. The Group’s plants Borregaard has programmes and instructors for outside Norway are relatively small, while Borregaard has apprenticeship schemes involving cooperation with been a cornerstone company in Sarpsborg for generations. vocational schools in the region. These provide apprentices Borregaard still plays an important role in the city and region with relevant experience to supplement their theoretical as an employer, a customer of many suppliers, and a sociotraining. In 2018, Borregaard had a total of 42 apprentices at economic contributor through taxes and duties from its the biorefinery in Sarpsborg and 3 at the plant in Germany. operations. AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS SUPPORT FOR SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT Borregaard has received several awards and honours from Borregaard has a broad contact network and many external bodies over the years. In 2018, Borregaard was stakeholders in Sarpsborg and Østfold County. The company named “Best Overall Investor Relations” by IR Magazine participates in various forums and organisations involved Awards Europe. The company was also ranked number in urban and regional development, and has also provided venues for socially beneficial activities. 32 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY eight out of one hundred assessed companies in the field of Borregaard also subscribes to the services of EcoVadis18 to sustainability communication by the Governance Group and enable its customers to monitor the Group’s sustainability the communication company BCW. performance. Borregaard conducts an annual reputation survey among Borregaard is certified in accordance with several standards: the general public in Østfold County that looks at the local • ISO 9001 (Quality Management) (Norway, the US, community’s opinion of Borregaard as a place to work, Germany, Spain, the UK and Austria) environmental conditions, contribution to the community • ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) (Norway, and people’s general impressions of the company. The Germany, Spain and Austria) survey in 2018 produced the best reputation results ever • ISO 50001 (Energy Management) (Norway and with respect to Borregaard as a place to work. Besides Germany) a very good reputation as a sound company with good • FSSC 22000 (Food Safety) products and competitiveness, the company also has a good • GMP+ (Feed Additives) (Norway, Germany and Spain) reputation within the areas of environmental conditions and • SMETA (Ethical Trade) positive contributions to the local community. The survey • OHSAS 18001:2007 (Health and Safety) (Austria) once again confirms the company’s strong position in the • Kosher certified (vanillin products, Norway) local community around Borregaard’s largest plant. • Halal certified (vanillin products, Norway) • PEFC Chain of Custody (wood sourcing within speciality CERTIFICATION AND AFFILIATION cellulose) (Norway) Borregaard has established links with various external • FSC Chain of Custody (wood sourcing within speciality schemes that contribute to tighter control, improvements cellulose) (Norway) and inspiring a systematic way of working. This also applies to issues and topics relating to corporate responsibility and Borregaard is a member of the UN’s Global Compact and sustainable development and operation. The company has through this supports universal principles on human rights, committed to, among other things, the Responsible Care labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Borregaard guidelines and objectives, which are the European chemical also reports progress in line with the Global Compact. industry’s environmental responsibility initiative. Borregaard intends to report in accordance with GRI from 2020. DID YOU KNOW THAT… Borregaard’s annual reputation survey among the general public in Østfold County shows that Borregaard is perceived as contributing positively to the local society and development in the Region. Score 7.4 out of 10. 18 www.ecovadis.com SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 33 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Borregaard complies with the UN Global Compact’s ten Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and principles of doing business in the areas of human rights, Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect labour, environment and anti-corruption. The ten of employment and occupation. principles are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Environment Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and approach to environmental challenges; Development, and the United Nations Convention Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Against Corruption. environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion Human Rights of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Anti-Corruption and Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Per A. Sørlie, Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and President and CEO, Borregaard compulsory labour; UN’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS END POVERTY IN ALL ITS FORMS EVERYWHERE ENSURE ACCESS TO WATER AND SANITATION FOR ALL • Borregaard and the rest of the industry generate high added • A focus on reducing water consumption value creation. Through its purchases of goods and services • Working with, and investing in, emission cuts and tax contributions, the industry creates positive ripple • Producing products for use in water purification effects in the form of direct and indirect jobs • Own water treatment facility at the plant in Sarpsborg • Substantial tax payments. In 2018, the Borregaard Group’s tax payments amounted to NOK 143 million • Jobs provide a route out of poverty. Borregaard employs 1,097 FTEs in 16 countries ENSURE ACCESS TO AFFORDABLE, RELIABLE, SUSTAINABLE AND MODERN ENERGY FOR ALL END HUNGER, ACHIEVE FOOD SECURITY • Increased energy recovery from renewable sources AND IMPROVED NUTRITION AND PROMOTE • Increased production of bioethanol for fuel in 2018 SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE • Provides process heat for local district’s heating system • Effective and sustainable feed products • Products for improved plant growth stimulants for food plants PROMOTE INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE • Improved and sustainable protection for crops ECONOMIC GROWTH, EMPLOYMENT AND • Raw materials do not compete with food production DECENT WORK FOR ALL • Borregaard and the rest of the industry generate a high level of value creation and positive ripple effects in ENSURE HEALTHY LIVES AND PROMOTE society. Borregaard employs 1,097 FTEs in 16 countries WELL-BEING FOR ALL AT ALL AGES • Substantial tax contributions • Good working conditions and training programmes • A number of Borregaard’s products replace hazardous • Over-recruitment of apprentices (in excess of chemicals such as solvents internal needs) • Products that contribute to fat reduction • Financial sustainability secures investments, R&D and • Diagnostics (ﬁne chemicals) competence development • Focus on the health and safety of employees BUILD RESILIENT INFRASTRUCTURE, PROMOTE ENSURE INCLUSIVE AND QUALITY EDUCATION SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRIALISATION AND FOSTER FOR ALL AND PROMOTE LIFELONG LEARNING INNOVATION • Substantial investments in innovation using internal • Prioritising employee training – many training resources, as well as contributions from institutes and programmes in the Group universities • Cooperation with schools (education, equipment, • Sustainability is the main focus in innovation work visitor programmes) • Developing new, sustainable bio-based industry through • Supporting a science centre the innovation projects Exilva and BALI • Producing green chemicals used in the construction industry • Spending a substantial proportion of turnover on ACHIEVE GENDER EQUALITY AND innovation EMPOWER ALL WOMEN AND GIRLS • Equal treatment rules. Active recruitment of women to all levels and positions. • Overrepresentation of women in managerial development programmes • 25% of Borregaard’s employees were women in 2018 SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 35 REDUCE INEQUALITY WITHIN CONSERVE AND SUSTAINABLY USE AND AMONG COUNTRIES THE OCEANS, SEAS AND MARINE RESOURCES • A high degree of collective welfare benefits in • Reduced emissions to water the company • Utilisation of lignin from pulp mills has led to lower • A high degree of mobility across the organisation emissions to water – opportunities for all • Built and financed a salmon cultivation facility on own premises SUSTAINABLY MANAGE FORESTS, COMBAT MAKE CITIES INCLUSIVE, SAFE, RESILIENT DESERTIFICATION, HALT AND REVERSE LAND AND SUSTAINABLE DEGRADATION, HALT BIODIVERSITY LOSS • Social engagement in local areas • Sustainability criteria are stressed when purchasing wood • Support for schools, recreational activities, • Active cooperation with stakeholders in the forest social initiatives and urban development value chain • Chain of Custody certified in accordance with FSC and PEFC forest certification standards ENSURE SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION PATTERNS • Sustainable business model with bio-based products PROMOTE JUST, PEACEFUL AND • Investments in renewable energy (sustainability) INCLUSIVE SOCIETIES • Energy strategy for increasing the use of green and renewable energy and energy efficiency • Guidelines for ethics and corporate social responsibility • Environmental investments to cut emissions • Respect for the law and active contribution to good and waste dialogue with the authorities • Improved chemical safety REVITALISE THE GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP TAKE URGENT ACTION TO COMBAT FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT CLIMATE CHANGE AND ITS IMPACTS • Member of the Global Compact and Responsible Care • The biorefinery concept is an integral part of the • Environmental reporting: CDP, Global Compact and business model – an important climate measure annual report • Established EHS/climate and energy strategy • Represented in various environmental forums, • Greenhouse gas emissions are assessed in relation nationally and internationally to transport options • Establishing science-based targets for cutting greenhouse gas emissions • Investments in renewable energy Design: FÆRD.no Borregaard ASA PO Box 162, 1701 Sarpsborg, Norway Telephone: (+47) 69 11 80 00 Fax: (+47) 69 11 87 70 E-mail: borregaard@borregaard.com www.borregaard.com
