ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 IT’S THE PEOPLE WHO MAKES THE CITY CONTENTS CEO’s statement 4 BRIEF INFORMATION ABOUT Strategic orientation 8 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG Sustainable enterprise 18 We own, develop and manage properties totalling 1,129,000 m2 Market overview 28 letting area with a property value of SEK 44 billion. Our focus is on developing attractive urban environments in Our property portfolio 34 Stockholm, Uppsala, Malmö and Gothenburg. Investments and projects 36 Working with the municipalities, our customers and ­people living in the city, we build vibrant urban environStockholm 44 ments where offices, residential units and retail are mixed Uppsala 55 with culture, services and education. Malmö 61 We strongly believe in innovation and the development of attractive spaces for the future. And attractive city districts Gothenburg 64 are not only about beautiful buildings. What happens inside TL Bygg 65 and between the buildings is just as important. FINANCIAL REPORTS Directors’ report 68 Consolidated accounts 92 Parent company accounts 98 Notes 101 SUSTAINABLE URBAN DEVELOPAuditor’s report 142 MENT FOCUSING ON OFFICES… Multi-year overview 148 Other 3 %, SEK 69 m Definitions 154 Residentials 4 %, SEK 88 m Health/care Offices 47 %, 4 %, SEK 89 m SEK 1 157 m Culture/education 4 %, SEK 103 m Restaurant 5 %, SEK 117 m FMCG ABOUT THIS REPORT 8 %,SEK 209 m Retail 26 %, SEK 651 m Atrium Ljungberg reports the Group’s financial and non-financial information in a joint report. This 47 per cent of the contracted annual rent is for offices in ­report reflects our operations and Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and Uppsala. integrates financial, sustainability and corporate governance information to provide an overall and cohesive description. …IN THE STOCKHOLM AREA Atrium Ljungberg’s legal annual report includes the Directors’ Report Gothenburg 6 %, and the Financial Reports, and can SEK 156 m be found on pages 68–141. Malmö 9 %, Atrium Ljungberg’s Sustainability SEK 223 m Stockholm 72 %, Report, in accordance with the SEK 1 780 m Uppsala 13 %, Swedish Annual Accounts Act, SEK 323 m can be found on pages 18–25 and 129–139. Atrium Ljungberg’s Sustainability Report has been drawn up in ­accordance with the Core level of the GRI Standards. We have taken into 72 per cent of the contracted annual rent is for Stockholm. account the Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement, CRESS. This annual report has been prepared in Swedish and We have taken into consideration the translated into English. In the event of any discrepancies EPRA Sustainability Best Practices between the Swedish and the translation, the former shall Recommendations Guidelines. have precedence. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 IT’S THE PEOPLE WHO MAKE THE CITY Many different components have to come together to create a city that is vibrant around the clock. Workplaces and residentials are a fundamental part of this. Retail and service functions make our day-to-day lives easier. Learning environments for all ages enable us to develop. We can share a rich cultural, food and entertainment life with our friends and families. However, what is needed most to create urban life is the people themselves. People who make sure that the city can be as buzzing and vibrant as we want it to be. In this report you will meet people who are adding to the urban life at our sites in different ways: Meet Erik Rydman, Meet Martin Lagerberg, Meet Linda Malmborg, Meet Marita Svensson, from HiQ who found the from Nobelberget who talks who has tried Leveriet, a new who has recently moved into perfect location for their new about the urban cultural concept where e-commerce one of the brand new rental office in Glashuset in Slussen. programme that has attracted and physical retail meet. apartments that we have built See page 16 for further 500,000 visitors. See page 32 for further in Gränbystaden. details. See page 26 for further details. See page 58 for further details. details. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 1 2018 IN BRIEF › A letter of intent with the City of Stockholm to acquire existing › Detailed development plan completed and the start of sales properties and land allocations for a total of approximately of tenant-owned dwellings in the first district in Nobelberget, 200,000 m2 GFA in Slakthusområdet. A total investment of Stockholm. SEK 8 billion between 2019 and 2030. › High investment rate in own properties of SEK 1.8 billion. › Acquisition of Katarinahuset in Slussen and Kylfacket 3 in › The company’s largest lease contract ever signed with Slakthusområdet. ­Academic Work in Life City. › Sale of Västberga Handel, Roddaren 7 and Blästern 6 in › Several awards, including “One of Sweden’s best workplaces”, Stockholm, and Rådhuset in Uppsala. “Sweden’s best-looking office”, nomination for the Swedish › Land allocations obtained in Slussen and Hagastaden. Arts & Business Awards and a finalist in the Allbright Prize. › Decisions on several new building projects, for example ­Hagastaden and Järfälla. See page 11 for further information on the goals and outcomes. 2018 IN FIGURES Net sales and profit, SEK m Earnings per share Proposed dividend, SEK/share Energy consumption SEK m SEK SEK kWh/m² 3,500 30 6 300 26.15 3,000 25 5 268 2,563 2,629 2,500 2,311 2,468 2,299 20.89 20.13 20 19.21 4 250 242 2,000 232 234 15 3 224 1,500 10 2 200 1,000 188 500 5 4.89 1 0 0 0 150 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Net sales, SEK m Earnings per share, SEK Goal energy consumption, kWh/m² Net profit/loss for the year, SEK m Proposed dividend per share, SEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 Profitability and growth Sustainable enterprise Net sales, SEK m 2,629 2,563 Share of certified properties, % 34 16 Operating surplus, SEK m 1,648 1,647 Energy consumption, kWh/m² 234 232 Profit/loss before changes in value, SEK m 1,214 1,180 Share of green lease contracts, % 27 18 Profit for the year after tax, SEK m 3,453 2,559 Employee index, % 1) 88 88 Investments in Atrium Ljungberg’s own The share properties, SEK m 1,758 1,593 Earnings per share, SEK 26.15 19.21 Acquisition of properties, SEK m 1,727 2,265 Profit/loss before changes in value less Sale of properties, SEK m 2,662 868 nominal tax, SEK/share 7.26 6.91 Cash flow from operating Dividend, SEK/share (proposed for 2018) 4.85 4.50 activities, SEK m 1,260 1,166 Share price as of 31 December SEK/share 152.00 130.30 Letting rate, % 95 95 Shareholders’ equity, SEK/share 158.64 136.79 Operating surplus margin, % 68 69 EPRA NAV SEK/share 194.82 172.59 Long-term stability EPRA NNNAV SEK/share 184.93 162.57 Equity/assets ratio, % 45.9 42.6 Property Gearing ratio, % 41.9 44.7 Property value, SEK billion 44 41 Adjusted gearing ratio, % 41.9 44.1 Contracted annual rent, SEK billion 2.5 2.4 Average interest rate on interest-bearing liabilities (at end of period), % 1.6 1.7 Number of properties 51 53 Interest coverage ratio 5.0 4.2 Letting area, m² ’000 1,129 1,146 1) TL Bygg is recognised separately, see page 23. 2 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG AS AN INVESTMENT As a shareholder of Atrium Ljungberg, you receive a stable dividend yield at a low risk. At the same time, you have the potential for a healthy long-term total return on your investment with regard to the company’s interesting project portfolio on attractive growth markets. Investing in Atrium Ljungberg also means investing in sustainable urban development. FOUR REASONS TO OWN SHARES IN ATRIUM LJUNGBERG: STABLE DIVIDEND YIELD Dividend and share dividend LOW FINANCIAL RISK Gearing ratio and interest yield coverage ratio The dividend yield over the past SEK/share 5 % 4.85 We are in a strong financial % 50 times 5 46 five years has been 3.1 per 4.50 position, with solid key ratios 43 42 42 3.95 cent per year on average. The 4 3.55 such as a low gearing ratio 40 4 3.30 dividends paid per share by the 3 and a high interest coverage 30 3 company since its listing on ratio, and an investment the stock exchange in 1994 2 grade rating from Moody's of 20 2 have never dropped. 1 Baa2 with a stable outlook. 10 1 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Dividend, SEK/share (2018 proposed) Gearing ratio, % Dividend yield, % Interest coverage ratio, times POTENTIAL FOR GOOD Share’s total return % SUSTAINABLE URBAN VALUE GROWTH 40 DEVELOPMENT 30 With a planned investment rate Sustainability work is inteof SEK 2 billion per year and a 20 grated in the business model goal of 20 per cent return on where we continuously devel10 new build and extension proop our areas in a sustainable jects, Atrium Ljungberg – and 0 direction. We are a long-term therefore the share – has explayer that takes responsibil–10 cellent potential for good value 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ity for the impact of our busigrowth over time. The total Share change in value, % ness on human beings and Dividend yield, % yield over the past five years Total return, % the environment. has been 12 per cent per year on average. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 3 CEO’S STATEMENT AN INCREDIBLE YEAR 2018 was a year filled with important deals for Atrium Ljungberg. We made strategic deals and also signed a historic agreement with the City of Stockholm for the development of Slakthusområdet. We have a large project portfolio that guarantees long-term growth. The profit is the best ever in the company’s history. PROFIT AND FORECAST the chance to continue contributing to the development of The profit for the year is the best in Atrium Ljungberg’s history. ­Hagastaden. This is an area where we are already heavily involved We maintained a high pace in our business during the year, both through our Life City project, which will be constructed on the in the transactions we carried out and the number of projects we overbuild of the Essingeleden motorway. started. We sold retail properties and were also involved in a major In the middle of June we signed another land allocation property exchange that will have a significant impact on profit in agreement with the City of Stockholm for Mälarterrassen in the long term. Although these deals have a long-term benefit and Slussen in Stockholm. Here we will be working with the city to are strategically correct, they will cause a negative effect on profit create a vibrant meeting place focusing on food and culture that in the short term. In 2017 we also received a settlement of will strengthen and develop the entire area. SEK 45 million from a dispute. Despite this we have delivered a In the autumn we continued to grow in Slussen when we slightly better profit than the previous year. Profit before changes ­acquired Katarinahuset as part of an exchange deal with Folksam in value totalled SEK 1,214 million. If we look ahead, 2019 is Fastigheter. We also took over a land allocation directly in front looking stable. The Riksbank (Sweden’s central bank) is signalling of the property. As part of this deal we sold two properties; one further interest rate hikes in the summer, which we have taken in Hagastaden and one on Kungsholmen in Stockholm. Katarinainto consideration in our forecast. Although our operating net huset is an incredible property with strong roots in Stockholm. will increase, we also believe that our interest expenses will rise by This acquisition strengthens our position in Södermalm and in a corresponding amount, which explains why our forecast for particular improves our ability to be involved in the development profit before changes in value is SEK 1,200 million for 2019. of Slussen. The year ended with us selling Västberga Handel in StockFINANCIAL GOALS holm. Our focus is on developing attractive urban environments It has been a long time since we updated our financial goals. The and we made the assessment that we could not develop the site focus will continue to be on profitability and growth, as well as within the foreseeable future in a way that supports our vision financial stability. Now that we have this incredible project portand business concept. folio, it is time to increase the investment goal for our project development from SEK 1 billion to SEK 2 billion per year. We SLAKTHUSOMRÅDET are replacing our equity/assets ratio goal with a gearing ratio goal In 2018 we closed our biggest deal ever when we signed the of a maximum of 45 per cent over time, because our impressive agreement with the City of Stockholm for Slakthusområdet. external rating will remain in focus in the future. This agreement involves us acquiring existing properties and Finally we are leaving our operating net surplus goal and in­getting land allocations in Slakthusområdet, just to the south of troducing a return on shareholders’ equity goal of 10 per cent Stockholm city centre. The letter of intent was published in per annum. One of the reasons for this is that our project port­August and the agreements were signed at the end of the year. folio contains a high proportion of projects for tenant-­owned The ­acquisitions and land allocations that will be developed dwellings that will give a good return but no net operating ­comprise a total of approximately 200,000 m2 GFA, where offices growth. All of these new goals are relevant in the long term. account for approximately 40 per cent and residential units for approximately 25 per cent. The remaining percentage comprises ACQUISITIONS, SALES AND LAND ALLOCATIONS culture, retail/restaurants, hotel, education, etc. We have assessed 2018 was an intense year for Atrium Ljungberg; we have never the total investment to be approximately SEK 8 billion. This closed so many major deals before. At the end of April we sold deal is a key investment in our strategy to create sustainable and Rådhuset in Uppsala, and a few weeks later we took our first step innovative urban environments. into Slakthusområdet in Stockholm by acquiring the Kylfacket 3 Slakthusområdet is on the brink of a huge development that property in the south-eastern part of the area. This property is is expected to continue until 2030. This is one of Stockholm’s located in the first phase of the detailed development plan for largest city development projects in modern times and our vision, the future development of Slakthusområdet. which we share with the city, is for Slakthusområdet to become an We also obtained several land allocations during the year. For engine for the entire south side of Stockholm. The area will example, we won a land allocation competition in Östra Haga­ ­become the obvious meeting place in Stockholm for offices, staden in Stockholm from the City of Stockholm and Stockholm housing, food, culture and experiences. A new dynamic city County Council for a unique district that will become the city’s ­district that will become Stockholm’s equivalent of Kings Cross northern gateway. I’m so happy that Atrium Ljungberg will get in London. 4 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ”2018 was an intense year; we have never closed so many major deals before. The profit for the year was the best in Atrium Ljungberg’s history. We want the new Slakthusområdet to be an attractive city in the property, which is expected to be completed in the first six district that is vibrant around the clock, which is why we will be months of 2021. We thereby decided to start this project, which providing offices for both large, established companies alongside involves a total investment of approximately SEK 1.9 ­billion, start-ups that focus on new business entrepreneurs and creators. ­including previous land acquisitions, and a rental value of However, if a place is going to be vibrant around the clock, not ­approximately SEK 106 million plus surcharges. only workplaces, restaurants and culture are needed, but also In Sickla there is development towards a dense and mixed ­residentials. This is why there is going to be a mix of both city. At the beginning of the autumn the ground was broken for tenant-­owned and rental apartments in Slakthusområdet with the new Tapetfabriken hotel which will be run by Nordic Choice a mix of different apartment sizes. Hotels through its Clarion Collection chain. Curanten, a healthcare building, is also being constructed next to Tapetfabriken. LARGE PROJECT PORTFOLIO Slightly further away is Nobelberget, where the foundation work We have a large project portfolio that enables us to continue to is underway for the first residential district there. In 2026 the grow strongly. At the time of writing we have ongoing projects underground extension to Sickla will be completed and in June a that require a remaining investment of SEK 4 billion, and potenproposal for a 23-storey station house was presented, which will not tial future investments of SEK 17 billion, mostly concentrated in only include the underground entrance, but also a hotel and offices. Sickla, Gränbystaden and Slussen. The project portfolio will increase However, the detailed development plan must be changed first. further when the deal for Slakthusområdet are complete following During the final week in September we started to sell the first the approvals in the committees and the city council. 68 apartments in the first phase of Nobelberget. The start of the At the end of September a lease contract was announced with sale attracted many people and there was a high level of interest, Academic Work, which has decided to move a large part of its which confirms the attractiveness of Sickla as a residential area as operations to the new Life City in Hagastaden, Stockholm. well. Nobelberget will become a new city district, where we are The rental value of this lease agreement is the highest in Atrium planning for 500 residential units, creative offices, culture, nature Ljungberg’s history, covering more than 17,000 m2 of offices and meeting places. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 5 CEO’S STATEMENT The southern section of Gränbystaden was opened in Uppsala 2018 YEAR OF INNOVATION after several years’ of intense construction work. This has given Digitalisation and innovation go hand in hand and it is not Gränbystaden a larger and more varied range with 17 new stores, ­always easy to distinguish between the two. Understanding our restaurants and offices, with a strong injection of entertainment customers’ needs has always been of central importance for us through Nordisk Film’s first 4DX cinema in Sweden. We have and it will become even more important in the future. Digital also added 200 rental apartments to the site and a garage with solutions – and in particular a digital lifestyle – creates new 280 parking spaces. needs and new solutions. A key to being able to develop the deals A lot is also taking place in Malmö, where we are continuing of the future is to really understand the end customer. 2018 was to develop Mobilia. Construction of Torghuset is taking place in Atrium Ljungberg’s Year of Innovation and we worked intensely the heart of the district, where we are creating not only residential on these issues in different ways throughout the company. and retail properties, but also two major new cultural investments. Just in time for Christmas shopping, we launched Leveriet, a One is Nordisk Film’s ultra-modern cinema with five screens. brand new parcel collection concept in snug store environments The other is Funnys Äventyr, a unique cultural centre for with staff who are service-oriented and knowledgeable. This invest­children that focuses on reading, learning and playing. ment is a brand new concept to integrate the growing e-commerce into physical environments, increase service and guarantee the SUSTAINABILITY purchasing experience from the moment an order is made online One step in Atrium Ljungberg’s work on developing sustainable to collecting the parcel. As everyone is aware, retail is undergoing urban environments is our major investment in charging points a major transformation because of the development of e-comfor electric cars and plug-in hybrids. In 2018 we actually made merce. I am convinced that the physical location, where people the biggest installation in Sweden, installing more than 700 meet, will fulfil an important role in society and will be crucial charging points in places such as Kista and Hagastaden. The for retail in the future as well. goal is to have 1,000 charging points in our property portfolio in 2019. We also installed Stockholm’s largest solar panels SWEDEN’S BEST-LOOKING OFFICE ­installation in Sickla. The competition for Sweden’s best-looking office is held every We support, and it is our intention to continue to support, year. This competition aims to highlight the country’s breadth in the UN’s Global Compact and I am convinced that we can smart and good-looking offices, and the criteria that are assessed ­contribute to the UN’s global goals for achieving sustainable are style, work environment and innovation. This year Atrium ­development through our operations. Ljungberg’s new head office was voted as the winner among Slakthusområdet will become the obvious meeting place in Stockholm for offices, housing, food, culture and experiences. A new, dynamic city district and an engine for the entire south side of Stockholm. 6 ATRIUM ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND AND SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CEO’S STATEMENT 84 nominations. Our aim is to be a leader in our office offering, is slowing down in Sweden. Although it is difficult to predict so it is particularly enjoyable that we have been recognised for what will happen in the years to come, many people are talking our own brand new head office. about a soft landing. When developing our new office, we moved to a fully activity-­ The conditions for Atrium Ljungberg will remain good in the based working method, which is reflected in the design and layout future. We operate in Sweden’s four major cities and we have of the office. We do not have any fixed workplaces. Instead the a large project portfolio that guarantees growth. It is primarily area is divided into different environments where employees can the lack of attractive offices in central locations that will result in choose a place based on their needs and tasks. If we are going to the high demand continuing. drive innovation, we have to think in an innovative way ourselves. The challenge is on the retail side, where e-commerce accounts We wanted to find a working method that would be inspirational for all of the growth. We are working actively to ensure that our and promote creativity. With this new activity-based working locations have attractive and relevant content. In our city developmethod, we have developed a creative environment that promotes ment strategy, retail, services and restaurants are essential for efficient and productive work and also shows that we are far ­creating attractive places where people want to spend time. We ahead in the development of the office of the future. will not be happy until “everyone thrives in our city”. One of Atrium Ljungberg’s overall business goals is to be one of Sweden’s best workplaces. Since 2011 we have taken part in Thank you to all of our customers, our employees and our Great Place to Work’s® evaluation of “Sweden’s best workplaces” ­partners for an incredible 2018! where strengths and developmental areas as an employer are identified. For the fifth year in row we were placed at the top for medium-sized companies and we exceeded our internal goal. To continue to be a successful company, we need to have satisfied ­employees who are happy and who are developing. Annica Ånäs, CEO FUTURE OUTLOOK The economy in Sweden has been strong for many years. But it looks as though we have passed the peak of this boom. Growth ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 7 | STRATEGIC ORIENTATION BUSINESS MODEL URBAN DEVELOP­MENT THAT C ­ REATES VALUE Atrium Ljungberg develops attractive and sustainable urban environments where people want to live, work and be – today and tomorrow. This vision enables us to create value growth for the company, our shareholders and society. BUSINESS CONCEPT BUSINESS MODEL Our long-term approach to ownership, development and management enables us to offer our customers attractive urban environments for offices, retail and residential units in strong subsidiary markets. Our in-house ­expertise and holistic perspective enable us to generate added value for customers and partners and to create 1,758 1,648 value growth within the company. SEK m SEK m Investment Operating 2018 surplus 2018 VISION: Our city – where everyone thrives Our city is a place where everything you need and desire is PROJECT DEVELOPMENT right next door. A number of activities meet here, creating Our project development comprises both new build and reconstrucan exciting urban environment where everyone would like tion/extension properties and is conducted in attractive locations in to be. Here you can work, shop, conduct business, live, large urban regions, generally in connection with existing property study, socialise and be entertained – everything that is holdings. Our projects are run by our own personnel – from the conpart of life. Our locations have a soul and everyone should cept phase to moving in. Project yields will provide better profitability feel at home. Where people want to live – the city thrives. than acquiring properties with an existing cash flow. Consequently, projects contribute both to net operating growth and value growth. VALUES Our values permeate everything we do and guide us in our encounters with customers and other stakeholders. Care for people and the environment makes up part of our business activities – through our business concept, vision, values, business processes, action plans and ORGANISATION IN LINE WITH OUR VISION daily routines. Our organisation is designed to support our business model and the way COLLABORATION RELIABILITY we create sustainable city districts, with a focus on value growth, being Collaborating across We keep our promises. The close to our customers and short decision-making processes. Opera­boundaries allows us to create motto of ‘a handshake is tions are divided into two branches: Project and Construction Activities entirely new opportunities – enough’ is every bit as and Property Management. Project and Construction Activities include both for ourselves and for our ­relevant today as it always Business Development, Projects and our subsidiary TL Bygg. customers. has been. Our properties and areas are managed locally by our own, on-site staff. LONG-TERMISM INNOVATIVE THINKING Transactions and Leasing identifies and carries out new acquisitions The future permeates We recognise opportunities within the framework of the strategy. This business area is also responeverything we do – from our and always find the best sible for canvassing new customers, letting premises for retail and offices, ownership and sustainable ­solutions in our own way. solutions to how we work We want to learn, try out new and the sales of tenant-owned dwellings. ­within the company and in ideas and find new ways of Our support functions are divided into HR and Business Support. ­relation to our customers and collaborating. Business Support comprises Accounts, Finance, Analysis, Investor partners. 8 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC ORIENTATION BUSINESS MODEL| CREATING VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS CU STOMER CUSTOMER We are a long-term landlord that closely collaborates with our customers, which creates continuity 1,727 and confidence. Local management allows us to SEK m OWNER Acquisitions 2018 2,662 intercept and understand customer needs early SEK m Sales on, and therefore create the conditions needed for 2018 them to develop and conduct profitable, sustainable STOMER CU business. Meeting places with a mixture of activities SOCIETY generate added value for our customers where the different players benefit from one another. MANAGEMENT OWNER OWNER We also have our own management organisation that works closely PLOYEES EM Our business model, innovative sustainable urban with the tenants to satisfy their needs in the best way possible, while CU STOMER development and a broad project portfolio constaying open to new business opportunities. centrated among attractive areas in four growing SOCIETY metropolitan regions lay the foundation for a ACQUISITIONS AND SALES EV ERANTÖRE R ­stable investment rate. By investing in our own L We develop and manage with the aim of long-term ownership. We OWNER properties and managing them effectively, we acquire new properties and land if we can achieve strategic benefits ­create good value growth for Atrium Ljungberg PLOYEES and generate a good operating net surplus, or generate a good yield EM and its owners. through project development. CSU OSCIEM TO TYER SOCIETY We create sustainable urban environments where EV ERANTÖRE people want to live, be, work and reside over time. We take advantage of the financial, social and L R OPWNYEER LO EM ES ­environmental values that already exist and add CEO new ones that increase the attractiveness of the HR AND BUSINESS SUPPORT location. We create the conditions needed for ­vibrant areas with a mixture of offices, retail, SOCIETY BUSINESS AREA TRANSACTION AND LEASING EV ERANTÖRE ­services, residential units, education and culture, R and we take on a lot of responsibility for a location L BUSINESS AREA BUSINESS AREA BUSINESS AREA BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS PROPERTY in terms of security, services, parks, etc. PROJECT AND CONSTRUCTION WORK, PROPERTY EM PLOYEES EMPLOYEES INCLUDING TL BYGG MANAGEMENT We have in place well-integrated basic values and a good workplace culture, clear goals and potential CUSTOMER for development, which allows our employees to be ERANTÖRE happy, to thrive and to deliver at the best possible R ­ elations, Communication and Marketing, Sustainability and Digital L EV R Development, IT Support, Purchasing, Legal Affairs and Lease level. Our workplace stimulates collaboration, ­Administration. creativity and efficiency, which are essential ­components if a company is to succeed. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 9 STRATEGIC ORIENTATION STRATEGY | STRATEGY THAT FOCUSES ON VALUE GROWTH Our strategy helps us do the right things at the right places. The strategy also describes how we are to do these things: with a focus on customers, sustainability and commitment. It enables us to create innovative sustainable urban environments with good value growth over time. STRATEGY VALUE-ENHANCING FACTORS The mixture increases the flow of people at the location We will focus on developing attractive urban environments and creates synergies for everyone involved, which for offices and retail, supplemented with residential units, ­subsequently provides greater opportunities to conduct culture, service and education. successful business. We create value growth within the company through active We will develop and improve properties and development management, and generate project returns in our project rights. development. We will establish a presence in strong subsidiary markets Long-term population growth creates the right conditions in metropolitan areas where there is potential for longfor long-term profitability, both for us and for our term population growth. ­customers. We will be a significant player with large, unified units in As a significant player, we can lead and influence developeach subsidiary market. ment and create urban environments with longevity. We will focus on our customers in everything we do. Through relationships and collaboration based on trust we ­Collaboration with customers, suppliers, municipalities find innovative solutions, and together create long-term and other stakeholders will be close, long-term, stable sustainable and attractive environments. and committed. By conducting the entire business process ourselves, We will conduct and manage the entire business process ­including project development, we can take care of our in-house using our own expertise. customers and generate value growth over time. The sustainability work is integrated into the business Good resource efficiency strengthens the company’s value strategy and constitutes an important component of our and results, as well as the outside world’s confidence ­offering. We improve our own and our customers’ resource in us. efficiency. One condition for achieving good results is competent, We will have committed employees who are passionate motivated and engaged employees. We work to ensure a about what we do. Our core values – long-termism, positive and safe work environment and a culture that is ­collaboration, reliability and innovative thinking – are to be characterised by participation. Sustainable employees firmly rooted. help lay the foundation for development and profitability. 10 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC ORIENTATION GOALS | GOALS FOR PROFITABILITY AND SUSTAINABLE ENTERPRISE We have clear goals for profitability and growth, long-term stability and sustainable enterprise. At the start of 2019 we updated our financial goals, which included us increasing the investment goal for our project development and introducing a return on shareholders’ equity goal. PROFITABILITY AND GROWTH The development of profit is key to our success. This is the basis of our yield, along with value growth from investments. Return on shareholders’ We will invest SEK 2 billion every year in our own projects. The dividend is to correspond Goals ­equity of 10 per cent per This goal was increased in February 2019 to SEK 2 billion. to a minimum of 50 per cent of annum over time (a new goal The aim is for new build and extension projects to yield a profit before changes in value, from 2019). return of 20 per cent. after nominal tax. By investing in our own new build and extension projects, reducing vacancy levels and ensuring The owners will share in the Description cost-effective management, administration and financing, return on shareholders’ equity will company’s profits from a longamount to 10 per cent per annum over time. term perspective by means of These investments generate value growth for the properties and the company as the dividend yield stable dividend payments. See for these projects are higher than the market’s yield requirements. See pages 37-41 for further pages 80-81 for further infor­information about our projects. mation about the share and our shareholders. Proposed dividend 2018 SEK Return on shareholders’ Investments in our own properties amounted to 4.85 Goal fulfilment 2018 equity amounted to SEK 1,758 million and were mostly in Gränbystaden 17.7 per cent. and Sickla. per share A dividend of SEK 4.85 per share is proposed for 2018, corresponding to a dividend payment of 67.6 per cent of the profit available for distribution, and a dividend yield of 3.2 per cent. Return on shareholders’ Investments Dividend Historic goal fulfilment equity % SEK m % 70 68 2,000 67 64 65 21.8 1,758 1,593 17.8 17.7 50 15.0 1,002 1,000 10 707 768 5.7 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 11 STRATEGIC ORIENTATION GOALS | LONG-TERM STABILITY Our strong capital base contributes to long-term stability and creates the conditions needed for successful business. Our goal of long-term stability has been fully achieved. A maximum gearing ratio of 45 per cent (new goal from 2019). The minimum interest coverage ratio is to be a multiple of 2.0. Goals The company’s capital base is to be strong in order to help ensure long-term stability and Description generate the conditions needed to do good business in different market situations. The cash flow from operating activities is to cover interest costs by a wide margin. The gearing ratio was 41.9 per cent. The interest coverage ratio was a multiple of 5.0. Goal fulfilment 2018 41.9 Gearing ratio per cent Gearing ratio Interest coverage ratio Historic goal fulfilment % times 5.0 45.5 44.7 45 43.0 41.9 41.9 4.2 3.5 3.3 3.0 2.0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 12 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC ORIENTATION GOALS | Exceeded goal – GPTW index SUSTAINABLE ENTERPRISE We are gradually strengthening our focus on sustainable enterprise. We have been certifying major new builds of premises since 2011. We will continue the process to certify our entire portfolio, and we have extended our goal to include both new builds and existing buildings. 88 per cent By 2021, 100 per cent of our Energy consumption per By 2021, the proportion of We will be one of Sweden’s Goals properties are to be certified square metre is to decrease green lease contracts is to be best workplaces and this will (with the exception of project by 30 per cent between 2014 50 per cent of the contracted help us to have sustainable properties and properties and 2021. annual rent. employees. acquired over the past two years). We have chosen to obtain We will reduce our energy consumption, which represents not We have taken part in the Description ­environmental certification for only a significant portion of a building’s operating cost, but also Great Place to Work® (GPTW) our premises in accordance impacts the climate. We will support our tenants and facilitate evaluation of ‘Sweden’s best with the BREEAM environmental their efforts to conduct their activities in a resource-efficient workplaces’ since 2011. Our classi­fication system. Our manner. Green lease contracts are a joint undertaking to reduce goal is to achieve a minimum ­residential properties are to be environmental impact together. average index of 85 per cent. certified in accordance with the The results do not include Sweden Green Building Council’s See pages 18-25 for further information about our sustainability TL Bygg’s employees. Environmental ­Building certifiwork. cation (Miljö­byggnad). See page 23 for further Project properties and proper­details. ties acquired over the past two years are exempt and are not included in the goal. See pages 18-25 for further ­information about our ­sustainability work. Goal fulfilment 2018 On 31 December 2018, 34 per Energy consumption fell by On 31 December 2018, 27 per The employee survey for cent of the letting area was 13 per cent per square metre cent of the contracted annual 2018 shows that we certified. between 2014 and 2018. rent was from green lease exceeded our goal ­Energy consumption amounted contracts. and achieved an index to 234 kWh per square metre of 88 per cent. in 2018. This rise is due to the hot summer that increased the need for cooling. Share of certified properties Energy consumption Green lease contracts Employee index Historic goal fulfilment % kWh/m² % % 100 89 88 88 87 87 85 268 242 50 232 234 224 34 27 18 188 13 16 10 6 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 13 | STRATEGIC ORIENTATION UN’S GLOBAL GOALS GLOBAL GOALS FOR ­SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT We have been a signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2009, and stand behind the ten principles concerning human rights, labour law, the environment and anti-corruption. We have also carried out analyses to see which of the UN’s 17 global goals and their sub-goals for sustainable development we can contribute to through our activities. In October 2018 we mapped the global goals against Atrium Ljungberg’s focus areas and strategies. Based on this we have selected the ten global goals and sub-goals that we are able to contribute to. GOAL 3 – GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING and ensuring a sustainable abstraction of fresh water in order to Sub-goal: 3.9 combat water shortages, particularly when developing city districts Our properties must be designed to create health and well-being and buildings, but also when selecting materials. We contribute to for people who spend time there. By using the Swedish Building improving water quality by minimising emissions and pollutants Materials Assessment and obtaining environmental certifications into the water and through smart surface water management. for our properties, we contribute to reducing hazardous chemicals See page 19 and note H6 for further details. and construction materials, and prevent pollution of the air, ­water and ground. A good indoor climate in the properties is GOAL 7: AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY very important for health. This enables us to help reduce the Sub-goal: 7.2 and 7.3 amount of illness in society. By only purchasing electricity from hydroelectric power and See page 19 for further details. ­having our own photovoltaic installations on the properties, we contribute to increasing the share of renewable energy in the GOAL 5 – GENDER EQUALITY global energy mix. We are reducing energy consumption in our Sub-goal: 5.1 buildings using different measures and this helps to increase the We are working constantly to increase gender equality and remove global improvement rate for energy efficiency. discrimination at the workplace. We have an equal gender distriSee pages 19–20 for further details. bution in our company management team and in staff functions – in 2018 we ranked as the third most equal company out of the GOAL 8: DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 329 Swedish companies listed on the stock exchange. This work Sub-goal: 8.8 is continuing, focusing primarily on the occupational groups We work actively to promote a safe and secure work environment within construction and property management. and good working conditions for our own employees and sub-­ See page 22 for further details. contractors. Combating human rights violations is an important part of our work and the requirements we place on our suppliers. GOAL 6: CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION See pages 22–25 for further details. Sub-goal: 6.3 and 6.4 The properties are to be resource-efficient and make it easier to live a sustainable lifestyle. This is why we certify our buildings with the environmental certifications BREEAM, BREEAM In-Use and Miljöbyggnad. We can contribute to using water efficiently 14 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 BAT BOXES Mobilia’s 100 steps to a sustainable site can be seen in a variety of different ways. Everything from environmentally certified buildings and 700 new bike parks to bat boxes. Bats are one of the oldest kinds of animal in the world and they form an ­ecologically important group of animals. At Mobilia we have built new homes for these protected animals. GOAL 11: SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES GOAL 13: CLIMATE ACTION Sub-goal: 11.3, 11.6 and 11.7 Sub-goal: 13.1 We play an active role in the urbanisation of cities through the We are working to reduce energy consumption and the use of work that we do. Our business is based on sustainable, innovative fossil fuels in order to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and urban development. We work with customers, suppliers and therefore combat climate changes. We also want to give the cities ­municipalities in the planning, construction and management of and the properties greater resistance and a better ability to adapt the properties and together we create sustainable cities and to climate-related dangers and natural catastrophes. Trees, green ­societies. By ensuring that we have a good mix of content in the roofs and smart surface water management help us to adapt our buildings and designing public spaces and green areas, we create properties to the climate. urban life, green oases, security and well-being that includes See pages 19–21 for further details. everyone. We also work to reduce the cities’ negative environmental impact per person. GOAL 15: LIFE ON LAND See pages 18–21 for further details. Sub-goal: 15.5 It is important to contribute to reducing the destruction of natural GOAL 12: RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION habitats, halting biodiversity loss and protecting and preventing Sub-goal: 12.2, 12.4 and 12.5 the extinction of threatened species. We can do this by creating Our ambition is to contribute to more sustainable consumption green spaces that promote species diversity, working on ecosystem and production by working with our own resource efficiency, as services and using trees, land, walls and roofs in a sustainable well as the resource efficiency of our suppliers and customers. way in our urban environments. We are striving to reduce energy consumption, handle chemicals See pages 16, 48, 51, 52 and 53 and above for ­further details. and waste in an eco-friendly way, and reduce emissions by having environmental certifications for our buildings, sorting waste at GOAL 16: PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS source at our construction sites, and imposing requirements on Sub-goal: 16.5 our suppliers. We contribute to increasing recycling and reuse We work proactively to minimise all forms of corruption and among our tenants and visitors by providing recycling solutions bribes, both among our employees and among suppliers and at all properties, running recycling campaigns and ensuring that ­customers. This is our way of contributing to a peaceful and there are second-hand shops at our retail hubs. ­inclusive society. See pages 18–21 for further details. See pages 24–25 for further details. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 15 ABOUT SLUSSEN THEME: IT’S THE PEOPLE WHO MAKE THE CITY “SLUSSEN WILL BECOME THE HOTTEST AREA IN STOCKHOLM” When the consultancy company HiQ was looking for a new office, it was important to find the perfect premises for the needs of the business, but also a good location for its employees. The removal van is now on its way to Glashuset at Slussen, one of Stockholm’s best-known buildings. The area around Slussen in central Stockholm is undergoing a ­ ottest area in Stockholm when the construction is complete,” h major transformation at the moment. The ambition is to make says Erik Ridman, Head of Communications at HiQ. this historic hub a more attractive place to visit. An overbuild HiQ is a Nordic consultancy company that works on simpliover the roads, more walkways and bike paths, new buildings for fying and improving people’s lives using technology, design and offices, restaurants, culture and retail, parks and a new bus communication. A total of 1,600 people work at HiQ, which ­terminal in Katarinaberget are just some of the changes taking has 10 offices in Sweden, Finland, Poland and Russia. When we place. The consultancy company HiQ will have front row seats meet HiQ at the end of January 2019, its new head office and to the construction work. Stockholm office is being completed. They are moving from “Slussen is a hub with good communications, which is ­Regeringsgatan to Glashuset at Stadsgårdskajen, which is a well­important for our customers and our employees. Södermalm is known building for many people who live in Stockholm. HiQ will such a wonderful city district and Slussen will become the occupy the entire seventh floor, which measures just over 2,900 m2. 16 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ABOUT SLUSSEN ABOUT SLUSSEN In Slussen we own the well-known buildings Sjömansinstitutet, Glashuset and Katarinahuset. We have also land allocations for two new buildings in front of them and for the development of Mälarterrassen. “We are a company that is growing strongly and we basically should feel that things are happening all the time. Atrium didn’t have enough space at our current premises. We saw the Ljungberg has been extremely receptive during the construction opportunity to merge several offices in the Stockholm area and process and has helped us to create an office environment that is bring our employees together under one roof. We first looked at perfect for our operations.” expanding our current premises, but decided quite quickly that Another two buildings will be constructed in front of the we wanted to look for a new home.” current building Glashuset, Sjömansinstitutet and KatarinahuFor HiQ it is important for it to be easy for both employees set. A new destination for food and culture in Mälarterrassen is and customers to get to and from the office. The company is also being developed, as well as a retail hub underground that ­investing heavily in creating a good atmosphere, including a links buses, the underground and Saltsjöbanan. Slussen will be a ­rehearsal space that is used regularly by ten HiQ bands. The place where people will want to stay and spend time rather than ­office is the consultant’s hub and is used for many staff activities, just pass through; a meeting place for both people in ­Stockholm events, seminars and customer activities. This is why it was and visitors to the city. ­important to find flexible premises that could easily be changed “IT consultants are often located in the heart of the city, so around if necessary. The entire floor is open allowing everyone to it’s good for us to do something different and move to Söder. enjoy the breathtaking view of Saltsjön, Gamla Stan and Now that we’ve moved here, I’m sure that many more will Djurgården. ­follow,” concludes Erik and laughs. “It’s an incredible building! Although it’s many years old, it feels extremely modern. We want the office to be full of energy with seamless flows and it should be easy to collaborate. You ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 17 | SUSTAINABLE ENTERPRISE FOCUS AREAS AND GOVERNANCE CARING FOR PEOPLE AND THE ENVIRONMENT We create attractive and sustainable urban environments and properties where people want to live, work and be for many years to come. This is why we take a long-term, responsible perspective when we own, build, develop and manage properties and urban districts. OUR ROLE AND IMPACT The issue of sustainable urban development has become more OUR FOUR FOCUS AREAS topical as urbanisation and population in metropolitan areas have grown. Awareness that the earth’s resources are limited and 1. SUSTAINABLE URBAN DEVELOPMENT that humans impact the climate has grown. The construction We develop sustainable city districts and properties to and property sector accounts for roughly one third of Sweden’s ­increase the attractiveness of the areas and create value for energy consumption, and it has a large impact on the climate. tenants, municipalities, others who use the sites and us ourThere are also risks in our industry associated with health and selves. The properties must be designed with care for people safety, corruption and violations of human rights. It is therefore and the environment. They must be resource-efficient and important for us that we take care of people and the environment make it easier for people to lead a sustainable lifestyle. in all of our operations. See pages 8–10 for further information on our strategy for Atrium Ljungberg is active during the entire lifecycle of a sustainable urban development. building; as a developer of new properties, a buyer of construction materials and services, a developer and contractor, a property manager and a leasing manager for properties, but also at the 2. ENVIRONMENT AND RESOURCE UTILISATION ­final stage of a building when it is going to be demolished. We Resource utilisation, primarily energy consumption, impose requirements on our suppliers and work with our tenants ­represents a significant portion of a building’s operating and to achieve more than we could do by ourselves individually. By production cost, and its climate impact. Consequently, we doing this we are trying to guide the entire value chain in a focus on improving our own and our customers’ resource ­sustainable direction. efficiency. See pages 19–21 for further information about the environGOVERNING SUSTAINABILITY ment and resource utilisation. The Board of Directors evaluates and annually establishes the company’s overall sustainability policy and other policies governing sustainability; the equality and discrimination policy, supplier 3. SUSTAINABLE EMPLOYEES policy, business ethics policy, tax policy, whistleblowing policy One condition for achieving good results is competent, and work environment policy. ­engaged and healthy employees. We work to ensure a positive The CEO has ultimate responsibility for ensuring the policies and safe work environment and a culture that is characterised are observed and delegates responsibility to managers and project by participation. Sustainable employees help lay the foundamanagers in the organisation. The sustainability work is a natural tion for development and profitability. and integral part of all operations and the managers have a ­specific responsibility for its implementation. See pages 22–24 for further information about employees. There is dialogue with the key stakeholder groups to ensure that we have identified our most important sustainability issues. 4. BUSINESS ETHICS AND SUPPLIERS We use the results of the materiality analysis as the basis for Trustworthiness is of central importance to us. We uphold ­developing our focus areas, goals and policies. A sustainability sound business practices in our own operations and in strategy is drawn up every year with quantifiable goals and ­relation to suppliers and other partners. We impose the ­concrete measures, and these measures are followed up. same requirements on our suppliers as we do on ourselves ­Sustainability risks are evaluated every year. in terms of the environment, work environment, working See pages 10–15 for further information about Atrium conditions and human rights. Ljungberg’s goals and strategies. For more information about our materiality analysis, stakeholder dialogue and governing our See pages 24–25 for further information about business sustainability work, see note H 1 and H 2 . ­ethics and suppliers. 18 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | SUSTAINABLE ENTERPRISE ENVIRONMENT AND RESOURCE UTILISATION ENVIRONMENT AND RESOURCE UTILISATION At Atrium Ljungberg we work to continually improve our own and our customers’ resource-efficiency and environmental performance. Important elements of this work include environmental certifications for buildings and reducing energy consumption. BUILDINGS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATIONS the environment, the lack of scientific certainty should not be Atrium Ljungberg obtains environmental certifications for used as a reason to postpone cost-effective measures to prevent ­commercial new builds in accordance with the BREEAM environenvironmental destruction. We see these certifications as a conmental classification system; for existing buildings in accordance tinual process that enables us to find development areas that we with BREEAM In-Use; and residential buildings in accordance can improve before the next certification. with Miljöbyggnad (Sweden Green Building Council’s EnvironThese environmental certifications also comprise the main mental Building certification). On 31 December 2018, 34 per components in our framework for green bonds. On 31 December cent (16 %) of the letting area was certified. we had SEK 4.5 billion of outstanding green bonds. See page 78 These certifications contribute to more sustainable properties for further details. and make environmental performance more comparable and ­easier to communicate to tenants. BREEAM assesses the building’s ENERGY CONSUMPTION HELPED BY THE SUN ­environmental performance within several different areas: energy Electricity accounts for the highest share of our energy conconsumption, indoor climate, water conservation, waste managesumption. We normally provide the tenants with electricity ourment, land usage, and impact on the local environment. BREEAM selves and charge based on actual consumption, which creates also assesses and rates how the building is positioned in relation incentives for resource efficiency. to public transport, selection of building materials and which We purchase hydroelectric electricity and have our own pollutants the building might produce. Our minimum level for ­photovoltaic installations. In 2018 three new photovoltaic the BREEAM certification for new builds is the grade ‘very good’. ­installations were put in place in Sickla, enabling us to increase For the Miljöbyggnad certification system, our minimum level our production of renewable energy. for residential new builds is the grade ‘silver’. Sweden Green A majority of our properties use district heating as their heat Building Council’s requirements in relation to energy, material source. We also have two properties that are heated with geothermal use and the indoor environment are extensive. A third party heating and one project property that is heated with wood pellets ­conducts the audit and rates the various aspects. and oil. When purchasing building materials, we use the Swedish Comfort cooling has been installed in the majority of the Building Materials Assessment – an online system with building properties. This type of cooling is provided by purchased district materials that have been environmentally assessed, helping to cooling and by self-generated cooling. A property that was minimise the environmental impact during the construction work. ­acquired in 2017 also requires high amounts of process cooling. This system also helps us to adhere to the UN’s Precautionary The use of cooling at all of our properties increased as a result of Principle, which means that if there is a threat of serious harm to the hot summer. Share of certified properties Energy consumption Green lease contracts Energy intensity – distribution % kWh/m² % Process cooling 6 %, 100 300 75 14 kWh/m² Heating 31 %, 72 kWh/m² Tenant 268 75 electricity, 250 242 50 estimated 8 %, 232 234 18 kWh/m² 50 224 34 27 District 200 25 cooling 25 18 13 16 10 8 %, 6 19 kWh/m² 0 150 0 Property Tenant 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 electricity 21 %, electricity 26 %, 49 kWh/m² 60 kWh/m² Goal Goal Goal 100 per cent of our properties Energy consumption per By 2021, the proportion of Energy consumption per square metre was affected will be certified by 2021. square metre is to decrease by green lease contracts is to be by the hot summer. The use of heating fell, while ­Project properties and 30 per cent between 2014 and 50 per cent of the contracted the use of district cooling, process cooling and ­buildings acquired within the 2021. We reduced our energy annual rent. The proportion of tenant electricity increased. past two years are not included consumption by 13 per cent green lease contracts was The total energy consumption for 2018, weighted in this goal. In 2018 the proporbetween 2014 and 2018. The 27 per cent (18 %) on 31 Decemto an average year, amounted to 260 GWh, which is tion of certified letting area increase compared with 2017 ber 2018. Read more about an increase from 257 GWh in the previous year. ­increased to 34 (16 %) per cent. was due to the hot summer, definitions of green lease conRead more about definitions in which resulted in a greater tracts in note H 7 . note H 6 . need for cooling. See definitions in note H 3 . ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 19 | SUSTAINABLE ENTERPRISE ENVIRONMENT AND RESOURCE UTILISATION Energy intensity During the year, 24 of our employees completed the course Development, weighted to an average year kWh/m2 Energi­lyftet, which provides participants with knowledge of low Area1) Unit 2018 2017 2016 energy construction and the construction process for both new Property energy builds and the renovation of low energy buildings. Energi­ Heating kWh/m² 72 76 77 myndigheten are behind this programme in collaboration with a District cooling kWh/m² 19 15 19 number of other players. Property electricity kWh/m² 49 50 50 We also support our customers in their work on resource Total property energy kWh/m² 141 140 147 ­efficiency. Our overall energy goals include the total energy ­consumption of our tenants. We work together to find potential Tenant energy efficiency measures in the premises. Tenant electricity kWh/m² 60 63 55 Tenant electricity, estimated kWh/m² 18 19 22 CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS AND CLIMATE IMPACT Process cooling kWh/m² 14 11 – Our carbon dioxide emissions amounted to a total of 7.5 kg Total tenant energy kWh/m² 92 93 78 CO2e/m2 in 2018 (6.7), which is an increase on the previous Total energy intensity kWh/m² 234 232 224 year. Carbon dioxide emissions mostly originate from heating 1) See note H 3 . our properties with district heat and from visitors coming to our retail hubs by car. A very small proportion is from electricity EFFICIENT ENERGY CONSUMPTION consumption at the properties or business trips. The company has reduced its energy consumption by 13 per Carbon dioxide emissions from using district heating and cent since 2014. Total energy consumption per square metre for their environmental load depend partly on the fuel that our 2018 amounted to 234 kWh/m2, which is an increase on the ­district heating suppliers use. In the case of district heating and previous year. In 2018 the use of heating decreased, while the district cooling, we rely on the local supplier at each location, use of cooling increased as a result of the hot summer. In the and environmental performance varies a great deal. past five years, the amount of property energy has fallen comTo reduce carbon dioxide emissions from visitors who come pared with the reference years due to greater energy awareness by car, we provide electric charging points at car parks and among our employees and energy efficiency measures. ­increase the number of parking spaces for bikes. During the construction phase the BREEAM certifications The electricity we use and that we supply to our tenants is ­support us to reduce energy consumption. Our properties are ­renewable and carbon dioxide-free. This comprises hydroelectric also designed to be flexible and can be adapted to changes in power with a guarantee of origin with the Golden standard. We needs, which reduces the need for extensive rebuilding work. use certified carbon dioxide-free electricity at all of our properties, ­Total energy consumption is also affected by the construction except for one. To compensate for this we are supporting a wind materials used. Wooden materials require much less energy at power project in India this year. the manufacturing stage than concrete, for example. Read more about carbon dioxide emissions per building type During the year we continued work on the energy auditing in note H 4 . of our property portfolio that we started in 2016. The majority of properties have now been audited. We have implemented GREEN LEASE CONTRACTS measures, such as the operational optimisation of ventilation, Atrium Ljungberg’s green lease contracts are an example of the ­replacing control equipment, and optimising heat recovery in collaboration between the property owner and tenant, working ­order to reduce energy consumption. A project was carried out together to reduce the environmental impact in the properties. in Gothenburg where new ventilation with a higher recovery rate This joint commitment includes energy, waste and transport. started to be used. Next year a cooling unit with heat recovery The tenants are interested in contributing to sustainable solutions will be installed, which will contribute to the property’s heat and and efficiency measures. These green lease contracts are particularly cooling needs for every day of the year. popular when signing new contracts. At the end of the 2018, Carbon dioxide intensity from energy consumption Carbon dioxide emissions – distribution kg CO2 e/m² Business trips 2 % Electricity (own Car-borne visitors 10 subscriptions to retail hubs 56 % of tenants) 6 % 8 6 Heating 36 % 4 2 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | SUSTAINABLE ENTERPRISE ENVIRONMENT AND RESOURCE UTILISATION green lease contracts accounted for 27 per cent (18 %) of the Our customers have also shown great interest in reusing contracted annual rent. The goal is to achieve at least 50 per cent m ­ aterials. For the fifth year in a row, we backed the ‘Återby 2021. win-win’ campaign in Malmö, Gothenburg, Stockholm and Uppsala, where customers were encouraged to hand in used RECYCLING AND BILLING OF WASTE clothing. Not only retail hubs and stores took part in the We provide recycling at all of our properties. Our tenants want ­campaign, but also office tenants. The result for 2018 was to monitor their own goals for recycling and waste management 37 tonnes of collected clothing and textiles that were donated to and we want to make it worth their while to be resource-efficient. Stadsmissionen. A total of 328 tonnes has been collected over This is why we started to introduce individual measuring of the past five years. waste in 2015. Atrium Ljungberg set the goal of offering ­individual monitoring and billing of waste at all of our retail hubs by 2021. This now includes office buildings as well. In the construction and property industry it has been difficult up to now to monitor the amount of waste and recycled materials as there have been no effective systems in place for this. In 2018 TL Bygg signed an agreement with a contractor that has a ­promising system for sorting, recycling and waste management at construction sites that can also measure the amount of waste that goes for recycling and to landfill. SOLAR PANELS PROVIDE ENERGY FOR THE HEAD OFFICE In the autumn of 2018 Stockholm County’s largest photovoltaic Gallerian and Magasinet. It will be able to produce 550,000 installation was put on the roofs of three buildings at the Sicklaön kilowatt hours of electricity over the period of a year. The solar 83:22 property in Sickla. Photovoltaic installations form an panels on the roof of our own head office in Luftverkstaden ­important part of our sustainability work. Using the energy make the office completely electricity-neutral as the production provided by the sun and producing our own renewable electricity and use will balance each other out. The solar panel installation is important in helping us tackle the climate challenges that in Sickla will prove beneficial both financially and for the we are facing. This installation is one of the largest in Sweden. ­environment. It measures 4,500 m2 and covers the roofs at Luftverkstaden, ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 21 SUSTAINABLE ENTERPRISE EMPLOYEE | OUR EMPLOYEES Atrium Ljungberg has a total of 310 employees, who lay the foundation for the Group’s development and success. Our employees are to be happy, thrive, perform and develop over time. To facilitate this, they need clear and communicated goals, continual feedback, development, a good workplace culture and a safe work environment. Atrium Ljungberg is growing, which means that the need for Number of employees at end of year employees and competence is increasing. At the end of 2018 the 2018 2017 Group had 310 (296) employees, of whom 100 (100) per cent Number Number have collective agreements. We almost only hire employees on Permanent of emShare of Share of emShare of Share a≈full-time and permanent basis. Pay is based on statistics from employees ployees women of men ployees women of men the industry and the individual performance of the employees. of which fulltime 308 27 % 73 % 294 27 % 73 % Pay is reviewed annually and there are no unjustified differences of which partbetween the sexes. time 2 100 % – 2 50 % 50 % The workforce remains at a relatively stable level during the The diversity indicators reported by Atrium Ljungberg include gender year, except during the summer when summer workers are and age. Read more about gender and age distribution and employee ­employed in the property management. We also provide placemovement in note H 8 . ments for ­apprentices from the vocational courses at upper ­secondary schools, from the KTH Royal Institute of Technology GENDER EQUALITY AND EQUAL VALUE and ­higher vocational education programmes. Our fundamental approach is that everyone has equal value and the right to equal treatment. Employees are to be afforded the Employee per function at end of year same opportunities for their employment conditions, skills 2018 2017 ­development and promotion within the framework of their own Number Number competence and willingness. Working conditions are governed of emShare of Share of emShare of Share by collective agreements. No incidents of discrimination were ployees women of men ployees women of men ­reported during the year, which was also the case in 2017. There Property ­management 117 36 % 64 % 114 34 % 66 % is no difference in pay due to gender. Construction 55 – 100 % 60 – 100 % Although the property and construction industry is still Support func­dominated by men, Atrium Ljungberg has achieved an even tions + CEO 65 49 % 51 % 57 49 % 51 % ­gender distribution in its management team, at middle manager Construction level and for its administrative support functions. The proportion work 41 7% 93 % 35 11 % 89 % of women in the Group as a whole increased during the year. In Business 2018 we were ranked the third most equal company out of the ­Development 13 38 % 62 % 11 36 % 64 % 329 companies on the stock exchange by Allbright, which analyses Project ­management 19 21 % 79 % 19 21 % 79 % gender distribution among senior executives. Total 310 28 % 72 % 296 27 % 73 % There are still areas we need to develop. For example, the skilled workers within the Group are overwhelmingly men. The Me-Too movement and the construction industry’s #Sista spiken i kistan (Final nail in the coffin) highlighted the need for change. Age and gender breakdown in 2018 Employee goals and outcomes Number Goals Outcome Goals for2018 employees and outcome 200 Atrium Ljungberg’s goal is to % achieve an average confidence index 90 89 88 88 87 87 150 of 85 per cent in the Great Place To 85 Work® evaluation. The result was 88 per cent (88 %) in 2018 and we 80 100 have exceeded the goal over the past five years. TL Bygg is reported 75 50 separately, see page 23. 70 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0 Goal –29 30–49 50– year Men Women 22 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABLE ENTERPRISE EMPLOYEE | 88 % Average confidence index 7.2 Average years employed 4|3 Women and men ­respectively in com43.1 Average age, years pany management In 2018 TL Bygg started work on inclusion that was firmly established throughout the company through conferences, ­workshops and presentations. A female network was also started. EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Employee engagement and competence play a pivotal role in Atrium Ljungberg’s success. Working for us should be stimulating INTEGRATION PROGRAMME IN UPPSALA and satisfying. If employees are to feel engaged, it is important In 2015 we faced one of the worst refugee catastrophes for everyone to understand what is expected of them and how since the Second World War. Atrium Ljungberg, just like their input contributes to and is essential for our business. many others, was asked to provide residential units to Our Performance Management process helps managers and new arrivals. We did not hesitate to say yes, but we wantemployees focus on the right things and focus on the employee’s ed to do more. A home is not enough to get a good start development. This process includes career development reviews, in society. In 2017 we launched the Welcome Programme action plans and follow-ups. All of Atrium Ljungberg’s employees where five people were given a placement, a residential and TL Bygg’s salaried employees are involved in this process. unit in Gränbystaden and a sponsor. The programme ran Each employee is given individual goals and action plans for for a year and ended in October 2018. Three of the five ­development, performance, innovation and sustainability. This people who took part have gained permanent employis carried out during the annual performance reviews and the ment and one is studying full time. follow-­up twice a year. The employees also have at least four ­regular feedback sessions with their manager. Every year the employees evaluate their managers and this HEALTH AND SAFETY feedback is used to develop leadership. TL Bygg also holds annual Serious health and safety risks are common in the property and career performance reviews with all of its skilled workers. construction industry. Atrium Ljungberg has a zero-tolerance During the year courses were held on various themes, including ­approach to stress-related illnesses and workplace accidents. personal efficiency, contract law and the work environment. In the autumn of 2018, 150 employees at Atrium Ljungberg Leaders at Atrium Ljungberg take part in management days had health checks to discover any ill health. For offices, the twice a year, often with external presenters with themes such as health and safety risks are primarily related to stress, which leadership in change and innovation. ­affects mental health. The Group provides health promotion support for its employees by subsidising gym memberships, ONE OF SWEDEN’S BEST WORKPLACES ­massages at the workplace and encouraging various exercise We want to be one of Sweden’s best workplaces. Every year the ­activities. The Wellnet health promotion platform has been used survey Great Place To Work® (GPTW) is carried out. Atrium since 2013. We also have internal traffic rules for how we Ljungberg has been using this survey since 2011 and all employwork with meetings, emails and telephones. During the career ees are involved. Over the past six years the results have exceeded development reviews, a personal sustainability goal is set for each the goal for an average confidence index of 85 per cent. The ­result individual. Atrium Ljungberg’s employees also have voluntary in 2018 was 88 per cent, which was unchanged from 2017. This health insurance that provides access to health care, conversational result clearly shows that employees appreciate the new activity-­ support and rehabilitation. based office in Sickla, following the head office and the local Injuries to hands are the most common accidents when ­office in Sickla moving in together at the beginning of 2018. ­managing properties and carrying out construction work. Regular One area for development that we have seen in the survey is the work environment courses are run for project managers, technical information that leaders give to their employees about important administrators and salaried employees in production at TL Bygg issues and any changes. in order to prevent workplace accidents. A work environment TL Bygg has also been using the GPTW survey since 2011 committee meets four times per year. There are order and safety and has included skilled workers since 2016. The goal for 2018 rules at each workplace, safety officers are appointed and safety was 82 per cent, with a multi-year goal of 86 per cent. The result rounds are carried out. It is important to maintain this safety work, for 2018 was 84 per cent, which is clearly better than the 2017 which is why TL Bygg has appointed a quality, environment and index, which was 76 per cent. This result reflects the work that work environment manager to support these activities. was carried out during the year to create participation and a TL Bygg’s management system is certified in accordance with ­feeling of solidarity. A joint conference was held for the entire BF9K, which is a management and product certification system company during the year. Various subjects were discussed at the that sets requirements for quality, the environment and the work conference, such as inclusion, gender equality and diversity. environment. It works in the same way as an ISO certification, but the system has been directly adapted for the construction ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 23 | SUSTAINABLE ENTERPRISE EMPLOYEES / BUSINESS ETHICS i­ndustry. TL Bygg has been certified since 2002 and works Accidents and related absence ­actively to reduce its environmental impact. It has rules and No. of absence days, ­procedures in place to ensure that every employee has a good Number Men Women absolute figures work environment. Every year a third party audit is carried out; Accidents with sick leave 3 – 150 in 2018 this was performed by Det Norske Veritas. Sickness or other ill health 1 – – In 2018 sick leave amounted to 5 per cent (4) of the total Accidents without sick leave 8 1 – contracted working hours in the Atrium Ljungberg Group. Near accidents 2 – – It is primarily sick leave among women that has slightly Commuting accident1) 5 – – ­increased. Read more about sick leave distributed by age group Total 19 1 150 in note H 9 . 1)  commuting accident is an accident that takes place outside of working hours, on A the way to and from work. Sick leave by gender, % of total contracted working hours Work-related injuries and injury rate (LTIR) 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 Men 4% 5% 4% No. of No. of Women 6% 4% 3% cases Rate cases Rate Total absence 5% 4% 4% Atrium Ljungberg 1 2.7 2 5.7 TL Bygg 2 8.7 4 17.0 In 2018 there were 3 (6) work-related injuries that resulted in Total 3 5.0 6 10.3 sick leave of one working day or more. None of them were Men 3 5.0 6 10.3 ­considered to be a serious injury. There was one wound on a Women – – – – hand; one injury to an arm resulting from a falling object; and Total 3 5.0 6 10.3 one bruising to the ribs. There was one serious back injury caused by a falling object, but this did not result in any sick The injury rate is reported per one million working hours. leave. There have been no fatalities within the group or at any of Lost working hours due to work-related injury or sickness ­Atrium Ljungberg’s construction sites during the year, or earlier. (Lost Day Rate) See note H 8 and page 154 for further details and definitions. 2018 2017 No. of No. of days Rate days Rate Atrium Ljungberg 4 0.0 23 0.1 TL Bygg 146 0.4 59 0.2 Total 150 0.2 82 0.1 Men 150 0.2 82 0.1 Women – – – – Total 150 0.2 82 0.1 BUSINESS ETHICS Atrium Ljungberg shall be a long-term and reliable partner in all of its relationships. This is why we are working proactively to combat the risks of bribes, corruption and human rights violations in the property and construction industry. The entire operations are audited every year to identify any risks EMPLOYEE CODE OF CONDUCT of corruption and human rights violations. The biggest risks Our values – long-termism, collaboration, reliability and within the property and construction industry, are particularly in ­innovative thinking – form the basis of everything we do at the terms of bribes and gifts, special prices for friends when leasing, company. Employees must act in an honest way and with care, hiring illegal workers, labour migration and tax evasion. Atrium commitment and integrity to business partners and other Ljungberg uses sound business practices, which is why it works ­employees. actively on business ethics among employees and imposes The business ethics policy is also our code of conduct and ­requirements on suppliers and sub-contractors. ­applies to all employees and temporary employees. We have also 24 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | SUSTAINABLE ENTERPRISE BUSINESS ETHICS guidelines in place for entertainment, gifts and benefits that SUPPLIER CHECKS ­provides more concrete guidelines for the employees, and a Our suppliers are seen as an extension of our own operations. training package with ethical dilemmas that has been used in The goods and services that we purchase must be produced with courses with all employees since 2017. We provide introduction care for people and the environment. Our supplier policy is our training for new employees and temporary employees as well, Supplier Code of Conduct. It is based on Fastighetsägarna’s where business ethics plays an important role. ­Supplier Code of Conduct, which sets out the minimum TL Bygg has its own business ethics policy and has signed ­requirements that we impose on the entire supplier chain. It and supports the Swedish Construction Federation’s Code of ­covers issues surrounding business ethics, the environment, work Conduct and applies the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute’s environment, working conditions and human rights. Code of Business Conduct. They are also certified in accordance When agreements are signed, the supplier must sign the with the management and product certification system BF9K. ­supplier policy, which is added as an appendix to the agreement. We monitor new suppliers by evaluating to see whether our WHISTLEBLOWER FUNCTION ­supplier policy has been signed. In addition, we, or a third party, Atrium Ljungberg has a whistleblower function that enables perform audits of selected suppliers every year. people to report suspicions of corruption and other crimes or In 2018 a total of 102 of 165 new suppliers signed the policy deviations anonymously. Both employees and partners ­supplier policy. During the year 20 desk audits were performed can use this function or can turn to their line manager. This of selected existing framework customers. No serious infringefunction is provided by an external supplier and any reports ments were identified. are handled by a special steering group for the whistleblower Suppliers within cleaning, demolition and snow removal function. from roofs are examples of industries where there are risks of There were no reports via this function in 2018 and no cases ­infringements. If serious infringements are discovered, this could of corruption were discovered. result in the agreement being terminated. Some purchases are made directly in the construction projects BUSINESS ETHICS IN THE SUPPLIER CHAIN and as part of the property management and are not procured We play an active role throughout the value chain – from acquiring centrally through framework agreements. The project manager is land at an early stage of the areas’ urban planning to driving a responsible for ensuring that the suppliers read and understand sustainable process through development, construction, managethe supplier policy. ment, and at the final stage, demolition and recycling. The comTL Bygg imposes requirements on its suppliers to observe the pany is therefore a major buyer and client with 968 different certification system BF9K’s requirements for quality, the environsuppliers of goods and services. Framework agreements have been ment and work environment. In 2018 TL Bygg employed a signed with 78 of these suppliers. TL Bygg had 371 suppliers in ­purchasing manager and started a review of the processes for 2018. There were no major changes to the supplier chain during purchasing and supplier audits. There were no coordinated the year. ­audits of new or existing suppliers during the year. The major purchasing categories are: TAX POLICY • Building contractors, including carpenters, electricians, We pay tax in Sweden, which comprises current tax, property sheet-metal workers tax, non-deductible VAT, stamp duty, social security payments • Construction materials and special payroll tax. Atrium Ljungberg’s tax policy states that • Energy, primarily electricity and district heating we will be a reliable, long-term and responsible member of • Operation and maintenance services, such as cleaning ­society that consistently complies with laws and regulations and • Consultancy services, including architects, project managers balances shareholder interests with public interests. Taxes must and administrative support be checked, reported and paid correctly. The company undertakes not to conduct aggressive tax planOur suppliers also have their own subcontractors, for example, ning. Aggressive tax planning relates to transactions that are not for construction materials, their workforce, fuel, transport and for commercial reasons, but only aim to reduce tax. The tax policy waste management. is available at al.se. Read more about tax paid in note H 9 . ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 25 ABOUT NOBELBERGET THEME: IT’S THE PEOPLE WHO MAKE THE CITY “NOBELBERGET HAS BEEN ­INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT FOR STOCKHOLM’S CULTURAL LIFE” In Nobelberget in Sickla we have been working with Nacka Municipality and several partners to build up a cultural hub that has attracted more than 500,000 visitors in four years. One of the key people behind the project is Martin Lagerberg. The first meeting between Martin Lagerberg and Atrium but as soon as we saw the premises we realised that we could do Ljungberg was held in the autumn of 2014. Atrium Ljungberg so much more on Nobelberget.” had recently acquired Akzo Nobel’s former industrial area in Martin is the CEO of Nobelberget’s club and concert activities ­Nobelberget, which is between Sickla and Hammarby Sjöstad. and has been involved in Stockholm’s cultural life for many years. Work on a detailed development plan to develop a new city For example, he helped to start Restaurang Landet in 2005, a ­district had already begun, but there were thoughts early on to restaurant, bar and stage that has attracted people to Telefonplan bring this desolate area to life while the planning process was unin southern Stockholm for many years. Martin has also been derway. Several key people from Stockholm’s concert, club and ­involved in organising several festivals. In Nobelberget the entertainment circles were engaged, including Martin Lagerberg. ­Nobelberget organisation has had its offices right next to the “From the start the idea was to organise a food truck festival, large concert arena, premises that used to be a sports hall and 26 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ABOUT NOBELBERGET ABOUT NOBELBERGET Nobelberget is between Hammarby Sjöstad and Sickla and until a few years ago it was a secluded industrial and office area. The site is now being developed into a vibrant city district. warehouse. Martin highlights how important it is for all of the players, including property owners and municipalities, to dare to try and to continually build trust in one another. This is crucial Nobelberget will be ­developed into a city district for the success of this kind of project. with 500 residential units, “We’ve created Nobelberget together. It would have been creative offices, culture, ­impossible to organise the programmes for this site by ourselves. ­nature and meeting places. Nobelberget is a large area; in terms in size it is somewhere There is an open exhibition ­between club performances and Annexet. This is why we’ve had about the project in Sickla to work with the biggest content suppliers, booking companies Galleria. and festival organisers. But we've also tried to help new players that are getting bigger. Nobelberget has been incredibly important for Stockholm’s cultural life and has helped us to bring several the area is now entering a new phase. However, the cultural h ­ eritage international artists to Stockholm.” that was built up in a short time at the site will be preserved in When the activities at Nobelberget started, the plan was for the new city district that is now being created. Several of the them to last for around a year and a half, but the agreement was players that were involved will move into the rebuilt Formalinextended several times as the detailed planning process overran. fabriken in the summer of 2019. For Martin and his colleagues, Over the past four years there have been more than 200 clubs, their sights are set on a new location, Slakthusområdet. 170 concerts, 22 festivals and eight markets at Nobelberget, “It’ll be exciting to see what the site will look like in a few which has had more than 500,000 visitors. years if our story is preserved in this area. We now want to “I’m so proud that we’ve been able to have so many different ­continue to develop Stockholm’s concert and club life with kinds of events. We had no idea of what to expect. We’ve filled a ­Atrium Ljungberg. And Slakthusområdet is a perfect place for us gap on the market with Nobelberget.” to do this together,” says Martin. The last festival was held in Nobelberget in January 2019 and ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 27 MARKET OVERVIEW TRANSACTION | HIGH INTEREST IN PROPERTY INVESTMENTS The transaction market has reported high and stable sales volumes in recent years and this trend seems to be continuing. Low interest rates combined with rising rental levels have encouraged a strong interest in property investments, including from foreign investors. THE TRANSACTION MARKET CONDITIONS FOR 2019 Demand for property investments has been high in recent years The expectations for 2019 are slightly lower than last year, and the Swedish property market remained strong in 2018. ­following an autumn with reduced growth forecasts and an Properties totalling a value of approximately SEK 159 billion ­external environment that has created volatile stock exchanges. were sold during the year, which is in line with the average The low interest rate environment has had a major impact on the ­annual volumes of the previous five years. commercial property sector, which is a very capital-intensive In terms of sales, residential units are the largest segment, ­industry. The low interest rates have made high amounts of with a sales volume of approximately SEK 51 billion, which is a ­capital available and encouraged an increase in demand for historically high level. Office properties were the second largest ­properties. This has resulted in a market where yield requirements segment with a total transaction volume of SEK 32 billion and have been down at historically very low levels in all property a market share of 21 per cent. Retail properties accounted for ­segments. Although the demand is assessed as being the highest SEK 14 billion and a market share of 9 per cent. Interest in retail of Sweden’s three major cities, the lack of supply has moved properties is high and the price difference between retail hubs in ­investors to more secondary markets and objects. good locations and retail hubs in worse locations has widened. In December 2018 the Riksbank (Sweden’s central bank) ­announced an increase in the repo rate of 0.25 percentage units FOREIGN INVESTORS to –0.25 per cent to slowly normalise monetary policy. The Interest from foreign investors remained strong during the year ­cautious change in the interest rate climate will probably not and the Swedish property market is still considered to be an have a major impact on the transaction volumes for 2019. ­attractive market. Property acquisitions from foreign investors It seems as though interest in property investments will be amounted to a total of SEK 43 billion in 2018, corresponding strong, combined with a positive impact on office rents and to a market share of 27 per cent, compared with 26 per cent in low v­ acancies in 2019. 2017. The growing proportion of foreign investors has been a clear trend since the financial crisis of 2008. Yield requirements for offices and Transaction volume per geographic area Transaction volume per property type 10-year government bond interest SEK billion SEK billion % 200 200 8 150 150 6 100 100 4 Source: Savills Source: Savills Source: Savills 50 50 2 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Stockholm Gothenburg Malmö Sweden, other Offices Retail Residential Other Yield requirement offices, Stockholm CBD Yield requirement offices, Gothenburg CBD Yield requirement offices, Malmö CBD 10-year government bond 28 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MARKET OVERVIEW OFFICES | STRONG OFFICE MARKET CONTINUES Atrium Ljungberg’s office properties are primarily in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö where the rental market has developed very favourably in recent years. A growing population, a strong economic climate and more efficient workplaces are the reasons for this. HIGH DEMAND FOR OFFICE SPACE with high demand, positive rental growth, particularly in central Sweden’s population is becoming more concentrated around the areas, and that the low vacancy rate will continue. three major cities of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. The proportion of the population who are of working age is also GOTHENBURG higher in these major cities than in the rest of the country and The office market is strong in Gothenburg as well. The region is this trend is expected to continue in the future. The high and in good shape, which is driving growth and enterprise. The growing population figure creates greater demand for workplaces, ­vacancy rate for offices in Gothenburg CBD has fluctuated social services and accommodation, and in turn, properties. ­between 2.5–3.0 per cent in 2018, which is historically low and The office rental market is very strong in Stockholm, shows that demand for premises in attractive locations is very ­Gothenburg and Malmö, driven by the strong economic climate high. There has been a limited addition of new builds over the and demographic development in the cities. For example, vacancy past two years and the majority of the space has been leased rates in Stockholm and Gothenburg have been down at historically ­before completion. The prospects for Gothenburg look good and low levels and speculative office projects are being leased quickly. given the current situation, there is space for rental growth in several subsidiary markets, while the vacancy rates look set to STOCKHOLM ­remain low. Central Stockholm has seen office rents increasing strongly and this growth rate will be one of the strongest in Europe. Trends MALMÖ such as activity-based and modern offices are among the reasons The vacancy rates for offices in Malmö CBD fell during the year, for this significant increase in rents. This makes the use of the but remain higher than in Stockholm and Gothenburg. The premises more efficient for the tenants, enabling them to pay a main reason for this is that the new build volumes have rehigher rent per square metre without this having a major impact mained relatively high in Malmö for several year, where some of on the cost per workplace. In central Stockholm there has been these volumes are being built completely or partly on speculation. a limited amount of new office space in recent years and there is The trend for rental levels has remained positive and stable since a high number of office properties that are being converted, for the financial crisis. example, to residential units or hotels, which is further driving the imbalance between supply and demand. It seems likely that the office market in the major cities will remain strong in 2019 Letting area for office space in Stockholm Rental trend in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö 1) Atrium Ljungberg's market shares in subsidiary markets, Office SEK/m² 8,000 Office space, Share Atrium Source: Savills and Strateg Fastighetskonsult Hufvudstaden Subsidiary markets ‘000 m2 Ljungberg Balder 7,000 Alecta Stockholm Skandia Fastigheter 6,000 CBD 1,790 1% SEB Trygg Liv 5,000 City centre 5,022 2% AFA Fastigheter Castellum Inner suburbs 3,658 9% 4,000 Humlegården Kista 879 8% Atrium Ljungberg 3,000 Kungsleden Gothenburg Source: Savills Source: Savills Klövern 2,000 Lindholmen 298 22 % AMF Fastigheter Fabege 1,000 Malmö Vasakronan 0 City centre, incl. CBD 1,600 2% 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ’000 m² CBD Suburb, south Stockholm, CBD Gothenburg, City centre Suburb, north Stockholm, Vasastaden/Norrmalm Lindholmen Stockholm, Kista Malmö, CBD Kista Stockholm, Southern Suburbs Stockholm, Södermalm 1) The average rent for very good premises in the best locations. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 29 MARKET OVERVIEW RETAIL | RETAIL IN CHANGE Retail has reported 22 years of growth in a row and has benefited from population growth, low unemployment and a continued low repo rate. The strong position of e-commerce was reinforced during the year, with growth amounting to 15 per cent. Retail increased by 2.5 per cent as a whole in 2018 with Christmas sales breaking records again. RETAIL YEAR 2018 The rumours that Amazon would establish on the Swedish After a cautious start to the year, sales growth picked up in the market intensified in 2018, but the entry of the American giant spring before slowing down during the record hot summer, into Sweden did not take place. If Amazon were to launch in when consumers were prioritising different activities to shopping. Sweden, it would contribute to an increase in growth for Growth was slightly more stable in the autumn, but the year ­e-commerce, so this possibility is being carefully monitored. It ended with a negative trend in Christmas sales. This resulted would have such a major impact because of Amazon’s size in all in retail growing by 2.5 per cent in current prices, which respects. The company’s annual sales are more than double the ­corresponds to SEK 19 billion. Total sales amounted to sales for Swedish retail trade as a whole. SEK 786 billion. Everyday commodities, optics, electronics and The new consumption patterns caused by digitalisation are goods for the home contributed most to this growth, based creating new commercial opportunities and conditions for retail. on current prices. The growth in retail is primarily driven by As e-commerce is growing, an increasing number of retail ­increases in prices more than higher sales volumes. Clothing ­companies are getting closer to the customer and their everyday ­remains a segment facing major challenges, with sales falling movements. Goods coming to the customer rather than the by 1.2 per cent. ­other way around feels like a natural step for retail. This is being The total sales at our four regional retails hubs, Sickla, Farsta seen by an increasing number of volume retail companies estabCentrum, Gränbystaden and Mobilia, reported a combined lishing city concepts. Bauhaus, ÖoB and DollarStore are exam­increase of 1.1 per cent compared with the previous year. ples of this. In parallel with this, pop-ups and mobile stores have become increasingly popular. These mobile stores are still a new RETAIL IS CHANGING phenomenon in Sweden, but they have been around for several In 2017 there was a shift in the trends when e-commerce years in other countries such as the USA. Amazon’s Treasure ­accounted for almost all growth in consumer durables. Truck is a store on wheels that sells selected goods, while also E-commerce’s strong position was confirmed in 2018, with acting as a collection point for goods bought online. In the growth amounting to 15 per cent, which corresponded to an spring of 2018 Ikea launched mobile stores on the Swedish ­increase of SEK 10 billion. E-commerce’s total sales amounted to ­market that focus on kitchens in order to reach customer groups SEK 77 billion, increasing the market share of online shopping that live far away from the chain’s main stores. It seems likely to 10 per cent. The sectors that showed the quickest growth that an increasing number of chains will try to find new ways of ­online were food, furnishing/furniture and sport/leisure. getting close to their customers, both physically and digitally. Retail sector’s development and forecast Atrium Ljungberg’s market shares in subsidiary marRetail letting area in Sweden 1) for 1991–2019 (rolling prices) kets, Retail % Sales Share Kungsleden 9 municipality, Atrium Source: HUI Research Grosvenor Municipality SEK m 1) Ljungberg Steen & Ström Hufvudstaden Stockholm 70,423 3% Citycon 6 Ikea Centres Nacka 7,244 44% Eurocommecial Properties Ancore Uppsala 15,446 18 % Alecta 3 Unibail-Rodamco NP3 Malmö 25,105 7% Atrium Ljungberg Source: HUI Research2) Vasakronan 1) Refers to sales per municipality 2017. 0 Skandia Fastigheter Diös Klövern Thon Property Castellum –3 Svenska Handelsfastigheter Ica Fastigheter Trophi Fastigheter –6 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 1991 1996 2001 2006 2011 2016 2020 ’000 m² Swedish property owners Foreign property owners 1) Estimated area, as per 31 December 2018. 2) The figures from HUI Research could potentially be updated. 30 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MARKET OVERVIEW RESIDENTIAL UNITS | RESIDENTIAL UNITS IN GROWTH REGIONS Our residential portfolio is divided among the Stockholm region, Uppsala and Malmö. Despite stricter rules for offering credit for mortgages and a high supply, prices stabilised in 2018. Although the demand for tenant-owned dwellings is stable, the market for tenant-owned dwellings in new builds remains cautious. CAUTIOUS MARKET FOR TENANT-OWNED DWELLINGS, population in Stockholm continued to rise, with an increase of NEW BUILDS 1.6 per cent during the year. The waiting time for new rental The prices for tenant-owned dwellings fell in the second half of builds in Stockholm was the longest it had been for many years. 2017 and the effect was seen on all of Atrium Ljungberg’s markets. In 2018 the prices of tenant-owned dwellings stabilised at UPPSALA levels that are historically very high. Factors such as population There is high demand in the housing market in Uppsala. The growth, ­urbanisation, economic growth and historically low inhigh rate of new builds is affecting the market and in recent terest rates are resulting in strong demand for residential units. years many new residential builds have been completed in However, ­access to credit has been affected by the credit restricUppsala. Uppsala is experiencing the same kind of decline in the tions that were introduced in 2018, reducing the purchasing number of new buildings that are starting to be built, but the power of the customers. The number of apartment blocks that number of new tenant-owned dwellings that have started to be were started to be built fell in Sweden, particularly in Stockholm built has fallen even more. During the year we saw minor price and Uppsala. The number of building permits granted suggests ­fluctuations on the Uppsala market, but these were normal that this trend will continue in 2019. However, a high number across the seasons. The year started and ended with housing pricof apartment blocks were completed in 2018. The high supply of es at roughly the same level. The Uppsala region is growing more residential new builds and residential units on the secondary quickly than the three major city regions, reporting a population market have made customers cautious. growth rate of more than 2 per cent for the first three quarters Demand for tenant-owned dwellings on Atrium Ljungberg’s of the year. Growth in the Uppsala region is primarily a result of ­markets remains strong. The waiting times for mediated new a strong net domestic figure for people moving to the area. builds are showing higher or stable demand. MALMÖ STOCKHOLM The number of new apartment blocks that had started to be Residential prices stabilised in Stockholm in 2018 and there has built increased in the first three quarters, compared with 2017. been an increase in the supply of residential units. The credit The population of the Malmö region grew by approximately ­restrictions that were introduced during the year had a major 1.5 per cent in 2018. In Malmö the average waiting time fell impact on several customer segments in the Stockholm region, for first-hand rental contracts and there is stable demand for which resulted in the housing market remaining cautious. Over rental properties. Prices for tenant-owned dwellings have rethe past year this was reflected in a clear reduction in both the mained stable, despite an increase in the supply of new builds number of rental and tenant-owned dwellings that had started to and the secondary market. be built and in the number of building permit applications. The Prices for tenant-owned dwellings in selected New residential builds for sale Waiting time in number of years for areas, fixed prices new build rental apartments Number SEK/m² 10,000 Year 100,000 8 Source: Bostadsförmedlingen Stockholm, 8,000 80,000 6 6,000 60,000 4 Boplats Syd and Uppsala Bostadsförmedling 4,000 Source: Valuation data 40,000 Source: Booli 2,000 2 20,000 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Stockholm County Stockholms city centre Västra Götaland County Stockholm region Stockholm inner suburb Skåne County Gothenburg city centre Uppsala County Malmö city centre Uppsala Municipality ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 31 ABOUT LEVERIET THEME: IT’S THE PEOPLE WHO MAKE THE CITY “IT’S SO HANDY THAT YOU CAN TRY ON CLOTHES THAT YOU’VE ORDERED.” Retail is changing as e-commerce develops. The collection point is the final piece of the puzzle for online shopping, but it is an experience that is not always as good as people would like. Linda Malmborg has tested Leveriet, a new service that will make the final stage in e-commerce just as pleasurable as the rest of the shopping experience. According to a new survey from Kantar Sifo on behalf of Atrium It is not that strange that Linda calls it ‘hers’. For ten years Ljungberg, four out of ten people think that the main problems she has been the store manager of Väskor & Annat, a store that with parcel collection are the long waiting times and/or the fact her father started at Mobilia more than 50 years ago. The store that the location is cramped or inconvenient. Our new parcel sells suitcases, handbags, backpacks, wallets and work bags. collection concept Leveriet has addressed this and we want to ­Linda explains that she does a lot of online shopping these days, change the shopping experience at the final destination of often clothes for her teenage children. She normally has her e-commerce; parcel collection. Someone who has already tried goods delivered to the supermarket she shops in, but this is this service is Linda Malmborg. mostly through habit. Linda thinks that it is very likely that “It was so convenient. I had to send a parcel back and I knew ­Leveriet will be her collection point of choice in the future. that Leveriet had just opened. I thought that I had to try it out “The environment is so pleasant. It’s not a small, cramped as it is located in ‘my’ Mobilia.” collection point, but a cosier and calmer environment. It’s so 32 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ABOUT LEVERIET ABOUT LEVERIET Leveriet, our new parcel collection concept, has so far opened in Sickla Galleria and Mobilia. The ambition is to open at more locations in the future. /Bildtext om provrum/ convenient that you can try on clothes here and it’s easier to and learning with characters such as Pettson & Findus, Mumin send things back. What is also good is the fact that the major and Alfons Åberg. Torghuset will also contain 74 new rental distributors are all at the same place, so you don’t have to go to apartments. several different collection points.” “I really think that the development in Mobilia is something Leveriet offers high-quality service and long opening times, positive. Having both a cinema and a cultural centre for ­children as well as add-on services such as fitting rooms, parcel packaging will be so great. It feels a bit like you’re at home in ­Mobilia as it’s and the chance to get rid of cumbersome packaging. E-commerce so cosy here,” concludes Linda before rushing back to her store companies are also able to display and exhibit their products at to look after her customers. the premises, enabling them to establish personal and physical contact with their customers. Leveriet is first being tested in Sickla and Mobilia, but the ambition is to roll out this concept at more locations. A major development is underway in Mobilia to make it into a vibrant city district with retail, residential units, restaurants and services. Torghuset is being built at the moment, a brand new building where Nordisk Film will open a new cinema. ­Funnys Äventyr is also opening here, a unique cultural centre for children. The focus here will be on children playing, reading ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 33 OUR PROPERTY PORTFOLIO PROPERTY VALUE | OUR PROPERTY PORTFOLIO IN FIGURES Atrium Ljungberg’s property portfolio is concentrated to strong growth regions in Sweden with a property value of SEK 44 billion. Our properties comprise offices, retail and residential units, and are concentrated to central locations in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and Uppsala. PROPERTY PORTFOLIO In October Tranbodarne 11 in Slussen in Stockholm was Our property portfolio primarily comprises office and retail a­ cquired at an underlying property value of SEK 1,530 million. properties in the growth regions of Stockholm, Gothenburg, At the same time the Blästern 6 property in Hagastaden and the Malmö and Uppsala. The property portfolio contains a total of Roddaren 7 property in Kungsholmen in Stockholm were sold 51 properties with a total letting area of 1,129,000 m². Our at an underlying property value of SEK 2,175 million. These ­residential portfolio comprises around 800 apartments located properties were taken into possession/vacated in November. in Ärvinge in Kista, Mobilia in Malmö, and Gränbystaden In December Arbetesstolen 3, better known as Västberga in Uppsala. Handel, in Stockholm was sold. The purchase price was based on an underlying property value of SEK 437 million. 2|4 1.1 PROPERTY VALUE The market value of the property portfolio at the end of the year totalled SEK 44,201 million (SEK 40,861 m). The average yield Properties acquired and sold Million m2 requirement in the valuation was 4.6 per cent (4.7 %). Development rights and land account for SEK 877 m ­ illion (SEK 684 During the year two properties were acquired and four properties m); see pages 38-41 for further information about our projects. were sold. Unrealised changes in the value of properties during the year In April an agreement was signed to sell the Dragarbrunn totalled SEK 2,516 million (SEK 1,817 m). The change in value 19:1 property, better known as Rådhuset, in Uppsala. The is explained mainly by higher rents as a result of new lettings and ­purchase price was based on an underlying property value of renegotiations. Read more about property valuation in note T 1 . SEK 127 million and the property was vacated in May. In April the property Kylfacket 3 in Slakthusområdet in Changes in the property portfolio Stockholm was acquired at an underlying property value of 2018 2017 SEK 150 million, and it was taken into possession in June. Fair value at the start of the period 40,861 36,054 The intention is to develop this property based on a new detailed Acquisitions (after deduction of deferred 1,727 2,265 development plan. tax) In September Molekylen 1 in Hagastaden (land for Life City) Sales –2,662 –868 was taken into possession. It was acquired at the end of 2017 for Investments in own properties 1,758 1,593 a purchase price of SEK 432 million. Unrealised changes in value 2,516 1,817 Fair value at the end of the period 44,201 40,861 Property portfolio, 31/12/2018 2018 Operating Operating Letting area, Fair value, Fair value, Rental income, Property costs, surplus, surplus mar’000 m2 SEK m SEK/m2 1) SEK m SEK m SEK m gin, % Office properties 654 22,517 43,893 1,219 –337 882 72 Retail properties 321 14,297 51,672 967 –339 628 65 Residential properties 81 1,768 25,502 86 –32 54 63 Business area Property 1,055 38,582 44,914 2,272 –708 1,564 69 Project properties 68 3,851 E/T 2) 133 –53 80 60 Land and development rights – 877 – – – – Total 1,123 43,310 2,405 –761 1,644 68 Development properties 6 890 7 –3 4 61 Total Group 1,129 44,201 2,412 –764 1,648 68 1) Square metres excluding garage. 2) Letting area for new builds is not reported until the project is completed and the figures therefore do not accurately represent the actual situation. 34 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR PROPERTY PORTFOLIO INCOME AND EXPENSES | Unrealised changes in value 4.0 years (3.6 years). In 2019, 11 per cent (12 %) of the con2018 2017 tracted annual rents will be subject to renegotiation. Change in yield requirements 487 947 95 per cent (94 %) of the contracted annual rent is regulated Change in operating net etc. 2,029 865 with an index clause linked to inflation. 25 per cent (26 %) of Development rights – –5 the contracted annual rent has a turnover-based rent where rent Total 2,516 1,817 is regulated based on the tenant’s turnover. The rental levels have, h ­ owever, been secured through agreed minimum rents, and turnover premiums in addition to the minimum rent comRENTAL INCOME prises 1 per cent (1 %) of the contracted annual rent. The surThe contracted annual rent at the end of the year totalled SEK plus ratio fell during the year to 68 per cent (69 %), which can 2,483 million (SEK 2,357 m). The rental value, i.e. contracted be explained by, for example, changes in the property portfolio. annual rent and estimated market rents for vacant space, amounted to SEK 2,637 million (SEK 2,494 m). This gives an PROPERTY COSTS economic letting rate including project properties of 95 per cent Property costs totalled SEK –764 million (SEK –742 m) during (95 %), and excluding project properties of 95 per cent (95 %). the year. Corrected for acquisitions, new builds and sales, The EPRA vacancy rate is therefore 5 per cent (5 %). Calculated ­property costs totalled SEK –647/m2 (SEK –666/m2). The cost based on letting area, the letting rate was 85 per cent (84 %). of operating retail properties in general and retail centres in The commercial lease contract portfolio, i.e. all lease contracts ­particular is generally higher than for other types of commercial excluding residential units and garage/parking, is well-­diversified properties. These operating costs are, to some extent, covered by and comprises 1,814 (1,820) lease contracts with an average passing them on to the tenants in the form of rental surcharges. contracted annual rent of SEK 1.4 million (SEK 1.2 m). The ­average remaining term of the contracts at the year-end was Distribution by contracted annual rent Ten largest tenants, contracted annual rent Dagab Turnover premium 1 % Domstolsverket Residential rent 4 % Åhléns Nacka municipality Basic rent, fixed 8 % H&M Basic rent, indexed 50 % Stockholms municipality Other 79 % Property tax and other additions 12 % ICA Atlas Copco Ericsson Stockholm County Council Minimum rent for turnover-based rent, indexed 25 % Contracted annual rent per maturity year Operating surplus, letting rate and Changes in property value and premises type operating surplus margin SEK m SEK m SEK m % 3,000 600 2,500 100 9.0 % 6.2 % 2,500 500 8.2 % 2,000 80 2,000 400 5.0 % 1,500 60 1,500 300 1,000 40 1,000 3.5 % 200 500 20 500 100 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Residential Garage and later Changes i value, properties Retail Offices Other Property costs, SEK m unrealised and realised Operating surplus, SEK m Letting rate, incl. project properties, % Operating surplus margin, % Operating surplus margin office properties, % Operating surplus margin retail properties, % ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 35 INVESTMENTS AND PROJECTS PROPERTY INVESTMENTS AND SALES PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT is an important aspect of Atrium We acquired properties with a book value of SEK 1,727 billion Ljungberg’s value growth. Our project portfolio make possible in 2018. These acquisitions were Kylfacket 3 in Slakthusområdet, for us to invest the equivalent of approximately SEK 21 billion Stockholm, as well as Tranbodarne 11 in Slussen, Stockholm. in the ­future. The goal is to invest at least SEK 2 billion per year These were acquired in October through an exchange deal with in our own development projects, where new build and extension Folksam where Blästern 6 in Hagastaden and Roddaren 7 in ­projects yield a return of at least 20 per cent; this generates good Kungsholmen were sold. In September Mole­kylen 1 (land for value growth within the company and healthy growth in the Life City) was taken into possession, following the acquisition company’s cash flows. agreement that was signed in 2017. In April an agreement was signed for the sale of the DragarIN TERMS OF AREA THERE ARE 650,000 M2 of confirmed and brunn 19:1 property in Uppsala, and in December an agreement potential projects, where half of the area is for offices and the was signed for the sale of Arbetsstolen 3, known as Västberga other half is residential units, retail, education, and hotels, with Handel, in Stockholm. retail representing 10 per cent. The project portfolio is divided among all our areas, with Sickla and Uppsala accounting for the NEW LAND ALLOCATIONS AND LAND RESERVATIONS majority of the project area. In June 2018 two land allocation agreements were signed with the City of Stockholm; one in Hagastaden, Stockholm that is for WE CREATE SUSTAINABLE URBAN DEVELOPMENT by planning 16,000–20 000 m2 of offices, and one that is for a meeting place and creating future development opportunities using our own for food and culture of approximately 6,000 m2 GFA in Mälar­ in-house competence at an early stage. The ability to complete terassen, Slussen in Stockholm. the projects depends on the market situation and the progress made in the detailed development plan. We work with these Acquisitions 2018 ­issues on a daily basis in close collaboration with our customers Additional letting and partners. Projects are not normally started until we have Property name Municipality area, m2 1) Possession ­secured a minimum rate of return in the form of signed lease Kylfacket 3 Stockholm 4,511 01/06/2018 contracts. Tranbodarne 11 Stockholm 21,566 01/11/2018 WE ACQUIRE properties to create value growth or to obtain s­ trategic benefits. This pertains both to acquiring land in order Sales 2018 to gain access to development rights for future development Deductible let­projects and to acquiring investment properties that have Property name Municipality ting area, m2 1) Date vacated ­development potential. Dragarbrunn 19:1 Uppsala 2,978 02/05/2018 Blästern 6 Stockholm 30,791 01/11/2018 Investments, acquisitions and sales Roddaren 7 Stockholm 8,705 01/11/2018 SEK m Arbetsstolen 3 Stockholm 17,960 20/12/2018 5,000 1) Including garage. 4,000 3,000 Properties taken into possession, 2018 2,000 Property name Municipality Possession 1,000 Molekylen 11) Stockholm Land for Life City 07/09/2018 1) Acquisition agreements 2017. 0 –1,000 –2,000 –3,000 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Investments in own properties Acquisitions Sales Net investments 36 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CONFIRMED PROJECTS In 2018, we invested a total of SEK 1.8 billion in our own which includes retail and offices. There are four projects that are ­properties, of which more than SEK 1.2 billion was in project currently underway in Sickla: the building of Curanten which properties. Investments in project properties were mostly for the will become a healthcare destination; Tapetfabriken which will be Sickla Front II office building and several projects in Gränby­ a hotel and an office property; in Nobelberget work has started staden in Uppsala. The other investments related primarily to on Formalinfabriken; and Nobelgaraget. In Hagastaden a decision tenant adaptations in properties in Sickla, Slussen and Liljeholmen. was made to start the Life City project with 27,500 m2 of offices. Projects completed in 2018 were Sickla Front II, Gränby In Malmö we are building a shopping square in Mobilia, which ­Entré building 2, Gränbystaden south entrance, and Gränby­ will contain retail, residential units and cultural activities. The staden south garage. remaining investment volume for confirmed projects amounted Our confirmed projects are in Uppsala, Sickla, Järfälla, to approximately SEK 3.8 billion at the end of the year. It is ­Hagastaden and Malmö. In Gränbystaden in Uppsala, residential ­assessed that the investment volume in our own properties will units are being built that include commercial premises. Major reach approximately SEK 2 billion in 2019. See pages 38–39 for transformation work is underway in Forumkvarteret in Uppsala, further information about the confirmed and ongoing projects. CONFIRMED PROJECTS Letting area, m² Total Of which Resi­ invest­ remain­ Fair Rental READ dential Parking, ment, ing, value, value, Letting Environmental MORE Project, property, municipality Retail Offices units GFA SEK m 1) SEK m Completed SEK m SEK m 2) rate, % certification on page New builds and extensions Sickla Front II, Sicklaön 346:1, Nacka 25,300 14,000 810 90 2018 66 58 BREEAM 46 Sickla 1898, Curanten, Sicklaön 83:22, Nacka 3,600 8,100 530 410 2020 39 E/T 3) BREEAM 46 Sickla Tapetfabriken, Sicklaön 83:22, Nacka 7,200 2,600 4,600 390 290 2020 E/T 3) E/T 3) BREEAM 46 Nobelgaraget, Sicklaön 83:33, Nacka 600 3,500 60 60 2020 4 46 Norra Gränbystaden, Brillinge 8:1/9:1, Uppsala 31,600 580 10 2014–2018 4) 51 97 BREEAM 56 Gränby Entre building 2, Gränby 21:5, Uppsala 900 1,300 3,300 230 20 2018 15 96 5) Miljöbyggnad 57 Gränby Entre building 3, Gränby 21:5, Uppsala 1,200 1,300 3,400 240 100 2019 15 41 6) Miljöbyggnad 57 Gränbystaden, south garage, Gränby 21:4, Uppsala 11,500 200 10 2018 BREEAM In-Use 57 Gränbystaden, south entrance, Gränby 21:4, Uppsala 9,800 360 60 2018 31 86 BREEAM In-Use 57 Mobilia Torghuset, Bohus 8, Malmö 9,400 3,800 540 410 2020 37 34 7) BREEAM/­ 62 Miljöbyggnad Life City, Molekylen 1, Stockholm 27,500 4,400 1,870 1,350 2021 107 E/T 3) BREEAM 49 Bas Barkarby, part of Barkarby 2:2, Järfälla 24,400 830 780 2021 E/T 3) E/T 3) BREEAM 54 Reconstruction Forumkvarteret, Dragarbrunn 27:2, Uppsala 6,200 7,400 1,400 1,300 360 140 2020 49 82 BREEAM In-Use 60 Formalinfabriken, Sicklaön 83:33, Nacka 2,000 50 40 2019 4 BREEAM In-Use 47 Total 70,500 99,900 11,900 39,300 7,050 3,770 3,8518) 1) Including any land acquisitions in connection with the project implementation, but excluding any initial values such as demolition of buildings. 2) Excluding premiums and any sales based rent. 3) Rental value/letting rate is not reported as a subtotal with regard to individual business transactions. 4) Covers approximately 45,000 m2 GFA in total. Investment decisions and completion take place in stages, among other things connected to letting. 5) The letting rate for commercial premises amounts to 93 per cent. The letting rate for residential units is 100 per cent. 6) The letting rate for commercial premises amounts to 30 per cent. Residential units are let closer to completion. 7) The letting rate for commercial premises amounts to 41 per cent. Residential units are let closer to completion. 8) Divided into SEK 3,144 million for new building and extensions and SEK 707 million for reconstructions. CONFIRMED PROJECTS, NEW BUILDS AND EXTENSIONS Planning Construction Completion 2019 2020 2021 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Sickla 1898, Curanten Sickla Tapetfabriken Nobelgaraget Gränby Entré building 3 Mobilia Torghuset Life City Bas Barkarby, phase 1 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 37 INVESTMENTS AND PROJECTS EXAMPLES OF CONFIRMED PROJECTS BAS BARKARBY Together with Järfälla SICKLA FRONT II The Municipality, we are creating Bas Sickla Front district is a Barkarby, a multi-functional district for clear entrance to Sickla learning, culture, sports and business in and connects this city the heart of the growing city district of ­district with Hammarby Barkarbystaden. Sjöstad. The Swedish ­National Courts Administration, which includes ­Nacka District Court, has LIFE CITY In the heart of the emerging moved in and the project is life science cluster, we are creating now complete. Life City, a new centre for development and services linked to healthcare and ­research. TAPETFABRIKEN Plans have been made for a hotel, offices and a garage in the old Tapetfabriken (wallpaper factory). The largest ­tenant is Nordic Choice Hotels, which will open a hotel with 156 rooms, a restaurant and conference facilities. 38 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INVESTMENTS AND PROJECTS GRÄNBY ENTRÉ By the shopping centre we have built three buildings with a total of 200 rental apartments, commercial premises and offices. Buildings 1 and 2 are complete and are occupied; in Building 3 the residential units will be ready for occupancy in the spring of 2019. MOBILIA TORGHUSET Torghuset is expected to be completed in the spring of 2020 and there are plans for 74 rental apartments, a cinema and a cultural centre for children. GRÄNBYSTADEN The southern extension of Gränbystaden Galleria, with 17 new stores and restaurants, was opened in N ­ ovember 2018. FORMALINFABRIKEN In the old industrial building, there are plans for cultural activities, offices, a cafe and restaurant, and a community centre for residential units in Nobelberget. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 39 INVESTMENTS AND PROJECTS POTENTIAL PROJECTS In addition to the confirmed projects that are underway, there is access to 51,000 m2 letting area is expected in June 2019 with an a project portfolio with new projects and reconstruction work option for 32,000 m2 letting area once a new detailed development that enables future investments of approximately SEK 17 billion, plan becomes legally binding, but no later than 31 December 2021. which includes potential land acquisitions through land allocations. This deal also includes options that enable Atrium Ljungberg to In terms of area, half of the project portfolio consists of offices, suborder land allocations of approximately 100,000 m2 GFA. and half of residential units, retail, education and hotels. The The acquisitions and land allocations that will be d ­ eveloped project portfolio is divided among all our areas, with Sickla and comprise a total of approximately 200,000 m2 GFA for offices Gränbystaden accounting for 60 per cent. The rate at which we and residential units, alongside culture, retail/restaurants, hotels, can complete the projects depends on the market situation and education, etc. The total investment amounts to approximately the progress made in the detailed development plan process. SEK 8 billion between 2019 and 2030. A project is not usually started until we have ­secured a miniThe initial acquisition comprises 51,000 m2 letting area and a mum return in the form of signed lease contracts. We believe rental value of SEK 73 million. The current letting rate is 95 per that several detailed development plans will become legally cent. The properties that form part of this acquisition include ­binding in 2019. We will start construction of phase 1 of culturally significant buildings in the northern part of Slakthus­ Bas Barkarby in Järfälla, as well as the first tenant-owned project området. The purchase price is based on an underlying property in Nobelberget in Sickla. value of SEK 1,120 million. The deal is being made through a company acquisition. LETTER OF INTENT SLAKTHUSOMRÅDET The agreement requires decisions from the Development and In August 2018 Atrium Ljungberg signed a letter of intent with Property Committees in the City of Stockholm and the Board of the City of Stockholm to acquire the existing properties and to Directors of St Erik Markutveckling, which are all planned to be obtain land allocations in Slakthusområdet, just to the south of made in February 2019. The acquisition is also conditional on the Stockholm city centre. approval of Stockholm City Council, which is planned for May The existing properties will be acquired in two phases, where 2019. Possession of the properties is scheduled for June 2019. POTENTIAL PROJECTS Project area, m2, GFA Potential projects by premises type Detailed Change to detailed READ Education 2 % Premises development development plan Inv, SEK Hotel 2 % MORE Municipality type 1) plan exists required m 2) 6) Retail10 % Offices on page 46 % Barkarby Järfälla Residential 9,000 54 Barkarby Järfälla Offices 10,000 54 City Stockholm Hotels 8,000 Residential Lindholmen Gothenburg Offices 6,000 64 41 % Hagastaden Stockholm Offices 16,000 49 Hagastaden Stockholm Retail 1,000 49 Mobilia Malmö Retail 16,000 62 Malmö Malmö Offices 6,000 63 Potential projects by area Sickla Nacka Education 9,000 47 Gothenburg 1 % City 2 % Sickla Nacka Residential 28,000 99,000 47 Barkarby 4 % Sickla 34 % Sickla Nacka Offices 1,000 22,000 47 Hagastaden 4 % Sickla Nacka Retail 5,000 47 Malmö 4 % Sundbyberg Sundbyberg Offices 39,000 53 Sundbyberg 8 % Södermalm Stockholm Offices 69,000 51 Södermalm Stockholm Retail 1,000 51 Södermalm 15 % Uppsala 27 % Uppsala Uppsala Residential 22,000 35,000 57 Uppsala Uppsala Offices 2,000 43,000 57 Uppsala Uppsala Retail 5,000 18,000 57 Potential projects by detailed Total 3) 4) 184,000 288,000 17,000 development plan AGREEMENT WITH THE CITY OF STOCKHOLM 5) Detailed Change to detailed development development Slakthusområdet Stockholm Offices 77,000 42 plan exists plan required Stockholm Residential 44,000 42 39 % 61 % Stockholm Retail 28,000 42 Stockholm Culture 11,000 42 Stockholm Training 7,000 42 Total 167,000 7,000 1)  nticipated premises use may change and may include A 5)  onditional on committee decisions and decisions in the C other elements. city council. 2) The investment volume includes potential land acquisitions. 6) Relates to investments in existing properties and future 3) Of which reconstruction is 110,000 m2. development rights. 4) The total refers to 111,000 m2 GFA of land allocations. 40 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INVESTMENTS AND PROJECTS EXAMPLES OF POTENTIAL PROJECTS GRÄNBYSTADEN We are d ­ eveloping Uppsala’s second city centre, with a mix of retail, offices and residential units. We have a land allocation by the shopping centre with a ­potential development right of 50,000 m² GFA. RESIDENTIAL UNITS KYRKVIKEN Detailed planning work is underway for approximately 700 apartments in Kyrkviken and on the street Gillevägen. Kyrkviken will become an attractive residential area by the water, which will link naturally to Sickla. SICKLA STATIONSHUS At Sickla Station we have a ÖSTRA HAGASTADEN In 2018 we won a land allocation competition for d ­ evelopment right for approximately 7,500 m2 GFA at a unique district that will become the city’s northern gateway. The the future underground station. An investigation is ­competition was for the Solna Haga 3:6 property and part of Solna ­currently underway to assess whether it is possible to Haga 4:17, a development right of approximately 16,000–20,000 m2 GFA. build a 23-storey building with offices and hotels. SLUSSEN LAND ALLOCATIONS In Slussen we have several land allocations, including directly in front of Katarinahuset at Stadsgårdskajen. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 41 ABOUT SLAKTHUSOMRÅDET OUR VISION FOR SLAKT­ HUSOMRÅDET Atrium Ljungberg’s vision for Slakthusområdet is to become the whole of Stockholm’s meeting place for food, culture and experiences and an engine for the entire south side of Stockholm. The old buildings house 100 years of history of entrepreneurship, food, drink and events. This is something we have embraced and are going to develop now that we are making our mark for the next 100 years. No matter whether you are heading home or going out, working or on holiday, Slakthusområdet will be the place for you – 24 hours a day. On 31 January 1912 King Gustav V opened Stockholm’s ­ eveloped to become an urban 24-hour city where innod first public slaughterhouse (‘slakthus’) just south of Södervation, technology and creative industries are right next malm in Stockholm. At the same time slaughter restrictions to food, culture and experiences. were introduced in the city to control the problems of We are planning and building for a city that is alive ­hygiene and a lack of supervision. This marked the start of 24 hours a day with a strong cultural offering; from 100 years of slaughtering livestock and food production in theatres and art, to the music scene and clubs. We are Slakthusområdet. also going to focus on the food history in this city One hundred years ago it was on the very outskirts of district by providing a lot of space for different the city, but today it is a central part of modern Stockholm. kinds of food companies, everything from fine The city is growing rapidly and there is a great need to dining to modern street food concepts. Hand­develop new sites where the inhabitants can reside, work picked stores along the street Rökerigatan will and live. The City of Stockholm has therefore signed a have a unique appearance in these former partnership agreement with Atrium Ljungberg to develop ­industrial environments. In the north-west large parts of Slakthusområdet; an agreement with acquisipart of Slakthusområdet we are creating a tions, land allocations and options amounting to just over learning district where we are developing 200,000 m2 GFA. The people of Stockholm will now gain environments where academia, business, access to the old brick buildings in the area when new life is the ­public sector and civil society can breathed into this city district. We are extremely interested work together. A high number of in and have a lot of experience of developing sites with a ­residential units will be added to the strong cultural identity, such as Sickla in Nacka and Mobilia area with a mix of both tenant-owned in Malmö, and this site gives us an opportunity to do this dwellings and rentals in a range of again. apartment sizes. Our vision is for Slakthusområdet to be the whole of The development of Slakthus­ Stockholm’s meeting place for food, culture and experiences området will take a long time, but and to become an engine for the entire south side of Stockbecause we have a broad network holm. Slakthus­området will reflect the breadth in creativity, of long-term partners, we can entrepreneurship and innovation that Sweden is known for fill this site with interesting around the world. Stockholm competes with other interna­content immediately. This will tional cities and metropolitan areas to attract and retain allow this city district to ­talent, and to create environments for the growth of new thrive from day one, ­before, companies. The culture, art and night life of a major city – during and after the conwhat the site o­ ffers outside working hours – have become struction period. an important competitive tool for enterprise, entrepreneurship and ­tourism. This is why Slakthusområdet is being 42 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ABOUT SLAKTHUSOMRÅDET ABOUT SLAKTHUS­ OMRÅDET Slakthusområdet is one of Stockholm’s largest urban development projects in modern times. The deal with the City of Stockholm includes acquisitions, land allocations and options that total almost 200,000 m2 GFA. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 43 OUR AREAS STOCKHOLM The Stockholm region is one of the five fastest growing regions in Europe and the city is preparing to make space for more than a million Stockholmers. 30 major urban development projects are currently underway or are being planned, everything from creating new city districts to improving public transport. Atrium Ljungberg is part of Stockholm’s development and can be found on several strong subsidiary markets in the region, including Sickla, Farsta, Södermalm, Hagastaden, Kista, Sundbyberg, Liljeholmen, Barkarby and Slakthusområdet. Stockholm accounts for 72 per cent of Atrium Ljungberg’s contracted annual rent. Rental value, SEK m SICKLA 566 FARSTA 308 SÖDERMALM 257 KISTA 250 HAGASTADEN 180 OTHER STHLM 158 LILJEHOLMEN 104 SUNDBYBERG 71 Total letting area, ’000 m² SICKLA 239 FARSTA 115 SÖDERMALM 87 KISTA 148 HAGASTADEN 64 OTHER STHLM 38 LILJEHOLMEN 55 SUNDBYBERG 47 ” Types of premises in Stockholm, rental value Residentials 3 %, SEK 50 m Health/care 4 %, SEK 68 m Restaurant 4 %, SEK 73 m Offices 53 %, SEK 1 009 m Culture/education 5 %, SEK 89 m Other 6 %, SEK 107 m Retail 26 %, SEK 498 m Stockholm accounts for as much as 72 per cent of Atrium Ljungberg’s contracted annual rent. 44 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR AREAS – STOCKHOLM PRIORITY AREAS WITH DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL Hagastaden is one of our priority areas. We own and manage more than 60,000 m2 here, primarily for offices. We are heavily involved at this site, where we are working with the City of Stockholm and other property owners to develop ­Hagastaden into one of the world’s leading life science clusters. Our Life City project will be a centre for development and ­services connected to healthcare and research. The building, measuring 27,500 m2, will be located at one of the most visible places in Scandinavia; above the E4, where 73 million people pass by every year. OUR AREAS In recent years we have increased our property portfolio in ­Södermalm focusing on Slussen where we own, for example, the Glashuset, Katarinahuset and Sjömansinstitutet properties, and additional development rights along the street StadsgårdsBarkabystaden kajen. In the spring of 2018 we also signed an agreement with Kista the City of Stockholm to develop the future Mälarterrassen in Slussen. Sundbyberg Hagastaden Södermalm Liljeholmen Sickla Slakthusområdet Farsta Our largest area is Sickla in Nacka, where we manage and ­develop more than 200,000 m2 of offices, retail, culture, learning and residential units. There are a number of development ­projects underway in Sickla, including Curanten, a building ­focusing on healthcare, and Tapetfabriken, a new hotel that will be part of Nordic Choice Hotels. The expansion of the underIn 2018 Atrium Ljungberg signed a letter of intent with the City ground is expected to be complete by 2026. Nacka will gain of Stockholm to acquire existing properties and sign agreements three stations, one of which will be in Sickla. We are therefore for land allocations in Slakthusområdet just to the south of planning to build Stationshuset, one of Nacka’s first tall buildings Stockholm city centre. The area will undergo a major transforwith 23 storeys. This will contain the underground station as mation and the vision is to create a dynamic city district and well as offices and a hotel. In 2018 we also started to sell meeting place for offices, housing, food, culture and experiences. ­tenant-owned dwellings in the first residential district in Nobel­ The acquisitions and land allocations amount to a total of berget. We are developing a brand new city district here with ­approximately 200,000 m2 GFA, with offices accounting for ap500 residential units, offices, a pre-school, cultural activities, proximately 40 per cent. Slakthusområdet is one of Stockholm’s nature and meeting places. largest urban development projects in modern times. The first properties were acquired in June 2018. Construction is planned to start in the first quarter of 2021 and work will last until 2030. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 45 OUR AREAS – STOCKHOLM SICKLA | % of total rental value: 22 % 222 Letting area, offices, m2: 79,000 Rental value, offices, SEK m: 222 Letting area, retail, m2: 74,000 Rental value, retail, SEK m: 251 No. of stores, restaurants, services: 160 Store sales, SEK billion: 3.2 No. of visitors per year: 14 million SICKLA NEW CITY DISTRICT SINCE 1898 More than 20 years ago Atrium Ljungberg acquired the old THE OLD WALLPAPER FACTORY WILL BECOME A HOTEL ­industrial site where Atlas Copco used to manufacture both Tapetfabriken, where the award-winning Kåberg manufactured drills and diesel engines, with a history dating back to 1898. We wallpaper for more than a hundred years, has been dismantled. have now developed the area into an inspirational mix of old and In its place we are building a hotel where Nordic Choice Hotels new in a unique atmosphere where people live and work next to will open with just over 150 hotel rooms and a 2,000 m2 lobby shops, restaurants, education, culture and international companies. area with a restaurant, event spaces and conference premises. The And this development is continuing. During the year we started original bricks from the old wallpaper factory will be reused and to build a hotel in the old wallpaper factory, we are building a the ambition is to preserve its history in the new hotel operations. brand new building for healthcare at Sickla station, and we also The hotel will open in the spring of 2020 and, along with the started to sell 68 of around 500 tenant-owned dwellings in future residential district, will help to increase well-being and ­Nobelberget. ­security, with a vibrant street life late into the evenings and at At the beginning of the year Sickla Köpkvarter, one of night. ­Stockholm’s largest retail hubs with 150 stores, restaurants and The building comprises a 9,700 m2 hotel and offices, as well services, was named the most popular retail hub in Stockholm as a garage. by Evimetrix. While waiting for the completed detailed development plan CURANTEN – A HEALTHCARE BUILDING for Nobelberget, the site has been an exciting cultural area with The reconstruction and extension project Curanten is underway music, theatre and art that has attracted hundreds of thousands on the street Järnvägsgatan, close to Sickla station. We are creating of visitors over the past four years. This unusual cultural project a healthcare destination here, including primary care, a health ended in January 2019 to create space for new apartments in this centre, a dental practice and a physiotherapist in functional and attractive area. The knowledge and experience from Nobelberget modern premises. The ground floors will house stores, a cafe and are something we are taking with us when developing Slakthus­ a restaurant. The location is historically Sickla’s soul, where AB området, which is just a few kilometres from there. Diesels Motorer’s first factory was constructed in 1898. The project comprises a total of 11,700 m2 letting area, CONFIRMED PROJECTS which includes 8,100 m2 for healthcare and 3,600 m2 for retail, SICKLA FRONT II – NEW DISTRICT IN SICKLA with occupancy planned for 2020. The Sickla Front II project is now complete. The project comprises two buildings for large and small offices with public spaces NOBELGARAGET on the ground floor and a garage. The buildings are on the street The detailed development plan for Nobelberget became legally Uddvägen and, along with the adjacent office building that was binding in May 2018, so the project for the garage and premises completed in 2015, they form the Sickla Front district, which in the first residential district got underway. The ground work is provides a clear entrance to the Sickla city district, linking Sickla under way and it is expected to be completed in 2020. with Hammarby Sjöstad. In October 2018 the Swedish National Courts Administration moved in, which includes Nacka District Court, the Rent and Tenancy Tribunal and the Land and ­Environmental Court. More tenants have been moving in and this will continue in the spring of 2019. CONFIRMED PROJECTS, NEW BUILDS AND EXTENSIONS Planning Construction Completion 2019 2020 2021 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Sickla 1898, Curanten Sickla Tapetfabriken Nobelgaraget 46 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR AREAS – STOCKHOLM SICKLA | FORMALINFABRIKEN When the underground opens in 2026, Sickla will become a Formalinfabriken is an old industrial building in Nobelberget hub for public transport with the underground, cross-town light that used to be a laboratory and offices. The building comprises rail link, Saltsjöbanan and buses to Slussen and towards Nacka approximately 2,000 m2 across four levels. From its acquisition and Värmdö. until today Atrium Ljungberg has been working on creating a cultural hub in Nobelberget. Culture will play an important role RESIDENTIAL UNITS CONTRIBUTE TO URBAN LIFE in the future of Nobelberget and Formalinfabriken will house The detailed development plan for 500 residential units in parts of this, supplemented with offices, a cafe and a restaurant. ­Nobelberget became legally binding in May 2018 and the first A community centre for the residential units is also being phase of 68 tenant-owned dwellings started to be sold in planned in Formalinfabriken as a location for dinners, meetings ­September 2018. An attractive and dense urban environment and corporate events. Construction started in the fourth quarter will be created with residential units, restaurants, a pre-school of 2018 with occupancy planned for the summer of 2019. and offices. ­Internal demolition work is now complete and the installation Detailed development plans are underway for residential work is underway. units in both Kyrkviken and on the street Gillevägen in Sickla. Kyrkviken is in the eastern part of Sickla right next to the waterPOTENTIAL PROJECTS front, public transport and the wide range of stores, restaurants SICKLA GALLERIA EXPANDING and services at the shopping district. We are planning to create In Sickla Galleria we are planning an extension of approximately 700 attractive residential units here, and add services in a pleasant 3,000 m2 GFA for retail and two floors for a parking garage with neighbourhood setting. We have plans to build 60 new tenant-­ approximately 220 parking spaces. There is a complete detailed owned dwellings on Gillevägen, a few hundred metres from the development plan for the expansion. shopping district in Sickla. SICKLA STATION EXPANSION PLANS FOR THE SVINDERSVIKS SCHOOL At Sickla Station we are planning a new building in parallel with Growth in Nacka Municipality is high, increasing the need for the future underground station in Sickla. We have a development social services. An expansion is being planned for the Svindersright here for approximately 7,500 m2 GFA for offices, retail and viks primary school in Sickla, which is currently for pupils from service. A parallel architectural assignment has been carried out pre-school class to Grade 9. We have the opportunity to reconwith Nacka Municipality. The proposal from Kanozi Arkitekter struct and extend the school from its current 3,000 m2 GFA to was selected for a 23-storey building of approximately 21,000 approximately 9,000 m2 GFA. The detailed development plan m2 GFA for offices, the underground station and a hotel. process is under way. Sickla Front forms the entrance to Sickla and links the city district with Hammarby Sjöstad. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 47 OUR AREAS – STOCKHOLM FARSTA | % of total rental value: 12 % Letting area, offices, m2: 31,000 73 Rental value, offices, SEK m: 70 Letting area, retail, m2: 52,000 Rental value, retail, SEK m: 206 No. of stores, restaurants, services: 157 Store sales, SEK billion: 2.4 No. of visitors per year: 17 million FARSTA SERVING THE PEOPLE IN THE SOUTH OF STOCKHOLM FOR ALMOST 60 YEARS Farsta Centrum has been part of the everyday life of people living POTENTIAL PROJECTS in Farsta for nearly 60 years. From when the doors opened in We already have an approved detailed development plan for an 1960 it was a place for work, residential units and a shopping additional 5,000 m2 of retail. square where people used to meet to spend time together and do A project started in 2013 to investigate whether Farsta could business. The centre is now an attractive regional retail hub with be developed into a complete, modern and walkable district. As more than 17 million visitors every year and with 150 stores, well as the residential units, there are plans focusing on additional ­restaurants and services. Farsta Centrum is also one of the biggest retail, activities and public functions that a rapidly increasing centres of a city district in Stockholm, with a total of 2,500 office population requires, for example, pre-schools, a school, parks workplaces, including for Farsta City District Committee, Jobb­ and green structures. torget and the Social and Elderly Care Administration. The characteristic facades from the 1960s have been well-­ preserved and have even been moved indoors, where we are ­rebuilding and renovating them. ONE OF STOCKHOLM'S FOCAL POINTS Farsta is one of the first ABC communities, a place where work, residential units and centres were all collected in one place. There are now major plans to develop Farsta into one complete, modern and walkable city district. Farsta Centrum is one of the most visited retail hubs in Stockholm with a well-developed infrastructure and approximately 2,500 office workplaces. The ambition that we and the City of Stockholm have is to develop Farsta Centrum into an attractive core in the future walkable city of Farsta. 48 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR AREAS – STOCKHOLM HAGASTADEN | % of total rental value: 7 % Letting area, offices, m2: 46,000 Rental value, offices, SEK m: 158 New Karolinska HAGASTADEN ONE OF THE WORLD’S LEADING LIFE SCIENCE CLUSTERS The urban development project that is underway in Hagastaden CONFIRMED PROJECTS is one of the largest ever undertaken in Stockholm. By 2025, a LIFE CITY – THE HEART AND THE BRAINS IN HAGASTADEN new city district will have arisen that links Stockholm with Solna Atrium Ljungberg has a land allocation with a development right and creates one of the world’s leading life science clusters. The of 32,000 m2 GFA in one of the most visible locations in Sweden, area will have 50,000 workplaces, and business, research and with some of the most important players in life science as neigh­entrepreneurship will combine with residential units, meeting bours: the New Karolinska Solna University Hospital (NKS), places, restaurants and services. Norra Stationsgatan will become KTH Royal Institute of Technology and Stockholm University. a hub in this new city district where Stockholm meets Solna. Here, in the heart of the emerging life science cluster, we are Until 2020 ten property owners, developers and the City of creating Life City, a new centre for development and services Stockholm will develop new and existing districts, focusing on linked to healthcare and research. The property will have a total food experiences, vibrant shopping streets and a quality offering letting area of approximately 27,000 m2. The entry level will be a of services. dynamic meeting place with joint functions, as well as co-working Hagastaden already has good accessibility and this will be spaces and offices higher up in the building. In 2018 an agree­further enhanced when a new underground station comes to this ment was signed with Academic Work, which will rent 17,000 city district. The underground is being extended with a new line m2 of offices when they merge large parts of their operations. (Yellow Line) from Odenplan to Arenastaden. Three new staThe building is expected to be ready for occupancy in 2021. tions will be created along this link, connecting Vasastaden with Solna: Hagastaden, Hagalund and Arenastaden. It is scheduled POTENTIAL PROJECTS to open in 2024. NEW LAND ALLOCATION IN A UNIQUE AND PROMINENT DISTRICT ONE OF THE LARGEST PROPERTY OWNERS IN HAGASTADEN In June 2018 Atrium Ljungberg won the land allocation competiAtrium Ljungberg has been in Hagastaden for nearly 25 years tion in Östra Hagastaden from the City of Stockholm and and is one of the largest property owners in the area. Here we own Stockholm County Council. The competition was for a unique and manage more than 60,000 m2 of characteristic industrial and very prominent district in the area that will become the properties, such as the former Apotekarnes Mineralvattenfabrik, city’s northern gateway. The ambition is to develop unique office Glashuset and PV-palatset. All of the properties have been environments on site with public activities on the ground floors. ­converted and extended to accommodate modern offices, which The land allocation was for the Solna Haga 3:6 properties and part preserve the industrial character and provide efficient spaces. of Solna Haga 4:17; as well as a development right of approxiBy managing existing properties, new projects and land mately 16,000-20,000 m2 GFA of offices. Construction of the new ­allocations, we have a great opportunity to be involved with district is expected to start in 2022 and be completed in 2024. ­developing Hagastaden into a dynamic and attractive area with Atrium Ljungberg already has a land allocation of almost an evident metropolitan character and one of the world’s leading 1,000 m2 on Norra Stationsgatan. life science clusters. CONFIRMED PROJECTS, NEW BUILDS AND EXTENSIONS Planning Construction Completion 2019 2020 2021 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Life City ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 49 OUR AREAS – STOCKHOLM KISTA | % of total rental value: 10 % Letting area, offices, m2: 68,000 Rental value, offices, SEK m: 142 E18 KISTA CLUSTER FOR WORLD-LEADING TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT Kista Science City is the largest ICT (Information and FLEXIBLE PREMISES IN KISTA FRONT AND KISTA+ ­Communication Technology) cluster in Europe and the third Kista Front is an office property measuring 60,000 m2 that has largest in the world. efficient spaces and good conference and meeting options. There are also several restaurants and good services close by. Kista AN ATTRACTIVE URBAN ENVIRONMENT Front is also excellently positioned along the E18 for signs due We are playing an active role in the work to make Kista an even to the 70,000 cars that pass by every day. more attractive urban environment with a mix of workplaces, The Kista+ property was acquired in 2016 and is a modern, residential units, services and education, along with the City of newly renovated and environmentally-certified office building Stockholm and other property owners in the area. The plans for within walking distance of Kista underground station. IBM is new residential units, streets, walkways and bike paths, a square, a major tenant in Kista+. meeting places and a retail area will help Kista become an even more dynamic and vibrant place for people to work and live in. NOD – CONTRIBUTION TO THE SCIENCE CITY Kista already enjoys a strong position because of its ­extensive The Nod district is a meeting place for ICT, innovation, learning business community and its attractive geographic ­location close and creativity. Here we have created natural places for meetings to Stockholm city centre, Arlanda and Uppsala, but the plans and flexible office solutions where people and companies with to extend the cross-town light rail link will further enhance its different competences can meet and develop together. position. Companies like Fujitsu Sverige, SenseGraphics, Esri Sverige Kista is one of Atrium Ljungberg’s oldest subsidiary markets. and Cornerstone come together in Nod in the same buildings as We built a garden city here – Ärvinge – back in the early 1990s. KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm University and This is an area where residential units mix with major international the Stockholm Science & Innovation School. companies, with innovative challengers and the next generation’s ICT companies in a peaceful and pleasant environment. Nod is a meeting place for ICT, innovation, learning and creativity. This is where major international companies, small start-ups and students from Stockholm University and the ­Stockholm Science & Innovation School meet. 50 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR AREAS – STOCKHOLM SÖDERMALM | % of total rental value: 10 % Letting area, offices, m2: 63,000 Rental value, offices, SEK m: 212 SÖDERMALM CITY DISTRICT WITH HEART AND SOUL The old labour district of Södermalm has now been modernised, ­ evelops. The ambition is for Mälarterrassen to become a meeting d but the essential heart and soul remain in the culture at Söder. place with restaurants, cafes and cultural activities for Stockholm’s The city district is a popular place to live, but also attractive for inhabitants and visitors. Construction is expected to start in offices, especially for creative enterprises and the public sector. 2022 and it will be opened by 2025. Stockholm’s major reconstruction project, Nya Slussen, is in full swing and will continue to affect the area until 2025. Slussen LAND ALLOCATIONS ALONG STADSGÅRDSKAJEN will be an attractive meeting place with new squares, quays and We have a land allocation for a development right on the street the first park in the area. Transport options, pedestrians and Stadsgårdsleden in front of Glashuset. The development right is ­cyclists will obtain more space, at the same time as the area for road for approximately 18,000 m2 GFA for offices, retail and service. traffic will be reduced and adjusted in order to accommodate When we acquired Katarinahuset, we also acquired a develop­ current traffic flows. ment right in front of the building of approximately 7,500 m2 GFA for offices, retail and services. If an agreement on acquisition STRENGTHENED POSITION THROUGH NEW ACQUISITIONS and development is concluded, construction can ­begin during Our properties are in the best locations in Södermalm. In Slussen the latter phases of Slussen’s transformation ­process, which is we own Glashuset, one of Stockholm’s best-known buildings, and currently expected to be 2025 at the earliest. Sjömansinstitutet. In October 2018 we acquired Tranbodarne 11, ­­ also called Katarinahuset, by Glashuset. The property, ­measuring 22,000 m2 letting area, will be refurbished and ­modernised. ­Attractive and modern office space with public-access ground floors are being planned. In conjunction with the refurbishment, we are also looking into the possibility of developing a link to the future retail hub and public transport hub at Slussen. In 2018 rental agreements were signed with the co-working company Convendum for more than 5,100 m2 and with SEB for more than 800 m2 in Glashuset. SÖDERHALLARNA UNDERGOING A TRANSFORMATION We own Söderhallarna at Medborgarplatsen. We aim to make this into an obvious meeting place for food, culture and creativity at Södermalm. We are working on a new detailed ­development plan to enable us to open up the façade towards the square to help generate more life and safe environments around ­Medborgarplatsen. A long-term partnership was started with Sweden Foodtech in the spring of 2018, a company that has also moved into ­Söderhallarna. Sweden Foodtech will be an important partner in developing several of our sites that have a high number of food-­ related companies, including Söderhallarna, Mälarterrassen and Slakthusområdet. POTENTIAL PROJECTS Our ambition for Söderhallarna is to open it up to MÄLARTERRASSEN ­Medborgarplatsen and to create an exciting meeting place with the food market as the main driving force. In In June 2018 a land allocation agreement was signed with the October 2018 the famous chef and baker Sébastien City of Stockholm for 6,000 m2 GFA. Mälarterrassen is being ­Boudet opened his artisanal bakery ‘Sébastien på Söder’. built by Södermalmstorg and the quay heading down towards Gamla Stan and will be a central location when Nya Slussen ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 51 OUR AREAS – STOCKHOLM LILJEHOLMEN | % of total rental value: 4 % Letting area, offices, m2: 36,000 sgata n Horn Rental value, offices, SEK m: 92 LILJEHOLMEN AN EXTENSION OF SÖDERMALM Since the beginning of the 2000s Liljeholmen has undergone a PROPERTY WITH STRONG BRANDS major transformation to become a mixed city district. It is now Atrium Ljungberg owns a large office property with three an important hub for public transport in Stockholm. Its good ­buildings, totalling approximately 40,000 m2 letting area. The location will be further enhanced when an underground line is Stora Katrineberg property is by Liljeholmshamnen close to the built between Älvsjö and Fridhemsplan via Liljeholmen. In the Liljeholmstorget shopping centre, the underground and Marie­ future this district will become a clear part of the inner city and vik’s office area. At the end of 2018 H&M moved into approxiwill be linked with Södermalm through buildings along the mately 7,000 m2 of office space in one of the buildings. The street Södertäljevägen. There are plans to make this into a major premises that are used for the company’s global support funccity street. tions have been fully adapted to the activity-based concept at the The comprehensive plan for the City of Stockholm states that company. Other tenants include Bankgirot and Boulebar. the city wants to use the good opportunities in Liljeholmen to There is also an unexpected cultural treasure in the heart of create more workplaces in Söderort. We want to play an active this urban environment. A genuine 1770 house, which was role in the development of this area. Lövholmen is right next to ­originally a summer house where King Karl XIV Johan used this area and will undergo major changes in the years to come. to pass by to rejuvenate on trips southwards. The building is When Cementa’s factory complex moves, there will be an oppor­currently being used by an accounting firm. tunity to develop this into a city district with more than 2,000 residential units, a school and pre-schools, parks and offices. The City of Stockholm’s vision is to allow the inner city to grow further south and to link Liljeholmen with Södermalm. We want to be involved in developing this area with attractive office workplaces and service. 52 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR AREAS – STOCKHOLM SUNDBYBERG | % of total rental value: 3 % Letting area, offices, m2: 26,000 Rental value, offices, SEK m: 59 Solvalla SUNDBYBERG ONE OF THE FASTEST GROWING MUNICIPALITIES IN STOCKHOLM Sundbyberg is in north-west Stockholm close to flights, major to rise to 77,000 and we think that Solna/Sundbyberg is an roads and good public transport with buses, the cross-town light ­interesting market for us to develop. rail link, the underground and commuter trains. Sundbyberg is also one of the municipalities that is growing the fastest in the CHOCOLATE FACTORY THAT WAS TRANSFORMED INTO A whole of Stockholm County. MODERN OFFICE In March 2018 the Municipal Executive Board approved the In the central parts of Sundbyberg we own Chokladfabriken (the planning programme for Sundbyberg’s new city core. This has been Chocolate Factory); a modern and flexible office property that made possible as the train tracks that divided central Sundbyberg has preserved its industrial character. Marabou’s chocolate factory into two parts are being moved into tunnels. The new city core will was here from the start, with roots dating back to the early 1900s be a vibrant, safe and connected environment with residential in this building. In the 1990s the property was transformed into units, offices and parks, and will also become an effective hub for offices, while preserving the historic heritage. public transport as a new commuter train station is being built. Chokladfabriken currently consists of a main building, an The tunnel will start to be built in 2020 at the earliest. ­extension and a garage. The old industrial heritage has been ­Construction is expected to take eight years and the new city ­preserved, with generous windows and high ceilings, with a lot core will be built when the Sundbyberg tunnel is complete. of light and space. Approximately 50,000 inhabitants currently live in the city of Sundbyberg. By 2030 the number of inhabitants is expected In the centre of Sundbyberg we own Chokladfabriken (the Chocolate Factory); a modern office property that has ­preserved its industrial ­character. The building used to be home to Marabou’s chocolate factory. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 53 OUR AREAS – STOCKHOLM BARKARBY | Construction start: March 2019 IKEA Moving in: Summer 2021 Project area, phase 1: 24,400 m2 E18 BARKARBY REGIONAL HUB FOR RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND HIGHER EDUCATION Barkarby is the largest expansion area in the Stockholm region. Bas Barkarby, a multi-functional district in the heart of the In the next 15 years a brand new city district, Barkarbystaden, growing Barkarbystaden. Bas Barkarby will promote learning will emerge with almost 20,000 residential units, workplaces, ­focused on science and technology as well as culture, sports and schools, healthcare, retail, culture, restaurants and services. business. This will be a place where individuals – both students The development of Barkarbystaden offers a unique opportuand business people – study, work, meet and develop together. nity for businesses, society, universities and higher education Järfälla Municipality will lease almost 11,000 m2 of the first ­institutions to work together on innovation, and the practical phase for upper secondary education, a multi-purpose hall, a application of new technology and new solutions within areas ­library and other cultural activities. The leases are conditional on such as communications. Järfälla Municipality’s vision is for the the land transfer agreement being concluded. In 2016 a letter of area to become a regional hub for research, development and intent was signed with E.ON to establish a new Stockholm higher education. ­office in Bas Barkarby. Working with E.ON we will make Barkarbystaden is being developed for low energy consumpBas Barkarby into an environmental and socially sustainable tion and the conditions are right for sustainable development. workplace. The ambition is for this city district to become western StockBas Barkarby will be built in two phases. The detailed developholm’s new hub in a few years’ time for underground trains, ment plan that covers the first of these two phases became legally long-distance trains and commuter trains. binding in January 2018, and a decision on environmental ­permits was received at the end of December 2018 from the CONFIRMED PROJECTS Land and Environmental Court. Construction of the first phase MULTI-FUNCTIONAL DISTRICT of 24,400 m2 is expected to start by March 2019 at the earliest, In Barkarby we have a land allocation with the option of acquiring with occupancy in the summer of 2021. land with a development right of approximately 50,000 m2 GFA. Together with Järfälla Municipality, we want to create CONFIRMED PROJECTS, NEW BUILDS AND EXTENSIONS Planning Construction Completion 2019 2020 2021 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Bas Barkarby, phase 1 We will work with Järfälla ­Municipality to create Bas Barkarby, a multi-functional area in the heart of the growing Barkarbystaden. 54 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR AREAS UPPSALA Uppsala is Sweden’s fourth largest city and one of the fastest growing municipalities in the country. The population is increasing by approximately 3,000 people per year and Uppsala has a market growth of 15 per cent. Investments worth billions of Swedish krona in public buildings, infrastructure and residential units show just how attractive this city is. Rental value, SEK m GRÄNBYSTADEN 285 UPPSALA CITY 53 Total letting area, ’000 m² GRÄNBYSTADEN 93 UPPSALA CITY 17 Types of premises in Uppsala, rental value Culture/education 1 %, SEK 2 m Other 1 %, SEK 3 m Health/care 3 %, SEK 9 m Retail 77 %, SEK 259 m Offices 4 %, SEK 15 m Residentials 5 %, SEK 16 m Restaurant 10 %, 35 m In Gränbystaden we are continuing to deGränbystaden velop Uppsala’s second city centre, with a mix of retail, offices and residential units, as well as services and cultural activities. In addition to the rental apartments that are currently occupied and under construction, we are planning for an ­additional 250 residential units in the area. We also have a land allocation ­beside the Gränbystaden Galleria with OUR AREAS a potential 50,000 m2 GFA for the development of several office workplaces, retail and services. Gränbystaden Uppsala is one of Atrium Ljungberg’s most City important markets and accounts for 11 per Uppsala city centre cent of the company’s contracted annual rent. Here we are focusing on operations in Gränbystaden and the city centre. We are part of the development of Uppsala’s city core where we are adding, for example, more than 4,000 m2 of new, attractive offices in Forumkvarteret. The ambition is for ­Forumkvarteret to become an urban city centre district with a strong offering of ­retail, restaurants and cafes, combined with residential units and office environments. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 55 OUR AREAS – UPPSALA GRÄNBYSTADEN| % of total rental value: 11 % Letting area, offices, m2: 1,000 Rental value, offices, SEK m: 2 Letting area, retail, m2: 79,000 E4 Rental value, retail, SEK m: 257 No. of stores, restaurants, services: 161 Store sales, SEK billion: 2.7 No. of visitors per year: 11 million GRÄNBYSTADEN UPPSALA’S SECOND CITY CENTRE IS EMERGING Uppsala has been a cultural and commercial centre for many opportunities, but also developing offices, workplaces, residential hundreds of years, but a new Uppsala is now being created. properties, culture and exciting meetings. The city population is growing by nine per cent per year and in 2050 Uppsala is expected to have 340,000 inhabitants. Atrium CONFIRMED PROJECTS Ljungberg wants to be involved in this development. We are continuing to create urban qualities and develop GränbyGränbystaden is our largest development area and one of the staden. Several new builds and extensions will be constructed at most expansive parts of Uppsala, which looks likely to be fully both the area’s northern part and by Gränbystaden Galleria over integrated into the city centre within a few years. Several projects the next few years. are ongoing and being planned by different players, primarily the development of housing, but also sports facilities and a public EXTENSION OF THE SHOPPING CENTRE transport hub. In Gränbystaden Galleria a reconstruction and extension project Our vision is to create Uppsala’s second city centre, a vibrant was completed, which comprises approximately 11,800 m2 city district that complements Uppsala city. This is why our ­letting area for retail, restaurants, culture and entertainment. work in Gränbystaden is not only about retail and commercial On 22 November, 17 new stores and restaurants were opened, We are continuing to develop Gränbystaden and create urban qualities with, for example, residential units, office workplaces, restaurants and experiences. The three buildings by Gränbystaden Galleria house a total of 200 rental apartments, offices and commercial properties and will be fully completed in the spring of 2019. 56 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | OUR AREAS – UPPSALA GRÄNBYSTADEN along with Nordisk Film, a cinema with five screens, and an in 2019 with additional offices, commercial premises and O’Leary’s restaurant with a bowling hall and a new concept for ­apartments. children. UNDERGROUND PARKING BIG-BOX HUB ALMOST COMPLETE A garage was completed with 280 parking spaces and opened in Another building was built and opened at the big-box hub in November 2018. It is under the residential buildings next to northern Gränbystaden, which is almost complete. Jula, Jysk and Gränbystaden Galleria. Rusta moved into this new building during the autumn of 2018 and DollarStore at the beginning of 2019. When it is completed, POTENTIAL PROJECTS northern Gränbystaden will comprise a total of 45,000 m2 GFA. RESIDENTIAL UNITS, RETAIL AND CULTURE In addition to the rental apartments, we are planning approxiRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OCCUPIED mately 250 more residential properties in the area. Construction Gränby Entré building 2 was completed by Gränbystaden Galleria. of the first phase is expected to take place in 2019, with occuThis is a residential building with a total of ­approximately pancy during 2020. 60 rental apartments, as well as offices and ­commercial premises In Northern Gränbystaden, there are opportunities to develop on the ground floors. New office tenants include Rikshem, approximately 5,000 m2 GFA more for retail. The development which moved its entire Uppsala office to ­Gränbystaden. The is gradually progressing in line with the letting work. apartments were mediated through a local housing authority and In addition, work on the detailed development plan has started were occupied at the end of 2018. ­Building 3 will be completed in the area just north of the shopping centre, which will enable the development of an additional 10,000 m2 GFA for retail and offices, 25,000 m2 GFA for residential units, and 30,000 m2 GFA for parking. The floor plans of the apartments in Gränbystaden have At the beginning of 2017 we received a land allocation with been carefully thought out and modern materials have a development right of approximately 50,000 m2 GFA just south been used. All of them have a balcony and all three of Gränbystaden Galleria. Acquiring the land gives us the opporbuildings have elevated inner courtyards with common outdoor areas. tunity to continue intensely to develop Gränbystaden towards our vision of creating Uppsala’s second city centre. CONFIRMED PROJECTS, NEW BUILDS AND EXTENSIONS Planning Construction Completion 2019 2020 2021 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Gränby Entré building 3 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 57 ABOUT GRÄNBYSTADEN THEME: IT’S THE PEOPLE WHO MAKE THE CITY “EVERYTHING IS RIGHT ON THE DOORSTEP HERE” Leaving everything behind to move 400 kilometers may seem strange for many people. But this is not something that scared 73-year-old Marita when she moved from her home town of Falköping to Gränbystaden in Uppsala. It is a decision that she definitely does not regret. In October 2017 Atrium Ljungberg’s first residential building “I really enjoy it here!” I take the lift down and everything is was completed in Gränbystaden with more than 60 rental aparton the doorstep. All of the shops in the shopping centre, the ments. Marita Svensson was one of the first to move in; into a dentist and health centre; and I often go for walks in Gränbytwo-room apartment measuring 55 m2. Marita has two sons and parken and pass by the 4H Farm. It’s so peaceful and quiet, even five grandchildren living in Uppsala and decided to move closer though there is building work in the area,” says Marita. to the family. The removal van first went from a house in It is not surprising that there is building work in Gränbystaden. Falköping to an apartment in Sigtuna to make it easier for her to Since Marita moved in, two more residential buildings have been find a permanent home. Marita joined Uppsala Bostadsförmed­ completed. In the autumn the south extension of Gränbystaden ling’s housing queue and it was not long before she was offered Galleria was completed, which contains 20 stores and restaurants, an apartment in Gränbystaden and she accepted straight away. as well as Nordisk Film’s first Swedish cinema with Sweden’s first 58 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ABOUT GRÄNBYSTADEN ABOUT GRÄNBYSTADEN In November the southern extension of Gränbystaden Galleria centre opened, which is home to a cinema, several restaurants and stores. In the summer, Sara-Stina’s square will be completed, located between the shopping centre and the residential buildings. 4DX theatre. The 4DX concept is an innovative technology that Dental, which is in the neighbouring building. The residential allows the visitor to experience the action in a film using 19 difbuildings have a total of more than 200 fully let apartments, but ferent effects, from rain, snow and fog in the theatre, to moveable also 4,500 m2 of office space, a restaurant, a cafe, services and chairs that shake and swing with every turn during an exciting stores. car chase. Although Marita has not been to the cinema yet, she The development of Gränbystaden will continue for many has been to O’Learys, which has recently opened. “We went years. Atrium Ljungberg’s vision for the whole of Gränbystaden there to have something to eat and went bowling. They were so is to create a new, attractive and exciting city district in Uppsala. friendly. There is so much for the family, it felt almost like a play This is why Gränbystaden is not only about retail and commercial centre. It was packed when we were there.” opportunities, but also residential properties, workplaces, culture When the extension of the shopping centre was completed, and an exciting place for meetings. Although the dust is starting to the new bus hub opened in Gränbystaden, a central hub with settle around Maria’s building, there is still one more thing left. both local and regional transport. These buses allow Marita to “Now I’m looking forward to seeing what Sara-Stina’s square get to central Uppsala quickly and easily, and to see her sons and will be like. This will be a real boost for the area and I’ll hopefully grandchildren. get a wonderful view from my balcony in the summer,” “It’s wonderful. I just walk straight through the shopping ­concludes Marita. centre and I can then go wherever I want.” One of her sons, Carl-David, is actually within walking ­distance. This is because he runs a dental practice called Nordic ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 59 | OUR AREAS – UPPSALA UPPSALA CITY CENTRE % of total rental value: 2 % Letting area, offices, m2: 5,000 Rental value, offices, SEK m: 13 Letting area, retail, m2: 8,000 Cathedral Rental value, retail, SEK m: 37 No. of stores, restaurants, services: 32 Store sales, SEK billion: 200 No. of visitors per year: 2.5 million UPPSALA CITY AN URBAN INNER CITY DISTRICT IN THE HEART OF THE CITY In Uppsala city centre, we own, manage and develop one of the chain Egon. Knightec was one of the companies that has moved city’s best known places; Forumgallerian. The site comprises an into the offices. In 2019 Tengbom Arkitekter and Academic entire district that contains retail, offices and residential units. Work will also move in. In terms of retail, work focused mainly on improving and reconstructing the shopping centre section, CONFIRMED PROJECTS making space available and creating a clear internal concourse. FORUMGALLERIAN BECOMES FORUMKVARTERET As part of this transformation, Forumgallerian (Forum shopSince 2015 work has been underway to transform Forumgallerian ping centre) is also changing its name to Forumkvarteret (Forum into an urban inner city district with a wide range of retail district) to better reflect what is at the site. The retail sections stores, restaurants and cafes, combined with attractive office will open in the spring of 2019. ­environments and residential units. In 2018 several new stores and restaurants opened, including the Norwegian restaurant In Forumkvarteret we are ­creating an urban inner city district that will be vibrant 24 hours a day. We will ­enhance the area with new stores, cafes and restaurants combined with attractive ­residential properties and office environments. 60 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR AREAS MALMÖ With its strategic location in the Öresund region, Malmö is a strong growth area. The region is one of the largest labour markets in the Nordic region with almost 4 million inhabitants. At Atrium Ljungberg we believe strongly in Malmö and we want to continue to grow here. Rental value, SEK m MOBILIA 208 MÖLLEVÅNGEN 39 Total letting area, ’000 m² MOBILIA 119 MÖLLEVÅNGEN 25 Types of premises in Malmö, rental value Health/care 4 %, SEK 10 m Other 5 %, SEK 12 m Restaurant 5 %, SEK 12 m Retail 64 %, SEK 159 m Culture/education 5 %, SEK 12 m Offices 8 %, SEK 19 m Residentials 9 %, SEK 23 m Mobilia is a historic site that is firmly ­anchored in Malmö. At the start of the 20th century, Manufakturaktiebolaget had its textile factory here. At the end of the 1960s textile production stopped at the site and Mobilia was converted into the retail site that is so loved by people today. We have owned Mobilia for more than 20 years. Over the years we have developed Mobilia from a shopping centre to a vibrant city district OUR AREAS with retail, residential units, culture and Mobilia services. In 2020 Torghuset will be completed, which will have not only more ­residential units, but also a new, modern cinema, and Funnys Äventyr – a new ­cultural centre for children. Funnys ­Äventyr is one of the biggest cultural Malmö City ­investments for children in Sweden ­measuring 3,000 m2. It focuses on playing, reading and learning. As well as our long-term urban development project in Mobilia, we have also been Möllevången Mobilia playing an active role in the development of Möllevången in the city centre. Möllevången used to be a factory area and is now one of central Malmö’s most exciting and cultural meeting places where many companies in the creative industries have decided to move. Atrium Ljungberg owns two properties, Dimman 11 and Malmen 12. The tenants at our Dimman property include Academedia and the gaming giant Massive Entertainment. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 61 OUR AREAS – MALMÖ MOBILIA | % of total rental value: 8 % PildammsLetting area, offices, m2: 2,000 park Rental value, offices, SEK m: 4 Letting area, retail, m2: 53,000 Rental value, retail, SEK m: 170 No. of stores: 110 Store sales, SEK billion: 1.8 No. of visitors per year: 14 million MOBILIA IN MALMÖ SINCE 1899 Mobilia is in Malmö’s southern city centre district, only two Mobilia, including everything from charging stations for electric kilometres from Malmö city centre. The area is surrounded by cars and bee hives on the roof to recycling textiles through close the city’s three most important cross-town routes: Trelleborgs­ collaboration with Malmö Stadsmission. In the coming years vägen, Ystadsvägen and Stadiongatan. Its proximity to Malmö Mobilia will take 100 steps to achieve the position as Malmö’s city centre also enables a large number of people to get there by greenest retail district. bus, bicycle or on foot. As the city centre is growing, the urban environment in and CONFIRMED PROJECTS around Mobilia is continuing to develop and densify, becoming A DESTINATION FOR THE ENTIRE REGION a natural part of it. In addition to Atrium Ljungberg’s own We are continuing to develop Mobilia into a place where people ­development of Mobilia, the city is planning new residential want to be, which is alive 24 hours a day. In the heart of the ­areas around the area. The research park Medeon is right next to ­district, a new construction and extension project called Torg­ Mobilia, with 40 players within life science. Medeon is a possible huset is underway, measuring approximately 13,500 m2 letting development area with a lot of potential. The same area is also area. Here we are creating additional areas for retail, residential home to Skåne University Hospital, Lund University and units, restaurants and cultural activities. This new building is the Malmö University. final piece of the puzzle on the site to transform the square in this district into the attractive and vibrant meeting place that we FROM SHOPPING CENTRE TO CITY DISTRICT have been working towards. Mobilia has a unique industrial history and we recognised the In Torghuset we are establishing two major cultural investpotential of this old textile factory at an early stage. Mobilia has ments in our work to make Mobilia a destination for the entire been on a real journey in recent years. We have transformed a region. One is an ultra-modern cinema with five screens. The traditional shopping centre into a vibrant city district that not cinema is planned to open in the spring of 2020. The other is only has stores, cafes and restaurants, but also services, office Funnys Äventyr, a unique cultural centre measuring 3,000 m2 premises and 270 rental apartments. The central square with that focuses on playing, reading and learning. Funnys Äventyr is pavement cafes, and paths for pedestrians and bicycles, acts as one of the biggest cultural investments for children in Sweden. a central meeting place and links the various parts of the area The person behind this initiative is Staffan Götestam, a play­together. wright and director, and one of the founders of Junibacken in The industrial heritage from the old textile factory has been Stockholm. In the spring of 2018 Malmö City Council decided preserved during the transformation. We have highlighted the to support the project with a grant of SEK 12 million. The aim buildings’ unique character, and combined it with modern archiis to open Funnys Äventyr in the spring of 2020. tecture and sustainable materials. This is where old meets new, giving Mobilia a clear soul and a complete character of its own. A wide range of sustainability measures are being carried out at CONFIRMED PROJECTS, NEW BUILDS AND EXTENSIONS Planning Construction Completion 2019 2020 2021 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Mobilia Torghuset 62 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | OUR AREAS – MALMÖ MALMÖ CITY/MÖLLEVÅNGEN % of total rental value: 2 % Letting area, offices, m2: 9,000 Rental value, offices, SEK m: 16 Pildammspark MALMÖ CITY/MÖLLEVÅNGEN DYNAMIC HUB IN THE CENTRE OF MALMÖ Möllevången is a city district in Malmö around Möllevångs­ Malmen 12 is a small office and healthcare property that is torget and Folkets Park, a former factory area where several old located in close proximity to Dimman 11. The largest tenants buildings have been preserved. Over the last decade the area has are the City of Malmö and Region Skåne. undergone a major transformation and “Möllan” is now a Our long-term strategy is to grow in Malmö City and we see ­dynamic meeting place, known for its many bars, exciting stores future potential in Möllevången. We want to continue to be and its lively markets. There is a broad mix in the people, enter­involved in the development of this exciting area. prise, food and culture here. WANTING TO GROW IN MALMÖ CITY In Möllevången we own the office properties Dimman 11 and Malmen 12. Dimman 11 contains cultural and educational ­activities as well as offices, where the City of Malmö is a major tenant, housing Malmö’s city archives, a restaurant and a cinema. In June 2018 we signed an agreement with the world-leading games developer Massive Entertainment to let 1,600 m2. We can see the future potential of Möllevången in Malmö and we want to play an active role in the long-term development of the site. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 63 OUR AREAS – GOTHENBURG GOTHENBURG Although Gothenburg is an old city, it is a relatively new city for Atrium Ljungberg. Following several acquisitions in Lindholmen, we are now part of the extensive urban development work. The aim is to link the city together by creating new, sustainable urban environments where people can easily get across the river. % of total rental value: 6 % Letting area, offices, m2: 68,000 Rental value, offices, SEK m: 157 LINDHOLMEN FROM A SHIPBUILDING AREA TO A KNOWLEDGE-INTENSIVE INDUSTRY Lindholmen is Gothenburg’s most expansive city district and the people to work and live here, and for the area to become a development area comprises central Gothenburg on both sides ­vibrant and buzzing city district, even after office hours. of the river Göta älv. Lindholmen used to be a shipbuilding area and has now become an attractive city district for office establishFULLY LET ments that attract both Swedish and international development-­ Atrium Ljungberg owns three properties in Lindholmen with a intensive technology companies, many with links to the auto­ total of 82,000 m2 letting area. The properties have modern and motive industry. The area is also an international knowledge flexible premises with details from the shipbuilding era, which cluster with many researchers and students associated with breathes soul and history into the site. Our tenants operate ­Lindholmen Science Park and Chalmers. ­primarily in the fields of technology and energy and the properLindholmen is currently being transformed into a vibrant ties are currently fully let. and attractive city centre. The Vision Älvstaden project aims to link the two sides of the city by creating new, sustainable urban AMBITION TO CONTINUE TO GROW environments and meeting places, where pedestrians, cyclists and With a portfolio of around 82,000 m2 letting area, we are now a motorists can easily cross the river from the city centre. Work is major player in Lindholmen. Our local involvement allows us to underway to build additional residential units, offices, services continue collaborating with the city and other businesses to and the first skyscraper in Gothenburg. Lindholmen’s operations ­generate added value for the area. We want to continue to develop currently employ almost 20,000 people. The plan is for 30,000 our properties, which includes adding operations within culture and learning. Our strength is to create dynamic full-service ­environments where people want to be and where different Types of premises in Lindholmen, rental value ­operations are side by side. And we will continue our work on sustainable urban development in Gothenburg. Since our entry Health/care 2 % onto the Gothenburg market, we have been clear with our ­ambition to continue to grow in the city, within offices, retail Offices 98 % and residential units. 64 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 TL BYGG – OUR SUBSIDIARY TL BYGG – A COLLABORATION THAT STRENGTHENS OUR BUSINESS Our close collaboration with TL Bygg broadens Atrium Ljungberg’s offering and strengthens our business. We work on projects together with a high level of efficiency and flexibility. This collaboration helps both companies develop, and generates a better product and more cost-efficient production. TL Bygg AB was formed in 1983. It has its roots in the conSAFETY AND SUSTAINABILITY PROVIDE A STABLE struction and property company that was founded by the builder FOUNDATION Tage Ljungberg in the middle of the 1940s, and which makes up The company works actively with sustainability issues, which part of our companies’ DNA. The strong values that were formed forms an integral part of its business models, customer perspecthere live on today in the culture of both TL Bygg and Atrium tives, production and employee attitudes. This work comprises Ljungberg. TL Bygg has an historic construction tradition, a the entire business, from business ethics and production to wide range of competence and strong environmental awareness. ­environmental and social responsibility, where TL Bygg has the The company’s business areas focus mostly on residential units competence required to lead the work in the construction ­process and offices in turnkey contracts and pure construction contract towards environmentally-certified buildings and properties. This assignments. Customers are primarily found in Stockholm and creates reassurance and knowledge that they will always meet our Uppsala, and the main clients are Atrium Ljungberg, other very strict requirements and expectations. ­property companies, the state and various municipalities. They are certified in accordance with the management system BF9K, which sets requirements for quality, the environment and COLLABORATION THAT STRENGTHENS OUR BUSINESS the work environment. The company is also a member of the Close collaboration between TL Bygg and Atrium Ljungberg trade and employers’ organisation, the Swedish Construction ­allows us to conduct a large number of projects with an efficient, Federation, and supports the federation’s goals and visions for controlled and flexible process. Collaboration helps both compamodern employee contracts, a sound construction industry and nies develop, and leads to a better product and more cost-efficient safe workplaces. production. TL Bygg has competence for the entire chain and can be involved right from the start of the project to find both SOCIAL COMMITMENT financially and environmentally sustainable solutions. They can For TL Bygg it is important to build for the entire city and the take on both an advisory and producing role in our projects, people in it. This is why they include social commitment in the while their extensive expertise means that no projects are imposconcept “long-term construction”. They sponsor and collaborate sible to run and implement. with organisations that work with vulnerable people in society and work actively on measures to promote employment and ­integration. One example of this is regular and successful work with Novare Potential, which aims to guide new arrivals into the Swedish labour market. Sales per assignment type Sales per client category Other 18 % Government and local authorities 8 % Offices 35 % Property companies, Residentials municipal and other – reconstruction 14 % customers 12 % Atrium Ljungberg 65 % Property companies, private 15 % Residentials – new production 33 % ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 65 TL BYGG – OUR SUBSIDIARY 593 9 Construction company Net sales, SEK m Profit, SEK m operating primarily in the Greater 2018 after net financial items 2018 Stockholm area BF9K 315 113 Certified Order book, SEK million Number of employees A management and product certification At 2018 year-end 58 administrative employees, 55 skilled system for the construction industry workers A CONSTRUCTION COMPANY FOR EVERYONE fruit with their first external new build project, with Vectura as In 2018 work started on inclusion that was firmly anchored the client. They will also continue to be allocated projects with throughout the company through conferences, workshops and regular customers, such as Stockholmia, AKIFA and Frälsnings­ presentations. This work will secure a culture of equality that armén. will then spread throughout the industry. TL Bygg imposes the same strict requirements on its partners as it does on itself with STRONG IN UNCERTAIN TIMES zero tolerance to discrimination stipulated in the agreements. This is an uncertain period in the construction industry, but They take a clear position that all people are of equal value and TL Bygg is showing positive results and is continuing to build they adopt a zero tolerance approach to discrimination and up its organisation. Historically the company has expanded and ­victimisation. reported good results during recessions, which is why they are looking to the future with confidence. In 2018 they made INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL PROJECTS changes to the organisational structure so that it could focus In 2018 65 per cent of the total sales comprised work on behalf more on e­ mployees and customers. They have set up departof Atrium Ljungberg with projects within offices and residential ments for p ­ urchasing and the after-market, and strengthened properties. The company is a general contractor for our residential their departments for HR, Quality, the Environment, Work investments in Gränbystaden in Uppsala and a turnkey contractor ­Environment (KMA), as well as sales and purchasing in order for district 1 in Nobelberget in Sickla. Work on the residential to achieve their long-term and strategic goals. buildings in Gränbystaden started at the beginning of 2016 and will conclude in the spring of 2019 when the final building will INTERNAL GROUP ASSIGNMENTS AFFECT THEIR PROFIT be ready for occupancy. TL Bygg will be the turnkey contractor A high proportion of TL Bygg’s projects is within the Group, for our projects in Nobelberget which total SEK 1.5-2.0 billion where there is no profit but payment for expenses as stipulated and will last ten years into the future. They also carry out major in agreements. Years when there is a high percentage of internal tenant adaptations at our properties, such as the work that was projects tend to have a negative effect on the company’s profit completed for H&M in Liljeholmen and Tikkurila i Hammarby as staff resources are allocated at the expense of external ones. Sjöstad in 2018. As well as the importance of project distribution, competition The company’s long-term goals include reaching SEK 1 billion for external projects in TL Bygg’s segments has toughened in in sales and having an equal balance between external and internal ­recent years. projects. This is why it has invested heavily over the past financial year, primarily in prestigious recruitments and goal-oriented FIND OUT MORE AT: WWW.TLBYGG.SE work in HR and communications/market. These investments form part of their long-term plan, but they have already borne Summary of income statements SEK m 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Net sales, external clients 207 120 121 335 307 Net sales, Group companies 386 518 314 137 113 Net sales, total 593 638 435 472 418 Operating profit/loss 8 16 4 –11 15 Net financial items 1 0 0 2 3 Profit after net financial items 9 16 4 –9 18 Number of employees 113 114 110 120 130 66 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL­ REPORTS 2018 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 67 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT OPERATIONS DIRECTORS’ REPORT The Board of Directors and the CEO of Atrium Ljungberg AB (publ.), company ID no. 556175-7047, hereby submit the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts for the 2018 financial year. The figures shown in parentheses refer to the preceding financial year. The legal annual report including the directors’ report has, with the exception of the corporate governance report, the statement of the Chairman of the Board, and the Sustainability Report, been revised and can be found on pages 68–81, 90–128, 140–145. THE OPERATIONS per cent of the distributable profit (65.1 %) f­avourable locations and less favourable Atrium Ljungberg is one of Sweden’s biggest and a dividend yield of 3.2 per cent (3.5 %). ­locations has increased. listed property companies. We develop ­attractive urban environments for offices, MARKET OFFICE MARKET retail and residential properties in strong FINANCE MARKET The Swedish population is becoming insubsidiary markets. The operations are Although the global economy remains creasingly concentrated to three large cities conducted with a view to long-term ownerstrong, the year was characterised by higher — Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. The ship. We generate growth in value by uncertainty and volatility. It looks as though share of the population of working age is ­developing and upgrading new and existing the boom reached its peak during the year also higher in the large cities than in the properties and development rights and by and growth in GDP can be expected to be rest of the country, a trend which is expected conducting active and customer-orientated lower from now on. The Swedish economy continue in the future. The large and growing property management. We lead and manage continued to show high growth, but this population generates increased demand for the entire business process with our slowed down in the second half of the year. workplaces, social services and housing, ­employees, which provides knowledge and Domestic growth was inhibited as a result and subsequently property. Driven by the understanding of the entirety and generates of the slowdown in the residential market current boom and the demographic developadded value for the customer. Our developwith fewer homes being built. As the rate of ment of Stockholm, Gothenburg and ment projects generate a long-term yield. inflation is approaching the inflation target, Malmö, the office rental market is very the Riksbank raised the repo rate to –0.25 strong in the three cities Among other FINANCIAL GOALS 2018 per cent in December. In December, the things, the vacancy rates in Stockholm and According to the 2018 financial goals, the ­National Institute of Economic Research Gothenburg have dropped to historically low operating surplus is to increase by ten per assessed growth in GDP of 2.2 per cent in levels and speculative office projects are cent a year. A total of SEK 1 billion shall be 2018, but assesses that it will fall to 1.3 per being let quickly. invested in the Group’s in-house developcent in 2019. The variable rate, 3M Stibor ment projects per annum and shall yield amounted to –0.13 per cent compared with RETAIL MARKET a return of 20 per cent for new builds and –0.46 per cent at the beginning of the year. After a cautious start of the year, sales extension projects. During 2018 the operating At the end of the year, the 10-year swap rate growth accelerated during the spring b ­ efore surplus increased by 0.1 per cent (13.0 %) amounted to 1.13 per cent compared with slowing down during the summer when recompared to the previous year. Investments 1.20 per cent at the beginning of the year. cord-breaking heat caused consumers to during the year in Atrium Ljungberg’s own select activities other than shopping. properties totalled SEK 1,758 million (SEK PROPERTY MARKET Growth was slightly more stable during the 1,593 m). The financial goals for the Group The transaction volume totalled SEK 159 autumn, and the year concluded with realso state that the equity/assets ratio shall billion during the year, which can be comcord-breaking Christmas shopping sales. be a minimum of 30 per cent and that the pared with volumes of SEK 147 billion in the This means that the retail sector grew by interest coverage ratio multiple shall be a previous year. In terms of turnover, residen2.5 per cent in rolling prices, corresponding minimum of 2.0. At the 2018 year-end, tial properties represented the largest segto SEK 19 billion. Total sales in the sector the equity/assets ratio was 45.9 per cent ment, with a turnover of approximately SEK were SEK 786 billion. Clothing continues to (42.6 %) and the interest coverage ratio 51 billion. Office properties was the second be a segment faced by major challenges, multiple was 5.0 (4.2). largest segment, with a total transaction and sales fell by 1.2 per cent. E-commerce’s volume of SEK 32 billion and a market strong position was reinforced in 2018 and DIVIDEND share of 21 per cent. Interest in investing in growth reached 15 per cent, which correThe dividend shall correspond to a minimum warehouses and logistics properties has sponds to an increase of SEK 10 billion. Toof 50 per cent of the profit before changes in been growing in recent years, with this segtal e-commerce sales therefore were SEK value after nominal tax, unless investments ment accounting for the third highest turn­ 77 billion, which boosted the market share or the company’s financial position in general over with a market share of eleven per cent. of online retail to ten per cent. The fastest motivates a deviation from this norm. A diviRetail properties reported SEK 14 billion growing sectors online were food, fittings/ dend of SEK 4.85 per share (SEK 4.50 per with a market share of nine per cent. There furniture and sports/recreation. share) is proposed for the financial year, is a great deal of interest in retail properties, which corresponds to a dividend of SEK 67.6 where the price difference between 68 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT OPERATIONS RESIDENTIAL MARKET PROJECT PROPERTIES force in May 2018, so the project for the Prices for tenant-owned dwellings declined CONFIRMED AND COMPLETED ­garage and premises in the first residential during the second half of 2017, and the In 2018 investments in own properties district got underway. The ground work is ­effects were evident in all of Atrium amounted to SEK 1,758 million (SEK 1,593 m), underway and it is expected to be completed Ljungberg’s markets. In 2018, prices for of which SEK 1,216 million (SEK 922 m) in in 2020. tenant-owned dwellings stabilised on levels project properties. Investments in project Formalinfabriken is an old industrial that are historically very high. Factors such properties relate primarily to Sickla Front II, building at Nobelberget that used to be a as population growth, urbanisation, ecoGränbystaden, Mobilia Torghuset and laboratory and offices. The building comnomic growth and historically low interest ­Curanten in Sickla. The other investments prises approximately 2,000 m2 on four levels. rates have resulted in a strong demand for relate mostly to tenant adaptations in properFrom its acquisition until today, Atrium residential property. Access to credit, howties in Sickla, Slussen and Liljeholmen. The Ljungberg has been working on creating a ever, has been impacted by the credit remaining investment volume for confirmed cultural hub in Nobelberget. The future ­restrictions that were introduced in 2018 projects amounted to approximately SEK ­Nobelberget and Formalinfabriken will house and which have diminished the buying 3,770 million on 31 December. The projects parts of this, supplemented with offices, ­power of customers. The amount of conthat were completed in 2018 are Sickla ­cafes and restaurants. A community centre struction on new apartment blocks has Front II, Norra Gränbystaden, Gränby Entré for the residential property is also being ­decreased in Sweden as a whole, but this is building 2, Gränbystaden southern entrance planned in Formalinfabriken as a location especially true in Stockholm and Uppsala. and Gränbystaden southern garage. for dinners, meetings and corporate events. Construction started in the fourth quarter of PROPERTY MANAGEMENT SICKLA — NACKA 2018 with occupancy planned for the summer NET LETTING Sickla Front II — The Sickla Front II project, of 2019. Net letting, i.e. newly agreed contracted comprising two office buildings with 25,300 ­annual rents less annual rents terminated m2 letting area in total as well as 14,000 m2 HAGASTADEN — STOCKHOLM due to clients vacating the premises, GFA parking area, has now been completed. Life City — In the heart of the emerging life amounted to SEK 144 million (SEK 40 m) Along with the adjacent office property that science cluster, we want to create Life City, during the year, of which SEK 92 million was constructed in 2015, they form the a new centre for commercial development (SEK 59 m) refers to project properties. Sickla Front district, which provides a clear and services linked to healthcare and reA high proportion of net letting is from new entrance to the Sickla city district, linking search. We want to bring together activities lease contracts with Convendum in Glas­ Sickla with Hammarby Sjöstad. The Swedthat support cluster building in life science. huset at Slussen and Academic Work in Life ish National Courts Administration, which In September 2018 a decision was taken to City in Hagastaden. The time lag between includes Nacka District Court, the Rent and start the Life City project in Hagastaden, net letting and its effect on profit is assessed Tenancy Tribunal and the Land and Environwith a lease contract for 17,000 m2 signed to be 3–30 months. mental Court, have moved in. with Academic Work. The project, which is Curanten — The foundation work is now next to Nya Karolinska Solna, represents RENTAL INCOME AND LETTING RATE complete and the building shell is currently 32,000 m2 habitable GFA and an investment The contracted annual rent amounted to being erected. In Curanten we are planning of SEK 1.9 billion including the land acquisiSEK 2,483 million on 01/01/2019 (SEK 2,357 a healthcare destination, with stores, cafes tion. The property registration and possesm) and the rental value was SEK 2,637 miland restaurants on the ground floor. The sion took place in September 2018, and lion (SEK 2,494 m). This gives a letting rate project comprises a total of 11,700 m2 letting construction is expected to start in the including project properties of 95 per cent area, which includes 8,100 m2 for health­second quarter of 2019 at the earliest, pro(95 %), and excluding project properties of care and 3,600 m2 for service, restaurants vided that the building permit is granted 95 per cent (95 %). The EPRA vacancy rate and retail. Occupancy is expected to start at in the first quarter of 2019. Occupancy is is therefore 5 per cent (5 %). The average the end of 2020. ­expected to take place in the spring of 2022. remaining term for contracted rent excluding Sickla Tapetfabriken — The reconstrucresidential and parking was 4.0 years as of tion and extension of a former factory buildBAS BARKARBY — JÄRFÄLLA 01/01/2019 (3.6 years). ing in Sickla, known as “Tapetfabriken” Bas Barkarby — In Barkarby in Järfälla, a Letting rate1) (Wallpaper Factory) is underway. The blasting land transfer agreement has been signed work on site is almost complete and work for a first stage of approximately 24,400 m² Rental Rental value, value, Letting has started on the foundation. The building GFA. Together with Järfälla Municipality, we SEK m SEK/m2 rate, % is planned to comprise 9,700 m2, with a hotel, are planning to create Bas Barkarby, a multi-­ Business area Property 2,470 2,812 95 offices and a garage. The largest tenant is functional district for learning, culture, sports Project properties 167 – 85 Nordic Choice Hotels, which will open a and business in the heart of the growing city Total 2,637 – 95 ­hotel consisting of 7,200 m2. The hotel will district of Barkarbystaden. Järfälla Municihave 156 hotel rooms and a 2,000 m2 lobby pality will lease almost 11,000 m2 for upper 1) R  eported letting rates are based on the immediately subsequent quarter after the accounting date. area with restaurants, event areas and consecondary education, a multi-purpose hall, ference premises. The hotel is planned to a library and other cultural activities. The PROFIT AND FINANCIAL POSITION be completed in the third quarter of 2020. detailed development plan gained legal Comments on the net profit for the year and Nobelgaraget — The detailed developforce in January 2018. A decision has been financial position are found on pages 92–97. ment plan for Nobelberget gained legal taken on the first phase of Bas Barkarby ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 69 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT OPERATIONS following an environmental permit being The project is expected to be completed in acquire existing properties and land allocagranted and becoming legally binding at the the spring of 2020, with, for example, Nordisk tions in Slakthusområdet in Stockholm. Land and Environmental Court at the end of Film opening a cinema and tenants moving December 2018. Occupancy is expected to into the 74 finished apartments. This building POTENTIAL PROJECT STARTS 2019-2020 take place in the autumn of 2021. marks the final stage in the central square at In Sickla we are planning an extension of Mobilia, which includes plans for a cultural the Sickla Galleria of approximately 3,000 GRÄNBYSTADEN — UPPSALA centre for children. m2 GFA for retail, plus a two-storey parking Norra Gränbystaden — In northern Gränbygarage with approximately 220 parking staden the latest building is complete and FORUMKVARTERET — UPPSALA spaces. The detailed development plan for has been fully let to Jula, Rusta, Jysk and In Forumkvarteret in the centre of Uppsala, 500 residential properties in Nobelberget DollarStore. This means that the area as a we are in the final phase of major reconbecame legally binding in May 2018. Sales whole now covers almost 45,000 m2 GFA. struction work for all parts of the property. have started and are currently ongoing for Gränby Entré buildings 2 and 3 — Three Forumkvarteret has offices, residential the first residential district. Detailed planbuildings containing rental apartments, properties and a shopping centre with ning work for approximately 700 apartcommercial premises and offices are being stores and restaurants. In 2018 Uppsala ments in Kyrkviken and 60 apartments in built next to Gränbystaden Galleria. Building Municipality carried out a major refurbishGillevägen in Sickla is in progress. At Sickla 1 has been occupied since the a ­ utumn of ment of Forumtorget, which has become a station we have a building right of approxi2017, with 63 rental apartments, a health vibrant meeting place with, among other mately 7,500 m2 GFA for retail, services and centre, a bank, food outlets and services. things, a number of pavement cafes. The offices next to the future underground railBuilding 2 with 71 rental apartments has new shopping centre is scheduled to be way station. A parallel architectural assignbeen occupied since the autumn of 2018. opened in 2019. Our ambition is for Forumment has been carried out with Nacka Building 3 contains 66 rental apartments, kvarteret to become an urban city centre ­Municipality. Kanozi architects were selected offices and premises, where a n ­ umber of district with a strong offering of retail, with their concept of a 23-storey building restaurants and cafes will open in 2019. All ­restaurants and cafes, combined with with approximately 21,000 m2 GFA. The aim of the residential properties and office ­attractive office environments is to create a building that has an underspaces in the first two buildings have been ground station, offices and a hotel. Detailed let, as well as the majority of the premises POTENTIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS planning work is also underway for the on street level. Our current project portfolio with new ­reconstruction and extension of SvindersGränbystaden, southern garage — The ­projects and major reconstruction work viksskolan from the current 3,000 m2 to parking garage with almost 280 parking ­enables future investments of approximately ­approximately 9,000 m2 GFA. spaces is complete, and it opened at the SEK 21 billion, which includes potential In Gränbystaden we are continuing to same time as the southern extension. land acquisitions through land allocations. develop Uppsala’s second city centre, with a Gränbystaden, southern entrance — On In terms of area, half of the project portfolio mix of retail, offices and residential property 22 November 2018 the doors opened to the consists of offices, and half of residential as well as service and cultural activities. In southern extension of the shopping centre property, retail, education and hotels. The addition to the rental apartments which are offering a wider range with almost 20 tenproject portfolio is divided among all our currently being constructed (see page 10), ants. The extension contains areas for retail, ­areas where Sickla and Gränbystaden we are planning for approximately 250 more entertainment, restaurants and offices. ­account for approximately 60 per cent. The tenant-owned dwellings in the area. We are rate at which we can complete the projects also looking into the possibility of starting MOBILIA — MALMÖ depends on the market situation and the detailed development planning for the Mobilia Torghuset — Work on new conprogress made in the detailed development ­extension of the northern and western secstruction and an extension of approximately plan process. A project is not usually started tions of the shopping centre area, providing 13,500 m2 of letting area is underway. The until we have secured a minimum yield level space for retail, parking and residential foundation work is complete. The building in the form of signed lease contracts. In properties. In Northern Gränbystaden there shell is being erected in the spring and will ­addition to the above, we have signed a are opportunities to develop approximately be completed after the summer of 2019. ­letter of intent with the City of Stockholm to 5,000 m2 GFA for retail and offices. At the beginning of 2017, we received a land Acquisitions 2018 ­allocation next to the Gränbystaden Galleria Additional letting with a potential building right of 40,000 Property name Municipality area, m2 Possession m2 GFA. Kylfacket 3 Stockholm 4,511 01/06/2018 In terms of the Bas Barkarby district in Tranbodarne 11 Stockholm 21,566 01/11/2018 Järfälla, which comprises a total of approximately 50,000 m2 GFA, we have decided to Sales 2018 start the first stage of approximately 24,400 Deductible letting m2 GFA. This should be completed in the Property name Municipality area, m2 Date vacated autumn of 2021. The second stage of this Dragarbrunn 19:1 Uppsala 2,978 02/05/2018 district comprises approximately 20,000 m2 Blästern 6 Stockholm 30,791 01/11/2018 GFA, for which we have signed a new land Roddaren 7 Stockholm 8,705 01/11/2018 allocation agreement to build both comArbetsstolen 3 Stockholm 17,960 20/12/2018 mercial operations and residential units. 70 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT OPERATIONS LETTER OF INTENT SLAKTHUSOMRÅDET of SEK 1,530 million. At the same time the company’s financial goals. The goal for net In August 2018 Atrium Ljungberg signed a Blästern 6 and Roddaren 7 properties in operating growth is being replaced with a letter of intent with the City of Stockholm to Stockholm were sold at an underlying goal for a return on shareholder’s equity of acquire the existing properties and land ­property value of SEK 2,175 million. These ten per cent per annum over time, while the ­allocations in Slakthusområdet, just to the properties were taken into possession/­ goal for the equity/assets ratio is being south of Stockholm city centre. vacated in November. In December Arbets­ ­replaced with a goal for a maximum gearing The existing properties will be acquired stolen 3 in Stockholm was sold and vacated. ratio of 45 per cent. The investment goal is in two phases, where access to 51,000 m2 of The purchase price was based on an underbeing increased to SEK 2 billion per year. letting area is expected in June 2019 with an lying property value of SEK 437 million. The goals for return on projects, interest option for 32,000 m2 of letting area once a coverage ratio, dividend and corporate new detailed development plan has come PROPERTY VALUES ­social responsibility remain unchanged. See into force, but no later than 31 December Atrium Ljungberg had 62 per cent of its pages 11–13 for further details. 2021. This deal also includes options that property portfolio externally valued during In February 2019 Atrium Ljungberg’s enable Atrium Ljungberg to call off land the year, of which 25 per cent was conducted Board of Directors decided to launch the ­allocations of approximately 100,000 m2 GFA. during the fourth quarter. The remaining first tenant-owned dwelling district at The ­acquisitions and land allocations that properties were subject to an internal valua­Nobelberget in Sickla. At the end of the have been developed comprise a total of tion. Market rents, operating costs, vacancies year, 13 out of the 68 apartments (19 per ­approximately 200,000 m2 GFA for offices and and yield requirements were quality assured cent) had been booked. residential units, alongside culture, retail/­ by external valuation experts. The market restaurants, hotels, education, etc. The total valuation is based on analyses of completed OUTLOOK FOR 2019 investment will amount to approximately property transactions for properties of a Atrium Ljungberg’s outlook remains positive. SEK 8 billion between 2019 and 2030. similar standard and in a similar location, in Despite signs of the economy slowing down, The initial acquisition comprises 51,000 m2 order to assess the market’s yield requirewe believe that our strong locations comof letting area with a rental value of SEK 73 ments. bined with our project development will million. The letting rate at present is 95 per The valuation also entails cash flow calcontribute to continued value growth for our cent The properties that form part of this culations, with individual assessments of company. The forecast for profit before acquisition include culturally significant the earning capacity of each individual changes in value amounts to SEK 1,200 buildings in the northern part of Slakthus­ property. Assumed rental levels in conjunc­million in comparison to SEK 1,214 million området. The purchase price is based on an tion with contract expirations correspond to for 2018. underlying property value of SEK 1,120 milcurrent market rent levels. Operating costs The Riksbank has signalled further lion. The deal is being struck through a have been assessed on the basis of the ­interest rate hikes in the summer of 2019, company acquisition. company’s actual costs. which we have taken into consideration in The agreement requires decisions from Development rights have been valued our outlook. Although operating net for the the Development and Property Committees based on an assessed market value per m2 business will increase, we believe that in the City of Stockholm and the Board of of GFA for determined development rights ­interest expenses will rise by a corresponding Directors of St Erik Markutveckling. All of in accordance with an approved detailed extent. The forecast net profit after tax is these decisions are planned for February ­development plan or where the detailed SEK 940 million, corresponding to SEK 2019. The acquisition is also conditional on ­development plan is assessed to enter into 7.21/share. the approval of Stockholm City Council, force within the near future. Project properChanges in value and any other future which is planned in May 2019. Possession of ties are valued on the basis of completed property acquisitions and sales, except for the properties is scheduled for June 2019. projects, less remaining investments. A risk the initial acquisition in Slakthusområdet, surcharge is added to the yield requirement have not been taken into account in the PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS on the basis of the current phase of the proforecast. The investment volume in our own In April an agreement was signed for the ject. The unrealised changes in value during properties for 2019 is assessed to total sale of the property Dragarbrunn 19:1. The the period amounted to SEK 2,516 million ­approximately SEK 2 billion. sales price was based on an underlying (SEK 1,817 m) and are mainly explained by property value of SEK 127 million and the higher net operating income and to a lesser SUSTAINABILITY REPORT divestment was completed in May. extent by the market’s lower yield requireAtrium Ljungberg has produced a separate In April the Kylfacket 3 property in Stockments. sustainability report in accordance with the holm was acquired at an underlying property The value of Atrium Ljungberg’s properSwedish Annual Accounts Act. This report value of SEK 150 million, and it was taken ties on 31/12/2018 was SEK 44,201 million encompasses Atrium Ljungberg AB (publ) into possession in June. The intention is (SEK 40,861 m), and the average yield and all of its subsidiaries. The Sustainability to develop this property based on a new ­requirement was 4.6 per cent (4.7 %). Report is on pages 18–25 and 129–139 and ­detailed development plan. is not part of the financial report. In September Molekylen 1 (land for Life EVENTS AFTER THE CLOSING DAY City), which was acquired at the end of 2017 In January 2019 an agreement was entered for a purchase price of SEK 432 million, was into with the City of Stockholm regarding taken into possession. Slakthusområdet in Stockholm; see above. In October Tranbodarne 11 in Stockholm In February 2019 Atrium Ljungberg’s was acquired at an underlying property value Board of Directors decided to change the ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 71 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S PROPERTY PORTFOLIO is primarily focused on urban development with different content, including office and retail operations. We only operate in the Swedish market, and are thereby exposed to the performance of the Swedish economy as a whole and in particular the locations in which we operate. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for risk management, while the operational work has been delegated to the CEO. Taking into account our operations, prioriworking continuously on minimising any The following section describes these tised areas for risk management are letting, negative impact. risks based on their probability, and the project and construction activities, property The Board of Directors has overall ­extent of the consequences that these risks valuation and financing. Our operations and ­responsibility for risk management while are assessed to have on Atrium Ljungberg’s the opportunity to attain our goals are the operational work has been delegated to financial position and future earning capacity. ­affected by both external factors and busithe CEO and the various business areas. Also see the corporate governance ness risks. We cannot influence external Risk management in the administration and statement, pages 84–87 and internal factors, but we can work in a preventative project and construction activities is largely ­control, pages 90–91. manner and be prepared for different decentralised while financing, insurance ­scenarios. Operational risks are mainly and property valuation are managed handled by being aware of the risks and ­centrally. AREA RISK PROBABILITY CONSEQUENCE MANAGEMENT AND PROPERTY PORTFOLIO Property values Assumptions for property valuation Unpredictable events in our properties Rental income Letting rate Property costs INVESTMENTS AND ACQUISITIONS Investments Acquisitions Project portfolio EMPLOYEES AND SUPPLIERS Expertise Suppliers Corruption Health and safety FINANCIAL RISKS Credit risk Currency risk Interest Refinancing ENVIRONMENT AND OUTSIDE WORLD Contamination in our properties Climate changes Requirements for more efficient energy consumption E-commerce Digitalisation Changed tax rate “Paketeringsutredningen”; public investigation regarding taxation in conjunction with the sale of packaged real estate 72 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT AND PROPERTY PORTFOLIO RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT/OPPORTUNITIES Property values The property portfolio is reported at fair value, market By working in the long-term with our management and value. The market value is determined by the expected developing our areas into attractive spaces, we create the yield that the players on the market accept, and by the conditions for better and more stable operating net from our expected operating net. A lower yield requirement properties. However, the market’s yield requirement is an affects the market value positively as well as a higher external factor that we cannot influence. expected future operating net. Assumptions for property The real estate valuation is based on a number of The real estate valuation is done on a quarterly basis. Approxivaluation financial input data and assumptions. In the valuation mately 40–50 per cent of the market value is valued externally process there is a risk that the assumptions that have every year. Our internal valuations are subjected to quality been made do not reflect the current market assurance by independent valuers. See more in note T 1 on conditions, which means that the valuation could be pages 113–115. incorrect. Unpredictable events in Our properties can be affected by unpredictable events We continuously work with preventative measures such as, for our properties in the form of fire, water damages and other damages. example, updated fire alarms, sprinkler systems, entrance control systems and trained security officers. All properties are insured for their full value through If. Rental income Our rental income is affected by the economic We build urban environments with a focus on office and retail performance in the subsidiary markets in which we operations, which are supplemented with housing, service, operate and by how successfully we develop the areas culture and education. This mix makes us less sensitive to the where our properties are located. economic development and increases the risk spread in the Economic growth will probably lead to increased tenant structure. demand for premises, with lower vacancies as a result; As commercial lease contracts are normally signed for a term a trend which, in turn, usually leads to higher market of three to five years, changed market rents gradually have an rents. A negative economic trend is assumed to result impact on rental income. in the opposite effect. As only one per cent of the rental income comprises sales-based rent, in the short-term Atrium Ljungberg is affected by declining sales of retail hubs to a very small extent. However, in the long-term it impacts the demand of the premises. Letting rate A change in the company’s letting rate has an effect on By operating in strong subsidiary markets with close relations income. with both existing and potential customers, we can satisfy the customers’ need for premises in a timely manner and thereby prevent and reduce the risk of high vacancy levels. Sensitivity analysis, property valuation Sensitivity analysis, change in value Value parameter Assumption Impact on value, SEK m Change property value –10 % 0% +10 % Rental level +/– 10 % +/– 4,270 Change in value, SEK m –4,420 – 4,420 Operating cost +/– 10 % –/+704 Gearing ratio 46 % 42 % 38 % Yield requirement +/– 0.25 % units –2 082/+2 191 Long-term vacancy level +/– 2 % –/+ 1,147 The changes in the value of properties also affect the company’s key ratios The above sensitivity analysis shows how Atrium Ljungberg’s gearing ratio is affected by changes in value of +/– 10 %. The table shows how the effects of different parameters impact the market value. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 73 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT AND PROPERTY PORTFOLIO, cont. RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT/OPPORTUNITIES Property costs Changed property costs can impact the property’s Some of the property costs are passed on to the tenant through operating net and thereby also the market value of the regulations in the lease contracts and cost increases or savings property. A large share of the cost is linked to energy consequently only have a limited impact on our results. Any consumption in the form of heating, cooling and vacancies that arise affect the result, not only in the form of lost electricity. rental income, but also in the form of costs that cannot be passed Property costs are impacted by seasonal variations. on to the tenants. Generally costs are higher during the first and last We work purposefully, for the benefit of both our tenants and quarter of the year, primarily caused by higher costs of the company, to increase the efficiency of our consumption. As a heating and property maintenance. part of this, Atrium Ljungberg has set a goal of reducing energy consumption per square metre between the years 2014 and 2021 by 30 per cent. Unforeseen damage and repairs can have a negative effect on the company’s results and are prevented by means of a long-term maintenance programme in order to maintain a good standard throughout the property portfolio. We have ten properties with leasehold. The leasehold agreements are usually renegotiated at 10 or 20 year intervals. See more on leasehold fees in note IK 4 on page 108. INVESTMENTS AND ACQUISITIONS RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT/OPPORTUNITIES Investments Atrium Ljungberg develops and constructs its own The projects are mostly run through divided contracts, which properties in its project activities. Risks in these enables flexible production and cost-efficiency in production. activities are that the projects will be more expensive In-house expertise is used in our residential development than expected due to miscalculation, changed through our subsidiary company TL Bygg. We always have direct conditions or higher purchasing prices. contact with the customers, short decision-making processes, as well as a rapid and simple handover to the management team. The company applies its prudence concept to all investments This means that no investments are made without having secured a reasonable yield through signed lease contracts. Acquisitions Atrium Ljungberg’s expansion also takes place through The risks during an acquisition are prevented by a due diligence acquisition of properties. Risks during the acquisition process always being carried out, in which we inspect the are that the letting rate and rental trend will be lower property and examine agreements, accounts and fiscal aspects than expected or that the technical standard is lower with both internal and external specialists. All acquisitions are than the conducted assessments. Another risk is that made with the intention of owning and developing the properties there are unexpected environmental consequences. in the long-term. During the acquisition of properties through companies there is also a tax risk. Project portfolio Property development through investments in in-house The company has a large project portfolio, and to maintain properties and production of development rights is very long-term growth, we are constantly searching for new business important in terms of the company’s value growth. A opportunities and projects through continuous dialogue with limited project portfolio can reduce future growth. municipalities and other market players. See pages 37–45 for further information about our project portfolio. Sensitivity analysis cash flows Bad debt losses Change, % Effect on profit, year 1, Effect on profit, fullSEK m SEK m year, SEK m Rental income +/– 5 % +/– 14 +/– 121 2014 7 Property management costs +/– 5 % –/+ 38 –/+ 38 2015 15 Letting rate +/– 1 % unit +/– 26 +/– 26 2016 12 Atrium Ljungberg’s average borrowing rate +/– 1 % unit –/+ 69 –/+ 185 2017 8 The effect on the profit in year 1 relates to the effect in the immediately subsequent year with reference to fixed terms in lease 2018 17 ­contracts and loan agreements. 74 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES AND SUPPLIERS RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT/OPPORTUNITIES Expertise The ability to attract and retain skilled personnel is an By being one of Sweden’s best workplaces in accordance with important prerequisite for our success. “Great Place to Work®”, we can both attract and retain competent personnel. See page 23 for further details. Suppliers Supplier risk refers to the risk that our suppliers Atrium Ljungberg’s purchasing function comprises efficient cannot fulfil their deliveries, that they use unethical support for the entire organisation by coordinating purchasing. business practices or do not fulfil the environmental This results in higher quality and lower costs. Furthermore, the requirements, working conditions and human rights purchasing function ensures that the Group’s suppliers comply that have been imposed. with Atrium Ljungberg’s requirements within sustainability and business ethics. Health and safety Health and safety risk are common in our business and We have a zero-tolerance attitude towards stress-related industry. illnesses and workplace accidents. We hold regular work environment training courses for our project managers and technical managers as well as for managers at our subsidiary TL Bygg. We provide health insurance for employees, and the company’s Performance Management process includes a clear dialogue between managers and employees. Corruption Improprieties that affect Atrium Ljungberg may Atrium Ljungberg has established a whistleblowing service damage our brand and staff. through an external party. In this manner we can guarantee a system with highest secrecy and total anonymity which makes it safe for our employees, customers and collaboration partners to submit a complaint. Complaints can be submitted through our website and are then handled by the external party. There is a policy for business ethics with guidelines which provide more concrete guidance. FINANCIAL RISKS RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT/OPPORTUNITIES Credit risk The term, credit risk, refers to the risk that our tenants Each market area continuously evaluates the capacity of new and will be unable to fulfil their payment obligations. existing tenants to pay the agreed rent. In many cases, default in payment of rent is secured through deposits and bank guarantees. A large number of tenants in different sectors ensures a good risk spread. Currency risk Currency risk refers to the risk that our income will be We have no income or any financing in foreign currencies. The lower or the costs higher when agreements are only exception is purchases made in foreign currency, which entered into in a different currency to Swedish krona. involves a low currency risk. Interest The main risks involve fluctuations in profits and cash The interest maturity structure has been spread over different flow as a result of changes in interest rates. terms through interest derivatives in order to limit the risk of severe fluctuations in interest expenses. See pages 78–79 for further information. Refinancing There are refinancing risks and credit risks linked to In order to limit the refinancing risk, a maximum of 50 per cent renegotiations of existing credit and financing of future of the financing is provided for by an individual lender. investments. Atrium Ljungberg has credit agreements with five different lenders in banks, and also has financing in the capital market through certificates and MTN programmes. Read more about financing on pages 77–79. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 75 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENT AND OUTSIDE WORLD RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT/OPPORTUNITIES Contamination in our According to the Swedish Environmental Code, the We conduct surveys and screening work ahead of property properties property owner may be liable to defray measures acquisitions and new projects in order to identify any potential resulting from a contamination incident or a serious environmental risks. case of environmental damage. The process also contributes to identifying opportunities for energy efficiency and reducing the incidence of materials with a negative impact on human beings and the environment. Climate changes Extreme weather conditions such as cloudburst, Atrium Ljungberg works continuously on improved maintenance storms and large temperature fluctuations as a result in order to increase the resistance of our properties during of global climate changes risk damaging our property extreme weather conditions. portfolio and increasing the construction and The risks are considered to the highest degree possible for development cost of properties. new production and major reconstruction projects. Requirements for more Increased agency requirements for energy Atrium Ljungberg works continuously on energy efficiency efficient energy consump­consumption. through implementation of new technology in both the existing tion property portfolio and for new production, which results in lower current expenses. See pages 19–21 for further information about our work. E-commerce E-commerce has become an important sales channel, According to HUI Research, e-commerce accounted for nine per and sales volume is increasing every year. Several cent of the total retail sector in 2018. We are monitoring the trend retail companies are establishing online stores. This closely and also have a close dialogue with our retail customers. impacts the demand for retail premises. Atrium Ljungberg builds places with attractiveness and flexible premises which can be adapted to new conditions. In recent times combining online trade and retail sale has also been successful as the consumer can attain further experiences in the physical store and have the opportunity of collection and return of purchased goods. Digitalisation Digitalisation is having a major impact on society. It is Atrium Ljungberg is investing in innovation and digital developchanging people’s behaviour, with customer expectament. We are looking at ways to transform our current business tions rapidly increasing. Some sectors have gone and identify new business opportunities. We have a strong through significant market changes, with new players, customer focus and we are developing processes to carry out usually platform companies, establishing themselves innovation projects quickly and test new business concepts. It is and capturing large market shares. all about creating value for the final consumer. Deferred tax Current accounting regulations require deferred tax The Group’s recognised deferred tax for properties amounted to liabilities to be reported as if all property sales were SEK 4,598 million, calculated with a 20.6 per cent tax rate. taxed at 20.6 per cent. Assuming a deferred tax rate of 4 per cent (in accordance with However, the size of the actual deferred tax liability EPRA NNNAV) for costing purposes for properties, the deferred depends on the company’s tax position, how long tax would total SEK 941 million, which would have a positive Atrium Ljungberg has had the property and the market’s effect on shareholders’ equity of SEK 3,687 million. pricing of the deferred tax liability in conjunction with sale of the property through companies. “PaketeringsutredninThe investigation committee proposes that companies Atrium Ljungberg is closely following the development; however, gen”; public investigation which sell real estate packaged in a company should based on the political situation, the company believes there is regarding taxation in be taxed based on market value. Under current very little risk of the proposals from the investigation being conjunction with the sale regulations, shares in property holding companies are implemented in the near future. In the event that the proposals of packaged real estate sold tax-free. The investigation committee proposes are adopted, we will review our procedures in relation to that taxation should be in line with traditionally transactions. transactioned real estate. The Government has communicated that the process is ongoing. 76 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCING STRONG FINANCIAL POSITION Atrium Ljungberg’s assets are valued at SEK 45 billion and are primarily financed by means of shareholders’ equity and loan capital. Atrium Ljungberg is a long-term property owner with a strong financial position. Because the business is capital-intensive, always having access to financing is important. The selection of capital structure provides the desired combination of financial risk relative to financing cost. FINANCE MARKET 2018 amounted to 1.13 per cent compared with ­ ntails a range of financial risks. The primary e Although the global economy remains 1.20 per cent at the beginning of the year. risk is liquidity risk in the form of refinancing strong, the year was characterised by higher risks and credit risks in association with uncertainty and volatility. It looks as though FINANCE MARKET 2019 ­renegotiations of loans, bond maturity and the boom reached its peak during the year The global economic outlook continues to new financing requirements, taking into and growth in GDP can be expected to be be positive, but political uncertainty has ­account investments in our own properties lower from now on. The Swedish economy ­increased. One important issue for the Euro and acquisitions. Another risk involves fluccontinues to show high growth, but it zone will be how the UK’s exit from the EU tuations in profits and cash flow as a result slowed down in the second half of the year. is concluded as well as the subsequent of changes in interest rates. Financial operaDomestic growth was inhibited as a result ­effects. There is also a risk of escalation tions are regulated by our financial policy, of the slowdown in the residential market in the trade conflict between the U.S. and which is reviewed at least once a year and with fewer homes being built. As the rate of China. adopted by the Board of Directors. inflation is approaching the inflation target, The Swedish economy has slowed down, the Riksbank raised the repo rate to –0.25 but the decline is expected to be mild with a CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND CAPITAL MARKET per cent in December. In December, the strong labour market and inflation which is Atrium Ljungberg aims for the distribution ­National Institute of Economic Research around the Riksbank’s target of two per between shareholders’ equity and loan assessed growth in GDP to be 2.2 per cent cent for the coming years. The Riksbank ­capital to provide an acceptable level of risk. in 2018, but assesses that it will fall to forecasts that the repo rate will increase Shareholders’ equity totalled SEK 20,696 1.3 per cent in 2019. during the second half of 2019. million (SEK 18,223 m) and liabilities totalled The variable rate, 3M Stibor, amounted SEK 24,432 million (SEK 24,540 m), of which to –0.13 per cent at year end compared with FINANCING AND FINANCIAL POLICY SEK 18,506 million (SEK 18,247 m) refers to –0.46 per cent at the beginning of the year. Owning, managing and developing properties interest-bearing liabilities. The company’s At the end of the year, the 10-year swap rate is a capital-intensive sector, which often financial goals specify that from a longFinancial policy 2018 Capital structure Goal/Mandate Result, 31/12/2018 Other liabilities 3 %, Shareholders’ equity Gearing ratio, commercial properties max. 70 % 69 % SEK 1,328 m 46 %, SEK 20,696 m Deferred tax Gearing ratio, residential property max. 75 % 63 % liability 10 %, SEK 4,598 m Gearing ratio, the Group max. 50 % 42 % Percentage of interest falling due within 12 months 0–55 % 37 % Secured loans 20 %, Percentage of loans falling due within 12 months 10–30 % 0% SEK 9,107 m Currency risk, financing Not permitted None Bank deposits SEK 0–200 million SEK 335 million Unsecured loans 21 %, SEK 9,399 m Unutilised overdraft facility SEK 300–500 million SEK 300 million Number of financing providers, banks 3–7 6 Loan volume with a single provider max. 50 % 15 % Interest-bearing liabilities Lines of credit and liquid assets/loan maturity term 4.5 months min. 100 % achieved Direct lending 6 %, SEK 1,029 m Bank loans 44 %, Commercial SEK 8,078 m Financial goals papers 10 %, SEK 1,785 m Goal Result, 31/12/2018 Gearing ratio1) max. 45 % 41.9 % Bonds17 %, SEK 3,114 m Interest coverage ratio > Multiple of 2 Multiple of 5.0 1) Gearing ratio from 2019 is a financial goal Green bonds 24 %, SEK 4,500 m ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 77 DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCING | term perspective, the gearing ratio is to r­ epresented SEK 8,078 million and 44 per The company has a green framework be below 45 per cent. At the end of the year, cent (50 %) of the loan volume. linked to the MTN programme. Green bonds it was 41.9 per cent (44.7 %). In the past totalling SEK 1,900 million were issued during 10 years, the gearing ratio has been 39.8 CAPITAL MARKET FINANCING AND A GREEN the year. Green bonds represent 59 per cent per cent at the lowest point, and 45.7 per FRAMEWORK of the outstanding bond volume. cent at the highest. Since 2013 Atrium Ljungberg has been In order to widen the financing base ­financed through the capital market, when CAPITAL COMMITMENT AND FIXED INTEREST ­further, bonds totalling NOK 500 million the company established both a commercial Our property ownership is a long-term with a maturity of ten years were issued at paper programme and an MTN programme. commitment, requiring long-term financing. the end of October. The bonds are listed on At the turn of the year, the framework amount Long-term capital commitment also reduces Nasdaq OMX under Atrium Ljungberg’s for the commercial paper programme was the refinancing risk. The remaining capital MTN programme. The company also took SEK 5 billion, and SEK 10 billion for the commitment term at the turn of the year out a credit facility of SEK 1,560 million in MTN programme. In recent years, capital was 4.6 years (3.5 years). November, using Gränbystaden Galleria as market financing has increased as a proInterest expenses are the biggest single security. The credit facility was taken out as portion of the total loan volume and is an cost item in the income statement. They are direct financing with Allianz Real Estate and important source of financing. In 2018 we affected primarily by changes in market Brunswick Real Estate as the counterparties, issued seven bonds with a total volume of rates and the credit market preconditions and it has a maturity of approximately ten SEK 2,711 million. that influence the margin of lenders. Interest years. These financing sources also enabled In total there are bonds amounting to rates are fixed for a variety of terms in order longer capital commitment. SEK 7,615 million (SEK 5,700 m) outstanding to reduce the fluctuations in interest Capital market financing represents the in the MTN programme, while outstanding ­expenses. We use tools such as interest largest share of financing and makes up commercial papers amounted to SEK 1,786 ­derivatives, which offer a flexible and cost-­ 51 per cent of the total loan volume. Capital million (SEK 3,510 m) at the end of the year. effective way of extending the interest term market financing consists of bonds in Unutilised loan guarantees in addition to of the loans without having to change the Swedish krona and Norwegian krone which loan guarantees that cover outstanding terms of the underlying loans, in order to were issued under the company’s MTN procommercial papers amounted to SEK 2,860 reduce the interest risk and achieve the gramme. It is supplemented by short-term million (SEK 1,365 m). The company also ­desired fixed interest term. financing through the company’s commerhas an unutilised overdraft facility totalling The average interest rate was 1.6 per cial paper programme. Bank financing SEK 300 million (SEK 300 m). cent (1.7 %) at the end of the year. Including Bonds issued in 2018 Development in financing sources 2014–2018 Fixed/­ Issue spread SEK billion Term, variable Volume, over 20 Bond Issued Due year rate SEK m 3M Stibor Note 117 2018 January 2020 January 2.0 Fixed 300 0.45 % 118 2018 April 2021 April 3.0 Fixed 500 0.67 % Green 15 119 2018 May 2023 May 5.0 Variable 250 1.05 % Green 120 2018 July 2021 July 3.0 Variable 500 0.65 % Green 121 2018 September 2021 September 3.0 Variable 350 0.65 % Green 10 122 2018 September 2021 September 3.0 Fixed 300 0.65 % Green NOK 2011) 2018 November 2028 November 10.0 Fixed 500 1.55 % 5 1) Issued in Norwegian krone 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Bank loans Direct lending Green bonds Bonds Commercial papers 78 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCING | unutilised loan guarantees the average A restructuring was carried out in July, the property holding sub­sidiaries. The parent ­interest rate was 1.6 per cent (1.7). This with interest derivatives being redeemed at company also provides guarantee under­reduction is mostly due to reduced credit a nominal value of SEK 1,485 million in takings for the subsidiaries’ undertakings in margins and the restructuring of the interest ­order to improve future interest cost. At the connection with guarantee commitments or derivatives portfolio. The average fixed same time, new interest derivatives were borrowing. Guarantee ­undertakings of the ­interest term was 4.1 years (4.4 years) at taken out with a lower interest rate and parent company for subsidiary companies year-end. Interest swaps have been entered longer average fixed terms. amounted to SEK 1,240 million (SEK 200 m) into for a total value of SEK 9,296 million The unrealised change in the value of at the turn of the year. (SEK 9,396 m) with terms maturing between ­financial instruments totalled SEK –70 mil2021 and 2029. lion (SEK 121 m) as interest rates had fallen COVENANTS on the terms of the derivatives taken out Covenants, i.e. the terms and conditions a FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS in relation to those during the period. The lender requires for providing a credit and Interest derivatives are used to achieve the deficit book value of the derivatives portfolio which entail that a credit is due for payment desired fixed interest term and level of totalled SEK –349 million (SEK –484 m) at if the terms and conditions are not fulfilled, ­interest risk. Currency derivatives have been the turn of the year. are similar in the various credit agreements. used to eliminate the currency exposure The agreements primarily prescribe a minithat arises when bonds are issued in SECURITIES mum interest coverage margin multiple of ­Norwegian krone. Derivative instruments Our borrowing is to some extent secured by 1.30–1.75, a maximum gearing ratio of 65–75 shall, in accordance with the accounting real estate mortgages. Of the interest-­ per cent, and a minimum equity/ assets regulation IFRS 9, be valued at market rate, bearing liabilities, SEK 9,106 million ­ratio of 25–30 per cent. which means that an unrealised surplus or (SEK 9,037 m) is secured by mortgage deficit value arises if the agreed interest deeds and SEK 9,400 million (SEK 9,210 m) PUBLIC RATING rate deviates from the current market rate. is unsecured. The share of secured financing Atrium Ljungberg has an investment grade The amount is recognised directly against is 20 per cent (21 %) in relation to the total rating from the credit rating agency Moody’s the result. At maturity an interest contract’s assets. and was awarded Baa2 grade with a stable market value has been entirely dissolved In addition to providing security over outlook. An updated report was received at and the change in value over time has mortgage deeds, the parent company in the beginning of 2018 that confirmed these thereby not impacted shareholders’ equity. some cases grants security over shares in levels. Capital commitment Fixed interest Maturity date Amount, Percentage, Maturity date Amount, Percentage, Average SEK m % SEK m % ­interest, % 2019 – – 2019 6,910 37 0.9 2020 2,985 16 2020 1,300 7 0.6 2021 4,851 26 2021 1,175 6 1.8 2022 3,617 20 2022 400 2 1.6 2023 1,408 8 2023 736 4 1.6 2024 and thereafter 5,645 31 2024 and thereafter 7,985 43 2.5 Total 18,506 100 Total 18,506 100 1.6 Average interest and capital commitment Gearing ratio and interest coverage ratio as per and fixed interest rate 31/12/2018, the largest listed property companies Financial key ratios year/% % multiple 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 6 100 Interest–bearing liabilities 18,506 18,247 Source: respective company year-end 90 Shareholders’ equity, SEK m 20,696 18,223 5 80 Gearing ratio, % 41.9 44.7 70 4 Adjusted gearing ratio, % 41.9 44.1 60 Average fixed interest term, 4.1 4.4 3 50 years financial statements 40 2 30 Average capital commitment 4.6 3.5 20 term, years 1 10 Average interest rate for 1.6 1.7 0 0 ­interest-bearing liabilities, % 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ds Interest coverage ratio, 5.0 4.2 tad Fa en Lju beg n Wa gbe lle rg ns e Ca tam ste multiple llu m Capital commitment term, years Ku Sag ng ax sle Wi den h Fa lbor Hu stP gs Fixed interest rate term, years ar He ner m t fvu Kl övfos a m er n Average interest, % riu At Gearing ratio, % Interest coverage ratio, multiple ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 79 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT THE SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS THE ATRIUM LJUNGBERG SHARE Atrium Ljungberg is one of Sweden’s biggest listed property companies, and the dividend paid by the company have never fallen in SEK per share since its listing on the Stockholm Stock Exchange in 1994. MARKET CAPITALISATION 68 per cent (74 %) were traded on Nasdaq EPRA NAV, EPRA NNNAV and share price Market capitalisation, i.e. the value of all Stockholm and the remaining on other SEK/share outstanding shares, amounted to SEK marketplaces such as BOAT, Bats and 200 19,642 million (SEK 16,837 m) at the turn of ­Turquoise. The turnover rate was 18 per the year. This makes Atrium Ljungberg one cent (11 %). 180 of the biggest listed property companies in Sweden. LIQUIDITY Atrium Ljungberg has engaged Erik Penser 160 SHARE PRICE TREND AND YIELD Bank as a liquidity guarantor in order to During the year the share price of the class ­improve the share’s liquidity. Erik Penser 140 B share increased by 16.7 per cent to SEK Bank has undertaken to set bid and ask 152.00 (SEK 130.30). The year's highest prices on a daily basis for a volume of shares 120 price amounted to SEK 165.00 and the corresponding to SEK 65,000, with a maxi­lowest to SEK 120.60. mum difference of one per cent on the basis 100 The total return for the share, correof the ask price. sponding to the total of distributed dividend 80 and share price growth, was 20.1 per cent EPRA NAV AND EPRA NNNAV 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (–5.6 per cent) during the year. The correAs Atrium Ljungberg’s properties are EPRA NAV, SEK/share sponding return for OMXS Benchmark GI, ­reported at fair value, the net worth can be EPRA NNNAV, SEK/share Share price, SEK/share which c­ ontains a selection of the largest calculated on the basis of the balance sheet and most traded shares on Nasdaq, was equity. EPRA NAV and EPRA NNNAV are –4.6 per cent (10.4 %) and for OMXS Real ­reported in accordance with the EPRA’s Estate GI, with the listed property compaguidelines; see the notes E on pages nies on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange, 123–124. Market capitalisation and letting area as per 31/12/2018, the largest listed property companies was 12.1 per cent (9.3 %). Atrium Ljungberg has a substantial ­project portfolio in which the development SEK billion ’000 m² RETAIL AND SALES of its own development rights generates 50 5,000 Atrium Ljungberg’s class B share (ATRLJ B) growth in value. The calculation of EPRA is listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange NAV and EPRA NNNAV do not take into and is traded on the list for large companies, ­account future value potential of the project 40 4,000 Large Cap. During 2018 a total of SEK 16.3 portfolio. See pages 37–45 for further informillion shares (15.7 m) were sold at a value mation about the project portfolios. Source: respective company year-end 30 3,000 of SEK 2.4 billion (SEK 2.2 bn). Of these 20 2,000 The Atrium Ljungberg share financial statements index Sales, million shares per month 16 10 1,000 275 Source: Nasdaq and Fidessa Fragulator 250 15 225 14 0 0 B Ca ald 200 6 st er el F um l fv ab ud eg W ta es At riu al d le en ns ta m m 175 5 Lj Sa un ga W gbe x ih rg lb or Hu Ku Klö gs n ve Fa gsl rn st ed Pa en 150 4 He rtne m rfo sa 125 3 Market capitalisation, SEK billion Letting area, m² 100 2 75 1 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ATRLJ B Traded shares on Nasdaq Stockholm Nasdaq Stockholm PI Nasdaq Stockholm Real Estate PI Traded shares on other marketplaces 80 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT THE SHARE AND THE SHAREHOLDERS DIVIDEND Ljungberg. The largest owners are the whereby if the pre-emption right is not The dividend shall correspond to a minimum Stockholm Consumer Cooperative Society, ­exercised, the class A shares should be of 50 per cent of the profit before changes in together with the Ljungberg family and the converted to class B shares before a transfer value after nominal tax, unless investments Holmström family, who together own 63.8 may occur. or the company’s financial position in general per cent in total. Foreign ownership motivates a deviation from this norm. For amounted to 15 per cent (16 %). BUY-BACK OF SHARES the 2018 financial year a dividend of SEK One class A share grants entitlement to On 28 March 2018, the Board of Atrium 4.85 (SEK 4.50) per share is proposed, ten votes and one class B share grants Ljungberg decided to initiate a buy-back of which corresponds to a dividend yield of 3.2 ­entitlement to one vote. The Articles of its own shares. The buy-back programme per cent (3.5 %) calculated on the share ­Association include a pre-emption clause started on 20 April 2018. The aim of the proprice at the end of the year. with regard to class A shares whereby gramme is to secure the supply of shares in shareholders wishing to sell their shares accordance with the Group’s stock option OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE must first offer them to other holders of programme, and to give the Board more At the turn of the year there were 5,575 class A shares. There is also an agreement flexibility in its work on the company’s capishareholders (4,750 shareholders) in ­Atrium between the company’s class A shareholders tal structure, which will therefore help to increase shareholder value. As of 31 December the company owned 2,761,000 class B Major shareholders on 31/12/2018 shares. The buy-back has been in the range Class A shares, Class B shares, Share of votes, Share of of SEK 132.20–157.03 per share. ’000 ’000 % ­capital, % Ljungberg family 2,190 27,166 29.5 22.0 The Stockholm Consumer Cooperative Society – 38,866 23.3 29.2 Ownership categories, equity Holmström family 1,810 14,692 19.7 12.4 Foundations 1 % Carnegie Funds – 8,753 5.3 6.6 State, Municipality & County Council 1 % Other 57 % Varma pension insurance – 8,117 4.9 6.1 Shares bought AFA insurance – 2,399 1.4 1.8 back 2 % Pension & Handelsbanken Funds – 2,050 1.2 1.5 Insurance 10 % Norges Bank – 1,541 0.9 1.2 Fund Margareta af Ugglas – 1,445 0.9 1.1 Management Companies 14 % Ilmarinen pension insurance – 1,405 0.8 1.1 Swedish private Other – 20,026 12.0 17.1 individuals 15 % Total outstanding shares 4,000 126,460 100.0 100.0 Shares bought back – 2,761 – 2.1 Total number of shares issued 4,000 129,221 100.0 100.0 Ownership per country Foreign 15 % Sweden 85 % Shareholding structure on 31/12/2018 Number of Number of Share of known Size class shares Capital, % Votes, % known owners owners, % 1–1,000 668,599 0.5 0.4 5,034 90.3 1,001–10,000 3,836,035 2.9 2.3 488 8.8 10,001–100,000 11,499,615 8.6 6.8 37 0.7 100,001–2,000,000 7,003,482 5.3 4.1 5 0.1 2,000,001–10,000,000 49,559,680 37.2 50.6 9 0.2 10,000,001– 55,900,908 42.0 33.0 2 0.0 Anonymous ownership 4,752 417 3.6 2.8 N/A N/A Total 133,220,736 100.0 100.0 5,575 100.0 Monitoring by analysts CALENDAR INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS ABG Sundal Collier Tobias Kaj 2019 Annual General Meeting 27/03/2019 Atrium Ljungberg’s primary information Carnegie Investment Bank Erik Granström Interim Report: channel is the company’s website, www.al.se. All press releases and financial DNB Mattias Montgomery January–March 2019 12/04/2019 reports are published here. M ­ eetings are Handelsbanken Capital David Hemmish January–June 2019 09/07/2019 ­Markets regularly organised for analysts, share­ January–September 2019 18/10/2019 holders, potential investors and financiers, Kepler Cheuvreux/Swedbank Jan Ihrfelt 2019 Preliminary Financial February 2020 both in Sweden and abroad. Nordea Niclas Höglund ­Statements Pareto Securities Johan Edberg 2019 Annual Report March 2020 SEB Merchant Banking Stefan Andersson ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 81 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT THE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRONG LEADERSHIP DEVELOPS VISION FURTHER Atrium Ljungberg is continuing its efforts to develop our vision, “Our city – where everyone thrives”. We took a big step in the right direction in 2018 by making several acquisitions with great development potential, Slakthusområdet in Stockholm in particular — a unique area where we are planning attractive urban development. It is with a great deal of confidence that I, in my role as Chairman of the Board, am entering 2019. High activity is one way of characterising 2018. I would say that it Our agreement concerning Slakthusområdet, located south of was one of the most expansive years in the company’s history. This the Stockholm city centre, is completely in line with this vision. Over level of activity is completely in line with our vision and strategy of the next years, we will create a small city with workplaces, homes, with a high investment rate, to offer our customers and stakeholders retail and cultural offerings — this is a project with a high degree of attractive urban environments. sustainability. Favourable urban development must a ­ lways, to the We have been pursuing this laborious work for many years, and greatest possible extent, aim to simplify life for all stakeholders. it intensified in 2018 — not least with our agreement with the City It is gratifying that in both Slakthusområdet and other urban of Stockholm to acquire Slakthusområdet and the acquisition of ­development projects, we will be able to inject residential property as Katarinahuset at Slussen. One decisive reason for our growth-­ a natural part of a context. Doing so will lead to a more diversified oriented urban development is that Atrium Ljungberg’s executive portfolio and operations. Since Atrium Ljungberg owns a great deal management, with Annica Ånäs at the helm, is talented, driven, of land, it is a natural step for us to develop attractive residential ­ambitious and, perhaps most important of all, truly long-term in property on our own land. ­approach. CHANGING WORLD FAVOURABLE URBAN DEVELOPMENT THAT CREATES VALUE The future will bring major changes. Retail will be reshaped in a We continued to make great strides during the year in terms of major way, and it is unclear how it will develop in the future. Atrium ­being a leading urban developer. Atrium Ljungberg’s compass is Ljungberg is addressing this challenge with a great deal of respect ­unambiguous: we develop spaces with urban life and a variety of and humility — as well as proactively. We do not have all of the content, where people can live, work, socialise, shop and do ­answers, but 2018 was a year of innovation for the company which ­errands. This approach creates value for the people who live and resulted in a considerable number of initiatives aimed at satisfying work in our areas, as well as for investors, shareholders, our customers’ needs. Management keeps these issues in mind in ­municipalities and society as a whole. all of its discussions and in relation to the company’s development. 82 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT THE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Both property companies and politicians face challenges in the THANK YOU TO EVERYONE WHO MADE IT POSSIBLE residential market. There is a huge need for residential properties Atrium Ljungberg’s business model is based on us generating profit by in many areas of the country, not least where Atrium Ljungberg is working together with our customers and focusing on our properties active, but the market is uncertain and cautious. Our residential and project development. We do not rely on cyclical fluctuations or ­investment is underway. Our financial strength and our brand are market-wide increases in value. Atrium Ljungberg has worked this important components in terms of being able to effectively deliver way for a long time and will continue to do so in the future. Naturally, on our promises in these uncertain times as well. none of this would have been possible without the committed indiCapital, primarily loan capital, is the most important commodity viduals working at the company. I would therefore like to say thank for a property company. Interest rates are still very low, but what the you very much to the fantastic employees at Atrium Ljungberg for future holds is increasingly unclear. Atrium Ljungberg has taken all your work over the past year. steps in this respect as well to ensure long-term, secure financing. We added two new sources of financing to our loan stock during the year: direct financing with an institutional partner and a bond issue in Norwegian krone. This diversifies our loan stock and provides long-term security. Johan Ljungberg, Chairman of the Board NEW EXPERTISE ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sara Laurell has been a new name on our Board since March 2018. She has solid know-how in retail. She was previously the CEO of one of our tenant companies and has worked as a management ­consultant within global retail. Sara brings additional insights and understanding to our current change management process. ” When speaking of 2018 at Atrium Ljungberg, the year is characterised as being highly active. I would say that it was one of the most expansive years in the company’s history. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 83 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Nomination Nomination Information Atrium Ljungberg AB is a Swedish public limited company with registered offices in Nacka. The Articles of Association prescribe NOMINATION COMMITTEE SHAREHOLDERS THROUGH AGM the company’s operations as follows: the company shall conduct construction operations, own and manage real property or leaseholds and securities, conduct trade in Proposal properties, and engage in any and all other activities compatible therewith. The Articles of Association do not contain any provisions for changes in the Articles of Association. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE members were appointed, consisting of The company’s class B share (ATRLJ B) is The structure of corporate governance Lars Ericson representing the Stockholm listed on the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm exwithin Atrium Ljungberg is presented in the Consumer Cooperative society, Per-Erik change, the Large Cap. The foundation of image and the following sections. Hasselberg (also the Nomination Commitcorporate governance comprises the Articles tee’s Chairman) representing the Holmof Association, the Swedish Companies Act, NOMINATION COMMITTEE ström family, Hans Hedström representing other applicable laws and ordinances, the The Nomination Committee is the General Carnegie Fonder, Johan Ljungberg repreregulatory framework of the stock exchange, Meeting’s body for preparing the meeting’s senting the Ljungberg family, and Ilkka the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), internal resolutions on appointment-related issues. Tomperi representing the mutual occupaguidelines and policies and the Swedish The Nomination Committee shall propose tional pension insurance company, Varma. Code of Corporate Governance, (“the Code”). a basis for the Meeting’s handling of the In some cases the Nomination Committee The overriding purpose of the Code is to ­following issues: can increase the number of members to strengthen the confidence of Swedish quoted • the election of the Chairman of the maximum seven. companies by promoting a positive developMeeting, the Chairman of the Board and ment of the corporate governance. These other Members of the Board of Directors OWNERS AND SHARES norms are not compulsory but are based on of the company; The company’s share capital amounted to the principle that any deviations should be • the determination of Directors’ fees for SEK 333,051,840 on 31 December 2018, specified and explained. During the year the the Chairman of the Board, other Board ­divided among 4,000,000 class A shares (ten company has not reported any deviations Members, and any remuneration for votes per share) and 129,220,736 class B from the Code and has otherwise complied committee work and, where relevant, the shares (one vote per share). The company with good practice in the stock market. election and remuneration of Auditors; holds 2,761,000 own class B shares. With ­Atrium Ljungberg strives for openness for the • decisions on principles relating to the the exception of holding own shares, there company’s decision-making pathways, restructure of the Nomination Committee is no restriction on voting rights. The comsponsibilities, and different control systems. ahead of impending Annual General pany's market capitalisation at year-end Meetings; ­totalled SEK 19,642 million. Atrium Ljungberg’s target is for the dividend to Steering instruments At the Annual General Meeting held on ­correspond to at least 50 per cent of the 28 March 2018, it was decided that the profit before changes in value after nominal Internal steering instruments Nomination Committee for the 2019 Annual tax unless investments or the company’s The business concept, business plan, goals and General Meeting shall comprise representa­financial position otherwise mandate a strategies, the formal work plan of the Board of ­Directors, the CEO’s instructions, policies, job tives of the company’s five biggest share­deviation from this norm. More information ­descriptions, delegation instructions and authorisaholders by votes, as of the last banking day on the ownership structure is available on tion instructions and core values. in February. The Nomination Committee’s pages 80–81. Also refer to the diagram External steering instruments found there. The Nordic Exchange rules for issues, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, the Swedish ComOwners that represent at least 1/10 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING panies Act, IFRS, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, of the number of votes The shareholders’ influence within the GRI and other relevant legislation. The Stockholm company is exercised through the Annual Consumer General Meeting (AGM) of the company’s Cooperative Society 29.2/23.3 shareholders, which is the company’s most % of the capital/votes senior decision-making body and should be 5,575 held within six months of the end of the ­financial year. The AGM appoints the Board of Directors and the company’s auditors, Ljungberg family Number of shareholders at year-end Holmström family 22.0/29.5 and adopts principles governing remunera12.4/19.7 84 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Nomination Information BOARD OF DIRECTORS The entire Board fulfils the Audit and Remuneration Committees' CEO AND COMPANY MANAGEMENT AUDITORS ­assignments Information Reporting Reporting tion to the Board of Directors, the auditors, • establishment of a nomination commityield are fulfilled. The responsibility also tee representing the five biggest shareand the company’s senior executives. The covers efficient and appropriate systems holders by vote as of the last banking Meeting also takes decisions with regard to for governance, internal control and risk day in February 2018; the Articles of Association, dividends, and management. • guidelines for the remuneration of any changes to the share capital. The AGM ­senior executives within the Group; As a supplement to the Swedish Compashould also adopt the balance sheet and • decision on loan subsidy programme for nies Act, the Articles of Association and the ­income statements and decide on the senior executives when acquiring shares Code, the Board annually determines a ­discharge from liability for the Board of in the company; ­formal work plan (including the CEO’s ­Directors and the CEO. The date of the AGM • decision on employee stock option ­instructions, instructions for financial reporting, is announced in conjunction with the Interim ­programme; business plan and budget, policy for business Report of 30 September at the latest. Notices • authorisation to the Board of Directors, ethics, supplier policy, affiliated policy, equal convening the Annual General Meeting shall on one or several occasions, to acquire opportunity and discrimination policy, sustainbe issued 4–6 weeks before the meeting as many class B shares that the compaability policy, work environment policy, corpoand shall be issued by means of press ny’s holding at the respective time does rate communication policy, financial policy, ­releases, announcements in the Swedish not exceed 10 per cent of all shares in crisis policy, IT policy, information security Official Gazette, and on the company’s webthe company, in a regulated market policy, policy for processing personal data, site, www.al.se. The issue of the convening where the shares are listed; whistleblowing policy, insider trading policy and notice shall be announced in the Dagens • authorisation to the Board of Directors tax policy). The formal work plan governs Nyheter newspaper. Shareholders are to, on one or several occasions, decide the Board’s work structure. The Chairman ­entitled to have an issue discussed at the on an issue in kind of maximum SEK of the Board organises and leads the work meeting if the Board is provided with notice 13.3 million shares of class B. of the Board, ensures that the Board has thereof no later than seven weeks before the Minutes of the Annual General Meeting and the expertise and know-how required to meeting is held. The 2018 Annual General other meeting documents are available on perform its duties, that the Board receives Meeting was held on 28 March and was the company’s website. the information and decision data required ­attended by 160 shareholders representing for its work, that the Board’s resolutions are 83.7 per cent of the share capital and 87.2 BOARD OF DIRECTORS implemented, and that the work of the per cent of the votes. The Annual General The Board has comprised of six members Board is evaluated every year. The Board’s Meeting took decisions on, amongst other during the year (information about the assignments include setting operational things, the following issues: members is contained on page 88). The goals and strategies, appointing, evaluating • adoption of income statements and Code states that a majority of the Board and if necessary dismissing the CEO, balance sheets for the parent company shall be independent in relation to the com­ensuring that effective systems are put in and the Group; pany and the senior executives. At least two place for monitoring and control of the • granting of discharge from liability for of the independent members must also be company’s operations and that there is the Board of Directors and the CEO; independent in relation to the company’s compliance with legislative and other • determination of the appropriation of major shareholders. The composition of the ­requirements, and deciding on transfer of profits entailing a dividend of SEK 4.50 Board complies with the independence reproperties and companies as well as investper share; quirements. The Articles of Association do ments of SEK 20 million or more. The work • election of the Board of Directors; • determination of Directors’ fees totalling not contain any provisions on the appointof the Board and CEO should be evaluated SEK 1,540,000, broken down as SEK ment and dismissal of board members. annually. The formal work plan prescribes 440,000 payable to the Chairman of the The Board has overall responsibility for that the Board shall, over and above the Board and SEK 220,000 payable to each the company’s organisation, financial reBoard Meeting following election, meet at of the Board Members; porting and for ensuring that management least five times per year. The Board has • determination of Auditors’ fees in of the company’s affairs is handled in a held eight ordinary Board Meetings of which ­accordance with an approved presentamanner which ensures that the interests of one Board Meeting following election was tion of invoice; owners for long-term favourable capital held during the year. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 85 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT T  he Board’s annual planning in addition to standing items, such as investment decisions, progress report, ongoing projects and management, liquidity and financing December Board meeting: February Board meeting: – Budget, business and action plans Dec Jan – Full year profit/loss – Annual Report – Sustainability issues Nov Feb – Proposed allocation of profits – Actions ahead of the AGM October Board meeting: – Feedback report from Auditors – Q3 Report, forecasts Oct March – Feedback report from Auditors March Board meeting: The AGM March: – Financing strategy September Board meeting: – Preparations for – Vision, business concept, Sep April the AGM Board Meeting following election: strategies – Q1 Report, – Subsidiary companies’ meetings – Business intelligence analysis forecasts – Board of Directors Aug May – Budget preconditionsr – Company signatories July June July Board meeting: June Board meeting: – Q2 Report, – CEO’s instructions forecasts – Policies – Formal work plan – Audit plan Board of Directors, 2018 RemuneraElected tion, SEK Independent* Independent** Note Board Meetings Johan Ljungberg Chairman 2001 440,000 Yes No 1) 8 of 8 Sune Dahlqvist Member 2006 220,000 Yes Yes 2) 8 of 8 Simon de Château Member 2014 220,000 Yes Yes 8 of 8 Anna Hallberg Member 2009 220,000 Yes Yes 8 of 8 Erik Langby Member 2014 220,000 Yes Yes 8 of 8 Sara Laurell Member 2018 220,000 Yes Yes 3) 6 of 8 People who resigned from the AGM in 2018: Hanna Graflund Sleyman Member 2015 – Yes Yes 4) 2 of 8 * Independent in relation to the company and the company 1) C  hairman of the Board as of the 2015 Annual General Meeting. ­management. Member 2009–2015. Deputy Member, 2001–2009. Directly and/or * * Independent in relation to the company’s major shareholders. indirectly a major shareholder in the company. 2) Deputy Member of the Board, 2006–2011. 3) Elected at the 2018 Annual General Meeting. 4) Member until the Annual General Meeting in 2018. Company Management CEO Annica Ånäs Business Development Transactions and Business Support Property Business Area Project Business Area HR Business Area ­Leasing Business Area ­Business Area Mattias Celinder Angela Berg Helena Martini Linus Kjellberg Monica Fallenius Martin Lindqvist Remuneration for company management 2018 Basic Other Other Pension Share-related SEK k salary/fee ­remuneration ­benefits costs remuneration Total Annica Ånäs, CEO 5,847 – 39 1,914 – 7,800 Other senior executives 11,701 96 219 2,883 – 14,899 86 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT In 2018, the Board laid down the overall Nomination Committee. The work of the consists of the CEO and six other senior goals for the company’s operations and CEO is evaluated continually and at least ­executives. The CEO’s remuneration shall ­decided on the strategies needed to achieve once a year without company management be proposed by the Chairman and deterthese goals. Goals and goal fulfilment are being present. mined by the Board of Directors. Remuneradescribed on pages 11–13 of the Annual The company’s auditors have reported tion payable to other members of the senior ­report. The Board has decided on all investon their work and observations to the Board management team shall be proposed by the ments in excess of SEK 20 million and on on two occasions during the year, on one of CEO and approved by the Board. Remuneraproperty acquisitions and sales carried out. these occasions without company managetion payable to the senior company manageThere has been a strong focus on ongoing ment being present. ment team, including the CEO, comprises a and future investment projects, sustainability The company’s Corporate Counsel has fixed salary. No variable salary or per­for­m­ issues, transfer of land and financing isacted as Secretary to the Board. The Chairance-­related remuneration shall be payable. sues. Feedback reports from the Group man of the Board has had continuous conA loan subsidy programme was adopted at management with regard to the company’s tact with the CEO during the year. the 2018 Annual General Meeting for senior economic and financial position, sustainaexecutives when acquiring shares in the bility reporting, current market issues, and CEO AND COMPANY MANAGEMENT company. The CEO’s retirement age is 62, ongoing projects have been presented at The structure of the company management while that of the other members of the the Board Meetings. Results in comparison team appears in the image on page 86. In company management is 65. Pension plans with the budget have been reported quarterly addition to ongoing matters within each funcare defined contribution plans, and the during the year, together with revised foretion, the company management has prioricompany hence has no additional obligations casts for the financial year. The annual tised issues concerning ongoing investment after payment of the annual premiums. planning of the Board is presented in the projects, transfer of land, financing issues, The CEO shall, if notice of termination is image on the previous page. business development and sustainability given by the company, be entitled to a 12 The Board members have appropriate ­issues. month notice period and severance pay corcollected experience, expertise and breadth Annica Ånäs (born in 1971) took over as responding to 12 months’ salary. No other with respect to Atrium Ljungberg’s operaCEO of the company in February 2016. She severance pay is payable. Other members of tions, development phases and conditions was employed in the company in 2011 as the the senior management have notice periods in general. The formal work plan does not company’s CFO and was also an employee of up to 6 months. The terms and conditions contain any provisions on work allocation 2008–2010. Annica Ånäs also has experience applied by the company for other Group between the members. The entire Board as CFO at Hemsö Fastigheter and served as employees, either in accordance with colhas comprised the Audit and Remuneration CEO within the communication sector. She lective agreements or in accordance with Committees, in that the Board has deemed also has experience of several directorships unilateral undertakings by the company to it more appropriate to address these issues including the listed Finnish property company the employees, shall otherwise apply, where within the context of the normal work of the Technopolis. Annica Ånäs has been proposed applicable, to the company management. Board. The Remuneration Committee prefor election to JM AB’s Board of Directors Departure from the above-mentioned pares, complies with and evaluates issues from March 2019. Annica Ånäs has an guidelines by the Board of Directors is concerning terms of employment and any ­academic background as Legal Counsel and ­permitted if there are specific grounds for programmes for variable remuneration Graduate Business Administrator. Annica doing so in a particular instance. for the company management, guidelines Ånäs holds 38,000 class B shares in Atrium for remuneration of senior executives and Ljungberg. She has no shareholdings in AUDITING remuneration structures and levels in the companies with which Atrium Ljungberg Ernst & Young was elected at the 2015 company. The Audit Committee is responsible has significant commercial links. ­Annual General Meeting to act as auditors for preparation of the Board’s work on quality The other members of the senior with authorised public accountant Jonas assurance of the company’s financial ­management are presented on page 105 Svensson as the auditor in charge. In 2016 ­reporting, regularly meets the company’s and the organisation structure on page 86. Jonas Svensson was replaced by authorised auditors to learn about the focus and scope public accountant Ingemar Rindstig. Jonas of the audit and to discuss the coordination R  EMUNERATION FOR SENIOR Svensson was reinstated as the principal between the external and internal audit and ­EXECUTIVES auditor in 2018. view of the company’s risks, establishes Resolutions regarding guidelines for remuThe auditing team has ongoing contact guidelines for which services besides the neration for senior executives were adopted for information purposes with the company audit the company may procure from the at the Annual General Meeting held in 2018, during the year, over and above the review company’s auditor, evaluates the audit effort which conform to the proposals for guideactivities conducted. The Board meets with and informs the company’s Nomination lines for 2019. Salaries and other terms of the auditor at least twice a year, one of Committee about the results of the evaluaemployment for the company management which meetings is held in the absence of tion and assists the Nomination Committee shall be market-based and competitive, but the company management. The company’s for preparing proposals for auditors and shall not be market leaders in terms of auditors audit the annual financial state­remuneration of the audit effort. ­salary paid in relation to other comparable ments and also carry out a review of the The Board’s work structure and efficiency companies. The guidelines shall apply ­interim accounts as per 30 September and are evaluated annually and presented to the for the senior management team which review the company’s internal controls. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 87 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS Top row from the left: Simon de Château, Sara Laurell and Erik Langby. Bottom row from the left: Sune Dahlqvist, Anna Hallberg and Johan Ljungberg. SIMON DE CHÂTEAU SARA LAURELL ERIK LANGBY Function: Member of the Board. Function: Member of the Board. Function: Member of the Board. Profession/Elected to Board of Directors year: Chief Profession/Elected to Board of Directors year: Profession/Elected to Board of Directors year: Chairman Investment Officer in Alma Property Partners. Member of Management Consultant and CEO/2018. of the municipal executive board of Nacka 1983–2012. the Board since 2014. Education: Graduate Business Administrator, Stockholm Member of the Board since 2014. Education: Graduate Business Administrator, the School of Economics and MBA Harvard Business School. Education: Social sciences education, Stockholm University. Stockholm School of Economics. Relevant professional experience: Many years’ experience Relevant professional experience: Many years’ experience Relevant professional experience: CEO of Sveafastig­heter, in retail transformation, including five years as the CEO of as a municipal commissioner and county council board head of corporate finance and analyst at Leimdörfer. Twilfit and ten years as a management consultant. chairman. Owner of business focused on societal issues. Other significant directorships1): Chairman of the Board of Other significant directorships1): No other significant Other significant directorships1): Chairman of the Board of Alma Property Partners AB. Member of the Board of directorships. Nacka StrandsMässan AB. Member of the Board of Willhem AB (publ) and Akka Egendom AB. Born: 1971. Kommuninvest i Sverige AB and Bostadsrätterna Sverige. Born: 1970. Own and related parties’ shareholding: 2,495 class B Chairman of the municipal council of Sigtuna Municipality. Own and related parties’ shareholding: 20,000 class B shares. Born: 1951. shares. Own and related parties’ shareholding: 1,000 class B shares. SUNE DAHLQVIST ANNA HALLBERG JOHAN LJUNGBERG Function: Member of the Board. Function: Member of the Board. Function: Chairman of the Board. Profession/Elected to Board of Directors year: Former Profession/Elected to Board of Directors year: Deputy CEO Profession/Elected to Board of Directors year: Chairman negotiations director for the Swedish Union of Tenants, of Almi Företagspartner AB. Member of the Board since of the Board of Tagehus AB. Member of the Board since Stockholm Region. Member of the Board since 2011. 2009. 2009. Deputy Member of the Board 2001–2009, and Deputy Member of the Board, 2006–2011. Education: Economics & Law graduate of the Gothenburg Member of the Board for part of 2006. Education: LO’s folk high school. School of Economics and Business Administration. Education: Graduate Engineer. Relevant professional experience: extensive experience in Relevant professional experience: Deputy CEO of Almi Relevant professional experience: Many years’ experience the property industry and within urban and community Företagspartner AB, member of the Board of Lifco, from the property and capital market. planning. management positions at SEB, project manager corporate Other significant directorships1): Chairman of the Board Other significant directorships1): Chairman of Fastighets& structure finance at Öhman Fondkommission. and member of the Boards of companies within the bolaget Folkets Hus Åkersberga AB. Other significant directorships1): Member of the Board of Tagehus Group. Chairman of the Board of Credentia AB Born: 1948. Mid Sweden University and Lifco. and John Mattsson. Own and related parties’ shareholding: 1,000 class B Born: 1963. Born: 1972. shares. Own and related parties’ shareholding: 2,000 class B Own and related parties’ shareholding: 1,396,410 class A shares. shares and 22,304,588 class B shares. 1) Does not include intra-Group directorships. 88 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE MANAGEMENT Top row from the left: Angela Berg, Martin Lindqvist, Mattias Celinder and Helena Martini. Bottom row from the left: Monica Fallenius, Annica Ånäs and Linus Kjellberg. ANGELA BERG MARTIN LINDQVIST MATTIAS CELINDER HELENA MARTINI Function: Business Area Director, Projects. Function: CFO and Business Area Director, Function: Business Area Director, Function: HR Director. Employed since: Employee of Atrium Business support. Properties. Employed since: Employee of Atrium Ljungberg since 2011. Employed since: Employee of Atrium Employed since: Employee of Atrium Ljungberg since 2010. Education: Civil Engineering Graduate in Ljungberg since 2016. Ljungberg since 2006. Education: Tourism Programme at Dalarna Road and Water, KTH Royal Institute of Education: M. Phil. in Business Education: Graduate Business Administrator University College. Technology. Administration, Mid Sweden University. Relevant professional experience: Relevant professional experience: HR Relevant professional experience: Project Relevant professional experience: Management positions in the hotel, Director at Microsoft. management positions in the construction Management positions and international restaurant and travel industries. Other significant directorships1): – and property industry. experience from Tetra Pak, Munters and Other significant directorships1): – Born: 1965. Other significant directorships1): Member Aleris, among others. Born: 1972. Own and related parties’ shareholding: of the Board of HENT AS. Other significant directorships1): – Own and related parties’ shareholding: 10,660 class B shares. Born: 1975. Born: 1970. 9,958 class B shares. Own and related parties’ shareholding: Own and related parties’ shareholding: 3,200 class B shares. No shareholding. MONICA FALLENIUS ANNICA ÅNÄS LINUS KJELLBERG Function: Business Area Director, Function: CEO: Function: Business Area Director, Business Transactions and Leasing. Employed since: Previously CFO. Employed Development. Employed since: Employee of Atrium by Atrium Ljungberg since 2011; also Employed since: Employee of Atrium Ljungberg since 2017. employed between 2008 and 2010. Ljungberg since 2003. Education: Construction Engineer, Öster-­ Education: LL.B and Graduate Business Education: M. Phil. History and Urban sund University College. Property Administrator Centre Planning, KTH. Management, KTH Royal Institute of Relevant professional experience: CFO of Relevant professional experience: Technology. Hemsö and CEO in the communication Business analyst, business developer and Relevant professional experience: Many industry. Several directorships, for example project manager in the property industry. years’ experience from various companies property company Technopolis. Other significant directorships1): Member and positions in the property industry. Other significant directorships1): – of the Board of Barkarby Science AB. Other significant directorships1): – Born: 1971. Born: 1972. Born: 1972. Own and related parties’ shareholding: Own and related parties’ shareholding: Own and related parties’ shareholding: 38,000 class B shares. 250 class B shares. 14,500 class B shares. 1) Does not include intra-group directorships. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 89 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERNAL CONTROL INTERNAL CONTROL The Board of Directors is, subject to the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, responsible for the company’s internal control. This report has been prepared in accordance with chapter. 6, §6 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and is consequently limited to internal control in respect of the financial reporting. The company has, in order to describe the internal control, followed the framework established by COSO (the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations), which comprises five components, namely control environment, risk management and assessment, control activities, information and corporate communication, and follow-up work. CONTROL ENVIRONMENT The company management is responsible the Global Compact and has consequently The Board of Directors has overall responfor structuring, documenting, maintaining signed up to the ten principles in the fields sibility for ensuring good internal control and testing the systems and processes of human rights, labour law, the environment and effective risk management. The Board needed to minimise risks as part of the and anti-corruption. The company also adopts a formal work plan every year, laying ­operating activities and financial reporting. ­reports in accordance with GRI (Global down the Board’s responsibilities and reguThere are, in addition to policy documents, ­Reporting Initiative). A GRI index is presented lating the Board’s internal division of labour. delegation instructions, authorisation on pages 155–156 of the Annual Report, and The Board has decided that the entire ­instructions, and job descriptions for the the company’s formal Sustainability Report Board shall comprise both the Audit Com­respective employees containing details of is available on pages 18–25 and 129–139. mittee and the Remuneration Committee. the employees’ responsibilities and authoriFor a more detailed presentation, see the The Board exercises its control primarily ties, and standardised reporting routines. company’s website at www.al.se. through the annual adoption of policy docuThe company also has very well-supported ments, CEO’s instructions, delegation core values that permeate every aspect of RISK MANAGEMENT AND ASSESSMENT ­instructions, instructions for the financial our operations, such as reliability, a longRisk assessment means that Atrium reporting, operational goals and strategies, term approach, and collaboration. Ljungberg has identified the work processes and business plans and budgets. Atrium Ljungberg is also a member of and income statement and balance sheet items where there is a risk that inaccuracy, POLICIES ISSUED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS incompleteness, or improprieties could arise if the requisite control activities are Policy for business Describes the behaviour that is expected of the employees not built into the routines. Risk assessment ­ethics accordingly analyses whether errors could Supplier policy Supplier Code of Conduct occur and, if so, how and where they could occur in the process. The risk assessment Affiliated policy Identifies related parties and transactions with related parties in work has identified the items where the risk accordance with the regulations of significant errors is greatest, namely Equal opportunity and Steering document about issues surrounding equal opportunities and all items where the sums involved in the transdiscrimination policy kinds of discrimination actions are substantial or where the proSustainability policy Overall ambitions for the company’s environmental and social cess is highly complex and requires strong ­responsibilities internal control. The three most important Work environment policy Guidelines for work environment management risk areas are: project operations, property Communication policy Guidelines for our external and internal communication valuation and financing activities. Financial policy Guidelines and regulations for how financial activities should be carried out PROJECT OPERATIONS IT policy Forms the basis for the company’s approach to IT issues During 2018 the company invested SEK Information security The aim is to minimise risks that can jeopardise secrecy and confidentiality 1,758 million in own properties, of which the ­policy investments in Gränbystaden and Sickla Policy for processing Concerns personal data processing and protection ­account for the largest share. No investments personal data are made until a reasonable yield can be Whistleblowing policy Enables employees and stakeholders to report any improprieties secured. Detailed costing calculations based on extensive expertise in the field are Insider trading policy Concerns securities trading carried out in order to minimise the risks Crisis policy Aims to avoid or limit crises inherent in construction projects. ProcureTax policy Guides our employees in what to do in tax issues ment is conducted cost-effectively using ­in-house project managers by means of a 90 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT INTERNAL CONTROL so-called divided contract process whereby • The financing process in order to ensure that external communiseveral operators are allowed to submit • Routines in conjunction with property cation with the stock market is correct. Our quotes for individual components of the transactions aim is to generate an understanding of and construction project. Project reviews are confidence in the operations on the part of conducted every quarter and attended by See the section “Risks and risk manageowners, investors, analysts and other stakethe Chairperson of the steering group, busiment” on pages 72–76 with regard to other holders. ness developers, project managers, the identified risks. The company management is responsible CFO, and the project controller. Project for informing relevant employees of their ­reports are submitted on a rolling basis to CONTROL ACTIVITIES responsibilities with regard to the maintethe company management and the Board, A number of control activities have been nance of good internal control. Employees noting any deviations from the plan. ­introduced in order to prevent inaccuracies are kept up to date with regulations and occurring and with the aim of ensuring that policies via the company’s intranet and PROPERTY VALUATION the control goals are fulfilled. The work on ­information meetings. The creation of job Monitoring trends in the property market in risk assessment and structuring of control descriptions for every position within the order to ensure the ability to assess the activities has been conducted by individuals company also ensures clarity with regard to properties’ market values is one of the involved in the respective processes on an division of responsibility. ­important components of the valuation ongoing basis, in cooperation with the com­process. During 2018 the company consepany’s controllers, Senior Controller, and FOLLOW-UP WORK quently conducted quarterly reconciliations CFO in order to ensure participation and an All process descriptions, policies and steering with external valuation experts. The company understanding of the risks and the impordocuments are updated as necessary, but at conducts internal valuations during each tance of conducting internal controls. Interleast once a year. An evaluation of the internal quarter and also conducts external valuanally, the company also works continuously controls is also conducted every year. Both tions at the turn of the full-year and halfto evaluate and enhance the efficiency of its the senior management and the Board of year. For 2018, 62 per cent of the property control activities. The controls are carried Directors are notified of the results. Atrium portfolio has been externally valued. External out both at an overall level, through analyLjungberg has no internal audit department. valuation experts also quality assure ses of results and key ratios, and at a deThe system for internal controls is followed ­assumed rents, costs, vacancies and yield tailed level by defining a number of control up by the Group’s CFO, the Senior Controller, requirements in conjunction with the internal points in the ongoing processes and routine Accounting Managers, the company’s Convaluation processes. descriptions. The company’s results are trollers (who have specialist competence), compared with budgets and forecasts every and through self-evaluation, and feedback FINANCING ACTIVITIES quarter and ongoing projects are monitored is provided to the Board of Directors. These Property operations are a capital-intensive in relation to Board resolutions. Detailed controls are deemed to be necessary and sector, which often entails a range of financommentaries are submitted to the company sufficient to generate appropriate knowledge, cial risks. The main risks involve fluctuations management and Board of Directors in feedback of experience and high quality in in profits and cash flow as a result of ­accordance with standardised reporting the ongoing accountancy work, and hence changes in interest rates, and refinancing routines as part of the follow-up work. in the financial reporting. The company’s risks. These risks are regulated in the comThe company has an external whistleauditors also conduct ongoing reviews of pany’s financial policy and are monitored blower function and continually takes action the company’s controls and report their continuously by the company’s manageto reduce the risk of corruption, for example, findings on the company’s internal control ment and Board of Directors. The Board by auditing the company’s suppliers or by to the company’s senior management and also monitors compliance with mandates offering in-house training. Board. For 2018 the auditors considered the specified in the financial policy. following focus areas during the review of INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION internal control; the project process, letting The following processes have also been The Annual Accounts, Preliminary Financial process, purchasing process, payroll process, ­analysed during the year in addition to the Statement, Interim Reports and other onyear-end accounts process, property valuaabove-mentioned risk areas: going information are prepared in accordtion process, financing process, procedures • The project process ance with Swedish legislative requirements for property transactions. The 2018 feedback • The letting process and praxis. The information provision shall report of the auditors shows that Atrium • The purchasing process be characterised by transparency and shall Ljungberg has very good internal control. • The payroll process be reliable. A corporate communication The Board believes that the establishment • The year-end accounts process ­policy regulating the way in which informaof a separate internal audit function is • The property valuation process tion is to be provided has been established ­consequently not justified. Information and Control environment Risk assessments Control activities communication Follow-up work ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 91 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF ­COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Amounts in SEK m Note 2018 2017 Rental income IK 1 2,412 2,389 Sales, project and construction work 217 174 Net sales IK 3 2,629 2,563 Property management costs Service charge-related costs –186 –186 Other operating costs –173 –157 Management costs –157 –153 Repairs –58 –58 Property tax –150 –142 Leasehold fees –27 –35 Non-deductible VAT –12 –11 IK 4-7 –764 –742 Project and construction work costs IK 8 –246 –206 Gross profit/loss IK 3 1,619 1,616 — of which gross profit/loss property management (operating surplus) 1,648 1,647 — of which gross profit/loss from project and construction work –29 –31 Central administration, property management IK 2 –73 –48 Central administration, project and construction work IK 2 –30 –16 –103 –64 Financial income F3 1 1 Financial expenses F3 –303 –372 –302 –372 Profit/loss before changes in value 1,214 1,180 Changes in value Properties, unrealised T1 IK 9 2,516 1,817 Properties, realised T1 121 –4 Derivatives, unrealised F2 –70 121 Derivatives, realised F2 1 –5 2,568 1,930 Profit/loss before tax 3,781 3,110 Current tax S1 –35 –9 Deferred tax S 1–3 –294 –542 –329 –551 Net profit/loss for the year 3,453 2,559 Other comprehensive income Items which will be reclassified to profit/loss Cash flow hedging F2 16 18 Tax attributable to other reported income and expenses S3 –3 –4 Total other comprehensive income 13 14 Total comprehensive income for the year 3,466 2,573 Data per share Earnings per share, SEK 26.15 19.21 Average number of outstanding shares, ‘000 132,019 133,221 92 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DIRECTORS’ REPORT COMMENTS | COMMENTS ON THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF ­COMPREHENSIVE INCOME NET SALES liabilities. Financial income totalled SEK Property costs trend The Group's net sales totalled SEK 2,629 1 million (SEK 1 m). 2018 2017 Change, % million (SEK 2,563 m), of which rental inLike-for-like portfolio –631 –613 2.8 come increased to SEK 2,412 million (SEK CHANGES IN VALUE 2,389 m). Rental income increased by 2.9 Project properties –56 –42 Unrealised changes in the value of properties per cent (4.4 per) cent in like-for-like portProperties acquired –45 –24 totalled SEK 2,516 million (SEK 1,817 m) folios as a result of new letting and renegoProperties sold –33 –62 and are explained in the table below. tiations. The letting rate was 95 per cent Property management costs –764 –742 2.9 Unrealised changes in value (95 %), including project properties. Contracted annual rents at the year-end totalled SEK m 2018 2017 GROSS PROFIT SEK 2,483 million (SEK 2,357 m). During the Change in yield requirements 487 947 Gross profit for property management year, non-recurring payments of SEK 5 milChange in operating net, etc. 2,029 865 ­(operating surplus) increased to SEK 1,648 lion (SEK 13 m) were received for premature Development rights – 5 million (SEK 1,647 m), an increase of 0.1 per vacating of premises. In the previous year, Total 2,516 1,817 cent (13 %) compared to the previous year. SEK 45 million was received in the settlement The previous year's operating surplus was Realised changes in the value of properties of a rent dispute, of which SEK 40 million positively affected by a settlement of a rent totalled SEK 121 million (SEK –4 m). increased rental income. expense of SEK 40 million. During the year At the end of the year, the derivative portSales for project and construction activities the sale of properties was higher than the folio comprised SEK 9,296 million (9,396) in during the year totalled SEK 217 million (SEK contribution from acquired properties which interest rate swaps and currency swaps, with 174 m). TL Bygg’s sales totalled SEK 593 had a negative effect on operating surplus. maturity between 2018 and 2029. Currency million (SEK 638 m), of which SEK 386 million The surplus ratio fell to 68 per cent (69 %), swaps are used to hedge against foreign (SEK 518 m) comprised intra-Group sales. which is also linked to the vacating of ­exchange risk for the bond loan in Norwegian ­properties with a relatively high gross margin. krone. The unrealised change in the value Rental income trend For the comparable portfolio, property of derivatives during the year totalled SEK 2018 2017 Change, % ­expenses have increased by 2.9 per cent –70 million (SEK121 m) as market interest Like-for-like portfolio 2,025 1,969 2.9 (5.8 %) in comparison to the previous year. rates have increased on the terms covered Non-recurring ­remuneration 5 53 This increase is mostly caused by new by the derivatives during the period. Project properties 140 90 ­lettings and renegotiations. However, the vacating of premises during the year affected TAX Properties acquired 116 67 rental income, particularly in the fourth The current tax for the year totalled SEK Properties sold 126 211 quarter. Amended principles for the provi–35 million (SEK –9 m) and has been affected Rental income 2,412 2,389 1.0 sions for doubtful trade receivables in by, among other things, tax deductible At the end of the period the market value ­depreciation and investments, and by losses ­accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments for the comparable portfolio was SEK ­carried ­forward from the previous year’s tax have reduced the costs for anticipated 36,085 million (SEK 33,227 m). ­assessment. ­customer losses. Like-for-like net rental income growth The gross profit for project and construction The change in deferred tax amounted to activities totalled SEK –29 million (SEK –31 SEK –294 million (SEK –542 m) and has % m). The improved gross profit is primarily ­primarily been impacted by unrealised 6 due to a higher gross profit in TL Bygg, as changes in the value of properties, the sale well as lower marketing costs in project and of properties and derivatives, and a change 3 3.3 % 2.8 % 2.9 % construction activities. in the tax rate from 22.0 to 20.6 per cent. PROFIT CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION 0.0 % The Group posted a profit before changes 0 Costs totalled SEK –103 million (SEK –64 m) Offices Retail Residential Total in value of SEK 1,214 million (SEK 1,180 m), during the year. The increase in central an increase of 2.9 per cent. The net profit ­administration costs is mostly due to positive PROPERTY COSTS for the year totalled SEK 3,453 million (SEK non-recurring effects the previous year for Property costs totalled SEK –764 million 2,559 m), corresponding to SEK 26.15/share the retroactive settlement of the occupa(SEK –742 m), corresponding to a year-on(SEK 19.21/share). tional pension totalling SEK 13 million and year increase of 2.9 per cent. Property costs a settlement in a rent dispute totalling SEK in comparable portfolios increased by OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 5 million. In 2018 central a ­ dministration for Other comprehensive income reports reversal 2.8 per cent (1.3 %). The increase in property tenant-owned dwellings has been added. costs is mostly due to higher operating costs of the hedging reserve in shareholders’ equity caused by an increase in volumes when which relates to the derivatives (interest FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES swaps) which until 31/12/2011 applied hedge completing buildings, moving into project The financial costs amounted to SEK –303 properties, cautious cost calculations in accounting. As of this date Atrium Ljungberg million (SEK –372 m) and thereby were lower does not apply hedge accounting to these ­acquired properties, and operational cost despite a higher share of interest-bearing increases. instruments. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 93 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS Amounts in SEK m Note 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 ASSETS Fixed assets Investment properties T1 43,310 39,991 Tangible fixed assets T3 32 27 Goodwill T2 225 240 Participations in associated companies and joint ventures KS 2 0 0 Deferred tax receivable S2 2 6 Other long-term receivables 10 11 Total fixed assets 43,579 40,276 Current assets Development properties T7 891 870 Accounts receivable T4 104 150 Tax receivables 0 18 Other receivables T5 93 986 Prepaid costs and accrued income T6 126 118 Liquid assets F 1–2 335 344 Total current assets 1,549 2,487 Total assets 45,128 42,763 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity Share capital 333 333 Other capital contributed 3,960 3,960 Provisions –26 –39 Profits brought forward including net profit/loss for the year 16,429 13,969 Total shareholders’ equity attributable to the parent company’s shareholders 20,696 18,223 Long-term liabilities Deferred tax liability S3 4,598 4,531 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities F 1–2 18,506 16,415 Derivatives F2 349 484 Other long-term liabilities OS 1 202 73 Total long-term liabilities 23,655 21,503 Current liabilities Short-term interest-bearing liabilities F 1–2 0 1,832 Accounts payable 208 206 Tax liabilities 3 0 Other liabilities OS 2 91 464 Accrued costs and prepaid income OS 3 475 535 Total current liabilities 777 3,037 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 45,128 42,763 94 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DIRECTORS’ REPORT COMMENTS | COMMENTS ON THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS FIXED ASSETS DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY The reported value of the property portfolio The development properties are recognised Deferred tax liability is reported at 20.6 per totalled SEK 43,310 million (SEK 39,991 m) at the lowest of the costs expended and the cent of temporary differences between fiscal at year-end. Development rights and land estimated net realisable value. values and book values, primarily with regard account for SEK 877 million (SEK 684 m) of to investment properties and financial this total. Investments in Atrium Ljungberg’s Development properties ­instruments. The reported liability as of own properties amounted to SEK 1,758 milSEK m 2018 2017 31/12/2018 totalled SEK 4,598 million lion (1,593). During the year the properties At beginning of period 870 – (SEK 4,531 m). The year-on-year change is Kylfacket 3 and Tranbodarne 11 were Reclassification from attributable to unrealised changes in the ­acquired. The year's sales relate to the Investment properties – 870 value of properties and financial instruments, properties Dragarbrunn 19:1, Blästern 6, Investments 21 – fiscal depreciation of buildings, and direct Roddaren 7 and Arbetsstolen 3. The year’s Development properties, at deductions for investments. unrealised changes in the value of the period end 891 870 The probable effective tax rate is lower ­investment properties totalled SEK 2,516 Property portfolio, total 44,201 40,861 than 20.6 per cent. See further calculation million (SEK 1,817 m). of the company’s net worth on pages SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY ­123–124 in accordance with EPRA. CHANGE IN THE VALUE OF THE PROPERTY Shareholders’ equity on the closing day PORTFOLIO ­totalled SEK 20,696 million (SEK 18,223 m), INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES SEK m 2018 2017 corresponding to SEK 158.64/share (SEK At the turn of the year, the interest-bearing Property portfolio on 1 January 39,991 36,054 136.79/share). The change in the share­ liabilities in accordance with the balance Acquisitions 1,727 2,265 holders’ equity is mainly attributable to the sheet totalled SEK 18,506 million Investments in our own net profit for the year of SEK 3,453 million. (SEK 18,247 m), a net increase of SEK 259 ­properties­ 1,737 1,593 The hedging reserve has decreased by SEK million. The raising of new loans refers to Sales –2,662 –868 13 million. The change in the hedging refinancing of investments and acquisitions. Unrealised changes in value 2,516 1,817 serve refers to the successive reversal of The average capital commitment term Reclassification to the opening hedging reserve due to the fact was 4.6 years (3.5 years). The average fixed ­Development properties – –870 that the Group no longer applies hedge interest term was 4.1 years (4.4 years). The Property portfolio on ­accounting to interest swaps. During the gearing ratio was 41.9 per cent (44.7 %). 31 December 43,310 39,991 year, the company conducted a buy-back of The market value of derivatives at the The consolidated goodwill arose in conjuncits own shares totalling SEK 396 million. turn of the year totalled SEK –349 million tion with an operational acquisition and The dividend paid, which was approved (SEK –484 m). comprises the difference between nominal at the Annual General Meeting held on Atrium Ljungberg’s financing is described tax and the tax which the company actually 28 March 2018, totalled SEK 599 million. in more detail on pages 77–79. included during the acquisition. The reported The equity/assets ratio at year-end was goodwill totalled SEK 225 million (SEK 240 m). 45.9 per cent (42.6 %). Current EPRA A deferred tax receivable for loss carry-­ ­NNNAV amounted to SEK 184.93/share forwards totalling SEK 6 million was reported (SEK 162.57/share). at the beginning of the year. The deferred tax receivable calculated on the basis of the tax deficit as of 31/12/2018 totals SEK 2 million. CURRENT ASSETS Liquid assets at the end of the financial year totalled SEK 335 million (SEK 344 m). The remaining current assets decreased by SEK 928 million, which includes SEK 893 million for other receivables, primarily purchase price receivables. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 95 CONSOLIDATED CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Attributable to the parent company shareholders Other capital Hedging Profits brought Total shareAmounts in SEK m Share capital contributed ­reserves forward holders’ equity Opening balance as per 1 January 2017 333 3,960 –54 11,937 16,176 Net profit/loss for the year 2,559 2,559 Other comprehensive income 14 14 Dividend, SEK 3.55/share –526 –526 Closing balance, as per 31 December 2017 333 3,960 –39 13,970 18,223 Opening balance as per 1 January 2018 333 3,960 –39 13,970 18,223 Net profit/loss for the year 3,453 3,453 Other comprehensive income 13 13 Acquisition of own shares –396 –396 Option premiums 1 1 Dividend, SEK 4.50/share –599 –599 Closing balance, as per 31 December 2018 333 3,960 –26 16,429 20,696 There are a total of 133,220,736 shares (133,220,736 shares), of which 4,000,000 (4,000,000) are class A shares and 129,220,736 (129,220,736) are class B shares. One class A share grants entitlement to ten votes and one class B share grants entitlement to one vote. During the ­period Atrium Ljungberg acquired 2,761,000 (–) class B shares. At the end of the year, the number of outstanding shares amounted to 130,459,736 shares (133,220,736 shares). The average number of outstanding shares for 01/01/2018–31/12/2018 totals 132,018,709 shares (133,220,736 shares). The quota value of the share is SEK 2.50. 96 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW Amounts in SEK m Note 2018 2017 Profit/loss before tax 3,781 3,110 Reversal of depreciation and write-downs IK 7 11 8 Realised changes in value, investment properties –121 4 Unrealised changes in value, investment properties T1 –2,516 –1,817 Realised changes in value, financial instruments F2 –1 5 Unrealised changes in value, financial instruments 70 –121 Other items not included in the cash flow 17 12 Tax paid –14 –4 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,228 1,197 Net change in working capital 32 –31 Change in working capital 32 –31 Cash flow from operating activities 1,260 1,166 INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES Acquisition of properties T1 –2,159 –1,833 Reconstruction and new construction of properties T1 –1,758 –1,593 Sale of properties 3,582 – Purchases of machinery and equipment –13 –17 Cash flow from investment activities –348 –3,443 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Change in other long-term liabilities 10 12 Loans raised F1 5,867 5,178 Amortisation of debts F1 –5,612 –2,028 Exercise of derivatives F2 –191 –290 Buy-back of own shares –396 – Dividends paid –599 –526 Cash flow from financing activities F4 –920 2,346 Cash flow for the year –9 68 Liquid assets at the beginning of the year 344 276 Liquid assets at the end of the year 335 344 Information on interest paid Interest received totalled 1 1 Interest paid totalled –303 –372 Information on liquid assets at the end of the year Bank deposits, excluding blocked funds 335 344 COMMENTS ON THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW The cash flow from operating activities Dragarbrunn 19:1, Blästern 6, Roddaren 7 Available liquidity amounted to SEK 3,495 ­totalled SEK 1,260 million (SEK 1,166 m), and Arbetsstolen 3 properties, the acquisimillion (2,009) and comprised bank deposits corresponding to SEK 9.54/share (SEK 8.75/ tion of the Kylfacket 3 and Tranbodarne 11 of SEK 335 million (344), unutilised overshare). The higher cash flow compared to properties and investments in our own draft facilities of SEK 300 million (300) and last year is mainly explained by the inproperties. The cash flow within financing unutilised lines of credit of SEK 2,860 milcreased net change in operating capital. activities amounted to SEK –920 million lion (1,365) in addition to credit facilities SEK –348 million (SEK –3,443 m) in (SEK 2,346 m) as a consequence of amortisacovering outstanding commercial paper. ­investment activities was charged to the tion of debts, net borrowing for acquisitions cash flow attributable to the sale of the and investments and buy-back of own shares. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 97 INCOME STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY Amounts in SEK m Note 2018 2017 Rental income IK 1 176 214 Management income 300 225 Net sales 476 439 Property costs IK 4 –61 –61 Management and administration expenses IK 5–6 –364 –269 Capital gain/loss from sale of properties –72 – Depreciation IK 7 –21 –20 Operating profit/loss A5 IK 4 –42 90 Result of participations in Group companies MB 2 500 450 Interest income and similar profit/loss items F3 565 557 Interest expenses and similar profit/loss items F3 –574 –743 491 263 Profit/loss after financial items 449 353 Appropriations MB 4 185 162 Profit/loss before tax 634 516 Current tax S1 –35 –3 Deferred tax S 1–3 12 176 –23 172 Net profit/loss for the year 611 688 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME PARENT COMPANY Net profit/loss for the year as per income statement 611 688 Other comprehensive income – – Total comprehensive income for the year 611 688 Dividend per share, SEK (2018, proposed) 4.85 4.50 COMMENTS ON THE PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS The parent company’s operations comprise profit/loss totalled SEK –42 million (SEK 90 The parent company’s cash flow from Group-wide functions and the organisation m). The profit/loss after financial items operating activities totalled SEK 259 (SEK for the management of the properties ­totals SEK 449 million (SEK 353 m) and was –52 m). The cash flow from investment owned by the parent company and the mainly affected by higher dividends from ­activities totalled SEK –13 million (SEK –592 ­subsidiary companies. subsidiary companies. Dividends from subm), and cash flow from financing activities Net sales totalled SEK 476 million (SEK sidiaries totalled SEK 500 million (SEK 450 totalled SEK –232 million (SEK 703 m). The 439 m). The higher sales mainly depend on m). Interest-bearing liabilities amount to cash flow for the year totalled SEK 14 milincreased project revenue. The higher SEK 14,483 million (SEK 15,171 m). These lion (SEK 59 m). Liquid assets at the end of ­number of employees has mainly affected funds finance the company’s property the financial year totalled SEK 283 million management and administration expenses ­portfolio and are lent on to other Group (SEK 269 m). (by increasing the expenses). The operating companies. 98 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 BALANCE SHEETS PARENT COMPANY Amounts in SEK m Note 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 ASSETS Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets Investment properties T1 MB 3 1,486 1,569 Machinery and equipment T3 12 8 Total tangible fixed assets 1,498 1,578 Financial fixed assets Participations in Group companies KS 1 MB 2 945 945 Other long-term receivables 11 11 Total financial fixed assets 956 956 Total fixed assets 2,454 2,535 Current assets Accounts receivable T4 2 18 Receivables from Group companies A5 19,405 22,113 Tax receivables 4 27 Other receivables T5 8 4 Prepaid costs and accrued income T6 32 186 Liquid assets F2 283 269 Total current assets 19,734 22,617 Total assets 22,188 25,151 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity Restricted shareholders’ equity Share capital (133,220,736 shares, quota value: SEK 2.5) 333 333 Statutory reserve 265 265 598 598 Non-restricted shareholders’ equity Share premium reserve 3,948 3,948 Profit brought forward 2,224 2,529 Net profit/loss for the year 611 688 6,782 7,165 Total shareholders’ equity 7,381 7,764 Untaxed reserves MB 4 61 61 Provisions Pension provision 13 – Deferred tax liability S3 86 98 Total provisions 99 98 Long-term liabilities Long-term interest-bearing liabilities F 1–2 14,483 13,551 Other long-term liabilities OS 1 – 20 Total long-term liabilities 14,483 13,571 Current liabilities Short-term interest-bearing liabilities F 1–2 – 1,620 Accounts payable 34 23 Liabilities to Group companies A5 F2 – 1,944 Other liabilities OS 2 53 9 Accrued costs and prepaid income OS 3 77 61 Total current liabilities 164 3,657 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 22,188 25,151 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 99 CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY PARENT COMPANY Share Profits Total shareStatutory ­premium brought holders’ Amounts in SEK m Share capital reserve reserve forward equity Opening balance as per 1 January 2017 333 265 3,948 3,056 7,602 Net profit/loss for the year 688 688 Dividend, SEK 3.95/share –526 –526 Closing balance, as per 31 December 2017 333 265 3,948 3,218 7,764 Net profit/loss for the year 611 611 Option premiums received 1 1 Buy-back of own shares –396 –396 Dividend, SEK 4.50/share –599 –599 Closing balance, as per 31 December 2018 333 265 3,948 2,835 7,381 There are a total of 133,220,736 shares (133,220,736 shares), of which 4,000,000 (4,000,000) are class A shares and 129,220,736 (129,220,736) are class B shares. One class A share grants entitlement to ten votes and one class B share grants entitlement to one vote. At the end of the year the parent company had 2,761,000 of its own class B shares (0 shares). At the end of the year, the number of outstanding shares totalled 130,459,736 shares (133,220,736 shares). The average number of outstanding shares for 2018 amounts to 132,018,709 shares (133,220,736 shares). The quota value of the share is SEK 2.50. STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW PARENT COMPANY Amounts in SEK m Note 2018 2017 Profit/loss before tax 634 516 Reversal of depreciation and write-downs IK 7 20 20 Capital gain/loss 72 4 Unreceived dividends from subsidiary companies MB 2 –500 –450 Other items not included in the cash flow MB 4 –185 –162 Tax paid –12 –1 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 29 –71 Net change in working capital Increase/decrease in current receivables 230 19 Change in working capital 230 19 Cash flow from operating activities 259 –52 INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES Acquisitions of Group companies KS 1 – –503 Purchase/sale of machinery and equipment –8 0 Reconstruction and new construction of properties MB 3 –64 –89 Sale of properties 59 – Cash flow from investment activities –13 –592 FINANCING ACTIVITIES F4 Change in other long-term liabilities – –37 Change in receivables from Group companies 3,393 –1,903 Change in liabilities to Group companies –1,944 1,022 Loans raised F1 4,714 4,175 Amortisation of debts F1 –5,400 –2,028 Dividends paid –599 –526 Buy-back of own shares –396 – Cash flow from financing activities –232 703 Cash flow for the year 14 59 Liquid assets at the beginning of the year 269 211 Liquid assets at the end of the year 283 269 Information on interest paid Interest received totalled 565 557 Interest paid totalled –574 –743 Information on liquid assets at the end of the year Bank deposits, excluding blocked funds 283 269 100 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 NOTES A G  ENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE PRINCIPLES A.1 General information 102 F.1 Capital structure 119 A.2 Consolidated accounts and their preparation 102 F.2 Financial instruments and risk management 119 A.3 New standards and interpretations 103 F.3 Financial income and expenses 122 A.4 New standards and interpretations that have not yet F.4 Cash flow from financial liabilities 122 entered into force 103 A.5 Events after the closing day 104 E EPRA KEY RATIOS A.6 Information on related parties 104 E.1 Management result less nominal tax (EPRA Earnings/EPRA EPS) 123 IK INCOME AND EXPENSES 105 E.2 EPRA NAV 124 IK.1 Income and lease contracts 106 E.3 EPRA NNNAV 124 IK.2 Central administration 106 E.4 EPRA Vacancy rate 124 IK.3 Segment reporting 107 E.5 Total investments (CAPEX) 124 IK.4 Leasehold agreements and other lease agreements 108 IK.5 Personnel costs 108 KS GROUP STRUCTURE IK.6 Remuneration senior executives 109 KS.1 Participations in Group companies 125 IK.7 Depreciation and write-downs 109 KS.2 Participations in associated companies 127 IK.8 Project and construction activities 110 IK.9 Unrealised changes in value 110 MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES S TAX MB.1 Parent company’s accounting principles 127 MB.2 Parent company’s result of participations in Group S.1 Current tax 110 companies 128 S.2 Deferred tax receivable 112 MB.3 Parent company’s investment properties 128 S.3 Deferred tax liability 112 MB.4 Untaxed reserves/appropriations 128 MB.5 Proposed treatment of unappropriated earnings 128 T ASSETS T.1 Investment properties 113 H SUSTAINABILITY T.2 Goodwill 116 H.1 General information 129 T.3 Tangible fixed assets 116 H.2 Stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis 129 T.4 Accounts receivable 117 H.3 External initiatives and memberships 131 T.5 Other receivables 117 H.4 Energy consumption 132 T.6 Prepaid costs and accrued income 117 H.5 Carbon dioxide emissions 134 T.7 Development properties 117 H.6 Water 134 H.7 Sustainability certified buildings 136 OS OPERATING LIABILITIES H.8 Green lease contracts 136 OS.1 Other long-term liabilities 118 H.9 Employees 136 OS.2 Other liabilities 118 H.10 Direct economic value and tax 137 OS.3 Accrued costs and prepaid income 118 H.11 Anti-corruption 138 OS.4 Collateral pledged and Contingent liabilities 118 H.12 Suppliers 138 H.13 Board of Directors’ signatures 139 H.14 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report 139 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 101 NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION — NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES A.1 GENERAL INFORMATION the consolidated accounts. Assets and liabilities are reported at ­acquisition values, with the exception of investment properties and Atrium Ljungberg AB (publ.), company ID no.: 556175-7047, is regisderivative instruments, which are valued and reported at fair value. tered in Sweden with registered offices in Nacka and street address The consolidated accounting principles described have been applied Smedjegatan 2C, 131 04 Nacka., SE–131 04 Nacka. Atrium Ljungberg’s consistently to all periods presented in the Group’s financial reports, class B share has been listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm Exchange unless otherwise indicated below. The functional currency of the since 1994. Atrium Ljungberg shall engage in the long-term ownerparent company is the Swedish krona, which is also the reporting ship, development and management of retail properties, office currency for the parent company and the Group. All amounts are properties and full-service environments in strong subsidiary shown in SEK million unless otherwise indicated. ­markets, primarily in large urban regions, and shall engage in project and construction activities. The annual accounts and the consolidated ACQUISITIONS accounts in respect of the 2018 financial year were approved for During an acquisition an assessment is done to ascertain whether it publication by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2019. It is is an operational acquisition or an asset acquisition. An operational ­proposed that the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts acquisition is defined in accordance with IFRS 3 and requires that be adopted at the Annual General Meeting held on 27 March 2019. assets and liabilities which are acquired should comprise a business/ operation. When a group of assets or net assets is acquired which does not comprise a business/operation, it is classified as an asset A.2 CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS AND THEIR PREPARATION acquisition. For acquisition of a subsidiary, the assets of which only comprise SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS a property and lack management organisation and administration, The consolidated accounts comprise the parent company, Atrium the acquisition is classified as an asset acquisition in most cases. Ljungberg AB, and the companies over which the parent company The acquisition value of assets or net assets is divided among the has a controlling influence (subsidiary companies). The parent individual identifiable assets and liabilities based on their relative ­company has controlling influence when it is exposed to or has entitlefair values at the time of acquisition. ment to variable yield from its engagement in a company and can Acquisition of an independent business thus only comprises an affect the yield using influence over the company. This is normally operational acquisition and is reported using the acquisition fulfilled when the parent company directly or indirectly holds shares ­accounting method. The acquisition value of an operational acquisition which represent more than 50 per cent of the votes. Controlling comprises the fair value on the transaction date of assets paid, of ­influence can also be exercised in ways other than through share ­liabilities arising or assumed, and of the shareholders’ equity inownership. struments issued by the acquiring party in return for the controlling The results of subsidiary companies acquired or sold during the influence over the acquired unit. Acquired and identifiable assets, year are included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive ­liabilities and contingent liabilities are valued at fair value on the Income up to and including the date when the transaction occurred, ­acquisition date. If the acquisition value of the participations aci.e. when the controlling influence arises and ceases. quired exceeds the sum of the fair value of acquired and identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, the difference is reported PREPARATION OF THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS as goodwill. If the acquisition cost is lower than the fair value cal­ The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with culated in the manner described above, the difference is reported the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) approved directly in the income statement. by the EU and with the interpretations issued by the International Non-controlling interest are reported showing the non-controlling Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) as of interest proportional share of the reported fair value of assets, liabili31 December 2018. The consolidated accounts have also been ties and contingent liabilities. Any difference between the acquisition ­prepared in accordance with Swedish law and with application of value of the participations acquired and the fair value of acquired and RFR 1, Complementary accounting regulations for corporate identified assets and liabilities in conjunction with the acquisition of groups, issued by the Swedish Accounting Standards Board. ­non-controlling interest is reported directly to shareholders’ equity. If the accounting principles of the subsidiary companies deviate from those of the Group, the subsidiary companies’ accounting ASSOCIATED COMPANIES is adjusted to comply with the same principles as other Group Associated companies are companies in which the Group has a ­companies. ­controlling influence, normally through a shareholding of minimum Internal transactions between Group companies and intra-Group 20 per cent and maximum 50 per cent and is reported using the transactions are eliminated in conjunction with the preparation of ­equity method. Under the equity method, participations in associated companies are reported at the acquisition value on the acquisition 102 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY date and subsequently adjusted by the Group’s share of the change A.3 NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS in the associated company’s net assets. The Group’s book value of the shares in the associated companies corresponds to the Group’s IFRS 9 Financial instruments share in the associated companies’ shareholders’ equity and any The Group has applied IFRS 9 Financial Instruments since 1 January ­residual value of consolidated surplus and deficit values. 2018. The new standard replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. IFRS 9 mainly entails changes to SIGNIFICANT ASSESSMENTS AND ASSUMPTIONS IN CONNECTION how financial assets and liabilities are classified and measured. WITH THE APPLICATION OF THE GROUP’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The new standard also contains changes to principles for hedge Preparing financial reports in accordance with IFRS requires the ­accounting and introduces an impairment model which is based on Board of Directors and the company management to make assessexpected credit losses instead of incurred losses. ments and estimates that affect the application of the accounting The new standard has not entailed any significant change in the principles and the reported values of assets, liabilities, income and recognition of Atrium Ljungberg's financial assets other than trade expenses. receivables. The new impairment model for trade receivables Assumptions and estimates are based on, amongst other things, means fundamental differences in how and when an impairment of historical experience and other factors deemed relevant under the a trade receivable is recognised. Nevertheless, the new principles circumstances currently obtaining. These assumptions and estimates have not had any substantial effect on the Group's financial position. are used to assess the reported values of assets, liabilities, income Recognition of the Group's financial liabilities, which consist and expenses whose value is not otherwise clear from other sources. mainly of interest-bearing liabilities, interest derivatives recognised The actual result may deviate from these estimates and assessments. at fair value via the income statement and other current liabilities, Assumptions and estimates are analysed regularly by the Board are not substantially affected by the new standard. of Directors and senior management. Changes are reflected in the Since the Group has ceased to carry out hedge accounting, the accounts for the period when the change is made if the change only Group's financial statements are not affected by the new standards affects the current period. If the change affects the current period for hedge accounting. and subsequent periods, the accounts are affected in accordance The change to IFRS 9 has not had any effect on the opening therewith. The assumptions deemed most significant when preparing ­balance of equity 2018. the financial reports are described below. The investment properties are valued at fair value. The valuation IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers includes assessments and assumptions that are regarded as critical The Group has applied IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with to the values reported. Assumptions made, uncertainty factors and ­customers since 1 January 2018. The new standard replaces IAS 18 assessments are described in greater detail in note T 1 . An assessRevenues and IAS 11 Construction agreements with associated ment is made, in conjunction with the acquisition of companies, of statements on interpretation. Recognition of revenue starts in IFRS 15 whether the acquisition shall be classified as an asset acquisition or when control of goods or services is transferred to the customer, an operational acquisition. An asset acquisition is deemed to exist if which differs from the approach in IAS 18 and IAS 11 where control the acquisition refers to properties but does not include any organisastarts when risks and benefits are transferred. Accordingly, the tion or management processes required to conduct the operations. ­introduction of IFRS 15 entails a new approach for how revenue is Other acquisitions are classified as operational acquisitions. reported compared to now. An assessment is made, in conjunction with property transactions, The new standard has an extremely limited effect on the moment of when the transfer of risks and benefits occurs. This assessment when the revenue from the construction activity is recognised. acts as a guide to when the transaction is recognised. In advance of the introduction of the new standard, there was a An assessment of the potential for offsetting the deficit against discussion within the industry as to which parts of a rental contract future profits is made during valuation of tax losses carried forward. must be considered to constitute rent, and should therefore be Allocations to the guarantee reserve for construction work are ­recognised in accordance with IFRS 16 Leasing, and which parts made in the amount of 0.5 per cent of the contract sum during the constitute service, and should be recognised in accordance with guarantee period. The allocation is based on historical experience IFRS 15. Since the service that Atrium Ljungberg provides to tenants and an assessment of the risks inherent in ongoing projects. The is considered to take place under the rental contract, all payments ­allocations, as of 31 December 2018, exceed the costs expended for are recognised as rent, as previously. guarantee work during the year. Revenue in Project development mainly refers to compensation for tenant-specific adaptations in conjunction with new lease conSTATEMENT OF CASH FLOW tracts. Regardless of whether the Group invoices the tenant for Statements of cash flow are prepared using the indirect method, in ­expenses for conducted adaptations to premises on one occasion, accordance with IAS 7, and the profit/loss is consequently adjusted or if equivalent revenue is obtained in the form of increased rent for for transactions that have not entailed payments received or made all or parts of the lease period, the revenue comprises rent and and for income and expenses that can be attributed to investment must be reported in accordance with IFRS 16. and/or financial activities. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 103 NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY The recognition of construction income within the framework of A.5 EVENTS AFTER THE CLOSING DAY TL Bygg’s activities will not be affected by the new standard. Property sales must be recognised at the date when control is In January 2019 an agreement was entered into with the City of transferred to the purchaser. Since a property sales contract normally Stockholm regarding Slakthusområdet in Stockholm. severely limits the seller's ability to adopt any management measures In February 2019 Atrium Ljungberg’s Board of Directors decided with regarding to existing or new tenants as well as reconstructions to change the company’s financial goals. The goal for net operating from the contract date, Atrium Ljungberg, as previously, recognises growth is being replaced with a goal for the return on shareholder’s property sales on the contract date unless there is any specific reason equity of ten per cent per annum over time, while the goal for the for it to do otherwise. equity/assets ratio is being replaced with a goal for a maximum Atrium Ljungberg has decided to apply a cumulative, in other words gearing ratio of 45 per cent. future-oriented, method when changing to IFRS 15. This means that The investment goal is being increased to SEK 2 billion per year. the Group does not present any supplementary disclosures for The goals for return on projects, interest coverage ratio, dividend ­previous periods regarding any remaining performance obligations and corporate social responsibility remain unchanged. See pages at the time of the transition. Furthermore, the transition has not had 11–13 for further details. any effect on equity. In February 2019 Atrium Ljungberg’s Board of Directors decided to launch the first tenant-owned dwelling district at Nobelberget in Sickla. At the end of the year, 13 out of the 68 apartments (19 per A.4 NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS THAT HAVE cent) had been booked. NOT YET ENTERED INTO FORCE IFRS 16 Leases A.6 INFORMATION ON RELATED PARTIES IFRS 16 Leases will replace IAS 17 Leases with related interpretations as of 1 January 2019. The new standard requires lessees to report The following legal entities and physical persons have been identiassets and liabilities attributable to all lease agreements, with the fied as related parties of Atrium Ljungberg AB: exception of agreements which are shorter than twelve months and/ • All companies within the Atrium Ljungberg Group; see note KS 1 . or refer to small amounts. • Board members and company management and their close For lessees, the standard does not entail any immediate changes family members to reporting compared to current standards. • Companies controlled by board members, company management During 2018, Atrium Ljungberg analysed what effects the standard or their family members is expected to have on accounting of the Group’s lease agreements. • Our principal owners; the Stockholm Consumer Cooperative One aspect of the analysis involved identifying all of the Group’s ­society, the Ljungberg family with companies and the Holmström lease agreements. In the analysis, Atrium Ljungberg has identified family with companies the lease agreements below as significant: • Leasehold agreements, for which lease payments amounted to TRANSACTIONS AND DEALINGS BETWEEN THE PARENT COMPANY SEK 27 million in 2018. AND OTHER GROUP COMPANIES Parent Company In addition to the above, the Group has identified lease agreements 2018 2017 that are not deemed as significant for the Group. These lease agreeSale to subsidiary companies 317 228 ments pertain to vehicles, software licences, office machinery, etc. Purchasing from subsidiaries –34 –36 In terms of leasehold agreements, Atrium Ljungberg will recognise Interest income from subsidiaries 561 557 a lease asset and a lease liability in the balance sheet when changing Dividends from subsidiaries 500 450 to IFRS 16 as at 1 January 2019. The lease asset and lease liability Interest expenses to subsidiaries –93 –93 for the site leasehold agreements amounted to SEK 1,113 million as Receivables from related parties (Group companies) 19,405 22,113 at 1 January 2019. The income statement will be affected by leaseLiabilities to related parties (Group companies) – 1,944 hold fees being reclassified from “Property management costs” to net financial expenses, as the leasehold fees are recognised as an OTHER interest expense in accordance with IFRS 16. This reclassification would amount to SEK 27 million for the period January to December No other transactions between related parties and Atrium Ljungberg 2018. Atrium Ljungberg has chosen to apply the simplified method have taken place during the year. Remuneration to the Board of and will not apply the standard retrospectively. See further in ­Directors and company management is shown in note IK 6 . note IK 4 . 104 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY IK INCOME AND EXPENSES REVENUE RECOGNITION ­ nsures that the current value of all future payments received and e Revenue comprises rents and remuneration for external project and made during the fixed interest term is the same as the reported construction activities. All lease contracts are classified as opera­value of the receivable. tional lease agreements. Rental income is distributed linearly over the term of the contract other than when the terms of the lease PROPERTY MANAGEMENT COSTS contract are such that a different form of distribution would better The concept of property costs includes both direct and indirect reflect the way in which the economic benefits attributable to the ­expenses of managing a property. Direct expenses relate to service letting of the investment property change over time. Rental payments charge-related costs, maintenance costs, leasehold fees and in advance are reported as prepaid income. The gross rent includes ­property tax. Service charge-related costs cover electricity, heating, items in respect of costs passed on for property tax, electricity and cooling, water and sewage. Indirect expenses relate to costs of heating. Substantial rent discounts have been distributed over the ­letting, rent administration and accounting. term of the contracts. Sales-based rent has been estimated in the closing accounts on the basis of reported sales data. Sales-based LEASING rent is determined in subsequent years once tenants’ auditors have A lease agreement is an agreement whereby a lessor grants a determined the tenants’ sales. Any difference between the deter­lessee the right, on agreed terms and conditions for a contractually mined and estimated annual rent is reported as an amended deteragreed period of time, to make use of an asset in return for payment. mination in the period in which the annual rent is determined. Leasing is classified as either financial or operational leasing in the Project and construction revenue is reported as the project consolidated accounts. A financial lease agreement exists when the ­progresses, i.e. in accordance with so-called percentage of completion economic risks and benefits associated with ownership are transmethod. The degree of recognition – the degree of completion – is ferred, in every significant respect, to the lessee. If this is not the primarily determined on the basis of project costs expended in relacase, then the agreement is an operational lease agreement. tion to the estimated total engagement expenses in conjunction with Atrium Ljungberg is the lessor in conjunction with the granting completion. If the result of a project cannot be reliably calculated, a of premises to tenants and lessees for vehicles and leasehold fees. revenue is recognised that corresponds to expenses disbursed as of Details of these agreements are shown in note IK 1 and note IK 4 . the closing day. Anticipated losses are reported immediately as a All lease agreements are classified as operational lease agreements cost. The difference between recognised project revenue and as yet in that a significant portion of the risks and benefits associated with uninvoiced amounts is reported as an asset. Equally, the difference ownership are retained by the lessor. Income and expenses in respect between an invoiced amount and as yet unrecognised project of lease agreements are distributed linearly over the leasing period. ­revenue is reported as a liability. Benefits received in conjunction with the signing of a lease agreeDividend income is reported when the shareholders’ right to ment are reported linearly in the income statement over the term of ­receive payment has been confirmed. the lease agreement. Increased leasing fees are distributed over the Interest income is reported over the interest term, applying the term of the lease agreement. effective interest method. Effective interest is the interest that ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 105 NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY IK.1 INCOME AND LEASE CONTRACTS IK.2 CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION As of 01/01/2019 the contracted annual rent amounted to SEK 2,483 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES million (SEK 2,357 m) in the Group, of which SEK 247 million (SEK Central administration comprises the costs in connection with the 171 m) in the parent company. Board of Directors, the CEO, and other senior executives, and of ­audit and corporate costs in respect of, inter alia, the provision of The Group Parent Company Premises, contract Contracted Percentage, Contracted Percentage, ­information for shareholders, maintaining the stock market listing, maturity structure rent, SEK m % rent, SEK m % and the production of the annual accounts. For depreciation of 2019 285 11 5 2 ­machinery and equipment associated with the central administra2020 539 22 31 12 tion, see note IK 9 . 2021 435 18 9 4 2022 466 19 12 5 REMUNERATION TO AUDITORS 2023 234 9 12 5 Central administration also includes remuneration to auditors, see 2024 and thereafter 383 15 118 46 the table below. Residential 88 4 49 20 Fees and expenses paid to The Group Parent Company Garage/parking 52 2 14 6 auditors 2018 2017 2018 2017 Total 2,483 100 247 100 Ernst & Young AB – Audit engagement 2 2 2 2 Rental value, Rental value, Letting rate, – Accounting engagements over Letting rate, Q1 20191) SEK m SEK/m 2) % and above audit engagements 0 0 0 0 Offices 1,158 2,678 95 – Tax consultancy 0 0 0 0 Retail 945 3,789 95 Total 2 2 2 2 Residential 86 1,432 100 Garage 54 – 93 CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION FOR PROJECT AND CONSTRUCTION Other 226 1,933 94 WORK Business area Property 2,470 2,812 95 Central administration for project and construction work includes Project properties 167 85 costs in connection with the CEO of TL Bygg and other support Total 2,637 95 functions within the operations. 1) R  eported letting rates are based on the immediately subsequent quarter after the accounting date. 2 ) Excluding garage. Lease contracts for retail space contain contractual terms that mandate a minimum rent and a net sales clause. One per cent of the contracted annual rent comprises the sales premium in addition to the minimum rent. 106 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY IK.3 SEGMENT REPORTING ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The identification of reportable segments is based on the internal principles applied for the segment reporting concur with the reporting to the most senior executive decision maker, which is ­consolidated accounting principles and presentation formats for the deemed to be the parent company’s CEO. The Group is managed on income statement. the basis of the result measurement of gross profit divided by the One hundred per cent of the Group’s income was generated in identified and reportable operating segments shown below. Three the country where the parent company has its registered office, profit and loss items are not divided by segment, namely central namely Sweden. No single customer accounts for more than 10 per ­administration costs, financial items, and taxes. Sales between cent of the Group’s total revenue. ­segments have been eliminated in the Group’s sales. Accounting Project and Non-allocat2018 Project construction ed items and Amounts in SEK m Properties ­ evelopment d TL Bygg work ­eliminations The Group Rental income 2,424 –12 2,412 Sales, project and construction work 9 593 602 –385 217 Net sales 2,424 9 593 602 397 2,629 Property management costs –770 7 –764 Project and construction work costs –52 –561 –613 367 –246 Gross profit/loss 1,653 –43 32 –11 –23 1,619 Central administration –73 –11 –24 –35 5 –103 Financial income and expenses –302 –302 Profit/loss before changes in value 1,580 –54 8 –47 –320 1,214 Changes in value 2,637 –69 2,568 Tax –329 –329 Profit/loss for the period 4,217 –54 8 –47 –718 3,453 Investments and acquisitions 3,464 21 21 3,485 Assets, period end 43,310 891 188 1,079 740 45,128 Project and Non-allocat2017 Project construction ed items and Amounts in SEK m Properties ­ evelopment d TL Bygg work ­eliminations The Group Rental income 2,401 –12 2,389 Sales, project and construction work 54 638 692 –518 174 Net sales 2,401 54 638 692 –530 2,563 Property management costs –748 7 –742 Project and construction work costs –96 –606 –702 496 –206 Gross profit/loss 1,653 –42 32 –10 –27 1,616 Central administration –50 –17 –17 2 –64 Financial income and expenses –372 –372 Profit/loss before changes in value 1,602 –42 15 –27 –397 1,180 Changes in value 1,813 116 1,930 Tax –551 –551 Profit/loss for the period 3,415 –42 15 –27 –832 2,559 Investments and acquisitions 3,874 5 5 3,879 Assets, period end 39,899 4) 870 194 1,064 1,800 42,763 – The outcome within project development mainly refers to costs of investigations at early project stages and ongoing development projects. – Properties unrealised 2,516 (1,817). Properties, realised 121 (–4). – Unrealised value changes derivatives –70 (121). Realised change in value of derivatives, 1 (–5). – Refers only to investment properties. Other assets attributable to the segment are reported under Non-allocated items and eliminations. – Refers only to development properties. Other assets attributable to the segment are reported under Non-allocated items and eliminations. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 107 NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY IK.4 LEASEHOLD AGREEMENTS AND OTHER LEASE IK.5 PERSONNEL EXPENSES ­AGREEMENTS ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Remuneration to employees in the form of salaries, paid leave, paid Atrium Ljungberg is a lessee of a number of site leasehold agreeabsence due to sickness, etc., and pensions, are reported as they ments as well as other leases. These agreements are classified as are earned. Pensions and other remuneration after employment operational leases where the lease payments are carried as ceases are classified as defined contribution or defined benefit ­expenses linearly in the income statement over the leasing period. ­pension plans. The company pays defined fees to a separate, IFRS 16 Leasing will go into effect on 1 January 2019. Atrium ­independent legal entity for defined contribution pension plans and Ljungberg has chosen to apply the simplified method and will not has no obligation to pay any additional fees. Costs are charged to apply the standard retrospectively. the Group’s profit/loss as the benefits are earned. The Group has only one defined benefit pension plan, the Alecta plan. According to LEASEHOLD AGREEMENTS a statement issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR The year’s leasehold fees totalled SEK 27 million (SEK 35 m), of 10, this is a defined benefit plan that comprises several employers. which SEK 7 million (SEK 6 m) refers to the parent company. A pension plan in accordance with ITP (supplementary pensions for salaried employees) that is secured through an insurance policy Leasehold agreements The Group Parent Company with Alecta shall, for those financial years for which the company Rent, Percentage, Rent, Percentage, has not had access to information that enables this plan to be maturity structure SEK m % SEK m % ­reported as a defined benefit plan, be reported as a defined 2019 27 2 7 3 ­contribution plan. 2020 27 2 7 3 2021 27 2 7 3 The Group Parent Company 2022 27 2 7 3 SEK k 2018 2017 1) 2018 2017 1) 2023 and thereafter 1,005 92 177 88 Board of Directors and senior executives Total 1,113 100 205 100 Salaries 19,442 20,248 19,442 20,248 Payroll overhead 7,272 8,234 7,272 8,234 OTHER LEASE AGREEMENTS Pension costs 4,797 8,016 4,797 8,016 Agreed lease agreements refer primarily to vehicles, program Other ­licences and copying machines and have a maturity date of less Salaries 155,825 148,888 102,165 95,316 than 3 years. The year’s leasing costs in this category totalled SEK Payroll overhead 54,389 51,178 35,575 32,492 13 million (SEK 9 m), while remaining costs during the term totalled Pension costs 24,460 17,513 18,971 13,074 SEK 21 million (SEK 15 m). These lease agreements will continue to Total 266,185 254,077 188,222 177,380 be reported as operational lease agreements due to the low value. 1) C  omprises a notice period of 12 months and severance pay of 12 months for former CEO. Reconciliation operational leasing commitments Operational leasing commitments on 31 December 2018 1,134 Short-term lease agreements which are carried as expenses – PENSIONS Lease agreements for low-value assets which are carried as expenses –21 The year’s pension insurance fees in accordance with ITP for policies Variable leasing fees attributable to indexes or tariffs – with Alecta total SEK 8 million (SEK 7 m). Alecta’s surplus may be Leasing debt on 1 January 2019 1,113 allocated to the policyholders and/or those insured. At the end of 2018, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective consolidation ­level totalled 142 per cent (154 %). The above amounts will be reported as lease asset and lease debt The collective consolidation level comprises the market value on 1 January 2019. of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurance undertakings ­calculated in accordance with Alecta’s actuarial calculation ­assumptions, which do not correspond to IAS 19. The CEO may retire from the age of 62. The premium is a defined contribution one, and the company consequently has no additional undertaking once the annual premium has been paid. The pensionable age for senior executives other than the CEO is 65. All pensions are, with the exception of the defined benefit ITP plan in accordance with collective agreements, defined benefit pension plans. 108 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY IK.6 REMUNERATION SENIOR EXECUTIVES IK.6 REMUNERATION SENIOR EXECUTIVES, CONT. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Basic Sharesalary/ Other related Remuneration to the Board of Directors is based on fees deterDirectors’ remunerOther Pension ­remunermined by the Annual General Meeting. Directors’ fees are paid as 2018 SEK k fees ation benefits costs ation Total salary. Chairman of the Board SENIOR EXECUTIVES’ TERMS AND REMUNERATION Johan Ljungberg 440 – – – – 440 Salaries and other terms of employment for the company manageOther board members ment shall be market-based and competitive, but shall not be Anna Hallberg 220 – – – – 220 ­market leaders in terms of salary paid in relation to other comparable Sara Laurell 220 – – – – 220 companies. The guidelines shall apply for the senior management Simon de Château 220 – – – – 220 team which consists of the CEO and six other senior executives. The Erik Langby 220 – – – – 220 CEO’s remuneration shall be proposed by the Chairman and deterSune Dahlqvist 220 – – – – 220 mined by the Board of Directors. Other remuneration payable to 1,540 – – – – 1,540 members of the senior management team shall be proposed by the CEO and approved by the Chairman. Remuneration payable to the CEO Annica Ånäs 5,847 – 39 1,914 – 7,800 senior company management team, including the CEO, comprises a Other senior fixed salary. No variable salary or performance-related remunera­executives 11,701 96 219 2,883 – 14,899 tion shall be payable. A loan subsidy programme was adopted at the 17,548 96 258 4,797 – 22,699 2018 Annual General Meeting for senior executives when acquiring Total 19,088 96 258 4,797 – 24,239 shares in the company. The CEO’s retirement age is 62, while that of the other members of the company management is 65. Pension Basic Sharesalary/ Other related plans are defined contribution plans, and the company hence has Directors’ remunerOther Pension ­remunerno additional obligations after payment of the annual premiums. 2017 SEK k fees ation benefits costs ation Total The CEO shall, if notice of termination is given by the company, Chairman of the Board be entitled to a 12 month notice period and severance pay corresponding to 12 months’ salary. No other severance pay is payable. Johan Ljungberg 400 – – – – 400 Other members of the senior management have notice periods of Other board members up to 6 months. The terms and conditions applied by the company Anna Hallberg 200 – – – – 200 for other Group employees, either in accordance with collective Hanna Sleyman agreements or in accordance with unilateral undertakings by the Graflund 200 – – – – 200 company to the employees, shall otherwise apply, where applicable, Simon de Château 200 – – – – 200 to the company management. Departure from the above-mentioned Erik Langby 200 – – – – 200 guidelines by the Board of Directors is permitted if there are specific Sune Dahlqvist 200 – – – – 200 grounds for doing so in a particular instance. 1,400 – – – – 1,400 The company management team is presented on page 89. CEO Annica Ånäs 5,510 – 49 1,989 – 7,548 Other senior ­executives 10,563 70 241 2,697 – 13,571 16,073 70 290 4,686 – 21,119 Total 17,473 70 290 4,686 – 22,519 IK.7 DEPRECIATION AND WRITE-DOWNS The Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Depreciation in management and production Investment properties – – 17 17 Machinery and equipment 7 5 0 0 7 5 17 17 Depreciation in central administration Machinery and equipment 5 3 4 3 Total 11 8 21 20 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 109 NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY IK.8 PROJECT AND CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES IK.9 UNREALISED CHANGES IN VALUE The Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Unrealised changes in value, properties 2018 2017 Gross profit/loss, TL Bygg AB 13 7 – – Change in yield requirements 487 947 Development project costs that Change in operating net, etc. 2,029 865 cannot be capitalised –42 –38 –30 –29 Development rights – 5 Total –29 –31 30 29 Total 2,516 1,817 For further information, see note T1 . ONGOING CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENTS On the closing day engagement expenses including reported profit in respect of ongoing engagements in accordance with construction agreements amounted to SEK 186 million (SEK 87 m). Sums ­received from the client for ongoing engagements total SEK 5 million (SEK 3 m). S TAX S.1 CURRENT TAX ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Tax calculation Current tax Deferred tax Current tax is calculated on the basis of the taxable profit/loss for Group, SEK m 2018 2017 2018 2017 the period and is reported as an expense or income in the income Reported profit/loss before tax 3,781 3,110 – – statement. The taxable profit/loss differs from the reported profit/ Tax deductible loss in the income statement in that it has been adjusted for depreciation –467 –522 467 522 non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses and for income investments –307 –257 307 257 and expenses that are taxable or deductible in other periods. Non-taxable/non-deductible The Group’s current tax liability is calculated using the tax rates changes in the value of confirmed or announced as of the closing day. ­properties, unrealised –2,516 –1,817 2 516 1,817 Property tax and advertising tax are reported as property costs changes in the value of ­properties, realised –121 44 121 –435 and social security payments as property costs and central administrachanges in the value of financial tion. The obligation to pay property tax is based on the existing property instruments, unrealised 70 –121 –70 121 portfolio at the start of the year. Due to this, the entire property tax changes in the value of financial is entered as a liability on 1 January every year to later be distributed instruments, realised –191 –285 191 285 linearly over the year. The share which is not carried as an expense consolidated capitalisation of is reported as a prepaid cost. borrowing –16 –15 16 19 Deferred tax is reported on the difference between the reported consolidated internal profit 18 – –18 –26 and fiscal values of assets and liabilities. Changes in the reported Other fiscal adjustments –62 1 135 –197 deferred tax receivable or liability are reported as an expense or Taxable profit/loss before loss ­income in the income statement, except when the tax is related to carry-forwards 190 138 3,644 2,362 items which are reported in Other comprehensive income or directly Change in loss carry-forwards –29 –96 18 101 to shareholders’ equity. Taxable profit/loss 161 52 3,682 2,463 Of which 22 per cent current ­taxes/20.6 % deferred tax –35 –9 –759 –542 Reversal of deferred tax for ­properties sold – – 147 – Effect of change in tax rate 318 Reported tax expense –35 –9 –294 –542 110 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY S.1 CURRENT TAX, cont. The income tax for limited companies in Sweden is 22 per cent. The BORROWING COSTS government has decided to lower the tax rate in two steps, first to In the consolidated accounts Atrium Ljungberg capitalises loan 21.4 percent in 2019 and then to 20.6 percent in 2021. Atrium Ljungberg charges during major reconstruction and extensions to the extent has chosen to calculate the deferred tax liability at the lower tax they arose during the construction period. However, the accounting rate since tax liabilities are not expected to be realised to any rules allow reporting of these as a cost in the individual Group ­significant extent in 2019 and 2020. In the income statement tax is ­companies, whereby the cost is also directly tax deductible. divided between current tax and deferred tax. Current tax is the tax which is calculated on the basis of the taxable profit for a period in DEFICIT FROM PREVIOUS YEARS each individual Group company, after profit equalisation through The current tax is calculated on the basis of the taxable profit for the Group contributions. The sum of the Group companies’ taxable taxation year. This profit may, sometimes with certain limitations, be ­profit is often lower than the Group’s accounting profit, mainly reduced by unutilised tax deficits which have emerged during previous ­depending on tax depreciation, difference in the handling of investtax years. ments in repair, maintenance and reconstruction, unrealised The deficit which exists within Atrium Ljungberg has primarily ­changes in value, the opportunity to sell properties through com­ emerged through examination of previous years’ income tax assesspanies tax-free, difference in handling of borrowing costs in conments or by there being an unutilised tax deficit from previous years struction projects and utilisation of previous years’ deficit. in property companies which have been acquired by Atrium Ljungberg. DEPRECIATION The Group Parent Company As Atrium Ljungberg has chosen to report investment properties at Reconciliation of tax expenses 2018 2017 2018 2017 fair value, no depreciation for these is reported in the consolidated Profit/loss before tax 3,781 3,110 634 520 accounts. However, the tax rules permit depreciation of 2–5 per cent Nominal tax rate, 22 % –832 –684 –139 –114 of buildings, 5 per cent of land improvements and 20–30 per cent of Fiscal effect of the areas and fixtures of a building or of the type of land improvechanges in the value of ments which comprise the building’s furniture and fixtures and land ­properties, realised – 86 – – inventory. Land is not subject to depreciation. other non-deductible expenses/ non-taxable income 52 1 110 99 other fiscal adjustments 451 46 6 187 INVESTMENTS Reported tax expense/income –329 –551 –23 173 Expenses in connection with renovation and maintenance work that of which current tax –35 –9 –35 –3 has entailed an economic benefit and which can be calculated reliably, of which deferred tax –294 –542 12 176 are capitalised in the accounting. However, the tax rules permit ­direct deduction for repair and maintenance and certain types of Tax calculation Current tax Deferred tax amendment work which technically entails reconstruction but Parent Company, SEK m 2018 2017 2018 2017 which is normal in the business and which does not comprise the building’s furniture and fixtures. Examples of such amendment Reported profit/loss before tax 634 516 – – work within Atrium Ljungberg are the tenant-specific adaptations Change in difference between book and fiscal values of properties –44 –36 44 36 which take place continuously along with renegotiation of lease Result of participations in Group ­contracts or during change of tenants. companies –500 –450 – – Other fiscal adjustments 72 1 – – UNREALISED CHANGES IN VALUE Taxable profit/loss before loss In the consolidated accounts Atrium Ljungberg values investment carry-forwards 162 31 44 36 properties and derivative instruments (interest swap agreements) at Loss carry-forwards utilised – –16 – 16 fair value. Changes in the market value are reported in the consoliTaxable profit/loss 162 15 44 52 dated income statement. Accounting rules do not permit properties Of which 22 per cent current to be reported at fair value in the individual Group companies. The taxes/20.6 % deferred tax –35 –3 –9 –11 interest swap agreements which Atrium Ljungberg has concluded Adjustment of tax in relation to may, but do not need to, be reported in the individual Group company. ­previous years – – 21 187 Accordingly, no unrealised changes in value from investment Reported tax expense –35 –3 12 176 ­properties or derivative instruments are reported in the individual companies. SALE OF PROPERTIES Properties may be sold directly or indirectly by the property holding subsidiary being sold. Profits from the sale of properties are t­ axable, while profits from the sale of companies in most cases are non-­ taxable. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 111 NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY S.2 DEFERRED TAX RECEIVABLE ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The reported value of deferred tax receivables is reviewed in Capitalised loss carry-­ The Group Parent Company ­conjunction with the preparation of every set of financial statements forwards 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 and reduced to the extent that it is no longer likely that sufficient Opening balance 6 22 – 4 taxable surpluses will be available for offsetting, either wholly or in Capitalised loss carry-­ part, against the deferred tax receivable. forwards attributable to ­previous years – 4 – – Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply for the period during which the asset is recovered or the debt Additional loss carry-forwards 2 2 – – ­settled, based on the tax rates (and tax legislation) confirmed or Loss carry-forwards utilised –6 –21 – –4 ­announced as of the closing day. Deferred tax receivables and tax Closing balance 2 6 – – ­liabilities are offset when they are attributable to income tax levied by the same authority and when the Group intends to settle the tax The Group’s accumulated tax deficit was estimated at SEK 10 million demand using a net amount. The tax deficit can be rolled forward (SEK 29 m) at the turn of the year 2018. The deferred tax receivable and does not have a due date. has been calculated for a deficit of SEK 10 million (SEK 29 m). S.3 DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Deferred tax is reported on the difference between the reported ­ eferred tax liabilities and tax receivables are not reported if the D ­value of assets and liabilities in the financial reports and the fiscal temporary difference is attributable to goodwill or if they arise as a value used when calculating the taxable result. Deferred tax is result of a transaction that constitutes the first reporting of an asset ­reported using the so-called balance sheet method. Deferred or liability (which is not a corporate acquisition) and which, at the tax ­liabilities are reported for, in principle, all taxable temporary time of the transaction, affects neither the reported nor the taxable ­differences, and deferred tax receivables are reported for, in principle, profit/loss. No deferred tax has been calculated on asset acquisitions all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is likely in accordance with applicable accounting recommendations. that the amounts can be used to offset future taxable surpluses. The Group Parent Company Directly via Investment Development Untaxed Interest the income Investment Deferred tax liability properties properties reserves ­derivatives Total statement. properties Opening balance, as per 01/01/2017 4,041 – 169 –200 4,010 – 277 Change reported via the income statement 399 19 5 94 520 – – Change not reported via the income statement – – – – – – 176 Change reported via Comprehensive income – – – 4 4 – – Closing balance, as per 31/12/2017 4,440 19 174 –102 4,531 – 98 Opening balance, as per 01/01/2018 4,440 19 174 –102 4,531 – 98 Effect of change in tax rate –311 –1 –12 6 –318 – – Change reported via the Income Statement 299 55 12 15 381 – – Changes reported directly in the income statement – – – – – 231 –12 Change reported via Comprehensive income – – – 4 4 – – Closing balance, as per 31/12/2018 4,428 73 174 –77 4,598 231 86 112 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY T ASSETS T.1 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Investment properties, i.e. properties held in order to generate rental Expenses in connection with renovation and maintenance work income and/or increased value gains, are reported on an ongoing that has entailed an economic benefit for the Group and which can basis at fair value in the balance sheet. The valuation are in accordance be calculated reliably, are capitalised. Other expenses in connection with level 3 in the IFRS valuation hierarchy and reflects estimated with repairs and ongoing maintenance are reported as repair costs market values, which correspond to the value at which ownership of and are included in the operating surplus. Property sales are reported a property could be transferred between knowledgeable parties who in conjunction with the transfer of the risks and benefits associated are mutually independent and who have an interest in completing with title from the vendor to the purchaser, which normally coincides the transaction. The fair value reflects the market conditions on the with the contract date unless the specific contractual terms and closing day. conditions mandate that this occurs on some other date. At year end Atrium Ljungberg classified all properties as investChanges in fair value for investment properties and financial ment properties. The term investment properties includes buildings ­instruments are reported in the income statement as unrealised and land, land improvement, building and land-related equipment changes in value. as well as ongoing work. Any properties that are being built or Profits or losses arising in conjunction with the sale or disposal ­developed for future use as investment properties are also reported of investment properties comprise the difference between the sale as investment properties. price and the reported value which is based on the most recently Investments in investment properties are initially reported at conducted valuation at fair value. Profits or losses from the sale of ­acquisition value. The acquisition value includes transaction costs, an investment property are reported as realised changes in value in legal costs and stamp duty directly related to acquisitions and any the income statement. A property sale is reported on the date of additional real estate mortgage costs and loan costs. Borrowing contract, unless there are specific contractual terms and conditions costs are capitalised in conjunction with major renovation or new in the purchase agreement. construction projects to the extent that they have arisen during the construction period. Interest expenses are calculated on the basis of the Group’s average interest rate on all loans. Property portfolio, 31/12/2018 Outcome 2018 Letting area, Fair value, Fair value, Rental income, Property costs, Operating surOperating surProperty type ’000 m2 SEK m SEK/m21) SEK m SEK m plus, SEK m plus margin, % Office properties 654 22,517 43,893 1,219 –337 882 72 Retail properties 321 14,297 51,672 967 –339 628 65 Residential properties 81 1,768 25,502 86 –32 54 63 Business area Property 1,055 38,582 44,914 2,272 –708 1,564 69 Project properties 68 3,851 E/T2) 133 –53 80 60 Land and development rights – 877 – – – – – Total Investment properties 1,123 43,310 2,405 –761 1,644 68 Development properties 6 890 7 –3 4 61 Total Group 1,129 44,201 2,412 –764 1,648 68 1) m2 excluding garage. 2) Letting area for new production is not reported until the project is completed, so the figures do not accurately represent the actual situation. Property portfolio, 31/12/2017 Outcome 2017 Letting area, Fair value, Fair value, Rental income, Property costs, Operating surOperating surProperty type ’000 m2 SEK m SEK/m21) SEK m SEK m plus, SEK m plus margin, % Office properties 619 20,425 40,281 1,223 –334 889 73 Retail properties 373 14,400 49,098 996 –338 658 66 Residential properties 71 1,412 23,882 87 –34 54 62 Business area Property 1,063 36,237 42,162 2,307 –706 1,601 69 Project properties 60 3,070 E/T2) 76 –34 42 55 Land and development rights – 684 – – – – – Total Investment properties 1,123 39,991 2,383 –740 1,643 69 Development properties 23 870 6 –2 4 65 Total Group 1,146 40,861 2,389 –742 1,647 69 1) m2 excluding garage. 2) Letting area for new production is not reported until the project is completed, so the figures do not accurately represent the actual situation. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 113 NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY T.1 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES, cont. Rental value and letting rate 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Rental value, Rental value, Letting rate, Rental value, Rental value, Letting rate, Premises type SEK m SEK/m2 % SEK m SEK/m2 % Offices 1,158 2,678 95 1,102 2,580 95 Retail 945 3,789 95 928 3,495 95 Other 226 1,933 94 215 1,860 95 Residential 86 1,432 100 79 1,385 100 Garage 54 – 93 51 – 92 Business area Property 2,470 2,812 95 2,375 2,686 Project properties 167 85 119 1,496 81 Land and development rights – – – – – Total 2,637 95 2,494 2,589 95 CHANGES DURING THE YEAR VALUATION The reported fair value of the property portfolio on 31/12/2018 Valuation process ­totalled SEK 44,201 million (SEK 40,861 m). Investments in Atrium The property portfolio is valued every quarter. As a part of ensuring Ljungberg’s own properties during the period totalled SEK 1,758 that the valuation is fair, independent external valuation consultants million (SEK 1,593 m). The unrealised change in value totalled are used, this year Forum Fastighetsekonomi and Savills. Properties SEK 2,516 million (SEK 1,817 m) during the year. The change in value corresponding to 62 per cent of the market value have been valued is explained by the market’s lower yield requirements and higher externally during the year. The remaining properties were subject to rents as a result of new lettings and renegotiations, which resulted an internal valuation with market rents, operating costs, vacancies in increased market rents. The average yield requirement in the and yield requirements quality assured by Forum Fastighetsekonomi. ­valuation was 4.6 per cent (4.7 %). The fee for the valuation is not dependent on the properties’ During the year two properties were acquired and four properties market value. The variable part is instead based on the properties’ were sold; see more under the Property portfolio in figures on page 36. area, number of lease contracts and usage. Change in the value of the property portfolio Data property valuation The Group The property valuation is based on observable and unobservable SEK m 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 ­input data. Observable data which has greatest impact on the value Fair value at the start of the period 40,861 36,054 is primarily current rent, actual operation and maintenance costs, Acquisitions (after deduction of deferred tax) 1,727 2,265 planned investments and current vacancy level. Sales –2,662 –868 Yield requirement and expectations of rental levels and vacancies Investments in our own properties 1,758 1,593 include the input data which can be seen as unobservable. Yield Unrealised changes in value 2,516 1,817 ­requirement is derived from actual transactions. The number of Fair value at the end of the period 44,201 40,861 comparison items which are sold can sometimes be few, which makes it more difficult to derive changes in the yield requirement Of which Investment Properties 43,310 39,991 during certain periods. Of which Development Properties 891 870 For further information, see note T7 . Valuation method The valuations were carried out in accordance with the International The closing balance includes development rights and land of Valuation Standards (IVS). SEK 877 million (SEK 684 m). Each property has been valued individually without taking any portfolio effect into consideration. The valuations are based on a Unrealised changes in value, properties cash flow calculation with individually estimated yield requirements SEK m 2018 2017 for each property and activity. The yield requirement is used to Change in yield requirements 487 947 ­determine the value through a current value calculation during the Change in operating net, etc. 2,029 865 so-called calculation period and through a current value calculation Development rights – 5 of the residual value at the end of the calculation period. The calcuTotal 2,516 1,817 lation period is normally between 5 and 10 years but may, in certain cases, be longer due to the contractual situation. The long-term earning capacity of each property is assessed during the valuation. Income during the calculation period comprises agreed rental levels until such time as these lease contracts come to an end or are due for renegotiation. Rental income for the sub­ sequent period is calculated at the market rent currently applicable. 114 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY T.1 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES, cont. Operating and maintenance costs have been assessed based on the Sensitivity analysis, change in value company’s actual costs and are adjusted in line with the property’s The following sensitivity analysis shows how a change in the age and condition. ­properties’ market value impacts the result and relevant key ratios. Analyses and an assessment of the underlying factors that Change in ­impact the value form the basis of the valuation, for example: market value of Percentage • existing rent levels and market rents for respective premises properties Impact impact • existing tenants and contract structure Profit/loss +/– 10 % SEK +/-3,448 million +/-100 % • current and future vacancies Shareholders’ equity +/– 10 % SEK +/-3,448 million +/-17 % • operating and maintenance costs in the short and long-term, Gearing ratio +/– 10 % –3.8 % unit/+4.6 % unit –9 %/+11 % based on the property’s and company’s actual costs Equity/assets ratio +/– 10 % +3.8 % unit/–4.5 % unit +9 %/–11 % • the technical and commercial condition of the properties • planned reconstructions, extensions and new builds and other investment requirements RATEABLE VALUES • yield requirements for completed and uncompleted transactions The rateable value forms the basis of property tax for commercial in comparable properties markets properties. Municipal real estate charges are payable for residential properties in accordance with special provisions. The rateable values Project properties are valued on the basis of completed projects, on the closing day are reported below. less remaining investments. A risk surcharge is added to the yield Rateable values requirement on the basis of the current phase of the project. The Group Parent Company Development rights have been valued based on an assessed 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 market value per m2 of GFA for determined development rights in Buildings 11,332 10,744 958 1,081 accordance with detailed development plans that have gained final Land 4,594 4,489 215 273 approval or where the detailed development plan is assessed to Total 15,233 1,354 ­enter into force within the near future. Of which business premises in TL Bygg AB 2 2 – – Yield requirement per premises type in the valuation 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Premises type, % Interval Average Average Offices 3.6–6.3 4.5 4.7 Retail 3.7–6.2 4.9 5.0 Residential 2.9–3.8 3.2 3.1 Other 3.7–6.3 5.0 5.1 Total 2.9-6.3 4.6 4.7 Yield requirement per region in the valuation 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Region, % Interval Average Average Stockholm 2.9–6.3 4.5 4.7 Uppsala 4.5–5.8 5.2 5.1 Malmö 3.8–5.9 5.4 5.4 Gothenburg 4.5–4.5 4.5 4.6 Total 2.9–6.3 4.6 4.7 Sensitivity analysis, property valuation The table below shows how changes in different parameters impact the market value of the properties. Change in Value impact, Value impact, Value parameter ­assumption SEK m % Rental level +/– 10 % +/– 4,270 +/-10 % Operating cost +/– 10 % +/– 704 +/– 2 % Yield requirement +/– 0.25 % units –2,082/+ 2,191 –4.7 %/+ 5.0 % Long-term vacancy level +/– 2 % +/– 1,147 +/– 3 % ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 115 NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY T.2 GOODWILL ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES IMPAIRMENT TESTING Goodwill arising in conjunction with the preparation of the consoliGoodwill impairment testing shall be carried out annually, or more dated accounts comprises the difference between the acquisition frequently if there is any indication that the reported value may not value and the Group’s share of the fair value of an acquired subsidiary be recoverable. company’s identifiable net assets on the acquisition date. Goodwill When conducting impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the reported within the Group is attributable to the difference between cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies nominal tax and calculated tax applied in conjunction with operaarising in conjunction with the acquisition. The cash-generating tional acquisitions. The company’s goodwill is, therefore, fully linked units comprise the properties which were a part of the acquisition of to the deferred tax. Goodwill is reported on the acquisition date at Atrium Properties which the Group still owns at the end of the the acquisition value and is subsequently valued at the acquisition ­accounting period. If the recovery value of a cash-generating unit is value after any deductions for write-downs. determined to be lower than the reported value, the reported value The remaining reported value of goodwill is taken into account of goodwill attributable to the cash-generating unit is reduced. Any when calculating the capital gain or loss in conjunction with the sale reported write-downs of goodwill may not be reversed in a subseof a subsidiary company or associated company. quent period. On 17 October 2006, LjungbergGruppen AB acquired all of the In connection with the annual testing for any write-down requireshares in Atrium Fastigheter AB through payment in the form of ment of goodwill, an estimate of the recoverable amount is made. newly issued shares. The closing rate on 16 October 2006 has been As the cash-generating units comprise the properties which were used to calculate the acquisition value and shareholders’ equity. a part of the acquisition of Atrium Properties, the recovery value Goodwill arose in conjunction with the acquisition that was attributcorresponds to the property’s fair value. able to the difference between nominal tax and the estimated tax for Each property has been valued individually without taking any costing purposes applied in conjunction with the acquisition. Goodportfolio effect into consideration. The long-term earning capacity of will is thereby completely linked to deferred tax amount and thereeach property is assessed during the valuation. Income during the fore changes when a property with goodwill is sold. calculation period comprises agreed rental levels until such time as these lease contracts come to an end or are due for renegotiation. The Group Rental income for the subsequent period is calculated at the market 2018 2017 rent currently applicable. Operating and maintenance costs have Opening acquisition value 326 349 been assessed based on the company’s actual costs and are adjusted Sale of property –2 –23 in line with the property’s age and condition. Closing accumulated acquisition value 324 326 Discount rates which were used to determine the properties’ fair Opening write-downs –86 –86 value correspond to the yield requirements of properties which are Write-down as a result of change to rate of taxation –13 – based on comparable properties and markets. For further informaClosing accumulated write–downs –99 –86 tion, see note T 1 . Closing balance 225 240 T.3 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The Group Parent Company Tangible fixed assets are reported at the acquisition value less 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 ­accumulated depreciation and write-downs. The acquisition value Opening acquisition values 69 60 25 25 includes expenses directly attributable to the acquisition of the Purchases 16 17 8 6 ­asset. Additional expenses are added to the asset’s reported value or Sales/disposals –5 –9 – –6 reported as a separate asset only if it is likely that future economic Closing accumulated ­acquisition values 80 69 33 25 benefits associated with the asset will be received by the Group and when the acquisition value of the asset can be reliably calculated. Opening depreciation –41 –40 –17 20 The useful life of computer equipment and of other machinery Sales/disposals 4 8 – 6 and equipment has been calculated at three years and five years, Depreciation for the year –11 –8 –4 –3 respectively. Depreciation is effected linearly over the useful life and Closing accumulated is reported in the income statement as expenses in the property ­depreciation –48 –41 –21 –17 management or on the line for central administration. The residual Closing residual value value of the assets and their useful life is reviewed on every closing ­according to plan 32 27 12 8 day and adjusted when necessary. Tangible fixed assets mainly comprise machinery, equipment and computer equipment. 116 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY T.4 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE T.5 OTHER RECEIVABLES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The Group Parent Company This category includes loan receivables, rents receivable, accounts 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 receivable, other receivables and liquid assets. Receivables are VAT receivable 55 40 1 1 ­valued at amortised cost. Loan receivables and accounts receivable Purchase price receivable – 902 – – with a short term are valued at nominal acquisition value without Other receivables 38 44 7 3 discounting less receivables deemed to be doubtful. Write-downs of Closing balance 93 986 8 4 accounts receivable are reported in expenses for property management activities. T.6 PREPAID COSTS AND ACCRUED INCOME Rental and accounts receivable The Group Parent Company The Group Parent Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Rental and accounts ­receivable 122 187 3 20 Receivables from clients for Doubtful rent receivables ongoing engagements as per for which a provision has construction agreement 8 5 – – been made –18 –36 –1 –2 Other prepaid costs 35 25 19 9 Total rent receivables 104 151 2 18 Prepaid property tax – – – 8 Distributed rent discounts 65 66 5 4 The Group applies the simplified method for calculating bad debt Accrued rent 18 23 – 3 losses. This method involves the expected credit losses during the Other accrued income – – 8 162 entire term of the receivable being used as the basis for rental and Closing balance 126 118 32 186 accounts receivable. To calculate the expected credit losses, rental and accounts receivable have been grouped based on the characteristics of the credit risk and the number of days’ delayed. The ­expected credit loss levels are based on the customers’ payment T.7 DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES history over a period of 36 months. As result, the loss reserve on 31 December 2018 for rental and accounts receivable was based on Development properties are properties under development that are the following: intended to be sold as tenant-owned associations after completion. Due ­between Due after Due after ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 1 and 60 more than more than Development properties are recognised at the lowest of their accu31 December 2018 Not due days 60 days 120 days Total mulated acquisition value and their net realisable value. The profit Expected loss level, % 0.2 % 0.5 % 20.2 % 57.1 % from future sales is recognised when the Group no longer controls Reported amount the tenant-owner association. rental and accounts ­receivable, gross 41 42 10 28 122 The accumulated acquisition value comprises a property’s Bad debt loss reserve 0 0 –2 –16 –18 ­acquisition cost plus the costs expended. If a property has been ­reclassified from an Investment Property to a Development Property, The change in bad debt loss reserve during the financial year is the acquisition cost comprises the fair value of the property that specified below: was established most recently. Rental and accounts receivable 2018 2018 2017 As of 31 December — calculated in accordance with IAS 39 36 At beginning of year 870 – Recalculated amount reported in profit brought forward – Reclassification from Investment property – 870 Opening balance as of 1 January 2018 — calculated in accordance Costs expended – – with IAS 9 36 Investments 21 – Increase of loss reserve; change reported in income statement 8 At end of year 891 870 Written off rental and accounts receivable during the year –17 Reversal of unutilised amount –9 Closing balance 18 Rental and accounts receivable is written off when there is no longer a reasonable expectation of repayment. Bad debt loss of rental and accounts receivable is reported as bad debt loss — net within operating profit/loss. Recovery of amounts which have been previously written off are reported on the same line in the income statement. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 117 NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY OS OPERATING LIABILITIES OS.1 OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES OS.4 COLLATERAL PLEDGED AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Group Parent Company Collateral pledged and ­liabilities to credit institutions The Group Parent Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Personnel-related liabilities 13 13 – 13 Property mortgages 9,122 9,043 1,084 974 Deposits received from tenants 66 57 – 7 Property mortgages made Additional purchase price 120 – available by subsidiary Guarantee reserve 3 3 – – ­companies – – 4,002 6,197 Closing balance 202 73 – 20 Other collateral pledged Floating charges – – – – Guarantee undertakings for OS.2 OTHER LIABILITIES subsidiary companies – – 1,240 200 Liabilities as limited partner in The Group Parent Company limited partnerships – – – – 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Total 9,122 9,043 6,326 7,372 Personnel-related liabilities 10 9 10 7 Unpaid purchase price – 432 – – CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Other liabilities 81 23 43 2 Liability for damages for contamination or environmental damage Closing balance 91 464 53 9 According to the Swedish Environmental Code, the property owner may be liable to defray measures resulting from a contamination ­incident or a serious case of environmental damage. We conduct OS.3 ACCRUED COSTS AND PREPAID INCOME surveys and screening work ahead of property acquisitions and new projects in order to identify any potential environmental risks. The Group Parent Company On the closing day Atrium Ljungberg is not aware of any such 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 contamination or environmental damage which may materially Holiday pay liability and payroll overhead 25 27 22 27 ­impact the Group’s financial position. Liabilities to clients for ­ongoing engagements in Disputes ­accordance with construction From time to time Atrium Ljungberg is a party in legal processes agreements 6 52 – – and administrative proceedings related to letting, management and Accrued interest expenses 21 18 17 13 the development of properties. Accrued property tax 15 16 10 10 On the closing day Atrium Ljungberg is not a party in any ongoing Other accrued costs and process which may have a material impact on the Group’s financial ­prepaid income 77 62 15 1 position. Prepaid rent 331 360 13 10 Closing balance 475 535 77 61 118 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE F.1 CAPITAL STRUCTURE 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Reported Fair Reported Fair The Group aims to ensure a good profit performance, financial Parent Company value value value value ­sustainability and a strong financial position. The economic and Long-term liabilities ­financial goals are set in order to provide a combination of a high Liabilities to credit institutions 5,082 5,100 5,249 5,272 return on shareholders’ equity, high growth capacity, and financial Bonds 7,615 7,692 4,800 4,837 stability. Certificates 1) 1,786 1,786 3,510 3,513 Current liabilities The Group’s financial goals from 2019 are as follows: Liabilities to credit institutions – – 720 723 • The gearing ratio shall be a maximum of 45 per cent. Bonds – – 900 901 • The minimum interest coverage ratio is to be a multiple of 2.0. Liabilities to Group companies – – 1,931 1,931 • The dividend shall correspond to a minimum of 50 per cent Total loans 14,483 14,578 17,110 17,177 of the profit before changes in value after nominal tax, unless 1)  Certificates which are covered by unutilised long-term credit agreements are classi­investments or the company’s financial position in general fied as long-term liabilities. ­motivates a deviation from this norm. The terms to which the Group is subject in relation to external lenders F.2 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT apply to the equity/assets ratio, the interest coverage ratio, and the gearing ratio. The terms are subordinate to the Group’s financial ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES goals. The Group’s capital structure comprises interest-bearing net A financial instrument is each form of agreement which gives rise borrowing and shareholders’ equity attributable to the parent comto a financial asset or financial liability. Financial assets in the pany’s shareholders. This comprises share capital, other capital ­balance sheet refer to loans receivable, derivatives, rents receivable, contributed and profits brought forward, including the net profit/loss accounts receivable, other receivables and liquid resources. for the year. The financing operations are described in greater detail ­Financial liabilities refer to loans payable, derivatives, other current in note F 2 Financial instruments and risk management. liabilities and accounts payable. Reporting of financial instruments Atrium Ljungberg’s borrowing is primarily secured by means of in the balance sheet takes place when the company becomes a real estate mortgages in the Group and, in some cases, guarantee ­party to the instrument’s contractual terms and conditions. An asset undertakings issued by the parent company with regard to the is eliminated from the balance sheet when the rights contained in ­subsidiaries’ borrowing. the agreement are realised, fall due, or when the company loses control over it. A liability is eliminated from the balance sheet when Capital structure 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 the undertaking in the agreement is fulfilled or otherwise ceases. Reported Fair Reported Fair Trading date accounting is applied for derivative instruments and The Group value value value value settlement date accounting for on demand purchases or sales of Long-term liabilities ­financial assets. The company conducts impairment testing on Liabilities to credit institutions 9,105 9,267 8,105 8,135 every closing day to determine whether there are objective indicaBonds 7,615 7,692 4,800 4,837 tions that events indicate a requirement to write down a financial Certificates 1) 1,786 1,786 3,510 3,513 asset or group of financial assets. Current liabilities The financial instruments of the Group are classified in accordLiabilities to credit institutions – – 932 936 ance with the following. Bonds – – 901 901 • Financial assets are valued at fair value via the income stateTotal loans 18,506 18,745 18,247 18,321 ment Liquid assets –335 –344 • Financial assets are valued at accrued acquisition value. Net debt 18,171 17,903 • Financial liabilities valued at fair value via the income statement Shareholders’ equity 20,696 18,223 • Financial liabilities are valued at accrued acquisition value. Total capital 38,867 36,126 Certificates which are covered by unutilised long-term credit agreements are 1)  PRINCIPLES GOVERNING FINANCING AND FINANCIAL RISK ­classified as long-term liabilities. MANAGEMENT Financing and financial risks are managed in accordance with Interest-bearing liabilities are reported at the accrued acquisition guidelines laid down by Atrium Ljungberg’s Board of Directors. value which is the reported value in the above table. The calculation The Group’s treasury function, which is responsible for financing, of the fair value of liabilities to credit institutions is based on dis­liquidity and financial risks, is concentrated within the parent counted estimated future cash flows. The discounting is effected on ­company. The various categories of financial instrument held by the the basis of current market rates plus current borrowing margins. Group are shown in the table below. The valuation is hereby conducted with IFRS valuation hierarchy ­level 2. The valuation of derivatives is described in note F 2 . ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 119 NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY F.2 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT, CONT. Categorisation of financial ­instruments 1) Financial assets are valued at Financial assets/liabilities valued at Financial liabilities are valued at accrued acquisition value. fair value via the income statement accrued acquisition value. The Group 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Accounts receivable 104 151 – – – – Other receivables 93 986 – – – – Liquid assets 335 344 – – – – Total 532 1,481 – – – – Interest–bearing liabilities – – – – 18,506 18,247 Derivatives – – 349 484 – – Other liabilities – – – – 91 464 Accounts payable – – – – 208 206 Total – – 349 484 18,805 18,917 1) The fair value conforms to the book value of all financial instruments other than interest-bearing liabilities. Derivatives (interest swap agreements and currency swap agreeLIQUIDITY RISK ments) are valued at fair value in the balance sheet and the fair The term, liquidity risk refers to the company’s risk that there will ­value of derivatives has, in accordance with the IFRS valuation be insufficient liquid assets or credit for the company to be able to ­hierarchy, been valued in accordance with level 2. This level means fulfil its payment undertakings. In order to ensure that the liquidity that the valuation is based on input data other than the listed prices risk can be managed, a maximum of 30 per cent of the loan portfolio used in level 1, which are observable for the asset or the liability, may fall due within one year and a maximum of 50 per cent of the ­either directly or indirectly. loan financing may be obtained from a single creditor. The liquidity The derivative agreements (ISDA agreements) include an option shall, furthermore, at all times total a minimum of SEK 300 million to net obligations in respect of the same counterparty. Unrealised and a maximum of SEK 700 million, including liquidity reserves changes in value for the year amount to SEK –70 million (SEK –121 ­totalling a maximum of SEK 500 million and which may comprise m), of which SEK –16 million (SEK –18 m) relates to reversal of current account overdrafts or loan guarantees. The Group’s liquidity hedging reserve. The reported net value for derivatives of SEK –349 as of 31/12/2018, including unutilised current overdraft facilities million (SEK –484 m) comprises a positive value of SEK 0 million ­totalling SEK 300 million, totalled SEK 635 million (SEK 644 m). At (SEK 11 m) and a negative value of SEK 349 million (SEK 494 m). the turn of the year there were also revolving credit facilities of SEK Other financial instruments are not affected by the fair value hierar4,645 million (SEK 4,875 m). SEK 4,645 million of the credit facility chy in that they are reported at the accrued acquisition value in the was unutilised at the year-end. The table below shows the capital balance sheet. commitment structure of the loan portfolio. The average loan ­maturity term, as of 31/12/2018, was 4.6 years (3.5 years). Categorisation of financial instruments Financial assets are Financial liabilities Capital commitment valued at a ­ ccrued are valued at ­accrued The Group Parent Company ­acquisition value ­acquisition value Percentage, Percentage, Parent Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Maturity date Amount % Amount % Accounts receivable 2 3 – – 2019 – – – – Receivables from Group 2020 2,985 16 1,673 12 ­companies 19,405 22,113 – – 2021 4,851 26 4,851 33 Other receivables 8 16 – – 2022 3,617 20 1,934 13 Liquid assets 283 269 – – 2023 1,408 8 1,408 10 Total 19,698 22,401 – – 2024 and thereafter 5,645 31 4,616 32 Total 18,506 100 14,482 100 Interest–bearing liabilities – – 14,483 15,171 Liabilities to Group companies – – – 1,944 Accounts payable – – 34 23 MARKET AND INTEREST RISK Total – – 14,517 17,138 The term, market risk, refers to the risk of an impact on the profit/ loss as a consequence of changes in the outside world. The market risk is primarily attributable to the trend in interest levels for short and long-term borrowing and for market rent levels. In order to limit the interest risk, the interest payable is spread among 12 years. A maximum of 30 per cent of the loans may fall due for renegotiation 120 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY F.2 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT, CONT. of the terms within 1 year and a maximum of 55 per cent of the Maturity structure, derivative instruments Unrealised ­interest payable may take place within 1 year. The fixed interest Nominal amount, ­changes in Average term table below itemises the due dates for the Group’s interest-­ Maturity year SEK m value, SEK m interest, % bearing liabilities. The average fixed interest term as of 31/12/2018 2019 – – – was 4.1 years (4.4 years). Interest-bearing liabilities at the end of the 2020 – – – period totalled SEK 18,506 million (SEK 18,247 m) with an average 2021 375 –27 2.8 interest rate of 1.6 per cent excluding and 1.6 per cent including 2022 200 –2 0.6 ­unutilised loan guarantees. 2023 736 –4 0.5 The derivatives portfolio comprised SEK 9,296 million (SEK 9,396 m) 2024 and thereafter 7,985 –316 1.4 in interest swaps at the end of the period. The interest swap agreeTotal 9,296 –349 1.4 ments are primarily used as a means of changing the fixed ­interest structure without changing the capital commitment in the loan portfolio. Currency swaps are being used to hedge against ­foreign CREDIT RISK exchange risk for bond loans in Norwegian krone. The fair value of The term, credit risk, refers to the risk of a counterparty being unable these interest swap agreements on the closing day totalled SEK to fulfil delivery or payment undertakings. Atrium Ljungberg’s credit –349 million (SEK –484 m). risks lie in the possibility that the tenants may be unable to fulfil Atrium Ljungberg has ceased, as of 1 January 2012, to apply hedge their payment undertakings in accordance with applicable lease accounting to the interest swaps that hedge the interest flows on contracts. This risk is assessed when contracts are signed and the external loans. Unrealised changes in the value of derivatives are agreements are supplemented, where appropriate, with collateral consequently reported directly to the profit/loss. The hedging reserve, pledged by the tenants in the form of deposits or bank guarantees which totalled SEK –164 million on 31 December 2011, is being corresponding to between 3 and12 months’ rent. Deposits and bank ­reversed linearly to Other comprehensive income over the terms of guarantees received totalled SEK 66 million (SEK 56 m) and SEK 89 the respective derivatives. The remaining amount to be redeemed as million (SEK 67 m), respectively, at the end of the year. of 31/12/2018 totals SEK –26 million (SEK –39 m) after adjustments for deferred tax calculated at a nominal rate of taxation of 20.6 CURRENCY RISK per cent. A currency risk arises when payment is made in a currency other Interest on the loans falls due for payment quarterly up until than that in which the vendor’s costs or the purchaser’s income 2029. These payments have an ongoing effect on the income arises. Any such currency effect is reported in the income state­statement during the terms of the loans in question in that accrued ment. Atrium Ljungberg only makes purchases in foreign curreninterest is reported. cies on an occasional basis and the currency risk is consequently Atrium Ljungberg has also aimed to spread the renegotiation small. During the year a bond of NOK 500 million was issued, and dates for existing lease contracts as part of its efforts to reduce the the loan volume and coupon payments were secured with currency market risk of temporary cyclical fluctuations. See note IK 2 for swaps, thus eliminating currency exposure. ­details of the percentage of income renegotiated during the year ahead The weighted average remaining term for the lease contracts Sensitivity analysis, cash flows 1) Effect on Effect on is 4.0 years (3.6 years). profit, year 1, profit, full-year, Change, % SEK m SEK m Fixed interest term 1) The Group Rental income +/– 5 % +/– 14 +/– 121 Loan Percentage, Average Property management costs +/– 5 % –/+ 38 –/+ 38 amount % ­interest, % Letting rate +/– 1 % unit +/– 26 +/– 26 2019 6,910 38 0.9 Atrium Ljungberg’s average 2020 1,300 7 0.6 ­borrowing rate +/– 1 % unit –/+ 69 –/+ 185 2021 1,175 6 1.8 1) T  he effect on the profit in year 1 relates to the effect in the immediately subsequent year with reference to fixed terms in lease contracts and loan agreements. Effect on 2022 400 2 1.6 profit is before tax. 2023 736 4 1.6 2024 and thereafter 7,985 43 2.5 Total 18,506 100 1.6 1)  he average credit margin for variable interest rates is spread over the time T segment during which the derivative falls due for payment. The average interest is reported excluding the cost of unutilised loan guarantees. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 121 NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY F.2 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT, CONT. MATURITY STRUCTURE FOR FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The table below shows future undiscounted cash flows for the payment undertakings ­associated with the company’s financial receivables and liabilities. 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 The Group 2023 and 2022 and Assets 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter Rent receivables 2,483 2,109 1,570 1,135 669 2,357 2,002 1,623 1,141 772 Accounts receivable 104 – – – – 151 – – – – Other receivables 93 – – – – 986 – – – – Liquid assets 335 – – – – 344 – – – – Total 3,015 2,109 1,570 1,135 669 3,838 2,002 1,623 1,141 722 Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities incl. interest –252 –3,205 –5,013 –3,711 –7,252 –1,930 –4,156 –4,850 –1,437 –6,180 Derivatives –161 –164 –184 –246 –355 –205 –205 –205 –193 –169 Other current liabilities –91 – – – – –464 – – – – Accounts payable –208 – – – – –206 – – – – Total –712 –3,369 –5,197 –3,957 –7,607 –2,805 –4,361 –5,055 –1,629 –6,349 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Parent Company 2023 and 2022 and Assets 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter Rent receivables 247 193 162 153 141 172 154 140 93 84 Accounts receivable 2 – – – – 3 – – – – Receivables from Group companies 19,405 – – – – 22,113 – – – – Other receivables 8 – – – – 16 – – – – Liquid assets 283 – – – – 269 – – – – Total 19,945 193 162 153 141 22,573 154 140 93 84 Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities incl. interest –156 –1,823 –4,961 –1,995 –6,089 –1,696 –3,595 –4,064 –1,423 –4,627 Derivatives –161 –164 –184 –246 –355 –205 –205 –205 –193 –169 Liabilities to Group companies – – – – – –1,931 – – – – Accounts payable –34 – – – – –23 – – – – Total –351 –1,987 –5,145 –2,241 –6,444 –3,855 –3,800 –4,269 –1,615 –4,796 F.3 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES The Group Parent Company The Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Financial income Financial expenses Interest income 0 0 0 0 Interest expenses –303 –372 –289 –355 Other interest income 1 1 0 0 Other interest expenses 0 0 –191 –294 Interest income, tax-free 0 0 0 0 Non-deductible interest expenses 0 0 – – Other financial income 0 0 4 0 Other financial expenses 0 0 –1 0 Group interest income – – 561 557 Group interest expenses – – –93 –95 Total 1 1 565 557 Total –303 –372 –574 –743 Of which interest income and expenses of financial assets/liabilities which are valued at accrued acquisition value: During the year, SEK 16 million (SEK 13 m) of interest expenses Interest income 0 0 565 557 which relate to investments in the Group’s own properties has been Interest expenses –303 –372 –574 –743 capitalised. The average interest rate which has been used during –303 –372 –9 186 the calculation amounts to 1.6 per cent (2.1 per cent). Interest ­expenses for investments in own properties have been carried as an expense in the parent company. 122 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY F.4 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Long-term Short-term ­interest-bearing ­interest-bearing Other long-term Derivatives ­liabilities ­liabilities ­liabilities Total Group, 1 January 2018 484 16,415 1,832 73 18,804 Loans raised – 5,867 – – 5,867 Amortisation of debts – –4,304 –1,308 – –5,612 Deposits received and repaid – – – 10 10 Exercise of derivatives –191 – – – –191 Cash items –191 1,563 –1,308 10 74 Reclassification – 524 –524 – – Dissolution of hedging reserve –13 – – – –13 Unrealised changes in value 69 – – – 69 Additional purchase price – – – 120 120 Allocation of borrowing costs – 4 – – 4 Non-cash items 56 528 –524 120 180 Group, 31 December 2018 349 18,506 – 202 19,057 Long-term Short-term Liabilities to Group ­interest-bearing ­interest-bearing Other long-term companies ­liabilities ­liabilities ­liabilities Total Parent Company, 1 January 2018 1,944 13,551 1,620 20 17,135 Loans raised – 4,714 – – 4,714 Amortisation of debts – –4,304 –1,096 – –5,400 Change in liabilities to Group companies –1,944 – – – –1,944 Deposits received and repaid – – – –20 –20 Cash items – 410 –1,096 –20 –2,360 Reclassification – 524 –524 – – Allocation of borrowing costs – –2 – – –2 Non-cash items – 522 –524 – –2 Parent Company, 31 December 2018 – 14,483 – – 14,483 E EPRA KEY RATIOS EPRA EPRA’s practice for accounting and reporting is described in Atrium Ljungberg is a member of the European Public Real Estate EPRA Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines (EPRA BPR). Association (EPRA). EPRA is an organisation which represents The recommendation contains key ratios which aim to increase ­Europe’s publicly listed real estate companies. The organisation transparency and comparability between Europe’s publicly listed strives to create a forum for debate and decisions on the issues real estate companies. In the following notes Atrium Ljungberg which are decisive for the sector’s future and to establish practice ­reports EPRA key ratios and how they deviate from IFRS and other within accounting, reporting and corporate governance. applicable benchmarks for the Group. Further reconciliation of these key ratios is available on the company’s website. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 123 NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY E.1 EPRA EARNINGS AND EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPRA EPS) E.3 EPRA NNNAV Management result less nominal tax (EPRA Earnings) corresponds EPRA NNNAV corresponds to reported shareholders’ equity with to profit before changes in value less calculated current tax excluding ­reversal of goodwill and adjusted with estimated actual deferred tax losses carried forward. The deducted tax has been calculated by tax. The value is expected to correspond to the estimated value of taking into account tax deductible depreciation and investments. net assets at a given time, in contrast to EPRA NAV which reports Management result less nominal tax (EPRA Earnings) is con­sidered the net asset value for long-term operation. as being important for investors who want to assess to what extent Assuming a deferred tax rate of four per cent (in accordance with dividends are supported through recurrent management ­result. EPRA’s recommendation) for costing purposes for properties, the 2018 2017 deferred tax totals SEK 941 million, rather than the reported value Profit/loss before changes in value 1,214 1,180 of SEK 4,598 million, which would have a positive effect on share–T  ax deductible depreciation –467 –521 holders’ equity of SEK 3,657 million. –T  ax deductible investments –307 –256 EPRA NNNAV per share corresponds to EPRA NNNAV divided by –C  onsolidated capitalisation of borrowing –16 14 the number of outstanding shares at the end of the period. – Other items –235 11 The Group Taxable profit/loss before loss carry-forwards 189 428 2018 2017 Tax 22 % on taxable profit/loss before loss ­ carryforwards –42 –94 EPRA NAV 25,416 22,992 – Fair value financial instruments –349 –484 Profit/loss before changes in value 1,214 1,180 – Actual deferred tax liability –941 –850 – Tax 22 % on taxable profit/loss before loss carryEPRA NNNAV 24,126 21,658 forwards –42 –94 Management result less nominal tax (EPRA ­Earnings) 1,172 1,086 EPRA NNNAV 24,126 21,658 Number of outstanding shares at end of period, ’000 130 460 133,221 Management result less nominal tax EPRA NNNAV per share 184 ,93 162.57 (EPRA Earnings) 1,172 1,086 Number of outstanding shares, ‘000 130,460 133,221 Management result less nominal tax (EPRA EPS) per share 8.99 8.15 E.4 EPRA VACANCY RATE EPRA Vacancy rate shows how large share of the rental value is not E.2 EPRA NAV obtained due to vacancies. EPRA Vacancy rate is calculated by dividing the rental value of vacant areas by the total rental value for the EPRA NAV corresponds to reported shareholders’ equity with ­entire property portfolio if everything was let. Project properties are ­reversal of goodwill, interest derivatives and deferred tax. EPRA NAV not included. represents the assessed fair value of a real estate company’s net The Group assets. The value presumes long-term ownership where the property 01/01/2018 01/01/2017 portfolio’s unrealised changes in value and realised changes in Rental value vacant premises, excl. project ­value for sale of properties are excluded. Furthermore, unrealised ­properties 128 114 changes in the value of financial hedging instruments are reported Rental value total, excl. project properties 2,470 2,375 at fair value as they will amount to zero as they are held until EPRA Vacancy rate, % 5.2 4.8 ­maturity. EPRA NAV per share corresponds to EPRA NAV divided by the number of outstanding shares at the end of the period. The Group E.5 TOTAL INVESTMENTS (CAPEX) 2018 2017 Equity according to the balance sheet 20,696 18,223 Total investments (EPRA CAPEX) are reported in the tables in Replacement: ­accordance with EPRA BPR. Investments contain both revenue+F  air value financial instruments 349 484 ­increasing measures and capitalised maintenance. – Deferred tax receivable –2 –6 2018 2017 + Deferred tax liability 4,598 4,531 Acquisition of properties 2,159 1,833 –G  oodwill attributed to deferred tax –225 –240 Investments in project properties 1,216 922 EPRA NAV 25,416 22,992 Investments in land and development rights 36 44 EPRA NAV 25,416 22,992 Investments in sold properties 15 0 Number of outstanding shares at end of period, ’000 130,460 133,221 Investments in acquired properties 0 0 EPRA NAV per share 194.82 172.59 Investments in comparable portfolios 491 607 Total investments (EPRA CAPEX) 3,917 3,406 124 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY KS GROUP STRUCTURE KS.1 PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The parent company’s participations in Group companies are valued Parent Company at the acquisition value less accumulated depreciation increased or 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 decreased based on changes to the share of equity. A subsidiary’s Opening acquisition values 953 450 reported value is tested at least annually for any write-down reAcquisitions 0 0 quirement, or more frequently if there is any indication that the Capital contribution – 503 ­reported value may not be recoverable. During the write-down Change in share of equity – 0 ­testing the estimated recoverable value is compared to the book Sales – 0 value. The recovery value comprises the higher of the fair value less Closing accumulated acquisition values 953 953 sales costs and the value in use. The value in use comprises the current value of future cash flows. Potential write-down is reported Opening write-downs –7 –7 for cases when the decline in value can be deemed as permanent. Depreciation for the year – – Write-down and reversals of previous write-downs are reported in Closing accumulated write–downs –7 –7 the income statement. Closing balance 945 945 ­ Share­ holders’ Number of Share of equity, participations equity, % SEK k Profit/loss Book value, SEK m Parent company, Directly-owned company Corporate ID no. Registered ­office 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 31/12/20181) 20181) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Atrium Ljungberg Bostad Holding AB 559117-6440 Nacka 500 100 3 0 3 3 Atrium Ljungberg Holding 1 AB 556781-3059 Nacka 1,000 100 1,091 716 500 500 Atrium Ljungberg Holding 2 AB 556720-3111 Nacka 100,000 100 49 0 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Holding 3 AB 556781-3117 Nacka 1,000 100 0 0 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Holding 4 AB 559056-7730 Nacka 1,000 100 549 547 5 5 Atrium Ljungberg Holding 5 AB 559160-5729 Nacka 500 100 467 467 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Slakthuset Holding AB 559183-0244 Nacka 500 100 0 0 0 0 Fastighetsaktiebolaget Blästern 556282-8052 Nacka 10,000 100 0 0 0 0 Fastighetsaktiebolaget Celtica 556350-9727 Nacka 2,781,000 100 186 0 167 167 LjungbergGruppen Holding AB 556669-3221 Nacka 1,000 100 885 835 190 190 TL Bygg AB 556225-4440 Nacka 10,000 100 79 0 80 80 Closing balance 945 945 1) Information is only provided for the companies which are a part of the Group on 31/12/2018. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 125 NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY KS.1 PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES, cont. Number of Share of Shareholders’ Parent company, Indirectly ­participations equity, % equity, SEK k Profit/loss owned companies 1) Corporate ID no. Registered office 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 2018 AB Farsta Centrum 556065-3023 Nacka 1,000 100 5 0 Atrium Ljungberg Bas Barkarby AB 559056-7540 Nacka 500 100 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Borgarfjord 3 AB 556755-8076 Nacka 1,000 100 28 12 Atrium Ljungberg Bostad AB 559122-1378 Nacka 500 100 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Citadellet AB 556994-4878 Nacka 500 100 29 –1 Atrium Ljungberg Conditor 1 AB 559155-0404 Nacka 500 100 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Conditor 2 AB 559155-0487 Nacka 500 100 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Conditor 3 AB 559155-0479 Nacka 500 100 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Dimman AB 556659-3231 Nacka 1,000 100 193 73 Atrium Ljungberg Eken AB 556948-7555 Nacka 1,000 100 78 29 Atrium Ljungberg Fatburssjön AB 556021-7506 Nacka 1,500 100 2 0 Atrium Ljungberg Gränby Entré AB 556781-3091 Nacka 1,000 100 2 2 Atrium Ljungberg Gränby Köpstad AB 556731-8265 Nacka 1,000 100 13 5 Atrium Ljungberg Gränby Park Fastighet 1 AB 559172-9073 Nacka 500 100 0 0 Atrium Ljunberg Gränby Park Holding AB 559172-9024 Nacka 500 100 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Hallvägen AB 559155-0453 Nacka 500 100 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Hälsingegatan AB 556877-5687 Nacka 500 100 25 23 Atrium Ljungberg Kista NOD AB 556745-5182 Nacka 1,000 100 37 9 Atrium Ljungberg Kyrkviken AB 556781-3083 Nacka 1,000 100 1 0 Atrium Ljungberg Kyrkviken Holding AB 559117-6424 Nacka 500 100 2 0 Atrium Ljungberg Kyrkviken 1 AB 559117-6408 Nacka 500 100 3 0 Atrium Ljungberg Life City AB 559065-7713 Nacka 500 100 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Mark Holding AB 559117-6416 Nacka 500 100 2 0 Atrium Ljungberg M2 AB 556994-4910 Nacka 500 100 26 11 Atrium Ljungberg Malmen AB 556165-6553 Nacka 1,000 100 11 2 Atrium Ljungberg Planiavägen AB 556815-7852 Nacka 50,000 100 13 0 Atrium Ljungberg Resan AB 556948-4529 Nacka 1,000 100 3 0 Atrium Ljungberg S:t Eriksgatan AB 556914-0782 Nacka 50,000 100 11 2 Atrium Ljungberg Sickla Station AB 556781-3075 Nacka 1,000 100 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Skotten AB 556948-4537 Nacka 1,000 100 37 11 Atrium Ljungberg Slakthuset Holding 1 AB 559183-0301 Nacka 500 100 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Slakthuset Holding 2 AB 559183-0319 Nacka 500 100 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Slakthuset Holding 3 AB 559183-0285 Nacka 500 100 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Stiftare AB 559155-0396 Nacka 500 100 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Stora Katrineberg AB 556600-3843 Nacka 1,000 100 134 119 Atrium Ljungberg The Point AB 559165-9916 Nacka 500 100 0 0 Atrium Ljungberg Tomtmark AB 556948-4545 Nacka 1,000 100 494 0 Atrium Ljungberg Tranbodarne 13 AB 556754-7947 Nacka 1,000 100 37 4 Atrium Ljungberg Lindholmspiren KB 969646-1509 Nacka E/T 100 72 33 Atrium Ljungberg Uddvägen AB 556781-3067 Nacka 1,000 100 10 1 Farsta Centrum HB 916404-1361 Nacka 1,000 100 1,558 146 Fastighets AB Brogatan 556060-5536 Nacka 1,000 100 50 7 Fastighetsaktiebolaget Stadsgården 556029-0602 Nacka 31,993,074 100 1,095 30 Fastighetsaktiebolaget Österbotten 556019-4408 Nacka 1,250 100 –39 –41 Fatburstrappan Väst AB 556622-5966 Nacka 1,000 100 18 2 Gränby Centrum AB 556409-6708 Nacka 100 100 73 22 Impluvium Tretton AB 556781-3109 Nacka 1,000 100 0 0 Kommanditbolaget T-Bodarne 969646-1392 Nacka 1,000 100 645 59 Kommanditbolaget Wårbyriggen 1 969651-2251 Nacka 1,000 100 69 2 LjungbergGruppen Fastighets AB TX31 556688-4283 Nacka 1,000 100 37 16 LjungbergGruppen Svindersvik AB 556674-6045 Nacka 1,000 100 3 0 Table cont. next page 1) Information is only provided for the companies which are a part of the Group on 31/12/2018. 126 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY KS.1 PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES, cont. Number of Share of Shareholders’ Parent company, Indirectly ­participations equity, % equity, SEK k Profit/loss owned companies 1), cont. Corporate ID no. Registered office 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 2018 Mobilia Nord AB 556745-4888 Nacka 1,000 100 16 4 Mobilia Shopping Centre AB 556412-5242 Nacka 100 100 117 40 Sickla Industrifastigheter Kommanditbolag 916616-1720 Nacka 1,000 100 2,754 209 Tranbodarne 11 KB 959542-9472 Nacka 1,000 100 440 31 Walls Fastighets AB 556004-9909 Nacka 6,000 100 18 4 1) Information is only provided for the companies which are a part of the Group on 31/12/2018. KS.2 PARTICIPATIONS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Share of Associated companies are companies in which the Group has a conNumber equity Book value, SEK k trolling influence, normally through a shareholding of minimum 20 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 per cent and maximum 50 per cent and is reported using the equity AB FB-sjön general partner method. Under the equity method, participations in associated com556605-5181 Registered office in panies are reported at the acquisition value on the acquisition date ­Stockholm 500 50 % 0 0 and subsequently adjusted by the Group’s share of the change in the KB Fatburssjön 5 associated company’s net assets. The Group’s book value of the 969670-3439 shares in the associated companies corresponds to the Group’s Registered office in share in the associated companies’ shareholders’ equity and any ­Stockholm 4,999 50 % – – ­residual value of consolidated surplus and deficit values. Closing balance AB FB-sjön general partner and KB Fatburssjön 5 have not conducted any ­operations during the year. MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES MB.1 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES MB.2 PARENT COMPANY’S RESULT OF PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES GENERAL: The parent company applies the same accounting principles as the ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Group with the exceptions and additions regulated in the RFR 2, Received dividend is reported when the shareholders’ right to ­Reporting for legal entities recommendation issued by the Swedish ­receive payment has been confirmed. If it is deemed to be certain Financial Reporting Board. This means that in its annual accounts that a later decision on dividends will be decided at the upcoming for the legal entity the Parent company shall apply all of the IFRS Annual General Meeting in the paying subsidiary company, the standards and interpretations approved by the EU wherever this is ­parent company enters the income earlier, referred to as antecipated possible within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act dividend. and the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and with reference Result of participations in Group companies to the link between accounting and taxation. Parent Company 2018 2017 PROVISIONS AND FINANCIAL GUARANTEE AGREEMENTS Dividends from subsidiaries 500 450 Provisions are reported under a separate heading in the parent Total 500 450 company’s balance sheet. The parent company applies the relaxation rule in RFR 2 with regard to the reporting of financial guarantee agreements to the benefit of subsidiary companies and associated companies, which means that IAS 39 is not applied to such guarantee agreements. Rather, the parent company reports a provision in ­respect of financial guarantee agreements when the company has an undertaking for which an outflow of resources will probably be required in order to settle the obligation. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 127 NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY MB.3 PARENT COMPANY’S INVESTMENT PROPERTIES MB.4 UNTAXED RESERVES / APPROPRIATIONS ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Properties are valued at the acquisition value less accumulated The amount allocated to untaxed reserves in the parent company ­depreciation and write-downs and come under the heading of comprises taxable temporary differences. The deferred tax liability ­Investment properties in the parent company’s balance sheet. The attributable to the untaxed reserves in the parent company is not term investment properties includes buildings and land, land ­reported separately due to the link between accounting and taxation. ­improvement, building and land-related equipment as well as Untaxed reserves are, however, broken down within the Group, with ­ongoing work. 79.4 per cent reported as shareholders’ equity and 20.6 per cent as Expenses which entail future financial benefits and where the deferred tax liabilities. expense can be calculated in a reliable manner have been added to the acquisition value. Ongoing maintenance which is not covered by Untaxed reserves 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 the above mentioned description has been carried as an expense. Accumulated excess depreciation 61 61 Depreciation according to plan is charged to the operating profit/ Closing balance 61 61 loss of the parent company. Depreciation according to plan is effected Appropriations in the amount of 1 per cent of the acquisition value for buildings, land Excess depreciation equipment – –10 improvements and building equipment. The buildings are fiscally Group contributions received/made 185 173 depreciated in the amount of between 2 and 4 per cent of the acquiTotal 185 162 sition value, while land improvements are depreciated in the amount of 5 per cent. Building equipment is fiscally depreciated in the amount of 20–30 per cent of the acquisition value. The difference between depreciation according to plan and fiscal depreciation is MB.5 PROPOSED TREATMENT OF UNAPPROPRIATED reported under appropriations. Deferred tax on the difference ­EARNINGS ­between booked and fiscal depreciation of buildings and land The Board proposes the following treatment of unappropriated ­improvements is reported as deferred tax in the income statement earnings to the Annual General Meeting. Read more about the and as a deferred tax liability in the balance sheet. Board’s statement on proposed treatment of unappropriated ­earnings on page 140. 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Investment properties The following sum in the parent company is available for disposal by the Annual Opening acquisition values 1,909 1,820 General Meeting: Sales –154 – Profit brought forward SEK 6,171,309,058 Investments 64 89 Net profit for the year SEK 611,063,168 Closing accumulated acquisition values 1,819 1,909 Total SEK 6,782,372,226 Opening depreciation –267 –250 The Board of Directors proposes that the unappropriated earnings be allocated Sales 24 – as follows: Depreciation for the year –17 –17 That a dividend of SEK 4.85/share be paid to the Closing accumulated depreciation –260 –267 shareholders SEK 632,729,720 Carried forward SEK 6,149,642,506 Opening write-downs –73 –73 Total SEK 6,782,372,226 Closing accumulated write-downs –73 –73 Closing residual value according to plan 1,486 1,569 Fair value, investment properties 2,393 3,005 Valuation method is described in note T1 . 128 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY H SUSTAINABILITY H.1 GENERAL INFORMATION The Annual Report comprises Atrium Ljungberg’s Sustainability as well as taxes. The Supplier Policy includes human rights. A policy ­Report in line with the GRI Standards Core level, and the Communifor processing personal data was also produced in 2018. Our policies cation on Progress for the UN’s Global Compact. We have also are revised and updated annually. They are available in their entirety ­observed the EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations on our website. Guidelines. EPRA indicators are reported in the sustainability notes Our Sustainability Policy highlights the fact that we need to H 4–7 . EPRA indicators for corporate governance (Gov-Board, Gov-­ maintain a continual dialogue with the stakeholders who form part Select) are reported in the Corporate Governance Statement on of our core business, or who are affected by it, to ensure that we pages 84–89. Section H. Sustainability constitutes our Sustainability have identified our central sustainability issues. We use the results of Report, in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, together the materiality analysis as the basis for developing our focus areas, with the chapter on corporate sustainability on pages 18–25. The goals and relevant policies. The Sustainability Policy emphasises Sustainability Report comprises the entire Group; see note KS 1 and the fact that these goals need to be measurable. The goals are KS 2 . Atrium Ljungberg publishes the Sustainability Report annually. monitored every quarter or annually, while the company’s strategy A limited assurance review has been performed by Atrium and goals are evaluated and updated at least once a year by the Ljungberg’s external auditors. Board and management team as part of planning for the following This is Atrium Ljungberg’s second Sustainability Report in year and the budgetary work within the company. Our sustainability ­accordance with the GRI Standards. Due to some indicators which goals are also based on the company’s values. See pages 11–13 for have changed since GRI G4 was presented, there is only one further information on the goals and outcomes. ­comparative year in most of the tables. Our sustainability risks are evaluated annually, along with other There have been no significant changes to the organisation or risks, by company management and the Board. Our main sustainaour supply chain. During the year Atrium Ljungberg’s property bility risks involve the supplier chain, climate change, the environ­portfolio changed due to the sales, acquisitions and completion of ment and energy, bribes/corruption, and health and safety. The new properties/projects. The changes do not affect the sustainability ­construction and property industry is an at risk industry in terms of reporting appreciably, but should be considered for comparisons of bribes and corruption. Our risks in the supplier chain include the energy consumption and emissions over time. No significant changes environment, human rights and social issues. The entire construcin scope or boundaries of the GRI reporting have been made. tion industry contains risks associated with health and accidents, ­Relevant boundaries are described in each section. for example during demolition work and putting up scaffolding. Atrium Ljungberg’s Board of Directors establishes the overall Read more about risks and risk management on pages 72–76. sustainability policy for the company and related policies, which See pages 8–10 and 18 for further information about Atrium ­cover the following areas: business ethics, anti-corruption and Ljungberg’s business model, strategies and role in the value chain. whistleblowing, suppliers, equal opportunity and non-discrimination H.2 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Atrium Ljungberg’s most important stakeholders are customers, In 2015, we conducted a specific stakeholder dialogue process in owners and investors, employees and municipalities. They are all the form of individual interviews, either in person or in some cases important for our value creation. It is essential for us to maintain a by phone, where at least three representatives per stakeholder dialogue with them in order to gain knowledge and lay the groundgroup were interviewed. The employee dialogue took place through work to provide a relevant offering. an interactive online survey. Using these initiatives as the point of To ensure that both we and our customers feel as though we are departure, annual dialogues are conducted to intercept changed working towards the right goals, we keep our materiality analysis ­expectations. In 2018 we have seen an increased interest in climate updated, mostly based on the results of our ongoing stakeholder issues among investors. They are interested in green bonds and ­dialogues. By having a dialogue with our stakeholders, we gain Atrium Ljungberg's efforts in relation to energy and the climate. ­insight into their expectations in terms of our corporate sustainability. The areas included are energy, emissions, suppliers, anti-corruption, employment, health, training, non-discrimination and equal opportunity. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A LIMITED ASSURANCE REVIEW HAS BEEN PERFORMED ON THIS PAGE AND IT DOES NOT FORM 129 PART OF THE 2018 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY H.2 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS, cont. The table below describes the issues that each stakeholder group has indicated as important, as well as our channels for ongoing ­dialogues. Stakeholder dialogue and prioritised issues Primary stakeholders Prioritised issues Channels for dialogue Customers Resource efficiency and recycling Continuous dialogue in management Certification of buildings and communication Annual customer survey Work environment Collaboration in projects on new production, reconstruction and green lease contracts Owners and investors Governance and reporting Feedback in connection with the sustainability assessment Anti-corruption Investor meetings Responsible purchasing Annual strategy conference with the Board Resource efficiency Climate and climate change adjustment Certification of buildings Contribution for urban and social development Employees Resource efficiency and recycling Employee survey Environmental adaptations Performance management process Contribution for urban and social development Meetings and workshops Professional development Municipalities Environmental adaptations Meetings and workshops Contribution for urban and social development Processing cases We have identified a number of areas based on the Group’s strategy, other stakeholders all mostly agreed on what the key areas were for impact on the outside world, and our stakeholders’ expectations, Atrium Ljungberg. We also monitor changes in the outside world, which we have developed into four focus areas for the company’s the risk profile and whether new prioritised issues arise during our sustainability work. The materiality analysis, which was carried out dialogues with stakeholders. in 2015, clearly showed that the Board, the management team and Reporting and governance of the focus areas Focus area GRI standards’ areas Indicators Description of indicator Governance, risk management and inspection Sustainable ­ Customer health and CRE8 Type and number of sustainability/environmental Governed by the strategy for sustainable urban urban safety certifications, labelling or processes applied for development and certification goals. ­development implementation of projects or construction of Goals on certifications are reported publicly properties/facilities. every month. Environment Energy GRI 302-1, Energy consumption within the organisation and Governed by the Sustainability Policy and ­energy and resource 302-3/CRE1 energy performance in buildings. goals. Energy goals are reported publicly every efficiency quarter and internally every month. Emissions 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Governed by the Sustainability Policy, strategy GRI 305-1 ­opportunities due to climate change. for sustainable urban development, and energy GRI 305-2 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions goals. Climate and environmental risks are GRI 305-3/CRE3 (Scope 1, 2 and 3) and emissions intensity in evaluated at least once every year by the Board ­buildings. of Directors. Emissions are reported in the ­Annual Report and to CDP. Business ethics Evaluation of suppliers GRI 414-1 Percentage of new supplies that are evaluated with Governed by the Supplier Policy, which is in terms of working respect to social criteria ­appended to agreements. The purchasing ­conditions and human ­process contains procedures for checks and rights reviews. Supplier risks are evaluated at least once every year by the Board of Directors. Evaluation of suppliers in GRI 308-1 Percentage of suppliers that are evaluated in Governed by the Supplier Policy, which is terms of the environment ­relation to the environment. ­appended to agreements. The purchasing ­process contains procedures for checks and reviews. Supplier risks are evaluated at least once every year by the Board of Directors. Anti-corruption GRI 205-1 Percentage of operations that are assessed for Governed by the Business Ethics Policy and GRI 205-3 risks related to corruption as well as the number the Whistleblowing Policy. It is possible to of incidents of corruption. make an anonymous report using the whistleblowing function, when there are suspicions of any improprieties that contravene our values and policies. 130 A LIMITED ASSURANCE REVIEW HAS BEEN PERFORMED ON THIS PAGE AND IT DOES NOT FORM ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PART OF THE 2018 FINANCIAL REPORTS A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY H.2 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS, cont. Reporting and governance of the focus areas, cont. Focus area GRI standards’ areas Indicators Description of indicator Governance, risk management and inspection Employees Labour practices and GRI 401-1 Employee turnover Governed by the Sustainability Policy, the Equal working conditions Opportunity and Discrimination Policy and our goal to be one of Sweden’s best workplaces. Key figures are monitored annually. The ­employee survey process governs our improvement work. Risks related to employees are evaluated at least once every year by the Board of Directors. Health and safety GRI 403-2 Injuries, illnesses, absence as well as work-­ Governed by a zero-tolerance approach to related fatalities. workplace accidents and stress-related illnesses, the Sustainability Policy and Business Ethics Policy. Procedures for training are in place. Key figures are monitored annually. Workplace accidents are reported to the ­Swedish Work Environment Authority. It is ­possible to make an anonymous report using the whistleblowing function, when there are suspicions of any improprieties or deficiencies that impact health and safety at the workplace. Training GRI 404-2 Competence provision, including programmes for Governed by the PM process and the equivalent GRI 404-3 continuing training and lifelong learning to support career development for TL’s skilled workers. continued employability and to help employees at Governs and documents the number of the end of their employment. Percentage of ­employees whose performance and develop­employees receiving regular performance and ment are evaluated digitally. Key figures are ­career development reviews monitored annually. Diversity and equal GRI 405-1 Composition of the Board and management team, Governed by the Equal Opportunities and ­opportunities and breakdown of other employees by sex, ­Discrimination Policy. Reported annually. It is age group, minority group and other diversity possible to make an anonymous report using ­indicators the whistleblowing function, when there are suspicions of discrimination and harassment. Non-discrimination GRI 406-1 Number of cases of discrimination Governed by the Equal Opportunities and ­Discrimination Policy. Reported annually. It is possible to make an anonymous report using the whistleblowing function, when there are suspicions of discrimination and harassment. We also report the outcome of the direct economic value that is generated and distributed to the various stakeholders in accordance with the GRI Standards’ indicator 201-1, even if we do not consider it to be a focus area. H.3 EXTERNAL INITIATIVES AND MEMBERSHIPS Atrium Ljungberg has decided to support a number of international MEMBERSHIP IN ASSOCIATIONS AND TRADE ASSOCIATIONS: conventions and initiatives, and the company is also a member of • Fastighetsägarna several associations and organisations presented here. • Sweden Green Building Council • Stockholm Chamber of Commerce INVOLVEMENT IN INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIONS AND • EPRA INITIATIVES: • Almega • UN Global Compact • Confederation of Swedish Enterprise • The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals • SNS • Universal Declaration of Human Rights • IFMA, International Facility Management Association • ILO Core Conventions • Kultur & Näringsliv • Swedish Anti-Corruption Institutes’ Code of Business Conduct1) • Swedish Building Materials Assessment • Swedish Construction Federation’s Code of Conduct for Legal • Swedish Construction Federation1) and Appropriate Behaviour1) • The Swedish Association of HRM 1) Applies to the subsidiary TL Bygg. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A LIMITED ASSURANCE REVIEW HAS BEEN PERFORMED ON THIS PAGE AND IT DOES NOT FORM 131 PART OF THE 2018 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY H.4 ENERGY CONSUMPTION Atrium Ljungberg reports energy consumption using EPRA’s guideThe energy intensity measure includes fuel in the form of oil lines. The amount of energy refers to the amount that has been and pellets, heat, cooling and electricity, including tenants’ energy ­purchased from suppliers. The values from solar cells are taken consumption, and is measured per m2. We use the total letting area, from our own supplier meters. Heating and cooling, include ­tenant ­excluding the garage, indexed by a factor of 1.15, to include the consumption. Tenant electricity is estimated for tenants with their shared areas and technical areas. We use the Swedish National own electricity subscription. The distribution between measured Board of Housing’s Building Regulations and use Atemp to define the and standard value electricity is shown in the table below. The area for which a building’s energy consumption is to be calculated. standard value was calculated by using the average value for the Atrium Ljungberg’s goal is to reduce our energy consumption ­retail, food sector and office categories, where we have onward per m2 by 30 per cent by 2021. We also include the energy consump­delivery of electricity. This key ratio was then multiplied by the letting tion of our tenants in our target. Purchased and sold properties are area in the properties where we do not have onward delivery of calculated in relation to period of ownership. A comparison of like­electricity. The Swedish Energy Agency’s key ratio is used for for-like properties (LfL) indicates that energy consumption has ­residential property since we do not have onward delivery of electricity ­increased by 3 per cent since 2017. In terms of like-for-like properand therefore lack the underlying data for residential property. ties, we use the definition from EPRA, which states that properties We use weighting to an average year for district heating, oil and must have been owned for at least two full reporting years before pellets for each location. District cooling did not undergo normal-­ they are included in the reporting in order to ensure as comparable year correction in 2018, but an investigation was conducted and statistics between the years as possible. ­normal-year correction will be introduced in 2019. Energy Absolute measures use (ABS) Atrium Ljungberg Total EPRA Code Unit Indicator 2018 2017 Elec-Abs MWh Electricity Total landlord-obtained electricity, measured Elec-LfL 54,957 55,018 Property electricity, measured Total number of properties included in the indicator 52 51 Elec-Abs MWh Electricity Total tenant-obtained electricity, measured Elec-LfL 66,480 69,579 Total tenant-obtained electricity, measured Total number of properties included in the indicator 26 25 Elec-Abs MWh Electricity Total tenant-obtained electricity, standard value Elec-LfL 20,435 22,880 Total tenant-obtained electricity, standard Total number of properties included in the indicator value 26 26 DH&C-Abs MWh Total landlord-obtained heating and cooling DH&C-LfL 113,050 104,240 Total district heating and cooling Total number of properties included in the indicator 52 51 Fuel–Oil Total oil 220 133 Total number of properties included in the indicator 1 1 Fuel–Pellets Total pellets 1,472 1,949 MWh Fuels Total number of properties included in the indicator 1 1 Fuel–Abs Total fuel (oil and pellets) Fuel–LfL 1,692 2,082 Total fuel Total number of properties included in the indicator 1 1 Share of the total fuel that is renewable 87 % 94 % MWh Energy Total energy use 256,614 251,251 MWh Energy Total energy use (Degree day corrected) 259,786 257,160 Energy-Int kWh/m2 Energy intensity Energy building intensity 234 232 The total number of properties is 52 (51). The key figures for Like-for-like properties (LfL) have decreased in some cases even though the total energy consumption has increased. This is because the letting area in many of our ­properties has increased, which means the Atemp area used in the calculations has also increased and the key ratio has decreased. There have been minor adjustments to the 2017 figures. Subsidiary TL Bygg is not included in the energy statistics. 132 A LIMITED ASSURANCE REVIEW HAS BEEN PERFORMED ON THIS PAGE AND IT DOES NOT FORM ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PART OF THE 2018 FINANCIAL REPORTS A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY Like-for-like (LFL) per property type Offices Retail Residential Atrium Ljungberg Total 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change 20,590 16,899 18 % 31,213 31,449 –1 % 1,518 1,614 –6 % 53,426 49,962 7% 25 21 15 15 4 4 44 41 16,227 17,771 –10 % 32,228 36,972 –15 % 0 0 0% 48,617 54,779 –13 % 25 21 15 15 4 4 44 41 11,028 8,456 23 % 4,183 4,183 0% 2,379 2,379 0% 17,590 15,019 15 % 25 21 15 15 4 4 44 41 47,785 40,624 15 % 28,972 30,335 –5 % 7,540 7,751 –3 % 84,297 78,709 7% 25 21 15 15 4 4 44 41 220 133 39 % – – 0% – – 0% 220 133 39 % 1 1 – – – – 1 1 1,472 1,949 –32 % – – 0% – – 0% 1,472 1,949 –32 % 1 1 – – – – 1 1 1,692 2,082 –23 % – – 0% – – 0% 1,692 2,082 –23 % 1 1 – – – – 1 1 87 % 94 % 87 % 94 % 97,321 85,831 12 % 96,596 102,939 –7 % 11,437 11,780 –3 % 205,622 200,550 3% 98,189 87,554 11 % 98,520 104,440 –6 % 12,417 12,253 1% 209,394 204,247 3% 183 252 –38 % 278 339 –22 % 182 177 3% 217 226 –4 % ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A LIMITED ASSURANCE REVIEW HAS BEEN PERFORMED ON THIS PAGE AND IT DOES NOT FORM 133 PART OF THE 2018 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY H.5 CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS Atrium Ljungberg reports carbon dioxide emissions in accordance tion Agency. The same flat rates have been used for business trips with Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which internationally is the most with a private car. common method for voluntarily calculating a company’s greenhouse gas emissions. Since 2007, which is also our base year, we Financial impact of climate risks have been reporting to CDP, which includes the calculations of our Every year we provide CDP with a rough estimate of what the finanemissions for Scope 1, 2 and 3. cial impact of our climate risks would be should they transpire. We Emissions from heating consumption in Scope 1 and 2 are based have valued our total climate risk at SEK 270 million (SEK 268 m). on actual consumption. The emission figures for calculating emissions SEK 19 million is from the increase in energy consumption in 2018, from oil, pellets, electricity and district cooling have been obtained which could have been caused by the change in temperature. SEK from the relevant supplier. The emission figures for district heating 10 million is from the higher management costs, which could have have been obtained from the Swedish District Heating Association, been caused by higher cloudburst. SEK 241 million is from our where the values from previous years have been used. We use brand risks, which could have been caused by tenants not wishing “­Nordisk elmix” to calculate emissions for electricity using the to renegotiate their agreements. ­location-based method and from tenants that have their own elecRead more about climate risks in our public CDP report. To tricity subscription. ­reduce these climate risks, we are working with certifications for Emissions in Scope 3, which are generated from our visitors’ our buildings, green lease contracts, and to reduce fossil fuel usage journeys to and from our retail hubs, are based on a rough estimate in our energy consumption. of habits and travel patterns. Emission figures for car journeys to our retail hubs and service 10 km correspond to a general car, ­according to the flat rates from the Swedish Environmental ProtecGreenhouse gas emissions Absolute measures use (ABS) Atrium Ljungberg Total EPRA Code Unit Indicator 2018 2017 GHG-Dir-Abs Direct Scope 1 GHG-Dir-LfL 320 337 Tonne CO2e GHG-Indir-Abs Indirect Scope 2 7,736 6,951 GHG-Indir-LfL Other indirect Scope 3 10,607 10,032 GHG-Int kg CO2e/m2 GHG Intensity 8 7 Scope 2 in the table has been calculated using market-based principles. The value for Scope 3 has been recalculated since Farsta Centrum was not included in Atrium Ljungberg’s Scope 2 emissions which were calculated using location-based the previous year’s Annual Report. principles totalled 19,483 tonnes CO2e in 2018. The total number of properties is 52 (51). H.6 WATER We report water data using EPRA’s guidelines, which show the properties’ water consumption. Water refers to water that Atrium Ljungberg has purchased from suppliers. All of Atrium Ljungberg’s properties are included in the statistics. We do not report water consumption for all of the Group’s construction sites or ongoing projects, but we have begun measuring consumption for a few large projects. Water Absolute measures use (ABS) Atrium Ljungberg Total EPRA Code Unit Indicator 2018 2017 Water-Abs Water m3 Water-LfL 515,290 524,431 Water-Int m3/m2 Building water intensity 466 471 of applicable properties Total number of properties included in the indicator 52 51 Water consumption diminished slightly during the year and totalled 515,290 (524,431) cubic metres. The total number of properties is 52 (51). 134 A LIMITED ASSURANCE REVIEW HAS BEEN PERFORMED ON THIS PAGE AND IT DOES NOT FORM ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PART OF THE 2018 FINANCIAL REPORTS A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY H.5 CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS, cont. Carbon dioxide emissions, origin Scope Activity Data source Conversion factor Scope 1 Use of oil in property Data from suppliers Heating oil 246 g CO2/kWh Scope 1 Use of pellets in property Data from suppliers Pellets 6 g CO2/kWh Scope 1 Business trips using service and Data from Autoplan and an estimate of the use of Emission factor for each vehicle company cars ­individual cars outside Autoplan Scope 2 Electricity consumption in properties Data from suppliers for market-based calculations. Market based: 0 g CO2/kWh Data for location-based calculations from “Nordisk elmix”. “Nordisk elmix” is also used for tenants with Location based: 100 g CO2/kWh their own electricity subscription Scope 2 District cooling consumption in properties Data from suppliers Emissions factor for each supplier Scope 2 District heating consumption in properties Data from Svensk Fjärrvärme, one year time lag Emissions factor for each supplier Scope 3 Business trips by air Data from travel agency, in accordance with STS Kg CO2 STS standard for each trip standard Scope 3 Private vehicle used for work Internal data from the finance system for mileage 0.163 kg CO2/km flat rate taken from the Swedish payments for business trips using a private car ­ nvironmental Protection Agency. E Scope 3 Visitors to retail hubs Estimated data based on travel habits and customer 0.163 kg CO2/km flat rate taken from the Swedish surveys ­Environmental Protection Agency. Like-for-like (LFL) per property type Offices Retail Residential Atrium Ljungberg Total 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change 73 58 21 % 0 0 0% 0 0 0% 73 58 21 % 3,279 2,527 23 % 3,458 3,114 9.9 % 1,491 1,157 22 % 6,523 5,757 12 % – 7 6 9% 8 7 13 % 11 10 7% 7 7 9% H.6 WATER, cont. Like-for-like (LFL) per property type Offices Retail Residential Atrium Ljungberg Total 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change 162,257 152,558 6% 108,592 224,489 –107 % 98,605 96,433 2% 369,454 473,480 –28 % 305 346 –14 % 311 583 –88 % 1,449 1,398 4% 386 529 –37 % 25 21 15 15 4 4 44 41 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A LIMITED ASSURANCE REVIEW HAS BEEN PERFORMED ON THIS PAGE AND IT DOES NOT FORM 135 PART OF THE 2018 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY H.7 CERTIFIED BUILDINGS Certified buildings are buildings that have been awarded a sustainaas the share of letting area that has been certified divided by the bility certificate from an independent certification body. The certifica­total letting area. tions that we include in our statistics are BREEAM, BREEAM In-Use, Buildings acquired within the past two years are not included in LEED and Miljöbyggnad. the target, but are included in the EPRA key figure for certifications. Our target is for 100 per cent of Atrium Ljungberg’s properties to The base year for both goal monitoring any the EPRA key figure is be certified, and when monitoring this goal, the outcome is calculated 2016. Atrium Ljungberg Sustainability certified buildings Total sustainability Miljöbyggnad BREEAM In-Use LEED BREEAM certified assets EPRA Code Indicator 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Number of certified assets 2 1 9 2 – 1 11 10 22 14 Certified area (m2) 10,178 5,801 245,793 58,672 – 13,550 109,507 98,603 333,429 176,626 Cert-tot Certified area, share of ­total portfolio (%) 1 1 22 5 – 1 10 9 30 15 In 2018, the proportion of certified buildings went from 15 to 30 per cent, primarily the One certified building was sold during the year. We do not have any LEED-certified result of eight existing buildings being certified in accordance with BREEAM In-Use. buildings any more since that certification has expired. H.8 GREEN LEASE CONTRACTS H.9 EMPLOYEES, cont. Green lease contracts are contracts that have the Swedish Property Employee turnover (EPRA Emp-Turnover) Federation’s standard green appendix. This appendix is attached to 2018 2017 the lease contract. Men Women Total Men Women Total Atrium Ljungberg’s target is for the proportion of green lease Year’s change in number of contracts to reach 50 per cent of contracted annual rent by 2021. employees At the end of 2018, 27 per cent (18 %) of our contracted annual rent Number of employees at start came under a green lease contract. of the year 218 83 301 211 70 281 Monitoring of the target includes ongoing lease contracts as of New hirings 28 15 43 29 18 47 the end of December that have a green appendix. All types of Resignations 22 12 34 23 9 32 ­premises are included, with the exception of residential properties Number of employees at and garages which do not have green appendices at present. The year-end 224 86 310 217 79 296 lease value for the contracts that have a green appendix is divided by the total rental value in the same area of use. New employees under 30 10 2 12 5 4 9 H.9 EMPLOYEES 30–49 15 12 27 19 14 33 50 and above 3 1 4 5 0 5 Average number of employees, distributed by gender Total 28 15 43 29 18 47 The Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Resignations Men 219 219 118 115 under 30 5 1 6 3 4 7 Women 83 76 72 65 30–49 9 10 19 13 2 15 302 295 190 180 50 and above 8 1 9 7 3 10 Total 22 12 34 23 9 32 Number of employees The average number of employees increased in 2018. Atrium Ljungberg does not divide employees by region, but reports the Group’s employees as a whole. We only report our own employees. We only use fixed-term employment to a very limited extent, which is why they are not included in our reporting of employees. Reporting in the following tables in H 9 refers to the number of individuals at the end of the year. 136 A LIMITED ASSURANCE REVIEW HAS BEEN PERFORMED ON THIS PAGE AND IT DOES NOT FORM ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PART OF THE 2018 FINANCIAL REPORTS A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY H.9 EMPLOYEES, cont. H.9 EMPLOYEES, cont. Employees divided by form of employment and employment type Sick leave and injuries 2018 2017 The Group’s sick leave increased slightly in 2018, but is basically Men Women Total Men Women Total ­unchanged from the previous year. Atrium Ljungberg actively works Form of employment with “sustainable employees” and has a zero-tolerance attitude Skilled employees 95 4 99 101 3 104 ­towards stress-related illnesses and work-related injuries. All Administrative employees 129 82 211 116 76 192 ­employees also have a personal sustainability target which is Number of employees at ­monitored continuously during the year. year-end 224 86 310 217 79 296 Sick leave (EPRA H&S-Emp) Type of employment Sick leave is distributed by age 2018 2017 Full-time 224 84 308 216 78 294 and gender, % of total working hours Men Women Total Men Women Total Part-time – 2 2 1 1 2 under 30 3.5 1.0 3.1 4.9 1.6 4.3 Total 224 86 310 217 79 296 30–49 3.2 6.1 4.1 2.9 3.3 3.0 50 and above 6.5 7.5 6.7 7.0 8.2 7.2 Employees divided by age and sex (EPRA Diversity-Emp) Total 4.3 6.0 4.8 4.5 4.0 4.4 2018 2017 Men Women Total Men Women Total Only our own employees are included in the statistics for sick leave Age distribution all employees and injuries. We base our calculations on total working hours of under 30 31 6 37 34 7 41 368,089 for Atrium Ljungberg and 230,442 hours for TL Bygg, which 30–49 128 68 196 118 62 180 in total amounts to 598,531 hours in 2018. Day refers to contracted 50 and above 65 12 77 65 10 75 work days, not calendar days. Total 224 86 310 217 79 296 Read more about our employees and their sick leave, work-­ related injuries, fatalities, etc. on pages 22–24. Age distribution company ­management under 30 – – – – – – H.10 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE AND TAX 30–49 3 3 6 3 3 6 50 and above – 1 1 – 1 1 Atrium Ljungberg creates value through its management, developTotal 3 4 7 3 4 7 ment and acquisition of properties in Sweden. The generated ­economic value mainly comprises rental income, investments and Age distribution other unrealised changes in the value of properties. ­managers and employees The generated economic value is distributed between suppliers, under 30 31 6 37 34 7 41 employees, lenders, society and the owners. Economic value 30-49 123 64 187 115 59 174 ­distributed corresponds to economic value generated. The largest 50 and above 63 10 73 65 9 74 share of our distributed economic value refers to payments to Total 217 80 297 214 74 289 ­suppliers for the products and services we purchase. For definitions, see page 154. Age distribution Board of ­Directors SEK m 2018 2017 under 30 – – – – – – Directly generated economic value 30-49 2 1 3 2 1 3 Revenue 5,197 4,493 50 and above 2 1 3 2 1 3 Economic value distributed Total 4 2 6 4 2 6 Payments to suppliers 2,289 2,120 Salaries and compensation to employees 180 166 Gender distribution Fees and compensation to the Board and CEO 24 28 Board of Directors 4 2 6 4 2 6 Payments to financiers, net 314 387 Company management 3 4 7 3 4 7 Tax to society 335 303 Mid-level management 24 13 37 20 10 30 Dividends to shareholders 599 526 Other 193 67 260 194 65 259 Total distributed economic value 1) 3,741 3,530 Total 224 86 310 221 81 302 Economic value — remaining in the company 1,456 963 1) Economic value distributed corresponds to economic value generated. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A LIMITED ASSURANCE REVIEW HAS BEEN PERFORMED ON THIS PAGE AND IT DOES NOT FORM 137 PART OF THE 2018 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY H.10 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE AND TAX, cont. H.12 SUPPLIERS Atrium Ljungberg’s directly distributed economic value to society Supplier refers to those that invoiced at least SEK 100,000 in 2018. comprises taxes and leasehold fees. These taxes mainly comprise New supplier refers to those with which Atrium Ljungberg signed a current tax, property tax, non-deductible VAT, stamp duty, social new agreement during the year. ­security payments and special payroll tax. The rules on these taxes We have previously used Fastighetsägarna’s self-evaluation form are monitored carefully as this is an essential part of the commerto evaluate suppliers, but Fastighetsägarna discontinued this cial offer with requirements for high predictability and minimisation ­database in 2018. No self-evaluation forms have been submitted to of administrative expenses. Within the framework of this, in its tax ­Atrium Ljungberg in 2018. policy Atrium Ljungberg undertakes not to conduct aggressive tax When agreements are signed, the supplier must sign the supplier planning. Aggressive tax planning refers to arrangements which policy, which is added as an appendix to the agreement. Atrium only aim to minimise the tax without links to own business activities. Ljungberg monitors new suppliers by ensuring our supplier policy The Tax Policy is available in its entirety on our website. has been signed. In 2018 Atrium Ljungberg decided to pay some interest in In 2018, agreements were signed with 165 new suppliers; 30 of ­advance due to the new tax rules for 2019 regarding tax relief for these have a framework agreement. Of these, 102 signed Atrium ­interest. The new rules only allow the company to deduct up to Ljungberg’s supplier policy. In addition, we, or a third party, perform 30 per cent of the interest expense. audits of a selection of existing suppliers with a framework agreement every year. Tax 2018 2017 See page 23 for further information on purchasing and suppliers. Current tax 35 9 Property tax 150 142 Supplier inspections 2018 2018 2017 Non-deductible VAT 61 53 Percentage of new suppliers that have signed Stamp duty – 4 ­Atrium Ljungberg’s supplier policy1) 62 % 48 % Social security payments 54 53 Number of existing suppliers that have been ­reviewed2) 20 18 Special payroll tax 7 6 Number of audits at the supplier’s place of business 0 0 Total taxes 308 268 Leasehold fees 27 35 1) T  he key ratio is based on new suppliers that signed an agreement during the year. Total to society 335 303 This year, in addition to the framework agreements, we have included new agreements signed within the project organisation and property management. For this reason, the 2017 outcome has been revised compared to the 2017 Annual Report. 2) The key ratio specifies the number of suppliers with existing central framework agreements that have been reviewed during the year, which corresponds to a H.11 ANTI-CORRUPTION ­proportion of 26 per cent. According to GRI Standards 308-1 and 414-1, the new suppliers are to be reviewed based on environmental and social criteria. We have Corruption refers to the misuse of a position of power or trust for a instead chosen to report the number of existing suppliers with a framework agreeperson’s own benefit or for the benefit of others. We report cases of ment that were reviewed during the year, since reviewing existing suppliers more in depth instead of new suppliers was of greater interest during the year. corruption which concern regular employees and temporary The subsidiaries are not included in the reporting. ­employees. All of our operations, 100 per cent, have been examined for corruption, and the main risks identified during this examination relate to suppliers, letting and transactions. No cases of corruption were confirmed in 2018. Incidents of corruption 2018 2017 Number of confirmed incidents of corruption – 1 Number of employees who have had to resign as a result of corruption – 1 Number of collaboration agreements that have been ­terminated as a result of corruption – – Legal procedures for corruption that have been brought against the organisation and our employees – – 138 A LIMITED ASSURANCE REVIEW HAS BEEN PERFORMED ON THIS PAGE AND IT DOES NOT FORM ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PART OF THE 2018 FINANCIAL REPORTS A GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING REGULATIONS F FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE NOTES IK INCOME AND EXPENSES E EPRA KEY RATIOS S TAX KS GROUP STRUCTURE T ASSETS MB PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES OS OPERATIONAL LIABILITIES H SUSTAINABILITY H.13 BOARD’S SIGNATURES H.14 THE AUDITOR’S OPINION REGARDING THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Board and CEO ensure that the Sustainability Report has been produced in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. To the General Meeting of Atrium Ljungberg AB (publ), corporate identity number 556175-7047 Nacka, 28 February 2019 Assignment and responsibilities The Board of Directors is responsible for the 2018 Sustainability ­Report and for it being prepared in accordance with the Swedish ­Annual Accounts Act. Johan Ljungberg Sune Dahlqvist Chairman of the Board Member of the Board Focus and scope of the examination Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s ­recommendation RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the ­statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of Simon de Château Sara Laurell the statutory sustainability r­ eport is different and substantially less Member of the Board Member of the Board in scope than an audit c­ onducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Anna Hallberg Erik Langby Member of the Board Member of the Board Statement A sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, 28 February 2019 Annica Ånäs Ernst & Young AB CEO Jonas Svensson Authorised Public Accountant ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A LIMITED ASSURANCE REVIEW HAS BEEN PERFORMED ON THIS PAGE AND IT DOES NOT FORM 139 PART OF THE 2018 FINANCIAL REPORTS | DIRECTORS’ REPORT PROPOSED TREATMENT OF UNAPPROPRIATED EARNINGS PROPOSED TREATMENT OF ­UNAPPROPRIATED EARNINGS The following sum in the parent company is available for disposal by the Annual General Meeting: Profit brought forward SEK 6,171,309,058 Net profit for the year SEK 611,063,168 Total SEK 6,782,372,226 The Board of Directors proposes that the unappropriated earnings be allocated as follows: That a dividend of SEK 4.85/share be paid to the shareholders SEK 632,729,720 Carried forward SEK 6,149,642,506 Total SEK 6,782,372,226 BOARD STATEMENT CONCERNING THE THE FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE pany will be able to continue its operations PROPOSED DIVIDEND ­COMPANY AND THE GROUP and that the company can be expected to The Board of Directors hereby issues the The financial position of the company and fulfil its undertakings in both the short and following statement in accordance with the Group on 31 December 2018 is shown in the long-term. chapter 18, §4 of the Swedish Companies the 2018 annual accounts. The principles Act (2005:551). The Board’s declaration that applied to the valuation of assets, provisions THE DEFENSIBILITY OF THE DIVIDEND the proposed dividend is compatible with and liabilities are shown in the notes on PROPOSAL the provisions of chapter 17, § 3, sections 2 pages 102–128 of the Annual Report. The Board of Directors is of the opinion, and 3 of the Swedish Companies Act is the It is apparent from the appropriation of with reference to the above and to other following. profits proposal that the Board proposes ­information obtained by the Board, that the payment of a dividend of SEK 4.85 per financial position of the company and the THE NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE share, corresponding to a total sum of Group are such that the dividend proposal is ­OPERATIONS AND THE RISKS ASSOCIATED ­approximately SEK 633 million. The proposed defensible with reference to chapter 17, §3, THEREWITH dividend comprises 8.6 per cent of the sections 2 and 3 of the Swedish Companies The nature and scope of the operations are ­parent company’s shareholders’ equity and Act, i.e. with reference to the requirements specified in the Articles of Association and 3.1 per cent of the Group’s shareholders’ that the nature and scope of the operations the published annual accounts. The operaequity. Funds available for payment as and the risks it entails impose on the size of tions conducted by the company do not ­dividends within the parent company at the the company’s and the Group’s shareholders’ ­entail risks over and above either those that end of the 2018 financial year totalled equity and the consolidation requirements, arise or which may be expected to arise SEK 6,782 million. The record date for liquidity and position in general of the comwithin the sector or those generally ­distribution of profits proposed by the Board pany and the Group. ­associated with commercial operations and of Directors is Friday 29 March 2019. the conduct thereof. It is apparent, inter alia, from the annual Nacka, 28 February 2019 accounts that the Group’s equity/assets ­ratio is 45.9 per cent. The proposed dividend does not comprise fulfilment of the investments deemed necessary. The company’s Atrium Ljungberg AB (publ) financial position does not give occasion to Board of directors assume anything other than that the com140 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS SIGNATORIES ANNUAL ACCOUNTS SIGNATORIES The Board of Directors and the CEO hereby principles, and that they provide a true and the performance by the Group’s and the assure that the consolidated accounts and fair view of the Group’s and the company’s company’s operations, and of their respecthe annual accounts have been prepared in respective positions and results and that tive positions and results, and that they accordance with the International Financial the Directors’ Report for the Group and the ­describe significant risks and uncertainty Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by Directors’ Report for the company are faithfactors faced by the companies that make the EU, and with generally accepted auditing ful representations of the development of up the Group. Nacka, 28 February 2019 Johan Ljungberg Sune Dahlqvist Simon de Château Chairman of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Sara Laurell Anna Hallberg Erik Langby Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Annica Ånäs CEO Our Auditor’s Report was submitted on 28 February 2019. Ernst & Young AB Jonas Svensson Authorised Public Accountant ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 141 AUDITORS’ REPORT AUDITORS’ REPORT To the General Meeting of Atrium Ljungberg AB (publ), corporate identity number 556175-7047 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS OPINIONS the income statement and balance sheet for the parent Company We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of and the Group. Atrium Ljungberg AB (publ) for the year 2018, except for the corporate Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consoligovernance statement on pages 84-89. The annual accounts and dated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages 67–81, ­report that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit com84–128 and 140–141 in this document. mittee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in ­accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all BASIS FOR OPINIONS material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 31 December 2018 and of its financial performance and its cash on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in S ­ weden. flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Our responsibilities under those standards are further ­described in ­Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the ­accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all parent company and the Group in accordance with professional ethmaterial respects, the financial position of the Group as of 31 Decemics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethiber 2018 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the cal responsibilities in accordance with these ­requirements. This inyear then ended in accordance with the International Financial cludes that, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited ­Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance have been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its statement on pages 84-89. The directors’ report is consistent with parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient We therefore recommend that the Annual General Meeting adopt and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profesWe have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s sional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the responsibilities section of the annual report, including in relation to ­annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated material misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion ­accounts. The results of our audit procedures, including the proceon these matters. The description below of how this audit was dures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for ­performed in these areas must be read in this context. our audit opinion. VALUATION INVESTMENT PROPERTIES DESCRIPTION OF THE AREA HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THIS MATTER The fair value of investment properties in the Group amounted to In our audit we have evaluated the company’s process for property SEK 43,310 million on 31 December 2018. On the closing day, 31 Decemvaluation by, among other things, evaluating the valuation method ber 2018, some parts of the property portfolio were valued by external and input data in the prepared valuations. We have evaluated the valuation experts and some valued internally. The valuations are skills and objectivity of the external valuation experts. We have yield-based in accordance with the cash flow model, which entails made comparisons to known market information. Based on our that future cash flows are forecast. The yield requirement of proper­valuation expertise, we have reviewed the model used for property ties is assessed based on each property’s unique risk and conducted valuation. We have also reviewed the reasonability of the assumptransactions in the market for objects of a similar nature. Based on tions made such as yield requirements, vacancy rate, rental income the high degree of assumptions and assessments which are made and operating costs based on our valuation expertise. We have in connection with the property valuation, we believe that this area is ­reviewed the disclosures provided in the annual accounts. a particularly important area in our audit. A description of the valuation of the property holding is stated in the section on significant assessments in note A 2 and note on investment properties T 1 . 142 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 AUDITORS’ REPORT INCOME TAX DESCRIPTION OF THE AREA HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THIS MATTER The tax expense in accordance with the consolidated statement of In our audit we have evaluated and reviewed the company’s process comprehensive income amounted to SEK –329 million, of which for the calculation of current and deferred tax. We have reviewed a SEK –35 million related to current tax expense and SEK –294 selection of the legal companies’ calculations of current tax in the ­deferred tax expense. The Group reports SEK 2 million as deferred Group. We have examined the handling of tax deductible direct tax receivables and SEK 4,598 million as deferred tax liabilities. The ­deductions, and examined a selection of direct deductions. We have description of current tax and deferred tax is stated in the annual also examined property sales, and examined calculations of the accounts in note S 1 . The calculation and reporting of current tax Group’s deferred tax. By making use of our tax specialists, we have and deferred tax are complex and contain a high degree of assessassessed the application against applicable tax legislation. We have ments and assumptions. These include the basis for tax depreciation, reviewed the disclosures provided in the annual accounts. directly deductible reconstruction costs, and the sale of properties separately or in legal form. During the year, the Group invested SEK 1,758 million in existing properties, acquired properties at an underlying property value of SEK 1,727 million and sold properties for SEK 2,662 million. Based on the assessments and assumptions made in connection with the calculation of income taxes, we deem this area to be particularly important in our audit. OTHER INFORMATION THAN THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND ance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS the CEO are also responsible for such internal control as they deterThis document also contains other information than the annual mine necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and ­accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-66, consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, 82–83, 129-139 and 147-158. The Board of Directors and the CEO whether due to fraud or error. are responsible for the other information. In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, the Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for the assessment does not cover this other information and we do not express any of the company’s and the Group’s ability to continue as a going conform of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. cern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consoliand using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identibasis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors fied above and consider whether the information is materially inconand the CEO intend to liquidate the company, cease operations, or sistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this have no realistic alternative but to do so. procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of ­obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise ­Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things appears to be materially misstated. oversee the company’s financial reporting process. If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other inforAUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY mation, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether ­report in this regard. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable ­MANAGING DIRECTOR ­assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that The Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for the preparaan audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted tion of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and for auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material mis­ensuring they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual statement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accord­error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 143 AUDITORS’ REPORT they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisuch disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the sions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and conannual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are solidated accounts. based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise profesreport. However, future events or conditions may cause a company sional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout and a Group to cease to continue as a going concern. the audit. We also: • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the ­disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated ­annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a fraud or error, design and perform examination procedures manner that achieves fair presentation. ­responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is suffi• Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk ­financial information of the entities or business activities within of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve We are responsible for the direction, supervision and perforcollusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or mance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our the override of internal control. opinions. • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control ­relevant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of ­expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s ­significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant ­internal control. deficiencies in internal control that we identified. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our indethe Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of pendence, and where applicable, related safeguards. ­accounting in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit obtained, as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the commost important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are pany’s and the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclothe matter sures in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS OPINIONS with this are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated ­section. We are independent of the parent company and the Group ­accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden of Directors and the CEO of Atrium Ljungberg AB (publ) for the year and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance 2018 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit with these requirements. or loss. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient We recommend to the General Meeting that the profit be and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. ­appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the directors’ report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the CEO be RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE ­discharged from liability for the financial year. ­MANAGING DIRECTOR The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriaBASIS FOR OPINIONS tions of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable ­auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities in accordance considering the requirements which the company’s and the Group’s 144 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 AUDITORS’ REPORT type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent and relationships that are material for the operations and where company’s and the Group’s equity, consolidation requirements, ­deviations and violations would have particular importance for the ­liquidity and position in general. company’s situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organisupport for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that sation and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriathe Group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s tions of the company’s profit or loss we examined the Board of Di­organisation is designed so that the accounting, management of rectors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence ­assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance in a reassuring manner. The CEO shall manage the ongoing adminiswith the Companies Act. tration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to AUDITOR’S EXAMINATION OF THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE fulfil the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle ­REPORT the management of assets in a reassuring manner. The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance statement on pages 84-89 has been prepared in accordance AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY with the Annual Accounts Act. Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby Our examination of the corporate governance statement is our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence ­conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement. This member of the Board of Directors or the CEO in any material means that our examination of the corporate governance statement ­respect: is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally can give rise to liability to the company, or accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examina• in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies tion has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of 2–6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is paragraph of the same law are consistent with the other parts of the to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance is in accordance with the Companies Act. with the Annual Accounts Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a Ernst & Young AB, Jakobsbergsgatan 24, SE-103 99 Stockholm, guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally Sweden, was appointed as Atrium Ljungberg AB’s (publ) auditor by ­accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or the general meeting on 21 April 2015, and has been the company’s omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the auditor since 7 April 2011. proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. Stockholm, 28 February 2019 As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgement and Ernst & Young AB maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are based primarily on the audit of the ­accounts. Additional audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgement with starting point in risk and materiality. Jonas Svensson This means that we focus the examination on such actions, areas Authorised Public Accountant ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 145 AUDITORS’ REPORT THE AUDITOR’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT ON ATRIUM LJUNGBERG AB (PUBL)’s SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To Atrium Ljungberg AB (publ.), company ID no.: 556175-7047 standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We are independent of Atrium Ljungberg AB (publ) in accordance with INTRODUCTION ­professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Atrium fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these Ljungberg AB (publ) to undertake a limited assurance engagement ­requirements. of Atrium Ljungberg AB’s (publ) Sustainability Report for the year The procedures performed in a review do not enable us to obtain 2018. The company has defined the scope of the Sustainability such a level of assurance that would make us aware of all significant ­Report on pages 18–25 and 129–139 in this document. matters that might be identified in an audit. Therefore, the conclusion expressed based on a review does not RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY have the assurance of a conclusion expressed based on an audit. MANAGEMENT FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our review is based on the criteria defined by the Board of The Board of Directors and company management are responsible ­Directors and company management, as described above. We confor the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with sider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability the applicable criteria, as explained on page 129 in the Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient Report, and are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. (published by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)) which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and STATEMENT ­calculation principles that the Company has developed. This Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, ­responsibility also includes the internal control relevant to the nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from material Sustainability Report has not been prepared, in all material ­misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. ­respects, in accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of ­Directors and company management. AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have Stockholm, 28 February 2019 ­performed. Ernst & Young AB We conducted our review in accordance with ISAE 3000. Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, Jonas Svensson and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. Authorised Public Accountant A review has a different purpose and a substantially less scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing practices. The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Marianne Förander ­Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of Specialist member of FAR quality control including documented guidelines and procedures ­regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional 146 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 The work of art “Den blå klänningen” (The Blue Dress) by Hertha Hillfon brightens up our head office. ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 147 MULTI-YEAR OVERVIEW MULTI-YEAR OVERVIEW Amounts in SEK m 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 INCOME STATEMENTS Rental income 2,412 2,389 2,150 2,122 1,980 Sales, project and construction work 217 174 149 346 331 Net sales 2,629 2,563 2,299 2,468 2,311 Property management costs –764 –742 –692 –671 –636 Project and construction work costs –246 –206 –162 –372 –342 Gross profit/loss 1,619 1,616 1,445 1,425 1,334 – of which gross profit/loss from property management 1,648 1,647 1,458 1,450 1,345 – of which gross profit/loss from project and construction work –29 –31 –12 –26 –11 Central administration, property management –73 –48 –82 –60 –53 Central administration, project and construction work –30 –16 –15 –15 –14 –103 –64 –97 –76 –67 Financial income 1 1 1 2 2 Financial expenses –303 –372 –385 –405 –425 –302 –372 –384 –403 –423 Profit/loss before changes in value 1,214 1,180 965 945 844 Properties, unrealised changes in value 2,516 1,817 2,772 2,328 861 Properties, realised changes in value 121 –4 6 –44 8 Financial instruments, unrealised changes in value –70 121 –307 201 –894 Financial instruments, realised changes in value 1 –5 – – – 2,568 1,930 2,471 2,485 –25 Profit/loss before tax 3,781 3,110 3,436 3,431 818 Current tax –35 –9 –4 –17 –16 Deferred tax –294 –542 –751 –630 –157 Net profit/loss for the year 3,453 2,559 2,681 2,784 645 BALANCE SHEETS Investment properties 43,310 39,991 36,054 30,841 28,163 Goodwill 225 240 263 263 274 Other fixed assets 45 45 52 48 45 Development properties 891 870 – – – Current assets 323 1,272 357 405 379 Liquid assets 335 344 276 389 415 Total assets 45,128 42,763 37,001 31,947 29,276 Shareholders’ equity 20,696 18,223 16,176 13,953 11,590 Deferred tax liability 4,598 4,531 4,010 3,275 2,678 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 18,506 16,415 13,125 10,976 9,807 Long-term derivatives 349 484 900 621 846 Other long-term liabilities 202 73 60 32 27 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities – 1,832 1,970 2,285 2,510 Short-term derivatives – – 9 – – Other current liabilities 777 1,205 751 804 1,818 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 45,128 42,763 37,001 31,947 29,276 148 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MULTI-YEAR OVERVIEW Amounts in SEK m 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 CASH FLOW STATEMENTS Cash flow from operating activities 1,260 1,166 949 1,006 734 Cash flow from investment activities –348 –3 443 –2 435 –1 535 –302 Cash flow from financing activities –920 2,346 1,373 504 –204 Cash flow for the year –9 68 –113 –25 228 KEY RATIOS Property-related key ratios Letting rate, % 95 95 93 94 93 Operating surplus margin, % 68 69 68 68 68 Letting area, ‘000 m² 1,129 1,146 1,124 1,034 1,062 Investments in properties, SEK m 1,758 1,593 1,002 768 707 Number of properties 51 53 50 48 49 Financial key ratios Equity/assets ratio, % 45.9 42.6 43.7 43.7 39.6 Gearing ratio, % 41.9 44.7 41.9 43.0 45.5 Adjusted gearing ratio, % 41.9 44.1 41.9 43.0 45.5 Interest coverage ratio, multiple 5.0 4.2 3.5 3.3 3.0 Average interest on interest-bearing liabilities (at period end), % 1.6 1.7 2.3 2.9 3.2 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 17.7 15.0 17.8 21.8 5.7 Return on shareholders’ equity, excluding changes in value, % 5.1 5.5 5.8 6.3 5.8 Return on total assets, % 9.3 8.7 11.1 12.5 4.4 Return on total assets excluding changes in value, % 2.7 3.1 4.2 4.6 4.5 Data per share Earnings per share, SEK 26.15 19.21 20.13 20.89 4.89 EPRA EPS, SEK 8.99 8.15 5.65 5.54 4.98 Dividend (2018 proposed), SEK 4.85 4.50 3.95 3.55 3.30 Dividend pay-out ratio, % 67.6 65.1 69.9 64.1 66.8 Share dividend yield, % 3.2 3.5 2.8 2.7 2.9 Cash flow, SEK 9.54 8.75 7.12 7.55 5.56 Shareholders’ equity, SEK 158.64 136.79 121.42 104.73 87.00 Long-term net worth (EPRA NAV), SEK 194.82 172.59 156.21 131.78 111.19 EPRA NNNAV, SEK 184.93 162.57 144.38 122.95 101.87 Share price on 31 December, SEK 152.00 130.30 142.30 133.00 114.70 Average number of outstanding shares, ‘000 132,019 133,221 133,221 133,221 132,072 Number of outstanding shares at end of period, thousand 130,460 133,221 133,221 133,221 133,221 Employees Average number of employees 302 295 281 282 282 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 149 OUR PROPERTY PORTFOLIO STOCKHOLM | PROPERTY LIST Letting area, m² / on cti ,% Km Km tru are e, SE SE o ns tion 2 sh u e, ,% fc c old ar o stru a, m on ary al val l u ate Municipality/Property are ssi iet nti e ble lv a gr s eh Ye o n d sse op r tai l ce s sid e rag er 1) l tea ta t i n a rec n ta n t name Address/Description Le La Po Pr Re Offi Re Ga Oth To Ra Re Le STOCKHOLM 1 Adam & Eva 17 Drottninggatan 68 1929/2006 1,777 Before 2007 100 3,304 4,507 137 7,948 480 53 97 2 Blästern 11 1) Hälsingegatan 43–45 1930/2006 11,584 Before 2007 100 1,557 39,521 9,632 4,563 55,273 1,000 154 99 3 Borgarfjord 3 1) Kistagången 6, Torshamnsga1984/2010 5,204 20/04/2016 100 13,550 13,550 175 34 66 tan 29 4 Borgarnäs 1 1) Kista Gårdsväg 2 L 2014 7,945 06/02/2012 100 948 13,623 6,700 10,778 32,049 73 98 5 Borgmästaren 1 Glashuset Slussen L 1974/2006 4,487 Before 2007 100 92 23,110 2,886 335 26,423 754 69 90 Katarinavägen 15 6 Fatburen 1 Söderhallarna 1991 4,643 Before 2007 100 4,912 13,172 4,923 5,047 28,054 638 72 98 7 Fatburssjön 8 Magnus Ladulåsgatan 63 1930/2006 1,396 Before 2007 100 6,643 1,231 7,874 237 27 94 8 Härden 14 S:t Eriksgatan 113 1932/1957 1,134 19/12/2012 100 807 6,258 1,800 241 9,106 128 26 98 9 Kolding 1 Ärvinge, Kista L 1993 27,713 Before 2007 100 128 15,801 3,087 19,016 201 23 99 10 Kolding 2 Ärvinge, Kista L 1992 21,632 Before 2007 100 566 398 20,804 1,750 78 23,596 211 30 98 11 Kolding 3 1) Ärvinge, Kista L 1993 13,676 Before 2007 100 954 16,113 1,256 6,848 820 25,991 195 46 93 12 Kolding 4 1) Ärvinge, Kista L 1993/2001 24,332 Before 2007 100 251 24,034 8,067 1,050 33,402 396 45 62 13 Kylfacket 3 Hallmästarvägen 2 1936 3,384 01/06/2018 100 3,060 1,451 4,511 18 3 100 14 Molekylen 1 Land in Hagastaden 5,592 In 2018 100 15 Proppen 6 Textilgatan 31 1937/2008 2,607 Before 2007 100 978 11,073 732 12,783 247 30 90 16 Skotten 6 Glashuset Drottninggatan 63 1959/2008 1,485 Before 2007 100 5,293 5,099 2,133 12,525 597 73 97 17 Stora Katrineberg 16 Katrinebergsvägen 4-12, LiljeL 1750/1945/1988 24,383 02/02/2015 100 3,381 35,779 12,400 2,977 54,537 791 104 98 holmsvägen 14-18 18 Storö 15 Farsta Centrum L 1961/2006 6,175 Before 2007 100 220 2,192 11,649 126 35 100 19 Storö 2 Farsta Centrum L 1961/1998 558 Before 2007 100 5,039 4,418 1,315 1,535 4 100 20 Storö 21 Farsta Centrum L 1961/2010 36,374 Before 2007 100 42,014 24,477 13,692 9,981 90,164 1,128 241 95 21 Storö 23 Farsta Centrum L 1961/1998 2,814 Before 2007 100 1,370 2,225 1,470 3,260 8,325 19 95 22 Storö 24 Farsta Centrum 2014 6,309 Before 2007 100 3,384 3,384 58 10 100 23 Tranbodarne 11 Katarinavägen 3-11 1912/1965 3,587 01/11/2018 100 2,489 16,895 2,182 21,566 1 77 100 24 Tranbodarne 13 Sjömansinstitutet 1929/1998 502 30/03/2017 100 116 2,723 435 30 3,304 102 13 100 Total Stockholm 219,293 77,674 266,806 38,296 73,255 50,534 506,564 7,483 1,257 95 NACKA 25 Sicklaön 83:22 1) 2) Sickla Köpoch Affärskvarter 1898/2012 168,913 Before 2007 100 71,389 50,627 47,470 32,198 201,684 2,255 474 95 26 Sicklaön 83:32 1) Uddvägen 1, Sickla Front I 2014 12,268 Before 2007 100 9,673 585 10,258 171 30 98 27 Sicklaön 83:33 2) Sickla Industriväg 4–6 1943/1970 35,156 27/02/2014 100 97 2 78 28 Sicklaön 87:1 Alphyddevägen 4 1962 11,006 Before 2007 100 87 2,476 2,563 4 100 29 Sicklaön 115:1 2) Planiavägen 1 1929 2,249 Before 2007 100 370 370 2 100 30 Sicklaön 115:4 2) Sjötorpsvägen 3–14 9,375 15/06/2011 100 921 921 40 1 80 31 Sicklaön 117:1 2) Planiavägen 3 1967 2,823 26/11/2010 100 2,592 330 435 3,357 11 2 72 32 Sicklaön 117:2 2) Sjötorpsvägen 6 1909 1,368 26/11/2010 100 7 33 Sicklaön 117:17 2) Planiavägen 5–7 1978 10,175 Before 2007 100 1,629 1,629 4 100 34 Sicklaön 265:5 2) Atlasvägen 2 2,029 Before 2007 100 35 Sicklaön 346:1 2) Uddvägen 7, Sickla Front II 10,524 Before 2007 100 18,429 45 18,474 241 50 75 Total Nacka 265,886 74,068 79,429 921 47,470 37,368 239,256 2,823 566 93 HANINGE 36 Västnora 4:26 Västnora 2,084 Before 2007 100 , Total Haninge 2,084 SUNDBYBERG 37 Eken 6 1) Löfströms Allé 5 1916/1997 12,382 15/09/2016 100 46 25,737 19 000 2,343 47,126 394 71 91 Total Sundbyberg 12,382 46 25,737 19,000 2,343 47,126 394 71 91 NYNÄSHAMN 38 Ribban 16 Backluravägen 1,308 Before 2007 100 Total Nynäshamn 1,308 1) All or part of the property is BREEAM, Miljöbyggnad or LEED certified. 2) All or part of the property classified as a project property as per 31/12/2018. 150 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | OUR PROPERTY PORTFOLIO STOCKHOLM STOCKHOLM 3, 4, 9–12 37 2, 8, 14 1, 16 5, 23–24 7 6 17 25–35 15 18–22 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 151 | OUR PROPERTY PORTFOLIO UPPSALA, MALMÖ, GOTHENBURG Letting area, m² n/ tio ,% Km uc SE Km ,% st r are e, SE on ion h e, ate 2 f c ct ,m on ys al alu u gr old ar o stru ea ssi tar nti v va l h a r rie ail s e e 1) ble al ttin as e Ye con nd sse o p t ce sid rag er ta l te a n t L e Property name Address/Description Le re La Po Pr Re Offi Re Ga Oth To Ra Re UPPSALA 39 Brillinge 9:1 1) 2) Gränbystaden 2013–2017 25,965 05/04/2011 100 5,854 5,904 49 13 100 40 Brillinge 8:1 1) 2) Gränbystaden 2013–2017 71,556 05/04/2011 100 26,394 107 132 26,633 169 42 100 41 Dragarbrunn 27:2 2) Forumgallerian 1902/2005 6,714 Before 2007 100 8,256 5,140 1,420 1,260 867 16,943 399 53 77 42 Gränby 21:4 2) Gränbystaden Galleria 1971/2011 108,177 Before 2007 100 45,287 491 4,987 50,764 1,116 203 99 43 Gränby 21:5 1) 2) Gränby Entréhus 2017 1,813 05/04/2017 100 1,947 344 6,494 1,393 10,178 160 27 98 Total Uppsala 214,225 87,737 6,082 7,914 1,260 7,429 110,422 1,894 338 96 MALMÖ 44 Bohus 7 Mobilia 1966/2010 12,023 2008-02 100 5,806 183 11,248 6,680 35 23,952 233 30 85 45 Bohus 8 1) 2) Mobilia 1968/2013 76,745 Before 2007 100 46,774 1,722 37,800 4,638 90,934 951 171 90 46 Bohus 9 Mobilia 2014 979 Before 2007 100 4,103 4,103 79 7 100 47 Dimman 11 1) Barkgatan 2–8 1940/2014 4,278 29/04/2014 100 5,150 10,849 15,999 29 93 48 Malmen 12 1) Barkgatan 9–13 1971 2,464 02/05/2016 100 3,490 1,900 4,021 9,411 10 100 Total Malmö 96,489 52,580 10,545 15,351 46,380 19,543 144,399 1,263 247 90 GOTHENBURG 49 Lundbyvassen 4:7 Regnbågsgatan 4-6, 1989 6,414 30/9/2016 100 15,709 177 15,886 207 33 100 Lindholmsallén 10 50 Lundbyvassen 4:13 Götaverksgatan 2–8, 1957/2007 12,205 30/9/2016 100 392 15,475 10,050 2,793 28,710 278 40 100 Lindholmsallén 12–20 51 Lindholmen 30:1 Lindholmspiren 11 2002 13,647 29/03/2017 100 37,035 37,035 558 84 100 Total Gothenburg 32,266 392 68,219 10,050 2,970 81,631 1,043 157 100 Total Sweden 843,933 292,497 456,818 62,482 197,415 120,186 1,129,398 14,900 2,637 95 1) All or part of the property is BREEAM, Miljöbyggnad or LEED certified. 2) All or part of the property classified as a project property as per 31/12/2018. UPPSALA 39, 40 GRÄNBYSTADEN 42, 43 GALLERIA 41 152 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | OUR PROPERTY PORTFOLIO UPPSALA, MALMÖ, GOTHENBURG MALMÖ 47, 48 44 45, 46 GOTHENBURG 49, 50 51 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 153 DEFINITIONS DEFINITIONS FINANCIAL DEFINITIONS ADJUSTED GEARING RATIO, % Long-term net worth (EPRA NAV) per share is used to provide Interest-bearing liabilities as a percentage of the sum of the properstakeholders information on Atrium Ljungberg’s current net worth ties’ fair values at the end of the period, less properties acquired but per share calculated in a uniform manner for publicly listed real not possessed and plus properties sold but not vacated. ­estate companies. The adjusted gearing ratio is used to illustrate Atrium Ljungberg’s EPRA NNNAV PER SHARE, SEK financial risk. Reported shareholders’ equity with reversal of goodwill adjusted AVERAGE CAPITAL COMMITMENT, YEARS with estimated actual deferred tax, divided by the number of outAverage remaining term until final maturity of all credits in the standing shares at the end of the period. ­liabilities portfolio. EPRA NNNAV per share is used to provide stakeholders informaThe average capital commitment is used to illustrate tion on Atrium Ljungberg’s long-term net worth per share calculated Atrium Ljungberg’s financial risk. in a uniform manner for publicly listed real estate companies. AVERAGE FIXED INTEREST, YEARS EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO, % Average remaining term until interest settlement date of all credits Reported shareholders’ equity as a percentage of the balance sheet in the liabilities portfolio. total at the end of the period. The average fixed interest is used to illustrate Atrium EQUITY PER SHARE, SEK Ljungberg’s financial risk. Reported equity divided by the number of outstanding shares at the AVERAGE INTEREST RATE FOR INTEREST-BEARING end of the period. LIABILITIES, % Equity per share is used to illustrate the owners’ share of the Weighted average contracted interest for all credits in the liabilities company’s total assets per share. portfolio at the end of the period excluding unutilised credit facilities. GEARING RATIO, % The average interest is used to illustrate Atrium Ljungberg’s Interest-bearing liabilities as a percentage of the sum of the ­financial risk. ­properties’ fair value at the end of the period. AVERAGE NUMBER OF OUTSTANDING SHARES The gearing ratio is used to illustrate Atrium Ljungberg’s Weighted average number of outstanding shares calculated in ­financial risk. ­accordance with IAS 33. GROSS PROFIT/LOSS PROJECT AND CONSTRUCTION WORK CASH FLOW PER SHARE, SEK Project and construction sales minus project and construction Cash flow from operating activities divided by the average number costs. of outstanding shares. GROSS PROFIT/LOSS PROPERTY MANAGEMENT Cash flow per share, SEK is used to illustrate Atrium Ljungberg’s Rental income less property management costs. cash flow, and particularly its dividend capacity. INTEREST COVERAGE RATIO, MULTIPLE DIVIDEND PAY-OUT RATIO, % Profit/loss before changes in value, plus interest expenses divided Dividend per share as a percentage of the profit/loss per share by interest expenses. ­before changes in value, less applicable nominal tax. The interest coverage ratio is used to illustrate how sensitive the Dividend pay-out ratio is used to illustrate how large share of the company’s results are to interest rate changes. results is shifted out to the Group’s owners and reinvested in the The equity/assets ratio is used to illustrate Atrium Ljungberg’s operations respectively. interest rate sensitivity and financial stability. EARNINGS PER SHARE, SEK MANAGEMENT RESULT LESS NOMINAL TAX (EPRA EPS) PER Net profit/loss for the period divided by the average number of SHARE, SEK ­outstanding shares after dilution. Profit/loss before changes in value, less calculated current tax EPRA ­excluding tax losses carried forward, divided by the average number The European Public Real Estate Association is a trade organisation of outstanding shares. The deducted tax has been calculated by for publicly listed real estate companies and investors in Europe ­taking into account tax deductible depreciation and investments. which sets standards for the financial reporting. Management result less nominal tax (EPRA EPS) is used to ­provide stakeholders information on Atrium Ljungberg’s management EPRA NAV PER SHARE, SEK result per share calculated in a uniform manner for publicly listed Reported shareholders’ equity with reversal of goodwill, interest real estate companies. ­derivatives and deferred tax, divided by the number of outstanding shares at the end of the period. 154 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 DEFINITIONS NUMBER OF OUTSTANDING SHARES BREEAM Number of registered shares at the end of the period less repurchased Is an environmental certification system developed in Europe for shares, which do not provide entitlement to dividend or voting rights. built environments. BREEAM takes a big picture approach to ­environmental performance. The areas addressed by BREEAM are PROFIT/LOSS BEFORE CHANGES IN VALUE PER SHARE, SEK energy and water consumption, health, transport, materials, waste, Profit/loss before changes in value, less current tax, divided by the land usage, emissions, ecology and management. average number of outstanding shares. Profit/loss before changes in value per share is used to illustrate DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES the ongoing management operations. Development properties are properties that are built or unbuilt that the Group owns in order to develop and sell them as tenant-owned PROPERTY COSTS dwellings. These properties are recognised as current assets, even Total property management costs, which exclude central though some of the properties are managed and generate rental ­administration. ­income while they are waiting to be developed. RETURN ON SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY, % They are recognised at the lowest of their accumulated acquisition Net profit/loss for the year as a percentage of average shareholders’ value and their net realisable value. equity. EPRA VACANCY RATE, % Return on shareholders’ equity is used to illustrate Atrium The rental value of unlet premises divided by the rental value of the Ljungberg’s capacity to generate profit on the owners’ capital in entire property portfolio. Project properties are excluded. the Group. The EPRA Vacancy rate is reported in accordance with the RETURN ON SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY, EXCLUDING CHANGES EPRA’s definition of vacancy rate, which enables comparison IN VALUE, % ­between different companies. Net profit/loss for the year as a percentage of average shareholders’ GFA, M² equity excluding changes in value. GFA (Gross Floor Area) refers to the building’s total area, including Return on shareholders’ equity excluding changes in value is outer walls. used to illustrate Atrium Ljungberg’s capacity to generate current cash flow on the owners’ capital in the Group. LEED LEED is a sustainability certification for new production and existing RETURN ON TOTAL ASSETS, % buildings. The version of LEED which is often used to certify commerProfit/loss before tax plus interest expenses as a percentage of the cial properties assesses the building’s environmental performance average balance sheet total. based on the areas: Local environment, water consumption, energy Return on total assets is used to illustrate Atrium Ljungberg’s consumption, materials and indoor climate. In addition, bonus capacity to generate profit on the Group’s assets uninfluenced by points can be attained for innovation in the project and regional the Group’s financing. ­considerations. RETURN ON TOTAL ASSETS EXCLUDING CHANGES IN VALUE % Atrium Ljungberg does not certify in accordance with LEED, but has Profit/loss before changes in value plus interest expenses as a acquired a property which is already certified in accordance with LEED. ­percentage of the average balance sheet total. LETTING AREA, M² Return on total assets excluding changes in value is used to Total area available for letting. ­illustrate Atrium Ljungberg’s capacity to generate current cash flow on the Group’s assets uninfluenced by the Group’s financing. LETTING RATE, % Contracted annual rents as a percentage of the rental value in SHARE DIVIDEND YIELD, % ­conjunction with full letting. Reported figures are based on the imThe proposed share dividend as a percentage of the share price at mediately subsequent quarter. the end of the previous year. The letting rate is used to illustrate the Group’s efficiency in the The share’s dividend yield is used to illustrate which current yield use of its investment properties. shareholders are expected to receive. LIKE-FOR-LIKE PORTFOLIO SHARE’S TOTAL YIELD, % Comparable portfolio refers to the properties which were not classiThe year’s change in the share price plus the distributed dividend fied as project properties and were owned throughout the period during the year as a percentage of the share price at the end of the and entire comparison period. previous year. Comparable portfolio is used to illustrate the trend of rental The share’s total yield is used to illustrate the shareholders’ total ­income excluding non-recurrent effects for premature vacating of yield on their ownership in Atrium Ljungberg. premises and property costs uninfluenced by project properties as well as acquired and sold properties. PROPERTY-RELATED DEFINITIONS ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 155 DEFINITIONS MILJÖBYGGNAD Miljöbyggnad is a certification system for buildings and is based on SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED Swedish construction practice and covers energy, the indoor environ­DEFINITIONS ment and material. ACCIDENT RATE (LTIR) NET LETTING The number of work-related accidents per million worked hours, Total contracted annual rent for new lets less annual rents terminated which leads to absence of at least one contracted work day. due to clients vacating the premises for the period. Net letting is used to illustrate the letting situation. DIRECTLY GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE Generated value: Composed of Atrium Ljungberg’s net sales and OPERATING SURPLUS ­financial income. Refers to Gross profit/loss in property management. Distributed value: Composed of Atrium Ljungberg’s payments to suppliers, salaries and compensation to employees, fees and comOPERATING SURPLUS MARGIN, % pensation to the Board, CEO and senior executives, net payments to Gross profit/loss from property management as a percentage of the financiers, tax and fees to society and dividends to shareholders. reported rental income. Payments to suppliers: Composed of operative costs for purchases Operating surplus margin is used to illustrate how large share of of materials, products, premises and services from suppliers. the Group’s rental income remains after property costs. The operating Salaries and compensation to employees: Composed of the period’s surplus margin also forms the basis of valuation of the Group’s total salary and pension costs, including benefits. Employees do not ­investment properties. include consultants or other temporary staff. PREMISES TYPE Fees and compensation to the Board, CEO and senior executives: The operations managed in the individual premises determine the Composed of compensation to Board members, as well as fixed premises type: retail, offices, residential or other. Other includes, salary, other compensation and pension costs for the CEO and other among other things, education, culture and service enterprises. senior executives. For more information, see note IK6. The letting rate and yield requirement are reported per premises Net payments to financiers: Composed of the period’s reported type. ­interest expenses plus consolidated capitalised interest expenses. Describes Atrium Ljungberg’s total compensation to lenders. PROJECT PROPERTY Tax and fees to society: Composed of the total compensation to An individual property or a clearly delimited part of a property that the Government during the period in the form of leasehold fees and has been vacated in order to permit the renovation and upgrading of total taxes and charges to the Swedish Government. Deferred tax is the property. The term, project property, also refers to buildings not included. ­under construction and to undeveloped land and development Dividends to shareholders: Composed of the period’s paid dividends. rights. Reclassification from project property to completed property Economic value — remaining in the company: Composed of occurs on 1 January of the year after completion. ­generated value minus distributed value. PROJECT RETURN, % ENERGY INTENSITY Market value after completed project minus total investment as a Total energy consumption from Heating, Cooling, Tenant electricity percentage of total investment. and Property electricity divided by the average estimated total heated Project return is used to illustrate value creation in the project letting area, excluding garage. operations. GREEN LEASE CONTRACTS, % PROPERTY TYPE Contracted annual rent for commercial premises excluding the The premises type which comprises the predominant share of the ­garage and storage for lease contracts with green rent supplement rental value of a register property determines the property type. in per cent of contracted annual rent for commercial premises The market value is reported per property type. ­excluding the garage and storage. Green rent supplement is a RENTAL VALUE ­supplement to the agreement from the Swedish Property Federation Contracted annual rents including rent surcharges (e.g. for property in which the tenant and landlord jointly undertake to reduce the tax and electricity) and estimated market rents for vacant space in ­environmental impact and covers, for example, energy, waste and existing condition. transport. Reported figures are based on the immediately subseRental value is used to illustrate the Group’s income potential. quent quarter. LOSS OF WORKING HOURS DUE TO WORK-RELATED ACCIDENTS OR SICKNESS (LOST DAY RATE) The number of lost work days due to work-related accident or illness, per total number of contracted work days during the year. 156 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI INDEX GRI INDEX Atrium Ljungberg’s Sustainability Report has been drawn up in GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE ­accordance with the Core level of the GRI Standards. We have also ORGANISATION PROFILE taken into account the Construction and Real Estate Sector 102-1 Name of the organisation 68 102-2 Important brands, products and services 68 ­Supplement, CRESS. We have also taken the EPRA Sustainability 102-3 Location of head office Cover reverse Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines into account. 102-4 Countries where the organisation operates 68 102-5 Ownership structure and legal form 80–81 ABBREVIATIONS: 102-6 Markets 68–69 GRI: Global Reporting Initiatives 102-7 Scale of the organisation 2 CRE: Industry specific disclosures, from the Construction & 102-8 Number of employees 22, 136–137 Real Estate Sector Supplement 102-9 Supply chain 18, 25, 138 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and in the 129 supply chain 102-11 Application of the precautionary principle 19 102-12 External initiatives on sustainability 131 102-13 Memberships in organisations 131 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 4–7 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 8, 24–25 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 84 102-22 The Board of Directors’ composition 86, 88 102-24 Appointment of the Board 84–87 STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS 102-40 Stakeholder groups 129–130 102-41 Percentage of employees covered by collective 22 ­bargaining agreements 102-42 Identification and selection of stakeholder groups 129 102-43 Approach for corporate communication with stake­ 129–130 holders 102-44 Issues which have been addressed by stakeholders and 129–131 their handling REPORTING PROFILE 102-45 Entities included in the reporting 129 102-46 Process for defining report content and limitations 129–131 102-47 Identified material topics 130–131 102-48 Revised information 129 102-49 Change in reporting 129 102-50 Reporting period 129 102-51 Date of most recent reporting 129 102-52 Reporting cycle 129 102-53 Contact details for questions on the report and 156 its ­content 102-54 Statements from reporting in accordance with 129 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI Index 155 102-56 External assurance 146 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 157 GRI INDEX FINANCIAL INFORMATION PAGE SOCIAL INFORMATION PAGE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS AND WORKING CONDITIONS GRI 103: 103-1, 103-2, Description of significant topics, limita18, 129–131 GRI 103: 103-1, 103-2, Description of significant topics, limita18, 22–24, Governance 2016 103-3 tions, governance and evaluation Governance 2016 103-3 tions, governance and evaluation 75, 129–131 GRI 202: 201-1 Generated and distributed economic value 137–138 GRI 401: 401-1 New hirings and employee turnover 136 Financial results Employment 2016 201-2 Financial impact as well as other risks 134 2016 and opportunities for the organisation’s activities caused by climate change HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK GRI 103: 103-1, 103-2, Description of significant topics, limita18, 22–24, ANTI-CORRUPTION Governance 2016 103-3 tions, governance and evaluation 75, 129–131 GRI 103: 103-1, 103-2, Description of significant topics, limita18, 24–25, GRI 403: 403-2 Injuries, illnesses, absence as well as 23–24, 137 Governance 206 103-3 tions, governance and evaluation 75‚ 129–131 Health and work-related fatalities. safety 2016 205-1 Percentage of operations which are evalu24–25 GRI 205: Antiated based on corruption risk ­corruption 2016 TRAINING 205-3 Number of incidents of corruption 24–25, 138 GRI 103: 103-1, 103-2, Description of significant topics, limita18, 22–24, Governance 2016 103-3 tions, governance and evaluation 75, 129–131 GRI 404: 404-2 Competence provision and programmes 20, 23 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION Training and for continuing training and support for ENERGY ­education 2016 continued employability and help at the end of employment. GRI 103: 103-1, 103-2, Description of significant topics, limita18, 19–20, Governance 2016 103-3 tions, governance and evaluation 76, 129–131 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 23 performance and career development GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the 19–20, ­reviews Energy 2016 ­organisation 132–133 302-3 Energy intensity 19–20, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 132–133 GRI 103: 103-1, 103-2, Description of significant topics, limita18, 22–24, Governance 2016 103-3 tions, governance and evaluation 75, 129–131 EMISSIONS GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity on the Board, in management 22–23, GRI 103: 103-1, 103-2, Description of significant topics, limita18, 19–20, and equal and among employees 136–137 Governance 2016 103-3 tions, governance and evaluation 76, 129–131 ­opportunities 2016 305-1 Direct emissions of greenhouse gases 20, 134 (Scope 1) NON-DISCRIMINATION GRI 305: 305-2 Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases 20, 134 GRI 103: 103-1, 103-2, Description of significant topics, limita18, 22–24, Emissions 2016 (Scope 2) Governance 2016 103-3 tions, governance and evaluation 129–131 305-3 Other indirect emissions of greenhouse 20, 134 GRI 406: 406-1 Number of cases of discrimination 22 gases (Scope 3) Non-discrimination 2016 AUDIT OF SUPPLIERS AUDIT OF SUPPLIERS GRI 103: 103-1, 103-2, Description of significant topics, limita18, 25, 75, Governance 2016 103-3 tions, governance and evaluation 129–131 GRI 103: 103-1, 103-2, Description of significant topics, limita18, 25, 75, Governance 2016 103-3 tions, governance and evaluation 129–131 GRI 308: Evaluation 308-1 Share of new suppliers who are evaluated 25, 138 of suppliers in terms in respect of the environment GRI 414: 414-1 New supplies that are reviewed with 25, 138 of the environment Evaluation of ­respect to social criteria 2016 ­suppliers in terms of social criteria 2016 INDUSTRY-SPECIFIC INFORMATION CRE: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT GRI 103: 103-1, 103-2, Description of significant topics, limita18, 19–20, Governance 2016 103-3 tions, governance and evaluation 76, 129–131 CRE1 Energy performance in buildings 19–20, 132–133 CRE3 Emission intensity in buildings 20, 134 CRE: PRODUCT LIABILITY GRI 103: 103-1, 103-2, Description of significant topics, limita18, 19, Governance 2016 103-3 tions, governance and evaluation 129–131 CRE8 Type and number of sustainability/environ19, 136 mental certifications, labelling or processes applied for implementation of projects or construction of properties/facilities Contact person: Emma Henriksson, Head of Digital Development and Sustainability E-mail: emma.henriksson@al.se Tel: +46 (0)70 300 29 96 158 ATRIUM LJUNGBERG’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INFORMATION THE INFORMATION we release to the market concerning our THE ANNUAL REPORT and interim reports are available on operations shall be transparent, clear and correct in order to our website and the annual report is also distributed in build market confidence in our company and our brand. printed format by post to shareholders who have actively ­requested them. Interim reports and preliminary financial AS A LISTED COMPANY Atrium Ljungberg is subject to the statements are translated into English and all language rules of the listing agreement with the NASDAQ Stockholm ­versions are published simultaneously on our website. The exchange. Significant events, interim reports and preliminary annual reports are translated into English shortly after the financial statements are published immediately via press publication of the Swedish language version. ­releases and the information is also available on the company's website: www.al.se. INTERESTED PARTIES can subscribe to both financial ­reports and press releases via our website: www.al.se. The REGULAR MEETINGS WITH analysts, investors, shareholders site also provides updated information on our operations, and financiers, and with our customers and partners, enable our properties and projects, financial key ratios, the share, us to provide ongoing information on our company, current and much more besides. The information on the website is events and operational changes. also available in English. PUBLICATION OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Interim report Jan–Mar 2019 12/04/2019 The Annual General Meeting (AGM) will take place on Interim report Jan–Jun 2019 09/07/2019 ­Wednesday 27 March 2019 at 17.00 (CET), at Filmstaden, Interim report Jan–Sep 2019 18/10/2019 ­Marcusplatsen 19 in Sickla, Nacka. 2019 Preliminary Financial Statements Feb. 2020 Notices convening the meeting will be advertised in Postoch 2019 Annual Report Mar. 2020 Inrikes Tidningar (the Official Swedish Gazette). A statement that the AGM has been convened will be published in the ­Dagens Nyheter daily newspaper. Intellecta, Stockholm 2019/BrandFactory, Eco-labelled printed matter 341142 Images: Johanna Berglund, Christoffer Edling, Åke Gunnarsson, Ola Jacobsen, Martin Kelam, Erik Lefvander, Åke E:son Lindman, Magnus Länje, Daniel Månsson and Manne Widung. Architect images: Kanozi Arkitekter, Sweco and Walk the Room. Illustration business model: BrandFactory. Maps: City map and Intellecta. A part of Atrium Ljungberg: Box 4200, SE-131 04 Nacka, Sweden, street address: Smedjegatan 2C Tel: +46 8-615 89 00, info@al.se Registered office: Nacka, Corporate ID no.: 556175-7047 www.al.se
