2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Salar de Olaroz Lithium Facility Report Overview This is Orocobre’s second Our material issues have been actual results to differ materially Sustainability Report, covering reviewed and updated based from those expressed in the the second full year of commercial on material announcements statements contained in this lithium production at the Salar and developments in 2018 and Sustainability Report. de Olaroz Lithium Facility (Olaroz validated through engagement There can be no assurance that Lithium Facility). with our investors. forward looking statements will This report is structured to present The data and content provided prove to be accurate, as actual the sustainability performance of in this report covers the period results and future events could Orocobre Limited (Orocobre or the 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018. We are differ materially from those Company) as joint venture partner finalising our sustainability reporting anticipated in such information. and manager of the Olaroz Lithium systems and processes to ensure Accordingly, readers should not Facility. The report has been data consistency and reliability place undue reliance on forwardprepared in accordance with the and will be well-positioned to seek looking information. Orocobre GRI Standards (Core), our progress limited report assurance in 2019. Limited does not undertake to with regards to the 10 principles For any questions or feedback update any forward-looking of the UN Global Compact in regarding this report, please information, except in accordance Environment, Labour, Human Rights contact our Investor Relations with applicable securities laws. and Anti-Corruption, and our Manager via mail@orocobre.com. Actual results may differ materially contribution to the UN Sustainable Forward Looking Statements from those expressed in such Development Goals (SDGs) as an statements as a result of a variety integrated component of our core The 2018 Orocobre Sustainability of factors, including our ability to business activities. Report: Salar de Olaroz Lithium profitably produce and transport In all we do, we seek to find ways to Facility contains forward looking products to applicable markets; the enhance our contribution to society statements, including statements impact of foreign currency exchange through commercially beneficial regarding plans, strategies and rates on market prices of products that programs and initiatives. As such, objectives of management; we produce; activities of government our reporting and performance operations or facilities; and authorities in the countries where we focuses on the three core areas regulatory developments. are exploring or developing projects/ of our contribution: Forward looking statements may be facilities, including increases in taxes, • Sustainable Product identified by the use of terminology changes in environmental and other • Efficient Operations including, but not limited to, ‘intend’, regulations and political uncertainty; • Local Development. ‘aim’, ‘project’, ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, labour unrest; and other factors ‘plan’, ‘believe’, ‘expect’, ‘may’, identified in the Risk Management Icons will be used to indicate which ‘should’, ‘will’, ‘continue’ or similar section of the 2018 Orocobre Annual UN SDGs are directly addressed by words. These statements discuss Report (see page 46). our activities and contributions. future expectations or provide other Past performance cannot be relied As the development and forward looking information. on as a guide to future performance. performance of Orocobre’s These forward looking statements Olaroz Lithium Facility remain the For details on approach, boundary are not guarantees or predictions central focus of our investors and and scope of this Sustainability of future performance and shareholders, we continue to focus Report, please refer to page 16. involve known and unknown risks, our reporting on Sales de Jujuy S.A. uncertainties and other factors, (the operating company for the many of which are beyond our Olaroz Lithium Facility) and control and which may cause its activities. 2 To indicate the alignment of our sustainability initiatives and disclosures with the UN SDGs, SDG icons will be posted at the top of each page to highlight the goals being covered. 1 2 3 No poverty Zero Hunger Good health & well-being 4 5 6 Quality education Gender equality Clean water & sanitation 7 8 9 Affordable & clean energy Decent work Industry, innovation & economic growth & infrastructure 10 11 12 Reduced inequalities Sustainable cities Responsible consumption & communities & production 13 15 17 Climate action Life on land Partnerships for the goals SDG 14 (Life Below Water) and 16 (Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions) are not included as they have no relevance within the context of our operations. OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 3 Orocobre Limited Orocobre Limited through its role as joint venture partner and manager of the Olaroz Lithium Facility is a dynamic global lithium chemicals supplier. Orocobre is dual listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX:ORE) and the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX:ORL) and is included in the S&P/ASX 200 Index. Orocobre lithium operations are conducted through: Sales de Jujuy S.A. Operating company for the Olaroz Lithium Facility, a large-scale de-novo brine-based lithium project in Jujuy Province of Argentina, Sales de Jujuy (SDJ) is a joint venture (JV) between Orocobre Limited, Toyota Tsusho Corporation (TTC) and the Mining Company of the Argentina provincial government of Jujuy, Jujuy Energia y Mineria Sociedad del Estado (JEMSE). Orocobre’s current focus is the optimisation of Stage 1, the fully funded Stage 2 Expansion at the Olaroz Lithium Facility and progressing plans for a 10,000 tonnes per annum (tpa) Lithium Hydroxide Plant to be built in Naraha, Japan. Guayatayoc Olaroz 20KM Cauchari 25% JV Argentina OLACAPATO SAN SALVADOR DE JUJUY SAN ANTONIO DE LOS COBRE SALTA 4 OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 5 6 Sales de Jujuy The Company’s key properties are owned and held by Argentine operating company Sales de Jujuy S.A. (ORE 66.5%) and contain those properties associated with the Olaroz Lithium Facility. The Olaroz Lithium Facility Joint Venture is managed through the operating company, SDJ. The shareholders are Sales de Jujuy Pte Ltd (SDJ PTE) and JEMSE, a mining investment company owned by the provincial government of Jujuy, Argentina. SDJ PTE is a Singaporean company that is the JV vehicle for Orocobre and TTC. Joint Venture Structure Orocobre Toyota Tsusho (TTC) TTC is the exclusive sales 15% (Australia) (Japan) agent, with Orocobre and TTC exercising joint control 72.68% 27.32% over marketing, product (SDJ S.A. 66.5%) (SDJ S.A. 25%) allocation and terms. Holding Company — Sales de Jujuy Pte Ltd JEMSE (Singapore) (Jujuy, Argentina) 91.5% (Common Share) 8.5% (Class B Share) *TTC – 15% equity holding in Orocobre Project Company — Sales de Jujuy S.A. (Jujuy, Argentina) Debt Guarantee Lender Guarantor (Mizuho) (JOGMEC) OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 7 Olaroz Lithium Facility The Olaroz Lithium Facility is located in Jujuy Province in northern Argentina, approximately 230 kilometres northwest of the provincial capital city of Jujuy. The operations are at an altitude of 3,900 metres above sea level and produce lithium carbonate from the Salar de Olaroz brine resource. The Olaroz Lithium Facility is unique as it incorporates a large-scale purification circuit with the ability to produce 100% battery grade lithium carbonate on site. Brine from Primary Purification Dry & Bag bores 1 2 3 4 Dissolve Evaporation Ponds Heat Heat + + + + Lithium Carbonate Reagents Soda Ash Filter + + + Precipitate CO2 Ion Exchange Re-precipitate Micronising 8 Our second full year of production Record EBITDAIX of Average price Gross Cash Margin received of of 67%, delivering US$94.6 million US$12,578 US$8,384 up 33% per tonne, up 29% per tonne, up 39% 2yr Second full year of Record yearly revenue production totaling US$40 million US$148.9 million Stage 2 Expansion early works 12,470 tonnes program underway with new up 24% up 5% boreholes, ponds, roads and camp infrastructure 2018 was the second full year of commercial We are determined to meet the world’s growing production at the Olaroz Lithium Facility. demand for lithium through the sustainable development of our assets, including staged The Olaroz Lithium Facility produces a range of highly expansions of the Olaroz Lithium Facility. sought-after lithium carbonate products that are sold into global markets. Demand for lithium chemicals In 2018 we were excited to launch an early works continues to increase as the world’s consumers program for the Stage 2 Expansion which included require high quality lithium batteries in applications the drilling of new boreholes and construction of new that are increasingly dominated by state of the ponds, roads and camp infrastructure. On completion, art, high performance electric vehicles (EV) and the Expansion will increase overall nameplate grid power storage applications at residential and production capacity to 42,500 tpa. commercial scale. Consumer electronics continue to This report provides an overview of our key provide significant underlying demand, but it is the sustainability challenges and achievements over wholesale adoption of EV technology by global auto the past year and sets our areas for focused manufacturers that will drive unprecedented growth improvement in coming years. in lithium demand over the next decade. OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 9 10 Contents 12 14 17 18 22 Letter from the Strategy 5-Year Plan Highlights & FY18 Focus Managing Director Commitments 24 30 38 54 Value Chain Long-Term Outlook Communities Environment 70 78 84 88 People & Capability Culture Risk & Opportunity Governance Management 92 94 96 100 Membership UNGC & GRI GRI Index Glossary & Affiliations Contents Indexes OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 11 Letter From Managing Director, Martín Pérez de Solay This year our report focuses on the We are a young organisation that social and governance performance is constantly learning and evolving. of the Olaroz Lithium Facility in We are flexible and adaptive and its second full year of commercial capitalise on lessons learned to production. The report seeks to create maximum value for all our reflect our ongoing commitment stakeholders over the long term. to the local communities in which I would like to take this opportunity we operate, the environment and to convey my appreciation to the responsible management of natural management team and staff, our resources and the safety of our JV partners, TTC, my colleagues people, suppliers and communities. on the Board and all Orocobre I am pleased to present Based on the quality of our shareholders for welcoming me the 2018 Sustainability sustainability performance in the to this new role with generous Report in relation to the first year of operations, I am proud support and encouragement. I look Olaroz Lithium Facility, to announce that Orocobre was forward to keeping you all updated recently added to the Dow Jones prepared in accordance on the Company’s development Sustainability Australia Index. The throughout 2019. with the GRI Standard – Dow Jones Sustainability Indices a global benchmark for are an objective platform through sustainability reporting. which both Orocobre and our As this is my first opportunity to shareholders can monitor, evaluate comment on sustainability, it has and benchmark our sustainability quickly become evident that my performance year-on-year. predecessor Mr. Richard Seville’s I am also pleased to announce that commitment to the Shared Orocobre is now a participant of the Value program at Olaroz has UN Global Compact. This has driven a established an enviable culture based on understanding and much stronger focus on Environment, analysis, operational excellence Human Rights, Labour and Antiand sustainability, something Corruption in our governance Martín Pérez de Solay that I am confident I can further and management practices and Managing Director develop in the future. encouraged greater alignment of our core activities with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. As I settle into the role of Orocobre “ Managing Director and CEO, I do so knowing that Orocobre’s future is bright, and that there is now a is an unwavering commitment participant of within the organisation to attain the UN Global and uphold the best standards of social, environmental and Compact. governance performance. 12 OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 13 Strategy Our Corporate Strategy is centred on six strategic priorities and a corresponding set of objectives. The priority areas are mutually dependent and no objective can be achieved in isolation. Ongoing focus and commitment to each and every component of this strategy is critical to our success. Orocobre’s sustainability focus areas, directly aligned to our strategic priorities and objectives, were defined as part of a broader materiality process and enable us to more effectively manage, measure, monitor and communicate our sustainability performance. Corporate Strategic Priorities & Objectives 1 2 3 Meet growing demand through Create long-term value Ensure long & lasting benefits sustainable development for shareholders to communities • Grow supply in a sustainable, • Maximise the long-term value • Drive community empowerment enduring way of the project through staged and integration • Deliver quality products that • Invest in and deliver collective expansions and prudent meet client-specific requirements and individual benefits to our financing and investment communities • Ensure an ethical and responsible supply chain • Develop and maintain strong, • Improve the quality of life strategic partnerships in our communities • Consider interests of all stakeholders Sustainability Focus Areas 1 2 3 Value Chain Long-Term Outlook Communities • Quality assurance • Active risk management • Community empowerment • Supply chain management • Community investment • Stakeholder relations • Human rights 14 4 5 6 Optimise environmental Develop our People Prioritise safety outcomes & Capability • Optimise lithium recovery • Commit to personal and • Continuously improve safety through the whole system professional development performance • Promote natural resource • Inspire, value and retain our • Embed a safety focused efficiency and productivity people workforce culture • Ensure responsible land use • Be at the forefront of innovation and rehabilitation and technology • Share knowledge and collaborate across departments • Drive operational excellence through continuous improvement 4 5 6 Environment People & Capability Culture • Impact of climate • Training and development • Culture management • Energy and emissions • Satisfaction and retention • Health and safety • Water management and quality • Innovation • Reporting, analysis and action • Waste management • Collaboration • Biodiversity • Continuous improvement OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 15 Sustainability Framework Orocobre is a young company in the We are taking a staged approach to sustainability early stages of both our operational management and reporting: establishing solid management fundamentals as a priority, and then and sustainability journey. developing meaningful metrics and controls. This way we can ensure targeted, accurate and consistent 2018 was our second year of full commercial monitoring of sustainability performance across production and our second year reporting our the organisation. sustainability performance. This provides a solid indication of our commitment to ensuring strong We understand the importance of quantitative performance in both areas, and we consider both targets and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), and integral to our overall business success. we are committed to setting these at the appropriate time. As we are still refining and stabilising our We acknowledge, however, that attaining a best production processes, expanding our operations, practice sustainability management approach will and implementing centralised sustainability reporting take time, focus, and incremental improvements systems, our targets and KPIs will remain action rather across every area of the business. than results oriented until our assured baseline is We have defined a Corporate Sustainability defined in 2020. Framework and will be systematically strengthening components of this over the coming years. Governance Continuous Improvement Stakeholder Engagement Risk Management Health Environment Community People Supply Chain Customer & Safety Policies, Guidelines, Performance Standards Targets and KPIs Limits and Controls Plans and Procedures Assessments and Audits Projects Operations Joint Ventures 16 5-Year Plan To provide our investors with a clear indication of the activities and timelines we envisage for complete implementation of our Sustainability Framework, as well as the external benchmarks that we will be using to objectively evaluate our progress, we have developed the following 5-year plan. Activity External Benchmark • Benchmark Sustainability • Establish Sustainability • DJSI Australia Performance Management Framework 2018 • Evaluate Sustainability • Develop Strategy • CDP Response (limited) • GRI (Core) Strengths and Weaknesses and Roadmap • UNGC CoP (Learner) • Implement Enterprise • Undertake specific • CDP Response (detailed) Management System Sustainability Risk and 2019 • UNGP Report (limited) • Refine Policies, Guidelines Opportunity Assessments • GRI (Core) and Performance Standards • Assurance Readiness • UNGC CoP (Active) • Establish Quantitative • Refine Plans and Procedures • Improve DJSI & CDP 2020 Targets and KPIs • Establish Assured UNGP Report (detailed) • Set Limits and Controls Sustainability Baseline • GRI (Comprehensive) • UNGC CoP (Advanced) • Conduct Regular Audits • Commence Social • DJSI Asia Pacific and Assessments Impact Reporting 2021 • LBG Report • Implement Continuous • Implement Renewable • IRMA Certification Improvement Initiatives Energy Projects • Objective External Review • Redefine Sustainability • Improve DJSI, CDP, LBG of Sustainability Performance Strategy and Roadmap 2022 • Explore Integrated Reporting • Integrated Reporting Pilot OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 17 Highlights & Commitments Meet growing demand through Optimise returns Ensure long & lasting sustainable development for shareholders benefits to communities Focus area: Value Chain Focus area: Long-Term Outlook Focus area: Communities Status Target Status Target Status Target Provide support to Finalise and implement Supplier Code of Conduct Advantage Lithium Community Investment Delivery Performance Basin management Strategy Measure approach Establish agreements with Enhance consistency across Communicate ESG local communities outside Impurity Profile investments to our investors Olaroz Chico Highlights Cauchari drilling success Enabled 24 businesses Supplier review and and project progress across 10 communities performance standards through microcredit program Local supplier Naraha Lithium Fully funded Stage development program Hydroxide Plant 2 Expansion with INTI DJSI Australia Member Capacity building for Establish metrics to Strengthen strategic 1yr 1yr 1yr community suppliers demonstrate long-term partnerships to advance value generation Sustainable Development Conduct and schedule in the region Climate Risk Assessments Improve position on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Establish baseline for Commitments Conduct and schedule community wellbeing across Human Rights Risk Advance Cauchari Lithium our local communities Assessments Project Joint Venture to Feasibility Study Work with Jujuy Government Develop systems for supplier to maximise distribution monitoring and compliance Deliver the Stage 2 of benefits Expansion within budget Promote transparency Successfully deliver the of royalty distribution Naraha Lithium Hydroxide Plant with TTC within budget 3yr 3yr 3yr 18 Achieved Progressing Not achieved Optimise environmental Develop our People Prioritise safety outcomes & Capability Focus area: Culture Focus area: Environment Focus area: People & Capability Status Target Status Target Status Target Increase local Formalise industry-specific 0 fatalities representatives in training into certified course participatory monitoring program Zero harm Reuse and recycle water Develop specific training to minimise extraction programs to address Implement emissions identified capability gaps Reduced TRIFR reporting framework Increase % of workforce from 3.9 to 3.3 educated to secondary level Reduce water intensity by 15% Audit and Certification of No days lost due to Environmental Management Integrated Management industrial action System recertified to System (including ISO14001:2015 standard OHSAS18001) Turnover below 15% Participatory Environmental Monitoring Program recognised by UNDP Employee satisfaction above 95% Integrate energy and Increase participation Implement integrated 1yr 1yr 1yr emissions performance in employee engagement data management into corporate and survey and reporting system operational KPIs Increase % of workforce Conduct safety culture Assurance of with technical qualifications change program using environmental data the DuPont Safety System Incorporate KPIs and Establish solid baseline for objectives into annual Incorporate fire protection environmental performance performance review system in plant based on assured data Establish targeted Undertake contractor safety Set short-and long-term development and training and awareness targets for energy and succession plans emissions intensity reduction Prepare and train emergency Complete cultural response brigade review program 3yr 3yr 3yr OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 19 Our Focus To determine the material topics and issues for disclosure in this report the following process was undertaken: Stakeholder Engagement Five-Part Materiality Test Validation & Prioritisation Investor and other stakeholder Detailed analysis of internal Executive review, validation consultations and analyses and external sources to and prioritisation of Sustainability used to review and update determine list of material issues. Focus Areas and specific 2018 key interest areas. Financial Year (FY18) disclosures. 20 Outcomes Our materiality process enabled us to reaffirm, update and reprioritise our Sustainability Focus Areas: the topics of ongoing relevance to our operations based on their significance to our stakeholders and our business. Through the materiality process we also identified a series of discrete issues of specific relevance to our performance during the reporting year. This Sustainability Report covers these discrete FY18 Focus issues specifically. Prioritisation of Sustainability Focus Areas Control Manage Master • Biodiversity • Stakeholder • Impact of Climate Relations • Quality Assurance • Energy & Emissions • Community HIGH • Water Management Empowerment & Quality • Community Investment • Active Risk Management Society’s Expectations • Waste • Satisfaction • Reporting, Analysis Management & Retention & Action MEDIUM • Human Rights • Supply Chain Management • Training & Development • Health & Safety • Collaboration • Innovation • Culture • Continuous Management Improvement LOW LOW MEDIUM HIGH Relevance to Orocobre OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 21 FY18 Focus Value Chain Product Optimisation Value Chain 1 2 Tailoring our product to Optimisation meet customer needs and Redefining organisational future market demands structure and systems to enhance control and efficiency of our value chain Long-Term Outlook Structuring for Preparing for 3 4 Stakeholder Engagement the Future the Future Solidifying our relationship Bringing new capacity with TTC and ensuring online to gain market effective leadership advantage, while transition for long managing long-term term success collective impact Communities Community Community 5 6 Shared Value Case Studies Empowerment Investment Developing community Aligning our community capability to participate investment strategy in project and non-project with the UN SDGs related activities and evaluating the social impact 22 Environment Impact of Climate Impact on Environment 7 8 Myth-Busters Managing the impact of Better understanding climate on production our energy and emissions and expansion activities profile and water consumption across our operations People & Capability Changing Nature Employee Satisfaction 9 10 People Data of our Workforce & Morale Recruiting specialists Maintaining positive to assume strategic morale in the workforce functions and highlythrough a period skilled project work of structural and leadership changes Culture Culture Management Health & Safety 11 12 Health & Safety Reinforcing our code Analysing and Performance of conduct and antienhancing our health corruption procedures and safety approach OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 23 Value Chain Future Commitments Capacity Building for Conduct and Conduct and schedule Develop systems for Community Suppliers schedule Climate Human Rights Risk Supplier Monitoring Risk Assessments Assessments and Compliance 24 VALUE CHAIN 7 VALUE CHAIN Suppliers We prioritise local suppliers for the provision of services to the project and source as many materials as we can from the local region and/or other provinces National suppliers of Argentina. That said, there are certain International make up 94% of critical production inputs (e.g. soda ash) suppliers services and materials and services that we can only source at make up 6% of services and materials appropriate quality from overseas. This excludes soda ash Customers Lithium carbonate from the Olaroz Lithium Facility is sold to a range of markets across a spread of geographies. End users Lithium-ion batteries provide power for: Smartphones, tablets, laptop computers, power tools. Larger format Lithium-ion batteries provide power for: Electric cars, scooters, electric bikes, buses, forklifts & other forms of transportation. A significant driver of lithium consumption is the past 3 years. As renewable energy targets are the world-wide adoption of electric vehicles more likely to be achieved when renewable energy (EVs) encouraged by government incentives and sources are combined with ESS, Orocobre believes infrastructure, falling costs of battery packs, improved ESS development will continue and exceed 30% p.a. performance of rechargeable batteries and a greater growth by 2020. range of EV models to suit end-consumer needs. EV and ESS together with healthy baseload demand in While EV penetration was approaching 1% worldwide line with GDP growth will require at least 350 ktpa of in 2016, in certain countries in Europe penetration lithium carbonate equivalent (LCE) production by 2020. is as high as 25% and the general consensus is global While there are concerns regarding significant lithium EV penetration will be at approximately 4.5% by 2020. carbonate supply shortage given market tightness, Similarly, forecast lithium demand from the energy Orocobre is well positioned to bring new resource storage systems (ESS) segment varies widely with online in coming years to address the surge in demand. growth between 20% to 25% p.a. being recorded in OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 25 Product Optimisation Tailoring our product to meet customers’ specifications As a lithium producer, we are often categorised as a additional chemical in the product, as defined by the mining company. However, mining companies extract customer. This PPM breakdown is commonly referred and process mineral/ore which is then sold based on to as the ‘impurity profile’. an established commodity price, with degrees of When we discuss quality assurance, we are referring variance based on mineral/ore grades. to the process by which we can ensure that the Lithium production is different: it is a chemical process, lithium carbonate and its impurity profile consistently not a mineral extraction and refining process. meets the specific client specifications. Additional considerations include moisture content, magnetic Our lithium products vary in both physical and particles, loss on ignition values, and physical form. chemical composition. We produce micronised lithium for batteries and compacted lithium for the ceramic In this sense, lithium production from brine is a more and glass industries. Detailed chemical specifications complex operation than traditional mining extraction are defined by each client based on their specific needs. and processing. Customer specifications change and evolve. To continually and effectively tailor our In addition to lithium carbonate, our products may products to meet customer requirements we must also contain varying quantities of other chemical be able to constantly adapt and ensure the quality elements as highlighted in the periodic table below. of our production processes. Quality assurance is not just about ensuring we In 2018 we enhanced consistency across the achieve the required lithium carbonate percentage impurity profile, reducing the standard deviation in the final product, but also ensuring we meet by half on our primary lithium carbonate product the specific parts per million (PPM) limit for each on a bag-by-bag basis. 26 VALUE CHAIN 9 VALUE CHAIN Leveraging product optimisation opportunities along our value chain Recognising the change in battery technology to high The proposed Naraha Lithium Hydroxide Plant nickel based cathodes which require lithium hydroxide, will have a production capacity of 10,000 tpa Orocobre and JV Partner TTC have accelerated plans of lithium hydroxide. for development of a 10,000 tpa lithium hydroxide plant to be built in Naraha, Japan. The project is also expected to enhance margins on the volume of Olaroz lithium carbonate production used as feedstock, diversify Orocobre’s lithium product Test work has demonstrated “ range and enhance Orocobre and TTC’s relationships that a very high-quality, battery with key lithium end users in Japan. The proposed grade, lithium hydroxide can location is well situated near potential customers and be produced. reduces the risks of caking and degradation of product when lithium hydroxide is transported and exposed to humidity and atmospheric air. OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 27 8 12 Value Chain Optimisation Enhancing control & efficiency of the value chain Promoting the performance of our suppliers In 2018 the structure of the supply chain function at One of the strategic initiatives in the supply chain SDJ was redefined to enhance control and efficiency area for 2018 has been a comprehensive review of across our broader value chain. SDJ’s truck-transport operations. This commenced with definition of operating standards that establish Inbound supply chain activities including purchasing, SDJ’s minimum requirements for safe, reliable and contracts and inbound logistics now report to the sustainable transport operations. These standards General Manager of Business Services, who is equally have subsequently been taken to market and transport responsible for the oversight of finance and controls. contracts will be established for SDJ’s inbound and This enables greater effectiveness and efficiency in outbound supply chains. These will only be with those the procurement and delivery of goods and services transport companies that meet the minimum standards. to the operation. The requirement for these standards was reinforced Outbound supply chain activities including liaison by an incident in early 2018 with a transport supplier with customers via TTC (exclusive sales agent) and spilling hydrochloric acid between Susques and outbound logistics associated with the delivery of Olaroz. The new operating standards establish lithium carbonate to port now report through to (amongst other requirements) that yearly testing our General Manager of Operations. This enables be carried out on the integrity of all tanker vessels, greater alignment between production, operations in order to avoid any similar incidents. Other and customer delivery, ensuring the integration of areas of focus within the standard are ensuring contractual obligations into operational controls. adequate controls over key risks such as driver Over the coming 12 months, the focus for our inbound fatigue and emergency response procedures. supply chain will remain on assuring continuity of The review of transport operations also places a special supply and reducing the costs and demand for focus on local community transport service providers. materials and services. These companies currently undertake a considerable This includes improvements to decision-making and portion of SDJ’s transport services and are recognised delegation at the line-management level; capacity as important to SDJ’s ongoing community investment building in SAP; increasing the level of spend-undercommitment. The challenge will be to ensure that these contract; contract administration and commercial skills; community companies comply with the established the implementation of bar-coding technology in our operating standards and to this end SDJ looks to work warehouses and an evaluation of the use of third-party directly with them to identify their current gaps and site services and labour. opportunities for improvement. This will then be the focus of a targeted capacity building program For our outbound supply chain activities, the focus for community transport suppliers in 2019. over the coming 12 months will be on assuring the quality of the product in line with customer specifications (see page 26) and defining and integrating a delivery performance measure to ensure greater integration and accountability across our production and sales functions. 28 VALUE CHAIN VALUE CHAIN Local Suppliers Procurement by region* (by value) 100% Local suppliers by 80% service provided 60% 40% Transport 37% Engineering & Maintenance 20% Catering & Cleaning 17% 20% Earth Moving 7% Modular Accommodation 7% Construction 3% 0% 2016 2017 2018 Vehicle Hire 3% Industrial Services 3% Local Provincial National International Equipment Rental 3% Procurement by region* (by number of suppliers) 100% 80% Local suppliers by community 60% 40% Olaroz 50% Susques 23% 20% El Toro 10% Jama 3% 0% Coranzuli 3% 2016 2017 2018 Pastos Chicos 3% Local Provincial National International Puesto Sey 7% *This excludes soda ash. Soda ash is a critical production component that can only sourced at the appropriate quality internationally. Given its unique nature and value, it has been removed to provide a more representative breakdown of our elective procurement spend. OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 29 Long Term Outlook Future Commitments Establish metrics to Deliver the Successfully Improve position Advance Cauchari demonstrate long-term Stage 2 Expansion deliver the Naraha on the Dow Jones Lithium Project value generation within budget Lithium Hydroxide Sustainability Indices Joint Venture to Plant with TTC Feasibility Study within budget 30 LONG-TERM OUTLOOK LONG-TERM OUTLOOK Shareholder Composition 2018 Financial Highlights 2yr Second full year of Record yearly Record Average price Gross Cash Margin production totaling revenue EBITDAIX of received of of 67%, delivering 12,470 tonnes US$148.9 million US$94.6 million US$12,578 US$8,384 up 5% up 24% up 33% per tonne, up 29% per tonne, up 39% Institutional Total Shareholder Total Shares Shares by Composition by Geography Investment Style Institutional 52% Australia 31% Growth 25% Retail 20% United States 15% Index 20% Corporate 17% Japan 15% GARP 17% Unallocated 9% Germany 10% Value 9% Related Party 2% Sweden 4% Hedge Fund 7% Rest of Europe 9% Other 22% Rest of World 8% Unallocated 8% OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 31 Solidifying long-term relationship with TTC 2018 was a hallmark year for the JV Partnership between Orocobre and TTC. In February 2018, Orocobre announced the finalisation of a 15% strategic placement to TTC, granting the JV Partner 37,544,920 shares at an issue price of $7.50 Australian Dollars (A$) per share. This strategic placement (valued at A$281.6 million) coupled with a pro rata entitlement offer, which allowed existing shareholders to participate at A$6.55 per share (ultimately valued at A$79.3 million), generated the funds required to progress with Stage 2 Expansion at Olaroz and the construction of the Naraha Lithium Hydroxide Plant. Under the terms of the strategic placement, TTC was entitled to nominate one non-executive director to the Orocobre Board. This entitlement remains valid for as long as TTC retains at least 10% of Orocobre shares. Accordingly, in April 2018 Mr Masaharu Katayama from TTC was officially appointed to the Orocobre Board. A two-year standstill agreement caps TTC’s relevant interest in Orocobre shares at 15% with anti-dilution rights for two years subject to TTC having a relevant interest in at least 10% of the shares. Building on the successful JV Partnership already in Former Orocobre Managing Director and CEO Mr Richard Seville and Mr Masaharu Katayama from Toyota Tsusho Corporation. place, it was agreed that Orocobre and TTC would have joint control over strategic marketing, the allocation of volume to customers and commercial terms of sale contracts with TTC to remain the exclusive sales agent “ for Olaroz Stage 2. Joint control will enable greater support and development of the sales function so it 2018 was a hallmark can successfully manage a potential 42,500 tonnes of annual production. year for the Joint Venture Partnership between Details of the Strategic Placement between Orocobre and TTC. Orocobre and TTC can be found on the Company website www.orocobre.com (see ASX Release ‘Recent Strategic Placement and Entitlement Offer Finalised’ dated 28 February 2018). With regards to the Naraha Lithium Hydroxide Plant development, TTC will have operational control with support and oversight from the Orocobre Board and nominated executive resources. 32 LONG-TERM OUTLOOK 17 LONG-TERM OUTLOOK OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 33 17 Preparing for the Future Bringing new capacity online to gain price Working collaboratively to manage & market advantages & mitigate collective impact Based on strong demand observed by both Orocobre As one of several brine-based lithium producers and TTC, the Olaroz JV agreed to undertake an operating and/or developing operations in the region, extension to the Olaroz Stage 2 Expansion. we acknowledge the importance of collective impact on the local social and environmental frameworks. Bringing the expanded resource online quickly and effectively will enable Orocobre to capitalise on Last year we raised the importance of effective Basin existing lithium prices, expand market share and Management, recognising that the long-term health position the company effectively for future growth. of our brine resource and its surrounding ecosystem could not be monitored or managed by us in isolation. The Olaroz Stage 2 Expansion will add 25,000 tpa of lithium carbonate production capacity to the Olaroz Following further discussions with the provincial Lithium Facility, taking total nameplate capacity to government and local peers in 2018, it was 42,500 tpa. This will position Orocobre as one of agreed that extraction data of all operators the world’s largest and lowest cost lithium chemical would be submitted to and monitored by the producers, with lower Stage 2 operating costs further provincial government to ensure flow rates and enhancing Orocobre’s low cost base. extraction limits are respected and remain within sustainable parameters. Long lead time activities including the construction of new roads, new evaporation and harvest ponds, a In addition to environmental and resource secondary liming plant, boreholes, the expansion of considerations from a risk perspective, we also existing site infrastructure and camp accommodation acknowledge the potential for positive collective commenced in FY18. Commissioning of the Stage 2 impact within the local communities, particularly Expansion is expected in H2 CY20. through the establishment of shared regional development programs and initiatives. Working collaboratively with Advantage Lithium on topics of social and environmental significance is facilitated by our JV partnership. For other operators in the region, establishing a collaborative approach will be more complicated, particularly given the differing stages of project development. We are confident that through further discussion and engagement with these players, and with the local and provincial governments and authorities, we can develop a system for effectively monitoring and managing our collective impact on the social, environmental and economic wellbeing of all stakeholders in the region. 34 LONG-TERM OUTLOOK LONG-TERM OUTLOOK Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders Orocobre’s success as an organisation is grounded firmly in the quality of our relationships with numerous, diverse stakeholder groups locally, nationally and internationally. Ensuring we have the systems, processes and resources to effectively monitor, engage, understand and respond to these various stakeholder groups is paramount. Currently, stakeholder relationships are managed directly and independently by diverse teams across the organisation. In coming years, we will seek to establish common systems and frameworks for stakeholder management across the organisation. This will enable us to enhance the consistency and transparency of our engagement and, in turn, strengthen the quality of our relationships with all stakeholders. Institutional External Stakeholders who Stakeholders who impact, or are impacted we respect and by, the organisation at consider but do not a regional, national or I actively engage with international level N EX on a regular basis ST TE IT RN Long-Term Outlook Communities UT AL ION AL I N T E RN A L Organisational Capability Stakeholders Environment & Culture L NA O ATI Value Chain ER Internal OP Operational Stakeholders who Stakeholders who work within the impact, or are impacted organisation to deliver by, our operations and on our objectives activities at a local level OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 35 Engagement Methods Internal Employees Contractors • Induction workshops • Director visits to site • Induction workshops • Ongoing direct personal • Reporting channel for • Ongoing direct dialogue unethical behaviour personal dialogue • Employee consultation • Intranet, newsletters, • Suggestions box meetings emails, billboards • Reporting channel for • Suggestions box unethical behaviour • Annual performance reviews • Intranet, newsletters, • Employee satisfaction surveys emails, billboards Operational Suppliers Communities Local Government • Supplier survey • Ongoing dialogue via Shared • Meetings and presentations • Annual breakfast with Value team • Spaces for debate and vendors/meetings • Program development and public-private dialogue • Annual performance evaluation activities • Public-private linkage programs assessment • Monthly assemblies, cultural • Emails, phone calls and direct • Suggestions box and religious events engagement • Monthly Town Hall meetings Customers • Participation in environmental Unions monitoring • Customer relationships • Regular face-to-face meetings directly managed by TTC • Direct face to face • Formal negotiations and communication • Regular confirmation of approvals for changes customer needs • Telephone communication • Union representative within • Customer satisfaction surveys • Meetings with community workforce institutions • Emails, phone calls Regulatory Bodies NGOs • Audits • Meetings on request, as required • Monthly and annual reports • Mail, phone, direct engagement • Permit and licence requests and submissions 36 LONG-TERM OUTLOOK LONG-TERM OUTLOOK External Industry Peers Future Generations • Communication via email/ • Precautionary principle forums • Ensure best possible • Dinners/events with environment (physical industry peers and socio-economic) • Emails and discussions for future wellbeing re topics of relevance Institutional Investors National Government Universities • Continuous disclosure • Meetings with government • Course development via website and emails representatives and ministries • Training programs • Periodic disclosures via • Involvement in industry and • Internships quarterly, half and full-year policy focused working groups • Research collaborations reporting and the Annual General Meeting JV Partners Media • Specific Information • Regular ongoing meetings Disclosures via ASX Release. • Press releases with TTC • Meetings, interviews • Interviews • Technical assistance and surveys • Mail, phone and • Meetings with business face-to-face engagement Shareholders representatives • Online: Toronto + Australian Trade Associations stock exchanges • Memberships • Road shows • Regular meetings and events • Shareholder meetings • Contribution to advocacy • Statutory reporting and accounts platforms The issues raised by our stakeholders in FY18 were incorporated into the Materiality Assessment which determined the focus topics for this report. OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 37 Communities Future Commitments Establish baseline for Work with Jujuy Promote transparency Strengthen strategic community wellbeing Government to of royalty distribution partnerships to advance across our local maximise distribution Sustainable Development communities of benefits in the region 38 COMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES Our Communities Abra Pampa Casabindo Coranzuli Reserva Nacional Los Flamercos El Toro Jama San Juan Quillayes Olaroz Chico Susques Chile Olaroz Lithium Pastos Chicos Facility Jujuy 212km Huancar Cobres Purmamarca Catua Puesto Sey San Antonio LEGEND de los Cobres Community Salar de Towns Pocitos Santa Rosa de los Pastos Road Access Grandes Santa Rosa to Projects de Tastil Orocobre Lithium Projects OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 39 Approach to Community Engagement Diagnose Design Identification and Development of classification of Community Engagement variables and Development Plan Analyse 1 2 Implement Analysis of the Implementation of local context Community Engagement and Development Plan Community Re-evaluate 4 3 Monitor Evaluation of approach: Track initiatives, re-analyse and diagnose progress and corrective actions Engage Revise Feedback from Identification of new communities and needs and responses strategic partners Our Approach for Maintaining Strong Relations with our Community Provide regular Understand Deliver targeted Work with employees Work with community opportunity for community support initiatives in the community suppliers (see Value engagement and expectations in the communities (see People & Chain on page 26) consultation and demands Capability on page 74) 40 COMMUNITIES 8 10 COMMUNITIES Community Empowerment Developing community capability All participants reported improvements in their to participate in project activities organisation following the training and one third indicated that further training was desired. SDJ is committed to the socio-economic development of our local communities. To achieve this, we promote A review of our supply chain in 2018 identified the need local economic development initiatives that are to improve the social and environmental performance of independent from our activities and also capacity our transport suppliers. Given that a large proportion of building initiatives to enable community involvement our transport suppliers are from the local communities, in project-related activities (see Empowerment and we will be delivering a targeted capacity building Education Case Studies on page 46). program for community transport suppliers in 2019. In addition to capacity building to enable the creation of new community businesses and suppliers, we Managing increased expectations also appreciate the importance of supporting and due to expansion developing existing community suppliers to ensure The nature of site-based activity differs significantly they are able to operate in accordance with the during development and operations. standards and requirements defined by SDJ. Throughout project development there are a lot Throughout 2017–2018, we developed and delivered of low-skill employment and supply opportunities. a targeted supplier development program with INTI During operation there tends to be fewer, more (the National Institute of Industrial Technology). highly-skilled roles. The program identified the key services that the It was therefore not surprising to see an increase in community-based small-medium enterprises (SMEs) local community expectations following announcement tend to provide (general services, civil works and of the Olaroz Stage 2 Expansion, as they know that transportation) and then worked with individual development activity presents more opportunities SMEs to identify specific improvement opportunities. for them to engage. Several topics were considered relevant for all suppliers The focus for SDJ’s Shared Value program team and were incorporated into the development program in FY18 was therefore on both capacity building for all participants. These included: and the effective management of expectations. • Cost Management While we are committed to developing capacity • Quality and capability to ensure that local communities can • Handling of Chemical Products engage as fully as possible with project activities, we also acknowledge that there is a limit to the • Safety number of low-skilled supply and employment • Stock Management opportunities available. • Human Resources. Additional resources have been assigned to manage Of the 16 local community SMEs, 14 participated in the expansion-related community engagement. training programs, with an average 22 man-hours of training delivered per month. INTI spent an average of 70 hours a month working directly with the suppliers on the project. OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 41 1 Community Investment Aligning our community investment strategy the most effective structures and vehicles to manage with UN SDGs and maximise our overall contribution to society. Over the past decade, our community investment As such, in 2019 our focus will be on establishing strategy has been centred on the five pillars of our the internal and external structures to more Shared Value strategy: Education, Empowerment, effectively administer and evaluate our Transparency, Production and Natural Resources community investment strategy. and Health. Given the increased focus from all sectors over the Evaluating the impact & effectiveness past few years on the United Nations’ Sustainable of our investment Development Goals (SDGs), we appreciate the value Over the past year we have worked to prepare our of aligning our community investment strategy to community investment data in accordance with the these global goals and targets. Not only will it facilitate established global standard for community investment the identification of cross-sectoral partnerships and reporting: the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) collaboration opportunities, it will also enable us to Framework. This has enabled us to categorise our more effectively track our contribution to broader community contributions by type and by input global development goals. and to identify gaps in our approach. It has also In 2018 we undertook a detailed process of alignment, highlighted areas requiring additional data collection which combined the objectives of the UN SDGs with and management. the core components of Porter and Kramer’s Shared Currently we can report on the outputs and outcomes Value model (i.e. local cluster development, value of our community activities, such as the number of chain productivity, product and market innovation) participants in our education programs, or the number to provide a consolidated framework for managing, of community employees with secondary school monitoring and measuring our performance against qualifications. Impact metrics at a community level the UN SDGs. are a little more complex as we do not necessarily 1. F or each SDG, identify the social issues of have the appropriate social baseline data to evaluate relevance to our local operating context; this effectively across all our program areas. 2. C  ategorise the social issues within the A social baseline study was conducted in 2010. This five pillars of Shared Value; provided a base set of community data and indicators on which our community investment strategy was 3. D  efine specific sub-categories within each founded. That said, the data and indicators generated pillar to reflect the social issue; in that baseline study do not provide the level of detail required to enable the effective monitoring 4. Identify the business relevance for each; and evaluation of impact across our communities. 5. Prioritise focus areas for community investment In 2019, the focus will be on defining a solid based on social and business relevance; and Theory of Change for the organisation, to provide 6. Define the social indicators to evaluate performance. additional strength and rigour to our community investment strategy and to facilitate the identification Working through this process enabled us to gain greater of suitable short, medium and long-term indicators insight into the role of our community investment for social impact. strategy within our broader contribution to shared value and the SDGs. It also prompted us to consider 42 COMMUNITIES 1 COMMUNITIES Government Payments Royalty and other Government Payments USD Provincial Royalty 1,641,172 Type of Other provincial and municipal taxes 132,995 Contribution Other national taxes 849,644 US$530k Employment taxes paid by SDJ 1,486,995 Total Paid by SDJ 4,110,806 Provincial withholding tax to local business 582,780 National withholding tax on salaries 550,341 National withholding tax to local business 5,265,468 Charitable donations* Total Withheld by SDJ 6,398,589 Community investment Commercial initiatives** Royalty Payments in Argentina forward tax losses incurred during * Charitable Donations were made by SDJ in 2018 to support communities in the Jujuy province that construction and commissioning The payment of royalties in were affected by heavy rains. As these were not of the project. However, at current donations made to our 10 local communities we did Argentina is determined by law. not capture the payments as part of our community Lithium Carbonate selling prices, spend. We will be revising our systems in 2019 to As such, Orocobre pays 3% of ensure all charitable contributions (including those corporate tax is projected to the ‘mine mouth’ value of the administered beyond our community and Shared be paid from FY20 onwards. In Value strategy) are captured. mineral extracted to the Provincial determining its taxable income SDJ ** In FY18 we included our sponsorship of industry Government of Jujuy, who is then events supporting sustainable mining in the does not participate in any transfer region in Commercial Initiatives. legally required to distribute pricing arrangements with export that amount evenly across all 61 selling prices being on a Free On municipalities in the Province. Board (FOB) basis. While Argentina is not an Extractive In September 2018, the Argentine Industries’ Transparency Initiative Government introduced an export (EITI) nation, we are committed duty of ARS$3 per US$1 exported. Nature of to ensuring transparency and Based on the exchange rate at Contribution will continue to disclose our that time (~ARS$37.5/US$1), the US$1m payments to local government company estimated the duty would and communities as we develop. result in a cost of approximately 8% In 2018 we have paid approximately of its sales revenues. This export 47 million Argentinian Pesos (ARS) duty will remain in place until or US$1.6 million dollars in royalties December 2020. to the Government of Jujuy. “ Cash contributions Time* Corporate Taxes The provincial In-kind donations** Orocobre’s current operations government continues Management costs are focused solely in Argentina. to benefit from the Orocobre is committed not only * We do not currently have a system in place to increasing value of the to full compliance with the tax laws track time invested by employees volunteering in community initiatives. There is no formal of Argentina but also to ensuring all Olaroz asset through volunteering program in place. Employee time is profits from its Argentina operations an 8.5% holding in contributed on an as-needs basis based on the activity and skills required. are taxed in Argentina. SDJ by their mining ** Tracking of in-kind donations has proven complicated in 2018 due to changes in internal and investment SDJ does not currently pay reporting. We will be seeking to establish more entity (JEMSE). robust tracking and measurement of in-kind corporate tax due to the carried donations across departments in coming years. OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 43 Shared Value Outcomes & Impact Five Pillars Operational Objectives Case Studies of Shared Value of Shared Value 1 A Case Study 1 Community Empowerment Microcredits Program 2 Seize opportunities to strengthen communities and promote wellbeing Transparency 3 B Case Study 2 Education: Certification Local Production & & Infrastructure Natural Resources Build capacity of communities and 4 local suppliers C Education 5 Case Study 3 Provide and promote Artisan Development Project space for cross-sectoral dialogue and collaboration Case Study 4 Raising Recycled Walls Health 44 COMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES Case Studies OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 45 1 8 10 Empowerment Community Microcredits Program – Case Study 1 SDJ made a commitment to our local communities, Beneficiaries indigenous people of the Atacama, to support the To begin the evaluation process of potential community development of new businesses within the region that microcredit beneficiaries, SDJ held workshops in each are independent of the company’s operations to help of the 10 communities to support the development nurture sustainable socio-economic development. of business ideas. From this, 64 business plans were A support plan for entrepreneurs was created, which presented to SDJ for evaluation with 24 successfully provides Community Microcredits to help locals meeting SDJ’s investment evaluation requirements. implement small business ideas. The 64 business plans were evaluated on the following criteria: It is important to note that the purpose of the Community Microcredit Program is to support ventures that are not • Personal Entrepreneurial Skills (40%) related to mining, to assist in the comprehensive growth • Potential of the Business Idea (35%) and development of local economies. The first round of credit instalments was distributed • Technical and Economic Feasibility in October 2017 with the second round being of Implementation (25%). distributed in December 2017. Distribution of Community Microcredit beneficiaries are outlined below: Workshop Projects Selected Community Participants Delivered Beneficiaries (Business Plan) Funds Invested Olaroz 8 5 1 872,970 ARS* Susques 15 8 3 Coranzuli 28 9 4 San Juan 12 6 1 El Toro 7 6 2 Catua 17 7 4 Coranzuli 20% Puesto Sey 12 1 1 Jama 15% Pastos Chicos 6 6 2 Susques 12% Jama 23 10 4 Catua 12% Huancar 7 6 2 El Toro 10% TOTAL 135 64 24 Pastos Chicos 10% Huancar 9% Puesto Sey 6% San Juan 4% Olaroz 2% * ~$25,000 USD 46 COMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES Invested/Recovered Amounts As of 30 June 2018, the total amount invested via the Community Microcredits Program totaled ARS 872,970 (approximately US$25,000). While there was a budget of ARS 100,000 per community, funds were only presented to viable ideas that met SDJ’s investment evaluation requirements. Businesses from each of the 10 communities that met the investment evaluation requirements are outlined below: Community Business Operational Comments Benefiting from the population increase in Olaroz Olaroz Grocery Store due to SDJ expansion. Hardware Store Personal Protective Susques Equipment Store Successful business selling religious images and souvenirs. Bookstore/Religious Hopes to expand. Restaurant Going well and is now exploring the potential of opening Butcher Coranzuli a restaurant. Quinoa Production Quinoa Production Increasing clientele, focused on fun for children and adolescents, San Juan Entertainment Venue looking to improve the infrastructure. Has become meeting point for the small community, fast food and Entertainment Venue El Toro refreshment spaces included to boost the business. Hostel Photocopy Services Clothes Store Catua Produces and sells to the community directly and supports the café Bakery business of fellow Catua beneficiary. Complemented by the new local bakery, the café is operating Café successfully in the community. Puesto Sey Grocery Store Laundry Pastos Chicos Tyre Repairs Artisan – Wool Production Working well and used frequently by SDJ contractors Hostel Jama and suppliers. Tyre Repairs Mechanic Restaurant Huancar Grocery Store OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 47 4 17 Education Certification & Infrastructure – Case Study 2 SDJ’s Education Plan aims to improve the level by the Jujuy Ministry of Education’s Distance Learning of education of operating personnel, promoting Coordinator. Classes were given Tuesday to Thursday autonomy as the personal competence from which from 5:00 pm to 7:00 pm and 7:00 pm to 9:00 pm all other qualities and abilities are developed. to afford both night and day shift SDJ employees the opportunity to attend. The plan was developed in accordance with the compulsory primary and secondary education The Baccalaureate was offered not only to SDJ legislation in Argentina, together with various employees seeking to obtain a secondary degree, training specialisations helping support each but also to the employees of contractor companies operator’s specific role while developing their working with SDJ. skillsets to allow for future promotions. In December 2016, the Baccalaureate Program reached The three core objectives of SDJ’s Education Plan are: its first milestone with 19 students graduating from the program. The ceremony was held in Susques and • To align SDJ’s growth and expansion with the was attended by key representatives of SDJ and the educational development of its employees Provincial Government. The Baccalaureate Program • To work collaboratively across sectors, engaging runs from February to December each year. In 2018, proactively with communities, government SDJ’s Baccalaureate Program had 27 students: 19 at agencies and other organisations Level 1, two at Level 2, and six at Level 3. • To improve the level of education for the entire Since the program began, classes continue to run SDJ workforce, in accordance with the legislation on schedule and the level of enthusiasm amongst of Argentina. students remains high. It is expected that enrolment Baccalaureate Program in the program will continue to grow and, based on the progress of current students, SDJ is expecting In 2014, SDJ worked collaboratively with the provincial more graduates this year. government and our 10 local communities to develop a Regional Baccalaureate Program. Since the SDJ Education Plan was implemented we’ve seen the percentage of local employees with Classes began in February 2015 with 25 students secondary education increase to 40%. Our objective attending. Classes were run by a professor appointed is to reach 66% by 2020 and 100% by 2025. 1 2 3 4 5 Conduct Education Establish Remote Sign Agreement Register SDJ Commence Survey of all Education Facility with Jujuy’s Ministry Employees in the Regional SDJ Employees (HQ Olaroz Project) of Education Knowledge Bachelaureate Review Cycle Program at SDJ 2014 2015 48 COMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES Community Workforce Education Levels 100 Primary Complete 17% 26% 26% 80 Secondary Complete Completing 60 25% Secondary 40% 66% 100% 40 49% 20 34% 17% 0 2014 2017 2020* 2025* *Target figures OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 49 Additional Training Programs Education Infrastructure Additional courses that were delivered in the reporting In 2018, the Technical School of Chemistry was period include: inaugurated in Olaroz. This school was developed collaboratively with SDJ contributing project funds, • Craft Bakery Courses – delivered collaboratively the community constructing the school and the local with Cookins (SDJ’s catering supplier) across three government defining course content and its delivery communities. There were two classes per community, in alignment with regional education priorities. with over 200 people participating. Throughout FY18 SDJ has been working with the • Introduction to Chemistry Course – ran from July Olaroz community to construct a chemistry lab that to September 2017, with 13 classes per community. will complement the facilities provided at the Olaroz Upon completion of the course, three students with Technical School of Chemistry. the best average grades were invited to join the SDJ workforce as operators in the salt harvest area. 50 COMMUNITIES 11 COMMUNITIES Production & Natural Resources Artisan Development Project – Case Study 3 In support of the SDJ’s commitment to sustainable and optimise the yarn manufacturing process, development, we seek to nurture sustainable, enabling the Huancar community to establish socio-economic development activities within solid foundations for long-term growth. our local communities that are independent of While the ultimate objective is the production of the company’s operations. quality garments, focusing on yarn production in the In 2018, proposals to develop and implement a local initial stages will enable production of a transitional economic development project were requested from product that garners high market demand. It would a range of local consultants. The National Institute also ensure uniformity of raw material for future of Industrial Technology (INTI) was selected as production and enable greater productive synergy with project partner. artisans achieving higher production volumes working as a group. The Artisan Development Project was launched in April 2018 with a workshop that sought to align the The project thus set out to provide essential individual, community and institutional objectives support equipment to produce yarn without losing with the overarching objective of the project: the ‘artisanal’ character. Given that the production equipment will reduce water consumption in the • Stimulate production and commercialisation of local washing process by at least 60%, the sustainability entrepreneurs, developing their capability to work benefits of the project have extended well beyond sustainably and without dependence on public or the financial investment. private institutions. It was determined that for the Artisan Development Once the group of artisans agreed to establish a yarn Project to successfully achieve this objective production facility, three goals were established: it would require: • Acquisition of physical space for the installation • Development of sustainable businesses that of equipment leverage traditional cultural activities • Acquisition of all necessary equipment • Development of tools and capabilities at SDJ that • Technical training for artisans in production enable the replication of similar socio-economic management. development projects in other communities. The goal that created the greatest difficulty and delay The community of Huancar’s llama fibre spinning was the acquisition of a physical space for equipment. was selected as the pilot project and the model With that space now finalised, it is anticipated that for future local economic development projects the equipment will be operational by November 2018, in other communities. by which stage the artisans will have completed their production training and be targeting initial product When developing a sustainable business model, sales in December. market constraints were analysed in relation to the artisanal products that the Huancar community’s llama fibre spinning project could produce. Due to the high variability in the quality of the yarn that each artisan produced, a textile design style training process was not viable. A new yarn production scheme was developed to standardise OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 51 2 11 Raising Recycled Walls – Case Study 4 The Raising Recycled Walls Project supports the construction of greenhouses in the local communities of Pastos Chicos and Huancar using plastic bottles recycled from the Olaroz Lithium Facility. The project was developed to address malnutrition, which was identified as a particular health issue in these communities. The project is designed to provide future agricultural production facilities for local communities. It also provides an effective way to recycle plastic bottles used on site and in the community, with the bottles serving as the fundamental construction material for the greenhouses. The project is rolled out over the following stages: 1 2 3 4 5 Collect used plastic Transfer bottles Fill bottles Transfer bottles to Construct bottles from Olaroz from Olaroz to with earth construction site greenhouse the community Any additional construction materials are sourced and transferred to the construction sites through collaboration with suppliers and the Municipal Commission of Susques. 52 COMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES Pastos Chicos The greenhouse at Pastos Chicos is complete and the following crops have been planted: lettuce, swiss chard, zucchini, pomegranate, aloe vera, strawberry and pine in a pot. The owner of the Pastos Chicos greenhouse has great expectations that it will enable him to sow crops and consume fresh fruit and vegetables all year round. He is very grateful to have been involved in the Raising Recycled Walls Project. He is the President of the local producers’ groups and has shared his experience with other producers, helping to generate great interest in delivery of similar projects. Huancar Another greenhouse located in Huancar is nearing completion. The roof structure is in place awaiting installation of translucent sheets of plastic. To strengthen the overall structure during construction, sections of the walls were plastered with mud and a structural support post was placed in the centre of the greenhouse floor. OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 53 Environment Future Commitments Integrate energy and Assurance of Establish solid baseline Set short-and emissions performance environmental data for environmental long-term targets for into corporate and performance based energy and emissions operational KPIs on assured data intensity reduction 54 ENVIRONMENT 12 13 ENVIRONMENT Environmental Impacts Impact of Environment on our Operations Impacts on Value Chain Impacts on our Operations Impacts on Community Port Infrastructure Road Closures Evaporation Ponds Community Impact Impacts Extreme weather Climatic conditions Extreme weather Extreme weather impacting distribution impacting our impacting on impacting distribution channels across border evaporation ponds communities’ health, channels through ports. and access roads. and expansion activities. productivity. Flash flooding, Sun, wind, rain. Droughts, natural landslides. disasters. Impact of our Operations on the Environment Water Energy Emissions There are two sources of water Energy is generated by the natural There are 3 main emission sources; extraction: brine from the salar gas generators to power processes energy generation, process emissions and industrial water (groundwater) in the production plant and provide and transport related emissions. which is treated and used for electricity for the camp. processing. Water is returned to the evaporation ponds after processing to recover residual Emissions within Emissions in our lithium. There are no discharges our operation value chain to the environment. 1 2 1 3 Brine Industrial water extraction extraction Energy used to treat water for 2 production. Thermal energy By enabling is captured and clean energy reused wherever alternatives, possible through 3 we offset heat exchangers. emissions. OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 55 13 Impact of Climate Climatic variables & their impact on production volumes Our production process utilises natural solar energy We are exploring ways to improve pond management to evaporate brine extracted from the salar and and reduce losses in the event of unfavourable climatic concentrate the lithium content before it enters the conditions. This includes the potential adoption and processing plant. Because natural evaporation forms a implementation of new technology (including a large critical part of our production process, our productivity crystalliser) to stimulate the evaporation process in is dependent on contributing climatic variables. periods of low solar radiation. Maintaining higher pond inventory levels and increasing overall pond In the March quarter of 2018, we were forced to revise evaporation area are also being investigated as our annual production guidance due to unfavourable potential mitigation methods. climatic conditions in the region. The February mean evaporation rate was the lowest recorded since 2011 Impacts on our evaporation process place greater and less than half of February 2017. This resulted demands on our production process, requiring greater in lower than expected brine concentrations at the energy and material inputs to compensate for reduced beginning of March. brine concentration levels. Brine concentrations were dually affected by both the In this regard, climatic variables impact not only reduction in solar radiation due to cloudy conditions our productivity and operational efficiency, but and the above normal rainfall. While concentrations also our environmental performance. improved during March, they did not recover to the level expected, affecting production performance in the final half of the financial year. While we acknowledge the impact of adverse climatic conditions on our operations, data indicates that these conditions are not representative of a regular climatic pattern or trend in the region. Our production process utilises “ natural solar energy to evaporate brine extracted from the salar and concentrate the lithium content before it enters the processing plant. 56 ENVIRONMENT 12 ENVIRONMENT Impact on Environment Improving our energy productivity & carbon emissions profile Energy We have a relatively clean energy profile. While We are currently exploring initiatives that will reduce we are yet to develop any renewable energy sources, the demand for heating in our processes including our operations are based predominantly on natural the use of more efficient heat exchangers and the gas with diesel (and in rare cases petrol) being used for recapture and reuse of vapor to capitalise on existing some stationary and transport equipment. heat in the system. We use natural gas for two primary purposes: As part of our expansion activities we are also generation of electricity for our operations and the exploring renewable energy alternatives to power generation of heat in our production process. our remote well-sites and to provide electricity to the operations. We are also investigating new technology In 2018 our total energy consumption increased 8%. leveraging solar thermal generation to reduce the But given increased production volumes our total consumption of natural gas in the generation of heat energy intensity only increased by 3%. Electricity for production processes. consumption increased 18% which reflects increased production, the adoption of additional chillers in our purification circuit and the shift from gravity transfer to electric pumps in our pond system. There was no change in heat energy consumption in Natural Gas 91% the plant in 2018, though we did see a 5% improvement Fuel Consumption Diesel 9% in heat intensity due to increased production volumes. 734,660 GJ Petrol negligible With the commencement of Stage 2 Expansion activities in 2018, there was an increase in the number of people and activities on site which equally increased the demands for electricity across our operations. Energy Consumption (MWh) 200,000 25 Electricity Heat 160,000 20 Total Energy Electricity 120,000 15 Intensity MWh MWh/t Heat Intensity 80,000 10 Total Energy Intensity 40,000 5 0 0 2016 2017 2018 OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 57 Emissions In 2018 we commissioned an external consultancy to prepare a thorough emissions inventory for our SDJ operation. Data was collected from both the Olaroz Production Facility and our office in Jujuy, with a view to reporting completely on our Scope 1 Emissions by and Scope 2 emissions and, where possible, our key Scope (%) Scope 3 emissions. The inventory provided us not only with a robust baseline, but also a documented methodology and procedures based on the GHG Protocol. This will ensure that the data we are collating and reporting Scope 1 76% is an accurate and consistent representation of our Scope 2 negligible performance year on year. Scope 3 24% This was the critical initial step towards enabling assurance of our data in future years. In the coming year we will be implementing a cloud-based data management system that will capture and control critical data points across the organisation and automatically calculate our emissions performance using pre-defined methodologies and emissions factors. Emissions by Source (%) With both the methodology and data management system established, we will be well placed to assure our data on an annual basis, and thus provide greater confidence to our investors and the global community regarding our commitment and contribution to reducing global GHG emissions. Scope 1 We submitted our first report to the Carbon Electricity generation 34% Disclosure Project in 2018, disclosing our 2017 Process heat 33% emissions performance and broader climate Transport 7% risk information. Other Scope 1 sources 2% We will continue to disclose to CDP over coming Scope 2 years and, as with the DJSI, see CDP as an opportunity to objectively evaluate and benchmark Purchased electricity negligible our carbon and broader climate risk management Scope 3 performance over time. Soda ash production 11% E, P, & T 12% Other Scope 3 sources 1% 58 ENVIRONMENT 9 12 ENVIRONMENT Understanding & managing our consumption Water Water extraction In 2017 we identified that while we had visibility of Water extraction remains the best indicator of our total our overall water consumption, we did not have a clear water consumption. We do not extract water from any way of identifying in which parts of our operations that surface or fresh water sources. The water we extract is water was being consumed and in what quantity. industrial groundwater which must be treated onsite prior to use in our operations. The low quality of this In 2018 we installed a series of meters to provide water means that it is not used for any other means a clear break-down of consumption across our by any other groups or industries. operations. This affirmed the high consuming areas of the plant and identified areas where consumption was higher than anticipated, allowing us to initiate targeted reduction campaigns. It also highlighted some inefficiencies in the piping infrastructure that we will be working to address in the coming year. Source 2016 2017 2018 % Change Industrial Water Extraction (m ) 3 371,096 485,300 607,608 25% Industrial Water Consumption 700,000 14,000 Extraction of Groundwater (m3) 600,000 12,000 Total Production 500,000 10,000 (tonnes) 400,000 8,000 m3 t LCE 300,000 6,000 200,000 4,000 100,000 2,000 0 0 2016 2017 2018 OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 59 Water intensity We had a target to reduce water intensity by 15% in We have identified opportunities to increase 2018. This target was set in 2017 based on our forecast efficiencies in production through the capture production figures for 2018. and reuse of water and vapor in our processes. Given climatic conditions negatively impacted our That said, preparing and installing the necessary production levels in Q3, we were required to use more infrastructure to capitalise on that opportunity is not a water to generate product from less concentrated quick and easy process. Having developed the project brine. Our final production output was also less given plan and acquired the budget, the procurement and the additional processing time required. As a result, installation of equipment may take anywhere from rather than decreasing by 15% our water intensity 6-12 months. increased by 18%. These lessons learned in current production are being It should be noted that in Q2 we also brought online integrated into the design and development of the new an additional boiler within the plant which resulted in lithium carbonate plant to be constructed as part of greater water intensity per tonne of lithium produced the Stage 2 Expansion. across both our prime and purified products. 2016 2017 2018 % Change Intensity (m /t) 3 Prime* Purified Prime Purified Prime Purified Prime Water Intensity by Product 53.76 58.9 36.8 66.5 44.2 13% 20% Water Intensity – Total Production 53.76 41.6 49.1 18% Water Intensity by Product 70 Prime 60 Purified 50 40 m3/t 30 20 10 0 2016 2017 2018 *We did not produce a purified lithium carbonate product in 2016. 60 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Water Intensity – Total Production 60 14,000 Water Intensity (m3/t) 12,000 50 Total Production (tonnes) 10,000 40 8,000 m3/t 30 t LCE 6,000 20 4,000 10 2,000 0 0 2016 2017 2018 Waste water For water consumed in non-production-related Unlike traditional mining operations, and even some activities, we have waste water treatment facilities of the existing brine-based operations, we do not on site. Once treated and quality tested, the water have any waste water discharges from production. is reused for certain operational tasks including dust Any water used in production is either vaporised or suppression and watering of roads. discharged back to the pond system for evaporation Treated water that is not recycled on site is sent to and concentration, so we do not have tailings dams the provincial water treatment facility for further (see Debunking Myth #4 on page 68). treatment and recycled at a provincial level. OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 61 12 Waste Waste at the Olaroz Lithium Facility is classified and Organic and non-recyclable waste is sent to Jujuy's treated according to its type and associated handling Provincial Waste Facility in Palpalá and recyclable risks. Each area is responsible for classifying their waste is either stored on site and reused or sent to waste, managing waste disposal in containers that are specific recycling facilities. sufficiently and appropriately labelled and organising Given the high proportion of organic and timely and efficient waste collection from their recyclable waste, we are continuing to explore respective areas. disposal opportunities that minimise the amount SDJ is a registered generator of hazardous waste and of waste being sent to landfill. all hazardous waste is managed and transported in accordance with the standards set by National Law 24.051. By Type Waste (t) 140 Organic 120 Recyclable Non-recyclable 100 Hazardous 80 t LCE 60 40 20 0 2016 2017 2018 By Disposal Method Non-Hazardous Waste (t) Hazardous Waste (t) 100 16 14 80 12 60 10 t LCE t LCE 8 40 6. 4 20 2 8.67 71.68 15.77 78.58 18.06 89.75 4.47 13.83 5.44 11.82 4.36 14.53 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Recycled Landfill Recovery Treatment and Disposal 62 ENVIRONMENT 15 ENVIRONMENT Biodiversity As part of our broader commitment Given the minimal biodiversity facilitate future remediation. to the environment and natural impact identified for our operations Other practices we adopt to resource management, Orocobre in the short, medium and longensure minimal land-use impact is committed to maintaining, term, it is not a high-priority include restrictions on surface-level enhancing and conserving local issue for our operations, but it intervention, strict requirements biodiversity and ecosystems. does remain a constant focus. for new road construction and We are committed to preserving preventive maintenance of roads While the Olaroz Lithium Facility local biodiversity and to ensuring to avert erosive processes. is not located within a national or controls are in place to monitor international protected area, the A biodiversity baseline was and maintain potential impacts. 18,000 ha site is located within conducted in 2010 as part of the the Olaroz-Cauchari Reserve. The project’s main biodiversity project’s detailed Environmental impact relates to the risk of Impact Assessment. In the The Reserve was created in 1981 vehicular movement on fauna. four subsequent EIA updates by the Jujuy provincial government We have various precautionary (conducted biennially) there to protect the vicuña, which had measures in place to manage this has been no identified impact become a threatened species. including restrictions on vehicular on biodiversity or ecological Art. II of the Provincial Law 3820 circulation, employee training on processes. We regularly evaluate established the reserve as a wildlife preservation and warning our impacts with monitoring multi-use area in which agricultural, signs and maximum speeds in undertaken quarterly over a defined mining and scientific-technical sectors with animal presence. series of data points and locations. research programs could be carried out. Any activity related to hunting Our pond system was designed to or the introduction of exotic fauna conform with the local topography and flora is prohibited. to minimise land-use impact and OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 63 12 Myth-Busters Debunking Myth #1: Soda Ash & Emissions We have found that in many investor and analyst Soda ash is added in the form of a solution and mixed reports, our emissions risk is considered quite high. with lithium in the brine, precipitating Li2CO3 (as Given the low emissions profile of both our operations solids) and leaving sodium ions as solution. As the and our product we have never really understood why. addition of soda ash is chemically proportional to the concentration of lithium present in the brine, there are Undertaking the emissions inventory, we learned that no CO2 emissions. And if there is an excess of soda ash, the use of soda ash (otherwise known as sodium the sodium and carbonate ions remain in solution, carbonate Na2CO3) in production generally constitutes so there are no CO2 emissions in that case either. a large source of Scope 1 emissions. For this reason, consumption per ton of soda ash is assigned a specific What we do consider in our emissions inventory, value of CO2 and emissions are calculated on that basis. however, are the Scope 3 emissions relating to the If calculated on this basis, our CO2 emissions from production of soda ash that we consume in our soda ash would have been equivalent to the emissions operations. And the soda ash that we use in our associated with the generation of electricity on site. operations is the natural form of soda ash that has a lower emissions profile than some other forms Fortunately for the environment, the use of soda of soda ash used by companies in production. ash in the production of lithium carbonate does not produce CO2 emissions. 64 ENVIRONMENT 6 13 ENVIRONMENT Debunking Myth #2: Water Stress in the Puna We have found that in many investor and analyst We acknowledge the realities of a changing global reports, we are considered high risk with regards climate, so decided to explore future scenarios to to water stress. identify and evaluate the exact nature of the perceived water stress risk. This seems unusual to us given the relatively low water intensity of our operations, the fact that we do not We identified the exact location of our water sources draw from any surface water sources and that the and referred to World Resource Institute’s AQUEDUCT groundwater we consume is from the Archibarca Basin Water Risk Atlas, which enables visualisation of in the province of Jujuy (a well-managed basin with current and future water stress risks to identify which adequate water resources and draw-downs monitored of our sources were currently impacted or could be and managed by the provincial government). impacted in future. Figure 1: WRI AQUEDUCT Water Stress Risk Map (General) for Olaroz: Low Risk (0-1) LEGEND Low risk Tupiza Low to medium risk Medium to high risk Tarija High risk Yacuiba Extremely high risk Tocopilla Tartagal Calama Colonia Neuland Abra Pampa San Ramon de la Nueva Oran Humahuaca Antofagasta Libertador General San Martin San Salvador Laguna Yema de Jujuy Apolinario Saravia Salta Las Lajitas Mina La Casualidad Taltal El Galpon Taco Pozo Antofagasta de la Sierra Rosario de la Monte Quemado Frontera Castelli Cafayate The project zone demarcated indicates SDJs current EIS extraction areas. OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 65 Figure 2: WRI AQUEDUCT Water Stress Risk Map (Mining) for Olaroz: Low Risk (0-1) LEGEND Tupiza Low risk Low to medium risk Tarija Medium to high risk Yacuiba High risk Tocopilla Extremely high risk Tartagal Calama Colonia Neuland Abra Pampa San Ramon de la Nueva Oran Humahuaca Antofagasta Libertador General San Martin San Salvador Laguna Yema de Jujuy Apolinario Saravia Salta Las Lajitas Mina La Casualidad Taltal El Galpon Taco Pozo Antofagasta de la Sierra Rosario de la Monte Quemado Frontera Castelli Cafayate Figure 3: WRI AQUEDUCT Water Stress Risk Map, 2040 forecast: No change LEGEND 2.8x or greater decrease Tupiza 2x decrease 1.4x decrease Tarija Near normal Yacuiba 1.4x increase Tocopilla 2x increase Tartagal 2.8x or greater increase Calama No Colonia data Neuland Abra Pampa San Ramon de la Nueva Oran Humahuaca Antofagasta Libertador General San Martin San Salvador Laguna Yema de Jujuy Apolinario Saravia Salta Las Lajitas Mina La Casualidad Taltal El Galpon Taco Pozo Antofagasta de la Sierra Rosario de la Monte Quemado Frontera Castelli Cafayate The project zone demarcated indicates SDJs current EIS extraction areas. 66 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Debunking Myth #3: Archibarca Basin & Coranzuli Coyahuaima There was some commentary in the past 12 months regarding Orocobre’s use of a basin near Coranzuli as a source of water for our operations. To ensure transparency and clarity regarding our water sources, we would like to present a graphic representation of our wells and groundwater sources relative to the communities that are local to our operations. Coranzuli El Toro San Juan Jama Susques Olaroz Chico Huancar Catua LEGEND Industrial Wells OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 67 Debunking Myth #4: Mineral Waste & Tailings Unlike traditional mining operations and the operations of some of our brine-based peers, we do not require tailings facilities. Liquid waste from our production process is immediately fed back to the pond system, therefore we do not require a tailings management system. In terms of mineral waste, we manage salt (mainly halite and sylvite) buildup in our evaporation ponds. This is done through a process of salt harvesting, which is conducted every three years. Salt harvesting involves sequential draining of certain ponds and the removal of the majority of contained salts. These salts are then transferred to a harvested salt stockpile, where leaching and drainage enables the recovery of highly concentrated lithium brine. So not only do our waste minerals (salts) mirror those naturally occurring in the local environment, they also provide an additional, high-quality source of lithium for use in production. 1 4 BURNT LIME SILO WELLS PURIFICATION CIRCUIT IMPURITY LIME SLAKING 2 SCAVENGING REACTOR RE-PULP PONDS SOLID IMPURITIES BORE FIELD SATURATED LITHIUM FILTER BRINE LIMING CARBONATE ( Li2CO3 ) BRINE BRINE FEED FEED POND EVAPORATION PONDS CRYSTALLISER RAW THICKENER WATER HARVESTED SALT STOCKPILE HARVEST PONDS REVERSE SODA ASH SILO 3 OSMOSIS 5 PRIMARY DRY & BAGGING CIRCUIT PRIMARY PURIFIED HEATING POLISH LITHIUM SODA ASH REACTOR MIXING BELT FILTER CARBONATE PACKAGING + DRYER MAGNETIC MICRONISER LITHIUM FILTERS CARBONATE CENTRIFUGES PRECIPITATE PRECIPITATION REACTOR PURIFIED PRIME MICRONISED CUSTOMERS 68 ENVIRONMENT 12 ENVIRONMENT OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 69 People & Capability Future Commitments Increase participation Increase % of Incorporate KPIs and Establish targeted Complete cultural in employee workforce with objectives into annual development and review program engagement survey technical qualifications performance review succession plans 70 PEOPLE & CAPABILITY PEOPLE & CAPABILITY Workforce Breakdown Senior Managers Middle Managers Operators Total Male Female Local Provincial National International <30 30 – 50 >50 9 7 2 7 2 2 7 64 50 14 4 26 32 2 13 48 3 2016 178 160 18 91 57 30 95 78 5 251 86% 14% 38% 33% 27% 2% 43% 51% 6% 8 6 2 6 2 3 5 67 53 14 21 23 22 2 7 54 7 2017 207 180 27 121 53 32 112 83 11 282 85% 15% 50% 27% 21% 2% 42% 50% 8% 11 9 2 8 3 8 3 92 78 14 5 40 44 3 8 77 7 2018 206 176 30 133 48 25 88 108 10 309 85% 15% 45% 28% 25% 2% 31% 62% 7% Local Gender Age Employment Diversity Diversity Local 45% Male 85% <30 31% Provincial 28% Female 15% 30–50 62% National 25% >50 7% International 2% OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 71 8 Changing Workforce Transitioning from general to specialist workforce Maintaining commitment to local employment As our project matures and evolves, so too does the Developing and retaining our workforce for the long demand for specialist staff to undertake more highly term has always been a key focus for the Company skilled, strategic functions within our operations. and it will become increasingly more significant in future years as other large-scale operators move We have attracted skilled labour regionally, into the region. nationally and internationally, with the relocation of key managerial staff from Australia to Argentina Given the need for an increased percentage of highly to assume strategic operational roles. skilled labour across the Company’s operations, we acknowledge that maintaining our commitment to We have also placed increasing focus on the local employment will require a greater focus on identification and development of high-potential local education and skills development. employees, providing tailored development programs that support their progression into specialist and As part of our community agreement with Olaroz leadership roles. Chico, we committed funds for the construction of a Technical College (Chemistry) to serve as a tertiary In addition to meeting the capability demands of our training facility for local communities that specialises in rapidly maturing lithium operation, in 2018 we were chemical processing. required to recruit a highly skilled project team to manage the Stage 2 Expansion. The construction was funded by SDJ, the building was constructed by local communities, with a The project team has drawn talent nationally curriculum and training program that was developed and internationally to fill lead roles in project by the provincial government to promote capability management, engineering, hydrogeology, development in the province in alignment with local finance and contracts management. career opportunities. Leveraging synergies across our operational and The newly constructed facility will provide space for development activities has been achieved through five classrooms, administrative area, multimedia room, the provision of detailed shared services and matrix library, laboratory, health services, disabled toilets, reporting structures. This has enabled expertise and full kitchen, dining room, covered patio and capability to be effectively leveraged and supported recreational area for cultural and sports activities. across both sides of the business. The Secondary School and Technical College Having recruited and developed such high calibre (Chemistry) in Olaroz Chico will both operate in people to these specialist and leadership roles, our the same facility. There are also plans to construct focus remains on employee satisfaction and retention. a neighbouring student residence for students who We have increased our target turnover rate to under have travelled from other communities in the region 15% in the short to medium term, acknowledging that to attend the college. a higher turnover rate is inevitable as we resource the company more effectively for future growth. In the future we will seek to drop this rate to 10-12% once we have achieved greater stability and maturity in our operations. 72 PEOPLE & CAPABILITY PEOPLE & CAPABILITY Employee Satisfaction Leadership changes & impact on employee morale from our engagement survey remained high at 99%, we acknowledge that the percentage of employee In 2018, two core leadership changes were announced participation is dropping each year with only 53% which had the potential to generate uncertainty and participating in 2018. In 2019 we will work to determine insecurity within the SDJ workforce. whether this reduction in employee participation is The first leadership change was the replacement of due to logistical considerations such as access and SDJ’s General Manager (GM) with two new, discrete availability of the survey, or if it is itself an indication of General Manager roles focused on Operations and a decreasing level of engagement within the workforce. Shared Services (March 2018). Implementing systems for employee management As the new GMs already held responsibility in part 16.00 To enable SDJ’s People Development team to focus for these respective areas, the transition was smooth. more intently on ensuring the satisfaction, development The 14.00Company’s COO assumed a more prominent role and productivity of the workforce, the Company in SDJ throughout the transition period to support the 12.00 deployed a dedicated IT system in 2018 which new GMs and ensure seamless business continuity. automated some aspects of employee administration. 10.00 The second leadership change was the announcement The new system enables SDJ to more easily manage and by Orocobre 8.00 CEO that he would be stepping down support employees by liberating resources within the (see ASX Release dated 17 April 2018). This came People Development team to focus on staff development very 6.00soon after the changes at SDJ and so managing and delivery rather than basic employee administration. employee perceptions and morale through this period 4.00 was fundamental. The facilitated entry, monitoring and evaluation of employee-related metrics provides a valuable A2.00 continuing focus on our values and engagement platform through which the Company can develop with 0.00 employees and workers unions throughout this and implement more robust managerial approaches period enabled the Company to maintain a strong to employee engagement, career development, morale in the workplace. succession planning and objectives-based We had no lost days due to union activity during performance evaluation and remuneration. the reporting period and while employee results Engagement Survey Results 100% % employees responded to survey 80% % respondents actively engaged 60% 40% 20% 78% 86% 59% 99% 53% 99% 0% 2016 2017 2018 OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 73 5 8 Retention Rates New Hires Total Male Female Local Provincial National International <30 30 – 50 >50 55 50 5 9 22 22 2 23 27 5 2016 22% 91% 9% 16% 40% 40% 4% 42% 49% 9% 42 40 2 27 6 8 1 24 16 2 2017 15% 95% 5% 64% 14% 19% 2% 57% 38% 5% 63 47 16 18 23 21 1 17 44 2 2018 20% 75% 25% 29% 37% 33% 2% 27% 70% 3% Turnover Employee Company Total Initiated Initiated 27 16 11 2016 11% 59% 41% 25% of A 20% increase new hires from the were female previous year 29 21 8 2017 10% 72% 28% 41 20 21 100% of our workforce 2018 receive Professional 13% 49% 51% Development Reviews 74 PEOPLE & CAPABILITY 5 PEOPLE & CAPABILITY Turnover by gender Turnover Turnover by region by age Employee Company Initiated Initiated Turnover Turnover Local 15% <30 66% Regional 42% 30 – 50 32% Male Female National 41% >50 2% International 2% Remuneration Ratios We have a unionised workforce and as such, salaries are standardised based on function, regardless of sex, age or any other characteristic. Gender Salary Ratio 2016 2017 2018 2017 Senior Managers 1.01 1.00 0.91 2018 Middle Managers 0.90 0.96 0.97 Operators 1.11 0.92 0.92 81% 100% 40% 36% $0.93 $1.00 Total 1.01 0.96 0.93 Union Membership Collective Bargaining Female Male Agreement Executive Employee Ratio 2016 2017 2018 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organisation’s highest-paid individual in the country to the median annual total 5.16 5.04 4.78 compensation for all employees in the country Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organisation’s highest-paid individual to the median percentage 1.24 1.19 0.68 increase in annual total compensation for all employees OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 75 Parental Leave Male Female Employees eligible 5 for Parental Leave 2 3 100% Returned after 6 months 2016 100% Employees who took Retained after 5 2 3 100% 12 months Parental Leave Employees eligible 13 for Parental Leave 8 5 100% Returned after 6 months 2017 100% Employees who took Retained after 13 8 5 100% 12 months Parental Leave Employees eligible 24 for Parental Leave 22 2 100% Returned after 6 months 2018 100% Employees who took Retained after 24 22 2 100% 12 months Parental Leave 76 PEOPLE & CAPABILITY PEOPLE & CAPABILITY OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 77 Culture 78 CULTURE CULTURE Culture Management Reinforcing our values & culture Guiding Principles Responsibility Honesty Integrity We assume responsibility We behave and engage We act with integrity for our actions and with sincerity and in every situation commitments consistency Respect Commitment Solidarity We recognise and promote We convert our different We strive for the all without distinction opinions into shared common good, of age, sex or position, convictions to achieve acknowledging maintaining attitudes a common vision that we are all and actions that help our responsible for our community and improve collective wellbeing our environment Code of Conduct Orocobre’s code of conduct defines the standard We respect and value the competitive advantage of with which our board, management and employees diversity and the benefit it brings to our organisation, are to comply when dealing with each other, with recognising that diversity enriches our perspective, shareholders and with the broader community. improves corporate performance, increases It affirms our commitment to human rights, to shareholder value and maximises the probability of us the ideal of equal employment opportunity and achieving our goals. Our operations in Argentina boast to providing a safe workplace that is free of a diverse workforce in terms of culture and gender, and harassment and discrimination. we look forward to further strengthening this diversity in future. In accordance with the Code, Orocobre’s Board and Management comply with all legal obligations and We act with honesty, integrity and fairness in all act ethically and responsibly in all their dealings. dealings with the community. We respect the cultural We take a strong stance against corruption in all heritage of our local and indigenous communities, its forms including extortion and bribery and have and act responsibly towards the environment, had a zero-tolerance approach to corruption since acknowledging the strong connection between land the initiation of our activities in Argentina. We and peoples. Any non-compliance with the code of acknowledge that bribery and corruption can conduct is reported directly to the Chief Operating occur at all levels of the organisation and across Officer/Managing Director or Chairperson, as all departments and dealings, both internal and appropriate, and may result in disciplinary action. external, and are working to systematically embed There is a whistleblower program in place across all our zero-tolerance policy. our operations, enabling anonymous reporting of breaches at all levels of the organisation. OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 79 Culture Management Code of Conduct & Culture Review Anti-Corruption: Reinforcing Zero-Tolerance In FY18 an employment contract was terminated due Orocobre upholds a zero-tolerance approach to bribery to a breach of our code of conduct. This prompted a and corruption and this has been a core pillar of the review of the implementation of our code of conduct culture and values espoused by the Orocobre Board to understand how well it is understood and upheld and Executive over the past decade. by members of our workforce. Becoming participants of the UN Global Compact It also prompted a review of Orocobre’s Whistleblower in 2018 encouraged us to focus more intently on the Policy and its effectiveness as a trusted channel practical realities of this zero-tolerance approach for reporting concerns. Following the review, a new and on the effectiveness of our internal policies and Orocobre Whistleblower Policy (available on the processes to ensure that it was ingrained, respected Company website www.orocobre.com) was drafted and enforced at all levels of the organisation. which provided distinct communication channels for A standalone Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy both Australia and Argentina to confidently, effectively (available on the Company website www.orocobre. and anonymously report issues as they arise. com) was prepared and approved by the Board which The Code of Conduct review prompted a more outlines the responsibilities of Orocobre’s Directors, in-depth review of organisational culture and the employees, contractors and agents in observing norms and behaviours that have become part of and upholding Orocobre’s zero-tolerance position the way people work at SDJ. on bribery and other forms of corrupt behaviour. A program was initiated, with Stage 1 diagnostics The policy defines the Company’s approach to bribes, launching in early FY19, to provide a holistic view political and charitable contributions/sponsorships, of established and aspirational cultural norms gifts and hospitality and dealings with third parties. across the organisation. More information on the It also outlines the consequences of policy breach outcomes of this program will be reported in next for employees and agents, including termination year’s sustainability report. of employment or contract. Training on the policy has been integrated as part of the induction process for all employees, with existing employees receiving regular training on the implementation of and compliance with the policy. Over the coming 12 months we will seek to establish systems and processes to evaluate and monitor high risk areas within the organisation. We will draw on the tools provided by the UN Global Compact to implement more robust approaches at both a corporate and operational level. 80 CULTURE 3 CULTURE Health & Safety Performance Consolidating Health & Safety Health & Safety Highlights Orocobre fosters a ‘zero harm’ approach when it • Reduction of the TRIFR from 3.9 to 3.3 comes to the safety of our employees and project • Recertification audit of our Integrated Management contractors. We are committed to reducing System (in accordance with new versions of the workplace risks and incidents, and consistently ISO standards of Environment and Quality). review our management and reporting systems to enhance the safety of our operations. CONTRACTORS 2017 2018 In 2018 we consolidated our health and safety LTIFR* 3.5 1.7 teams to enable a more cohesive and integrated TRIFR 3.5 3.5 management approach. The restructure saw a Health, Safety and Environment Manager appointed to the Leadership Team, reporting directly to the EMPLOYEES 2017 2018 General Manager of Operations, with responsibility for the ongoing management of SDJ’s health, LTIFR 3.9 3.0 safety and environmental performance. TRIFR 3.9 3.3 Health services have always been provided as part *LTIFR: Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate. of our employee benefits, and as such were being managed by our People Development Department. Safety, on the other hand, was managed by our Risk Management Department. Given the success witnessed in 2017 through greater collaboration between these two areas, it was acknowledged that an integrated health and safety approach would enable greater visibility of emerging trends and, in turn, more targeted and effective training and prevention initiatives. Thus far, the results have been positive with improvements in both preventive and responsive areas of performance. This is evidenced by the reduction of our TRIFR from 3.9 to 3.3 in the reporting period. We have also implemented safety campaigns which extend to the families of our employees and contractors and expand key health and safety messaging beyond the context of our operations. OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 81 Health & Safety Performance Assessing Improvement Opportunities An in-depth Safety Audit was conducted by DuPont To optimise resource allocation and guarantee in January 2018 which evaluated SDJ’s safety effective implementation of improvement initiatives, performance using the DuPont™ Bradley Curve™ (see a Safety Management Committee (SMC) was formed page 83). This has provided a critical baseline and tool to develop and implement a 2-year change program, to objectively benchmark our journey to world-class prioritising initiatives that would have the greatest safety performance. impact and coverage. Over the coming years, we will be undertaking a In the first year, the priority is reinforcing management comprehensive safety culture change program, to commitment through visible leadership and support our progression towards benchmark best transforming safety behaviours across the site-based safety performance. workforce, with the SMC ensuring actions and KPIs are clearly defined and respected. An improvement roadmap was developed to address the key risks and priorities identified during the audit, In the second year, the focus will be on enhancing and this has formed the foundation for detailed procedures relating to the identification, evaluation improvement planning. and control of risks, improving communication of lessons learned as part of the incident management The following five areas have been selected for process, and the inclusion of targeted safety content targeted improvement initiatives: in site induction and leadership training. • Visible Leadership A 6-month plan was also developed for the Expansion • Behavioural Observations to ensure effective safety controls and systems, • Risk Identification, Evaluation and Control particularly focusing on contractor management. • Incident Management • Training and Capacity Building. Future Commitments Conduct safety culture Implement Incorporate fire change program using integrated data protection system the DuPont Safety System management and in plant reporting system Prepare and Undertake contractor train emergency safety training response brigade and awareness 82 CULTURE CULTURE DuPont Safety System “In a mature safety culture (interdependent stage), safety is truly sustainable, with injury rates approaching zero. People feel empowered to act as needed to work safely. They support and challenge each other. Decisions are made at the appropriate level and people live by those decisions. The organisation realises the significant business benefits through higher quality, greater productivity and increased profits” DuPont Sustainable Solutions. DuPont™ Bradley Curve™ SDJ Safety Benchmark Performance Best Natural Instinct SDJ Safety Culture Change Program Supervision Injury Rate Self Teams Reactive Dependent Independent Interdependent Relative Culture Strength SDJ Safety Culture Change Program 2018 2019 2020 • Safety Audit • Visible Leadership • Risk Identification, Evaluation • Performance Benchmark • Safety Behaviours and Control • Improvement Roadmap • Incident Management • Training and Capacity Building Supported by implementation of an enhanced safety data and incident reporting system OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 83 Risk & Opportunity Management 84 7 13 15 We continue to identify and monitor the social, environmental and economic risks and opportunities associated with our activities and implement action and initiatives accordingly. We acknowledge that many of these risks and opportunities are dependent on, or affected by, third part activity – be it government, suppliers, or other operators in the region. As such, a central component to our risk and opportunity management approach lies in regular and proactive engagement with third parties. Environment OPERATIONS COMMUNITIES PRODUCT Low carbon operations Energy, water & biodiversity Low carbon future Opportunity Reduce energy Develop and leverage strong Produce battery grade consumption per unit local partnerships to enhance lithium for clean transport of production. community access to clean and options and energy storage. affordable energy, clean water, Manage/mitigate and biodiversity. associated emissions. Environmental impact Environmental impact Environmental impact on production on communities on distribution Increase operational buffers. Constant monitoring of Identify, evaluate and environmental impacts. mitigate climate risk along Prioritise process innovation our value chain. to mitigate impact of climate on production. Perceptions of our impact on environment Risk Environmental integrity Enhanced communications; of the Basin Community participation in environmental monitoring. Prioritise, adopt, and promote A Climate Risk a proactive approach to Basin Management. Government licenses & permits Assessment will Ensure compliance with be conducted environmental regulations; in 2020. demonstrate best practice. OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 85 Social OPERATIONS COMMUNITIES PRODUCT Diversity Community development Enhance supplier performance Promote diversity in Work with government to Deliver training and compliance Opportunity employee/supplier support and complement programs for our suppliers. training and selection. development initiatives. Responsive benefits, Implement strategic community and work-life balance investment strategy to ensure arrangements. enduring Shared Value. Capacity Building Managing Community Customer Satisfaction Expectations Identify capability gaps, Rigorous product provide training and Open and honest engagement quality testing. development programs. with our communities; direct community agreements; Industrial Action Health & Safety community involvement in the Contingency measures in project; and shared ownership Health and safety management place to ensure alternate of project outcomes. system (ISO18001), reporting import/export routes. and training programs. Community Safety Risk Industrial Action Community training and awareness, Work closely with AOMA* and increased signage, supplier maintain focus on employee standards and community engagement and satisfaction. whistleblowers. A Human Rights Employee Retention Risk Assessment Monitor voluntary turnover rates. will be conducted in 2019. Promote employee satisfaction. *Asociación Obrera Minera Argentina (the Mining Union of Argentina) 86 Economic OPERATIONS COMMUNITIES PRODUCT Opportunity for multiple Employment Competitive Advantage phases of expansion in Growing Market Educate and train local Opportunity Long life asset with communities (primary/ Position ourselves early as significant potential secondary, technical and supplier of choice through for higher levels entrepreneurial skills). leading practice Sustainability, of production. Supply Chain and Quality performance. Timing of funds to Distribution of Investor Sentiment finance expansion financial benefits Investor engagement. Delay expansion until Work with government operations generate to ensure effective Commodity Price sufficient capital. distribution of financial Risk Enhanced commercial benefits to communities. capability. Increasing Supply to Market Increasingly competitive market as new projects come online. We realise that some of these challenges are going to require a long-term approach, while others we can start to address immediately. We also acknowledge that this is only our second year of production and as such there is still much to learn, adapt and refine over the coming years. While we may not have all the answers now, we are firmly committed to effectively minimising and mitigating these risks (and any others that may arise) whilst capitalising on opportunities to deliver transformative societal change, be it in the support of global energy transitions, or local socio-economic development. OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 87 Governance 88 Board of Directors At June 30 2018, Orocobre’s Board comprised eight Directors: seven Non-Executive and our Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer. Each of the Board’s Committees – Audit and Risk Committee, Remuneration Committee, and Related Party Committee – are made up of three Non-Executive Directors.1 In addition to these Directors, Orocobre also has three Key Management Personnel (KMP) who have the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the organisation. These are our Chief Financial Officer and our General Counsel (joint Company Secretaries), as well as our Chief Operating Officer. Board of Directors Key Management Personnel Audit and Risk Remuneration Related Party Committee Committee Committee The Audit and Risk Committee The Remuneration Committee The Related Party Committee is responsible for monitoring works to develop remuneration is responsible for reviewing public reporting, risk management policies which motivate Directors transactions between Orocobre, its processes, corporate conduct and Management to pursue related parties and any shareholder and compliance with laws and long-term value creation. This having a substantial shareholding. regulation. Identifying stakeholders ensures the focus of the Orocobre The Committee’s role is to ensure and associated risks and reviewing management team on those areas transactions are in the best interests the effectiveness of communication of sustainable development key to of Orocobre and its shareholders regarding risk to those stakeholders long-term value creation. as a whole; fall within the ambit of is also a core component of the a normal business relationship; and Audit and Risk Committee’s contain terms no more favourable responsibilities. than those negotiated on an arm’s length basis. The Committee also advises whether shareholder approval of the transaction is necessary or appropriate. Orocobre’s Governance Framework, including the code of conduct, charters for the operation of the Board and its committees, and other matters relevant to the Governance Framework, are fully disclosed on the Company website www.orocobre.com. 1 Detailed information regarding Board Composition, attendance and Committee Charters can be found in our 2018 Annual Report – Directors’ Report. OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 89 Performance against our strategic objectives and our commitment to Sustainable Development is managed at all levels of the organisation via our Balanced Scorecard, which comprises four core categories: Economic/Financial Customer Includes issues related to sales, Relates to the satisfaction of our investments, costs, income, expenses current and future customers and returns to shareholders Continuous Improvement Sustainability The virtuous circle of planningPursuing best practice in production, action-review which applies to community engagement, resource performance of people, process utilisation, health and safety, quality and equipment across all areas and environment. These elements of our operations ensure first rate operations and are fundamental to the pursuit of excellence The remuneration policies of Orocobre and its application to Key Management Personnel were fully disclosed in the 2018 Annual Report which can be found on the Company website www.orocobre.com. Incentive plans are biased to the long term and share price appreciation rather than short-term cash rewards. The cash short-term incentive component of executive incentives was reduced in proportion to the increase in the long-term incentive component in 2018 (see page 54 of the Company’s 2018 Annual Report). The drivers of the STI now more substantively reflect individual goals of Executive KMPs integral to achieving the strategic corporate objectives of Orocobre and its annual business plan and budget. The Balanced Scorecard format remains with variable weightings for each KMP across the Group and Individual Performance components in accordance with their capacity to exert greatest influence. 90 OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 91 Memberships & Affiliations 92 In addition to its current involvement with industry bodies and Orocobre operates in accordance associations, Orocobre seeks to align with recognised external with industry standards, and initiatives that will support a robust and holistic approach to maintains certified management sustainability management and disclosure. systems for Environment, Quality and Health & Safety. External Initiatives Memberships Management Systems & Associations Certified Consejo Empresario Argentino para el Desarrollo Sostenible Other OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 93 UNGC & GRI Contents Indexes 94 UN Global Compact Principles Human Rights Section Page Principle 1 Human Rights Policy website Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Communities Policy website proclaimed human rights Culture Management 79 Risk & Opportunity Management 84 Principle 2 Value Chain 28 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Risk & Opportunity Management 84 Labour Principle 3 People & Capability 75 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Human Rights Policy website Principle 4 People & Capability 71–73 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and Value Chain 24, 28 compulsory labour Principle 5 People & Capability 71–73 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Value Chain 24, 28 Principle 6 People & Capability 74 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect Culture Management 79 of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Environmental Policy website Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Environment 54–63 challenges Risk & Opportunity Management 85 Principle 8 Environmental Policy website Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment 57–63 responsibility Principle 9 Sustainable Development Policy website Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion Communities 38 of environmentally friendly technologies Value Chain 28 Environment 57 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy website Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Culture Management 79–80 OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 95 GRI Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) / URL(s) General Disclosures Section Page Organisational Profile 102-1 Name of the organisation Orocobre Limited 4 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Orocobre Limited 4 102-3 Location of headquarters Orocobre Limited 4 102-4 Location of operations Orocobre Limited 5 102-5 Ownership and legal form Orocobre Limited 4 Sales de Jujuy 7 102-6 Markets served Value Chain 25 102-7 Scale of the organisation Orocobre Limited 4 Long Term Outlook 30 102-8 Information on employees and other workers People & Capability 71, 74–75 102-9 Supply chain Value Chain 27–29 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain Value Chain 27–29 Long Term Outlook 32 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Environmental Policy website Environment 54–68 Risk & Opportunity Management 84 102-12 External initiatives Memberships & Affiliations 93 102-13 Membership of associations Memberships & Affiliations 93 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Letter from Managing Director 12 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Risk & Opportunity Management 84 Highlights & Commitments 18-19 Our Focus 20–21 Ethics & Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Culture 79–80 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Culture 79–80 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Governance 89 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement 35–37 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements People & Capability 75 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement 35–37 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement 35–37 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Our Focus 20–21 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2018 Annual Report 75, 113 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Report Overview 2 102-47 List of material topics Report Overview 2 102-48 Restatements of information Report Overview 2 102-49 Changes in reporting Report Overview 2 102-50 Reporting period Report Overview 2 102-51 Date of most recent report Report Overview 2 102-52 Reporting cycle Report Overview 2 96 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) / URL(s) Reporting Practice 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Report Overview 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Report Overview 2 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index 96 102-56 External assurance Report Overview 2 Material Topics 200 – ECONOMIC 201 – Economic Performance 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Communities 39, 41 103-2 Management Approach Communities 40, 42–43 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Long-Term Outlook 30 Communities 43 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Environment 55–56 due to climate change Risk & Opportunity Management 85 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Value Chain 27 202 – Market Presence 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries People & Capability 72 103-2 Management Approach People & Capability 72–73 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared People & Capability 75 to local minimum wage 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local People & Capability 71, 74 community 203 – Indirect Economic Impacts 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Communities 39, 41 103-2 Management Approach Communities 42–43 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Communities 43, 46–53 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Communities 46–53 204 – Procurement Practices 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Value Chain 25, 28–29 103-2 Management Approach Value Chain 25, 28–29 41 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Value Chain 25, 29 300 – ENVIRONMENTAL 302 – Energy 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Energy 55 103-2 Management Approach Energy 57 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Energy 57 302-3 Energy intensity Energy 57 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy 57 303 – Water 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Water 59–60 103-2 Management Approach Water 59–60 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water 59 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Water 60 303-3 Water recycled and reused Water 61 OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 97 GRI Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) / URL(s) 304 – Biodiversity 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Biodiversity 63 103-2 Management Approach Biodiversity 63 304-1 Operational sites in/near areas of high biodiversity value Biodiversity 63 305 – Emissions 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Emissions 58 103-2 Management Approach Emissions 58 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Emissions 58 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Emissions 58 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Emissions 58 306 – Effluents & Waste 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Waste Water 61 103-2 Management Approach Waste Water 61 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Waste Water 61 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste 61 306-3 Significant Spills None to report – 306-4 Transport of Hazardous Waste Waste 62 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges / runoff Waste Water 61 307 Environmental Compliance 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries 2018 Annual Report 47 103-2 Management Approach 2018 Annual Report 47 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 2018 Annual Report 47 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Value Chain 28–29 103-2 Management Approach Value Chain 28–29 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Value Chain 28 environmental criteria 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain Value Chain 28 and actions taken 400 – SOCIAL 401 – Employment 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries People & Capability 71–76 103-2 Management Approach People & Capability 71–76 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover People & Capability 74 401-3 Parental leave People & Capability 76 403 – Occupational Health & Safety 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Health & Safety 81–83 103-2 Management Approach Health & Safety 81–83 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint Health & Safety 81–82 management–worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Health & Safety 19, 81 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 98 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) / URL(s) 403 – Occupational Health & Safety 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related Health & Safety 81–82 to their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Health & Safety 81–82 with trade unions 404 – Training & Education 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries People & Capability 72 103-2 Management Approach People & Capability 72–73 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Not reported in 2018: revising data collection methodology for 2019 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Communities 48–50 assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance People & Capability 74 and career development reviews 405 – Diversity & Equal Opportunity 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Culture Management 79 103-2 Management Approach People & Capability 72–73 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees People & Capability 71 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men People & Capability 75 411 – Rights of Indigenous Peoples 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Culture Management 79 103-2 Management Approach Culture Management 79 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples None to report 412 – Human Rights Assessment 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Culture Management 79 103-2 Management Approach Culture Management 79 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Risk & Opportunity Management 86 or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Culture Management 79–80 413 Local Communities 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Communities 39–40 103-2 Management Approach Communities 39–44 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact Communities 40–53 assessments and development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative Risk & Opportunity Management 86 impacts on local communities 414 Supplier Social Assessment 103-1 Explanation and Boundaries Value Chain 28–29 103-2 Management Approach Value Chain 28–29 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Value Chain 28 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Value Chain 28 OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 99 Glossary A$ Australian Dollars Advantage Lithium Advantage Lithium Corp. ARS Argentinian Pesos Asociación Obrera Mining Union of Argentina Minera Argentina ASX Australian Securities Exchange ASX:ORE Orocobre Limited share code for the Australian Securities Exchange Audit and Risk Responsible for monitoring public reporting, risk management processes, corporate conduct and compliance Committee with laws and regulation Cauchari Lithium Cauchari Lithium Project is a joint venture between Advantage Lithium Corp. (who hold 75% of Cauchari) and Project Orocobre Limited (who owns 33.5% of Advantage Lithium’s issued capital and 25% directly in the joint venture) CDP Response The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an organisation based in the United Kingdom which supports companies and cities to disclose the environmental impact of major corporations. It aims to make environmental reporting and risk management a business norm and drive disclosure, insight and action towards a sustainable economy. CDP UNGP Report Carbon Disclosure Project United Nations Guiding Principles Report CEO Chief Executive Officer CFO Chief Financial Officer CO2 Carbon Dioxide COO Chief Operating Officer Cookins Sales de Jujuy’s Catering Supplier Core see: GRI Standard Corporate Orocobre Limited are taking a staged approach to sustainability management and reporting: establishing solid Sustainability management fundamentals as a priority, and then developing meaningful metrics and controls. This ensures Framework targeted, accurate and consistent monitoring of sustainability performance across the organisation. CY17 Calendar Year 2017 CY18 Calendar Year 2018 CY19 Calendar Year 2019 CY20 Calendar Year 2020 DJSI Asia Pacific see: Dow Jones Sustainability™ Australia Index DJSI Australia see: Dow Jones Sustainability™ Australia Index DJSI UNGP Report Dow Jones Sustainability™ Australia Index United Nations Guiding Principles Report Dow Jones The Dow Jones Sustainability™ Australia Index is composed of sustainability leaders as identified by Sustainability™ RobecoSAM through a corporate sustainability assessment. The index represents the top 30% of companies Australia Index in the S&P/ASX 200 based on long-term economic, environmental, and social criteria. DuPont Safety System see: DuPont™ Bradley Curve™ DuPont™ Bradley A proven, proprietary system designed to businesses comprehend and benchmark the journey toward Curve™ world-class safety performance EBITDAIX Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation, impairment and foreign currency gains/(losses) EBITIX Earnings before interest, taxes, impairment and foreign currency gains/(losses) EBTIX Earnings before taxes, impairment and foreign currency gains/(losses) EIA Environmental Impact Assessment 100 EITI Extractive Industries’ Transparency Initiative English-speaking Investors, Customers and other Stakeholders stakeholders ERP Enterprise Resource Planning ESS Energy Storage Systems EV Electric Vehicles Five Pillars of Over the past decade, Orocobre Limited’s community investment strategy has been centred on the five Shared Value pillars of our Shared Value strategy: Education, Empowerment, Transparency, Production and Natural Resources, and Health FOB Free On Board FY17 Financial Year 2017 FY18 Financial Year 2018 FY19 Financial Year 2019 FY20 Financial Year 2020 GDP Gross Domestic Product GHG Emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions GM General Manager GRI Global Reporting Initiative GRI Standard Global Benchmark for Sustainability Reporting Gross Cash Margin Orocobre’s total sales revenue minus cost of goods sold Groundwater Industrial Water H1 Half One (Financial Year First Half) H2 Half Two (Financial Year Second Half) Impurity Profile Parts Per Million (PPM) Breakdown INTI National Institute of Industrial Technology IRMA Initiative for Responsible Mining Assurance IRMA seeks to drive positive change in industrial-scale mining using credible certification: a tool that has been proven to deliver better social and environmental outcomes in industries such as agriculture, forestry and fishing IRMA Certification see: IRMA ISO The International Organisation for Standardisation ISO14001:2015 Internationally recognised standard that specifies requirements for an effective environmental management system (2015 standard) ISO18001 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (officially BS OHSAS 18001) is a British Standard for occupational health and safety management systems ISO26000 Internationally recognised standard developed to help organisations effectively assess and address social responsibilities that are relevant and significant to their mission and vision; operations and processes; customers, employees, communities, and other stakeholders; and environmental impact ISO31000 Internationally recognised standard of Risk Management that includes guidelines, principles, framework and a process for managing risk ISO9001:2015 Internationally recognised standard of Quality Management System (2015 standard) JEMSE Jujuy Energia y Mineria Sociedad del Estado (Mining Company of the Argentina provincial government of Jujuy) JOGMEC Japanese state-owned Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corporation OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 101 Glossary JV Joint Venture KMP Key Management Personnel KPIs Key Performance Indicators LBG London Benchmarking Group – The global standard in measuring and managing corporate community investment LBG Report see: LBG LCE Lithium Carbonate Equivalent Li2CO3 Lithium Carbonate LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate m 3 International Bureau of Weights and Measures definition of a Cubic Metre m3/t Cubic Metre per Tonne MD Managing Director Mizuho Mizuho Bank, Ltd. (Japanese bank) MWh Megawatt Hour MWh/t Megawatt Hour per Tonne Na2CO3 Sodium Carbonate NGOs Non-Governmental Organisations OHSAS18001 see: ISO18001 Olaroz Lithium Facility Orocobre Limited’s Salar de Olaroz Lithium Facility Olaroz Stage 2 The Olaroz Stage 2 Expansion will add 25,000 tpa of lithium carbonate production capacity to the Olaroz Expansion Lithium Facility, taking total nameplate capacity to 42,500 tpa Orocobre Orocobre Limited PPM Parts Per Million Q1 First Quarter (Jan Mar) Q2 Second Quarter (Apr Jun) Q3 Third Quarter (Jul Sept) Q4 Fourth Quarter (Oct Dec) QMS Quality Management System QOQ Quarter-On-Quarter Related Party Responsible for reviewing transactions between Orocobre, its related parties and any shareholder Committee having a substantial shareholding Remuneration Works to develop remuneration policies which motivate Directors and Management to pursue long-term Committee value creation RobecoSAM The RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA) is an annual evaluation of companies’ sustainability practices Sales de Jujuy S.A. SDJ S.A. (Operating company for the Olaroz Lithium Facility) SAP Systems, Applications and Products Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) Software SDG Sustainable Development Goals SDG 1 Sustainable Development Goal 1: No Poverty SDG 2 Sustainable Development Goal 2: Zero Hunger 102 SDG 3 Sustainable Development Goal 3: Good Health and Well-being SDG 4 Sustainable Development Goal 4: Quality Education SDG 5 Sustainable Development Goal 5: Gender Equality SDG 6 Sustainable Development Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation SDG 7 Sustainable Development Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy SDG 8 Sustainable Development Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth SDG 9 Sustainable Development Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure SDG 10 Sustainable Development Goal 10: Reduced Inequality SDG 11 Sustainable Development Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities SDG 12 Sustainable Development Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production SDG 13 Sustainable Development Goal 13: Climate Action SDG 14 Sustainable Development Goal 14: Life Below Water SDG 15 Sustainable Development Goal 15: Life on Land SDG 16 Sustainable Development Goal 16: Peace and Justice Strong Institutions SDG 17 Sustainable Development Goal 17: Partnerships to achieve the Goal SDJ Sales de Jujuy SDJ PTE Sales de Jujuy Pte Ltd SMC Safety Management Committee SMEs Small-Medium Enterprises t Tonnes t LCE Tonnes of Lithium Carbonate Equivalent The Company Orocobre Limited tpa Tonnes Per Annum TRIFR Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate TSX Toronto Stock Exchange TSX:ORL Orocobre Limited share code for the Toronto Stock Exchange TTC Toyota Tsusho Corporation UN United Nations UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is a non-binding United Nations pact to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementation UN Sustainable United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Development Goals UNGC CoP United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress UNGP United Nations Guiding Principles UNGP Report United Nations Guiding Principles Report US$ see: USD USD United States Dollars WRI World Resource Institute YOY Year-On-Year OROCOBRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 103 orocobre.com
