Doosan Infracore 2018 Integrated Report Doosan Group & Doosan Infracore 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 02 15 16 55 Management Analysis Our Strategy CEO Message . 02 Strategy Overview . 18 Our Business Model . 04 Sustainable Growth . 20 Performance Review & Outlook . 06 Customer Value . 36 Impact Management Innovation . 48 Sustainable Value Creation . 12 UN SDGs Alignment . 14 About This Report Reporting Scope This report is mainly on the activities and accomplishments made by the company’s worksites in Korea and China. Some qualitative activities, however, include those undertaken at the company’s overseas worksites. Reporting Purpose Doosan Infracore strives to The CSR Facts & Figures section includes the embody corporate social responsibility (CSR) in quantitative outcomes of the worksites in Korea its overall corporate management. To this end, for the last three years. Figures on the worksites the company publishes an integrated report to in China are on activities and accomplishments 56 97 98112 disclose its financial and non-financial perforsince 2016, after the execution of the overseas mance results generated through the interaction worksite CSR roll-out. of diverse CSR factors, based on which corporate Reporting Method values are created. This is Doosan Infracore’s External Assurance This report has been assured seventh Integrated Report, and continued by Samjong KPMG, an independent assurance discussions and improvements are taking place service provider, to ensure the propriety and Printed Material for more effective and transparent disclosure of integrity of the reporting processes as well as This report is published Our Responsibility Appendix information. the accuracy and credibility of its contents. The in Korean, English, and Chinese Independent Assurance Report is attached in the to communicate better with Reporting Process 35 departments related to Appendix section. our global stakeholders the company’s strategy, R&D, production, sales, CSR Structure . 58 Financial Performance investor relations, and communications have Disclaimer This report contains details of some participated in the planning of this Integrated future activities, events and situations based Employees . 64 Consolidated Financial Statements . 99 Report in order to enable comprehensive on the company’s plans and estimations of Environment, Health & Safety . 71 Independent Auditors’ Report . 103 reporting on Doosan Infracore’s financial and future financial outcomes, which may turn out PDF non-financial performance as well as social and to be inaccurate in the event of changes in This report is available in PDF Governance & Integrity . 79 Non-Financial Performance format which can be downloaded at environmental values, with a particular focus on the global business landscape. The plans and www.doosaninfracore.com Suppliers . 85 CSR Facts & Figures . 105 2018 performance results and future plans of the estimations draw upon the best information company. available at the time of completion of this Product Quality & Stewardship . 89 Independent Assurance Report . 110 Contact Us report, with due consideration given to future Communities . 95 Global Network . 112 Reporting Period This report presents quantitabusiness environments as well as the company’s Doosan Infracore Communication tive data about the company’s performance elaborate business strategies. Doosan Infracore, CSR/Shared Growth Team CSR part during the 2018 calendar year. However, the therefore, would like to remind its stakeholders 23rd Fl. Doosan Tower Building, company’s qualitative activities mentioned in the that this report contains some predictions that 275 Jangchungdan-ro, Junggu, report, including the composition of the BOD, may be affected significantly due to the risks, Seoul (04563), Korea include developments recorded until the end of uncertainties and other factors involved in the E-mail: csr.di@doosan.com April 2019. company’s global operations. The oldest and one of Our Heritage With 123 years of history, Doosan is the oldest A world-leading company in Company Profile DOOSAN INFRACORE Doosan Group & Doosan Infracore DOOSAN GROUP the fastest growing in Korea enterprise in Korea. It is also a company with the great potential, infrastructure solutions based on Doosan Infracore was founded in 1937 as Chosun Machine Works, having undergone continuous changes and achieving significant world-class competitiveness the first large-scale machine manufacturing factory in Korea. growth throughout the years. Doosan has continued to grow since Through continuous growth for more than 80 years, it has become its inception. In the twentieth century, it emerged as one of the the nation’s top machine manufacturing company. Its product country’s strongest consumer goods companies specializing in line-up includes construction equipment, engines, a variety of beer and beverages. At the dawn of the new millennium, however, attachments, and utility equipment. Based on its world-class Doosan embarked on a massive transformation to become a global competitiveness, Doosan Infracore is moving forward to grow into a 2018 Financial Highlights 2018 Financial Highlights company by developing new growth engines and entirely overhaulglobal leader in the infrastructure solutions. (Unit: KRW million; ing its business portfolio. Through a series of successful mergers (Unit: KRW million; based on consolidated financial statements) based on consolidated financial statements) and acquisitions, Doosan has completely transformed itself from a consumer goods company into an infrastructure solution provider, Company Name Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. 18,172,167 specializing in a wide range of industrial infrastructure such as construction equipment, energy, and production facilities. Backed 7,730,108 Year Founded CEO 1937 Sohn Dong-youn Sales by a diverse business portfolio and clear sense of purpose, Doosan Sales Main Business Areas Production and sales of construction continues to pursue innovation and change with a clear focus on equipment and engines businesses, needed to establish and operate social infrastructure, Employees 4,468 1,215,881 848,127 and thus enhances the value of lives of humankind. (Including overseas worksites; as of December 31, 2018) Our Growth Engine Behind the success of Doosan is its unwavering Operating Income “trust in people.” This belief is well summed up in our 2G Strategy – Operating Income Growth of People, Growth of Business. The 2G strategy has been the Business Overview driver of our past successes and will guide us through our journey Construction Equipment The Construction Equipment Business 28,880,282 toward prosperity in the future. At the heart of the 2G Strategy is the virtuous circle of “growth of people laying the foundation for the 11,029,167 Area has supplied high-quality medium and large heavy equipment to industrial sites since 1977, contributing to the development of the Total Assets growth of the company, and the latter leading back to the former.” Total Assets global infrastructure industry. The Construction Equipment Business With its trust in its staff and continuous investment in human Area has prestigious global brands, such as Doosan, Bobcat, and capital, Doosan was able to successfully complete bold restructuring Geith, with product line-up ranging from compact to medium and 7,145,046 3,820,815 and innovative business portfolio transformation. large construction equipment. It has production bases in Korea, North America, China, and Europe. It provides world-class products Our Future Doosan aims to become a ‘Proud Global Doosan,’ with in construction equipment and attachments, portable air compresTotal Equity ‘firm belief and trust in people.’ ‘Proud Doosan’ means becoming a Total Equity sors, lighting systems, and portable power equipment. company of which all stakeholders are proud, including employees, customers, shareholders, and society as a whole. Our vision is to Engine Established in 1958, the Engine Business Area produced become a company in which all of our stakeholders can take pride. the first diesel engine in Korea, and has continued to expand its business portfolio. It supplies diesel and gas engines for buses and Doosan Credo – Our Beliefs and Philosophy trucks, power generators and ships, as well as various industrial Doosan Credo Affiliates engines across the world. Based on its product line-up that meets The Doosan Credo is a stipulation of Doosan’s management philosophy Doosan is making efforts to improve the foundation for life. Doosan can increasingly stringent world-wide environmental regulations, the and way of business with a history of 100 years that have been inherited be found in various fields, ranging from the entire infrastructure support Engine Business Area is emerging fast as the world’s top-tier engine and developed. The Doosan Credo contains nine core values which business that includes industrial facilities, machinery, equipment, and manufacturer. It has been enhancing its global competitiveness by serve as standards for all decision-making and conduct at Doosan. construction, to the consumer goods business. attracting new customers for existing products and exploring new Through this, Doosan achieves its ultimate goal. The Doosan Credo is markets and new business opportunities. accomplished through Doosan’s aspiration and core values. Doosan Auxiliary Infrastructure Consumer & Service All of us at Doosan practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo Corporation Organizations Support Business Business Brand every day. To create ‘Proud Global Doosan,’ Doosan employees around Doosan Infracore’s brand represents Doosan’s proud history and the world practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo in all places where they operate. These values guide the way we do business, the remarkable growth, and receives worldwide recognition. way we treat each other, and the way we work with all of our partners. The nine core values of the Doosan Credo are as follows: Core Values Integrity and People Cultivating People Transparency World-class Technology Inhwa Customers and Innovation Safety and Profit Social Responsibility Environment More information on the Doosan Way and our core values is More information on the subsidiaries of Doosan Group is For more information on Doosan Infracore’s brand, visit our website at available at http://www.doosan.com/en/belief/credo available at http://www.doosan.com/en/intro/affiliate www.doosaninfracore.com or scan this QR code with a smartphone 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis CEO Message CEO Message Powered by Innovation Digital innovation, which is leading the Fourth Industrial Revolution, is the reality and the future of not only the Internet, IT, and electronic industries but the manufacturing industry as well. Doosan Infracore fully understands that change and innovation, including digital innovation, are the very foundation for increasing competitiveness. To further expand this mindset, we have adopted a new slogan – ‘Powered by Innovation.’ Under the ‘Powered by Innovation’ slogan, R&D and production, sales and support, and technical staff will proactively communicate and collaborate with one another, and think collectively. Through these efforts, we will focus our energies on developing new customercentered products and services as well as on transforming Doosan Infracore into an innovative company that discovers new opportunities using digital technology. In addition to products, we will offer customers smart solutions and services, and other premium value, and thus realize our vision of ‘Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions.’ In addition to change and innovation, Doosan Infracore will focus on three tasks this year – strengthening financial soundness, diversifying products and services, and expediting digital transformation and new business implementation. Strengthening financial soundness First, we will further strengthen our financial soundness by diversifying sales in preparation for market slowdown or stagnation, and by further strengthening bond and cash flow management. While managing risks in slowing markets, we will rebuild our dealer network and strengthen sales promotion by focusing on developing promising markets. In China, we will strengthen our sales network in regions where we underperform, concentrate on bond and cash flow management, and increase external sales of engines and after market (AM) sales by implementing diverse strategies. Maximizing customer satisfaction with more competitive products and services We will diversify and customize products and services. We will expand the line-up of mini excavators and build a sales foundation, while also expanding our special equipment business, such as rotary drill rigs and rippers. In preparation for enforcement of next-generation emission regulations, including EU Stage V and China’s Stage IV emissions standards, we will strengthen quality management of new products, in addition to increasing service solutions through product diversification and customization by region. I thank you sincerely for your interest and encouragement. Expediting digital transformation and new business implementation We also plan to actively prepare for the future through digital transformation and new business development. In April 2019, Doosan Infracore established a partnership with Palantir Technologies, a data analysis technology unicorn. By building a big data platform, we will For Doosan Infracore, 2018 was a very meaningful year. We improved product quality and enhanced other sources of fundamental optimize our business operations, streamline the decision-making process, and substantially enhance business efficiencies. In November competitiveness. We actively carried out sales activities in emerging markets as well as in China, our key market, and increased our 2019, a proving ground (PG) is scheduled to be completed in Boryeong City, South Chungcheong Province. At the performance testing site, construction equipment market share in North America, Europe, and other advanced markets. We also proactively responded to the we plan to build a prototype of the Concept-X project to develop future construction equipment technologies and verify their feasibility, changes in the business environment brought on by the Fourth Industrial Revolution and digital revolution, and made preparations for the with the goal of establishing a business model for commercialization. future by further developing such new businesses as Digital Transformation and the Concept-X project. The business items that we have discovered and been developing will be introduced to relevant markets and be fully commercialized. In 2018, Doosan Infracore achieved sales of KRW 7,730.1 billion, a year-on-year rise of 17.7%, despite growing uncertainties worldwide. As Moreover, we will continue to develop new business opportunities by building a system of investing in and cooperating with diverse start-ups. we stayed focused on improving profitability and product mix backed by a stable market demand, operating income rose 28.4% year-onyear to KRW 848.1 billion, a record in our history. We believe that the foundation for a company to be sustainable for 100 or 200 years is the deep trust they enjoy from their stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, suppliers, and employees. Accordingly, we will earn more trust by strengthening management These accomplishments were made possible by your interest and encouragement. Grateful for the support, we will strive to solidify our transparency and maintaining communication, not to mention strengthening products, quality, and other sources of competitiveness. stature as a world-leading construction equipment company. Outlook and Plans for 2019 Complying with laws and standards is a basic requirement for a global corporate citizen. We are therefore carrying out sustainable management activities that befit a global leader, such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions, minimizing environmental impact, and The global construction equipment market forecasts to decrease in growth rate and then start to turn downward in 2020. Even the Chinese building a win-win labor-management culture. To ensure that our employees and suppliers work in a safe environment, we will further market, which has continued to grow recently, is expected to diminish starting in the second half of 2019. The engine market is also strengthen worksite safety management. We will also render our trade practices more transparent and fairer by strengthening our expected to decline in the second half of the year. compliance programs (CP) and subcontract management. By doing so, Doosan Infracore will grow into a ‘Proud Global Doosan.’ We look forward to your interest and encouragement. Thank you. Throughout its long history of more than 80 years, Doosan Infracore has experienced countless ups and downs. We have overcome many crises and grown into a global construction equipment company mainly because we have prepared for tomorrow rather than today, and chosen change and innovation over complacency. This year, we will preemptively respond to the market environment which will more likely Sohn Dong-youn to be difficult, and secure the fundamental competitiveness to overcome any challenges. We will stride forward ‘Powered by Innovation.’ Chief Executive Officer Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. 02 03 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis Our Business Model Our Business Model Doosan Infracore strives to maximize its corporate value by effectively investing its financial and non-financial resources in its value chain. We actively address social and environmental issues related to our business operations, while pursuing our vision of becoming a ‘Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions’ as a means to ensure sustainable growth and contribute to social development. Capital Input Value Chain Key Performance In 2018 Financial1) Sales KRW 7,730.1 billion Net income KRW 394.2 billion Increased by 17.7% year-on-year as a result of enhancing product competitiveness and sales Assets KRW 11,029.2 billion Financial channels Liabilities KRW 7,208.4 billion Funds that are procured through manageOperating income KRW 848.1 billion Equity KRW 3,820.8 billion ment, investments or financing, and that Rose by 28.4% year-on-year, posting the can be used by an organization to produce highest figure ever, thanks to our efforts to products or provide services improve profitability and product mix backed by stable market demand In-use Conduct field surveys and Manufactured Product Development 01 05 operate the Customer Support Manufactured Production facility PRODUCTION Center and other channels Manufactured articles, such as facilities and Develop products, that meet investments KRW 135.1 billion to receive diverse customer Excavators and wheel loaders 27,612 buildings that can be used by an organizacustomer requirements and opinions Investments to increase production capacity and improve the plant environment tion to produce products or provide services next-generation emissions Engines 96,654 Offer diverse information, regulations, and technologies including tips on equipment for smart solutions, such as use, through social media Intellectual Concept-X, based on the New Product Development (NPD) Domestic and overseas intellectual Won the Grand Prize at the 2018 Intellectual property rights2) IoT Innovation Awards process An organization’s knowledge-based intanApplications 3,576 gible assets, such as patents, copyrights, Registrations 2,467 software rights, and licenses Human CELL – a new learning organization Selected four Meisters – the best in 02 class technician Human Launched CELL (Community of Employee-Led Learning) to assist employees with their selfChose four of our technical staff as Meisters Members’ capabilities, experiences, and led learning and operated around 70 CELLs in order to foster expert technicians and raise drives towards innovation that allow the their self-esteem understanding, development, and execution Procurement of an organization’s strategies Social/Network Build a healthy ecosystem 04 for win-win growth Leading Suppliers Dream School participants based on activities that (cumulative) 27 (cumulative) 763 strengthen supplier Operated programs designed to help our suppliContinued to run the Dream School, a mentoringSocial/Network competencies, such as ers improve their own capabilities and secure based dream discovery program, participated by Sales, Solution & Service fundamental competitiveness our employees, for youth since 2012 Stakeholder relations and trust, and other the Leading Suppliers intangible assets related to brands and program and benefit Build a systematic product Continued to conduct social contribution activities, including the Doosan Day of Community Service, reputation developed by an organization sharing system line-up to increase customer equipment to support disaster relief, and the Hope Elementary School in China satisfaction, optimize our 03 parts supply processes, and Natural3) strengthen customer services, Manufacturing such as DoosanCARE Energy consumption 2,067 TJ Greenhouse gas Natural Achieved a 5% improvement in energy intensity emissions 108,244 CO2 Secure an advanced operation Develop service solution (energy costs/production) year-on-year despite All environmental resources that are renewAchieved our GHG emissions reduction target by system that enhances product products and advance an increase in production by continuously 103%, set in the beginning of the year, as a result able or not renewable and that can be used quality, flexible production customer services through identifying tasks to reduce energy consumption of company-wide efforts led by the GHG/Energy to provide products or services DoosanCONNECT™ and taking action Reduction Council system, and production efficiency based on the Doosan Reused and recycle water 67,742 tons Production System (DPS) 1) Based on consolidated financial statements 2) Based on consolidated entities as of 2018 year-end 3) Based on business sites in Korea 04 05 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis Performance Review & Outlook Performance Review & Outlook 2018 Performance Summary Performance Overview Financial Performance In 2018, the global market for construction machinery continued 1. Sales Records its growth from 2017, with the exception of the Middle East, In 2018, Doosan Infracore expanded its presence in global Sales Operating Income Net Income Africa, and Korea. This growth was driven by major infrastructure markets based on competitive products and innovative business investment, increased demand for infrastructure and mining strategies. As a result, the company achieved remarkable financial 7,730.1 848.1 394.2 equipment as prices rose for raw materials, and the replacement cycle for existing equipment. The global market for engines also results, including record-breaking operating profits. Annual sales increased by 17.7% year-on-year to reach KRW 7,730.1 billion, while expanded in 2018 mainly attributable to increased demand for operating profits rose by 28.4% to KRW 848.1 billion, the highest KRW billion KRW billion KRW billion construction machinery in North America and China, with demand ever. This was largely due to strong market demand and the for engines for gas generators and large generators in particular company’s efforts to improve profitability and its product mix. Net growing strongly due to rising oil prices. income increased by KRW 97.5 billion year-on-year to KRW 394.2 billion. In these changes and market growth, Doosan Infracore was successfully able to increase its sales by flexibly responding to Sales Records (Unit: KRW million; based on consolidated financial statements) changing demand and stably acquiring business rights to sell heavy equipment in the advanced markets. The company is now 2016 2017 2018 preparing for potential market uncertainties and a slowdown in Sales 5,729,550 6,567,897 7,730,108 the near future by enhancing its fundamental competitiveness. Cost of sales 4,404,459 5,024,999 5,936,246 It will do this by improving product quality and cost structure, 1,325,091 1,542,898 1,793,862 Gross profit undertaking a digital transformation, and establishing the future 87.4% Tele-Operation DoosanCONNECT™ direction of new business through the Concept-X project. Selling and administrative 834,273 882,129 945,734 Percentage of premium eco-friendly Successful demonstration Grand Prize at the 2018 expenses or eco-friendly products in Bauma China 2018 IoT Innovation Awards Doosan Infracore is also fully committed to fulfilling its responsibilOperating income 490,818 660,769 848,127 ities as a leading global company not only in terms of profitability Other non56,182 64,153 36,084 but also in creating social value. The company has set out detailed operating income corporate social responsibility (CSR) strategies, led by the CSR Other non213,312 72,932 63,697 operating expenses Committee empowering all its staff to join in with the efforts. In Net income before addition, it is promoting cooperation between advanced and income tax 82,050 489,627 616,426 developing nations. Doosan Infracore has thus linked its core Income tax expense 162,640 192,984 222,257 business activities with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals Net income 115,985 296,643 394,170 (SDGs), and it also uses KPMG’s ‘True Value’ methodology to analyze the social value that the company generates in its overall value chain. 108,244 tCO₂ 8 consecutive years Best CSR (Unit: KRW billion; based on consolidated financial statements) Greenhouse gas emissions Agreed on collective bargaining agreements One of top Korean companies with without dispute the best CSR reputation in China Sales Operating income Net income 17.7% 28.4% 32.9% 394.2 7,730.1 848.1 296.6 660.8 6,567.9 9 consecutive years A Received Honors for Listed in DJSI Korea the machine and Rated Class A in the ESG Evaluation by the 2017 Integrated electric equipment categories the Korea Corporate Governance Service Report International ARC Award 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 06 07 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis Performance Review & Outlook 2. Financial Status 4. Cash Flow & Solvency As of the end of 2018, total assets were KRW 11,029.2 billion, up Doosan Infracore’s Construction Equipment BG achieved annual The Engine BG saw a number of notable achievements in 2018, In 2018, cash flows from operating activities increased by KRW 172.1 KRW 753.1 billion year-on-year, while total liabilities grew by KRW sales of KRW 3,254.9 billion in 2018, a year-on-year increase of including the development of a Stage V engine which meets the billion year-on-year to reach KRW 837.8 billion due to increased 105.4 billion to KRW 7,208.4 billion. The company’s total equity 21.3%, and Operating income also rose by 48.8% to KRW 283.4 latest European emissions regulations; the addition of new, major sales and improved profitability. In 2018, cash and cash equivalents surged by KRW 647.7 billion year-on-year to KRW 3,820.8 billion. billion. overseas customers; the development of products tailored for the reflecting changes in foreign exchange rates increased KRW 109.5 Chinese market through the Lovol Doosan Engine Company Joint billion year-on-year from KRW 943.5 billion at the beginning of the Financial Status Venture (LDEC JV); and visible growth in the Vietnamese automotive year to KRW 1,053.0 billion at the end of the year. (Unit: KRW million; based on consolidated financial statements) Sales Operating income market. In Indonesia, Doosan Infracore is pursuing a strategic 2016 2017 2018 alliance with a state-owned enterprise which will help the company Liquidity risk may arise when a consolidated entity fails to fulfill a Current assets 3,049,571 3,767,434 4,426,822 21.3% 48.8% diversify its business and also serve as a springboard for entry payment obligation for financial debt due to insufficient liquidity, or into markets in South-East Asia. The Engine BG has undertaken finds it impossible to raise the funds needed for normal business. Non-current assets 6,977,238 6,508,656 6,602,345 3,254,939 extensive R&D and investment into the development of electronic Doosan Infracore draws up three month and annual financial Total assets 10,026,809 10,276,090 11,029,167 engines and after-treatment systems to meet increasingly strict balance plans to minimize the influence of business, investment, 2,683,478 283,417 regulations on emissions and hazardous substances, and has now and other financial activities on its monetary balance. Through this Current liabilities 3,653,194 3,695,646 3,778,574 successfully launched engines which meet the latest emissions financial balance planning, the company calculates, secures, and Non-current regulations. It is also continuing to focus on customers’ midto maintains liquidity, in preparation for possible liquidity risks. 2,925,238 3,407,283 3,429,778 190,417 liabilities long-term requirements by developing LNG engine technologies to meet demand for alternative fuels, expanding its line-up of gas Cash Flow Total liabilities 6,578,432 7,102,929 7,208,352 (Unit: KRW million; based on consolidated financial statements) engines, and developing hybrid powertrains. 2016 2017 2018 Total equity 3,448,377 3,173,161 3,820,815 Cash flows Sales Operating income Cash flows from 512,993 665,691 837,778 3. Performance by Business operating activities 3.1 Construction Equipment The global market for construc2017 2018 2017 2018 6.1% 39.3% Cash flows from 909,634 (256,289) (312,848) tion machinery grew in most regions in 2018, including in major investing activities advanced markets, China, and emerging markets. Doosan Construction Equipment (Unit: KRW million) 532,350 Cash flows from (1,454,380) 32,267 (422,558) Infracore’s Construction Equipment BG improved its profitability financing activities 2016 2017 2018 501,792 1) by increasing sales of finished vehicles and parts backed by the market growth. In particular, sales in China, the world’s largest Sales 1,351,718 2,683,478 3,254,939 Cash and cash equivalents 105,660 market for construction equipment, increased significantly in 2018. Operating income 18,031 190,417 283,417 Cash and cash This was attributable both to a strong market and the company’s equivalents, 75,837 560,003 538,578 943,481 efforts to be cost competitive, enhance customer value through beginning of the year differentiated products and services, and ensure competitive advantage in its sales channels. Amidst changes in the market, 3.2 Engine There have been increasing challenges for companies Cash and cash equivalents, 538,578 943,481 1,053,016 Doosan Infracore is continuing to launch new products which from fast-growing prices for raw materials, rising labor costs, and end of the year reflect customer needs, improving dealer service, and always intensifying competition in global markets especially from Chinese striving to improve quality. companies. Nevertheless, Doosan Infracore’s Engine BG achieved 2017 2018 2017 2018 significant increases in both sales and profitability in 2018 due 5. Production Assets In addition, Doosan Infracore has expanded the presence of to growth in the market for construction machinery and increased DoosanCONNECT™, an upgraded version of its telematics remote demand for generator and commercial vehicle engines. Engine Consolidated entities’ facilities and equipment include land, (Unit: KRW million) equipment management solution, in the global market, and buildings, structures, machines, and assets under construction. 2016 2017 2018 launched a new mobile app to help customers better manage The book value of facilities and equipment was KRW 1,782.6 billion their equipment. The company has also further strengthened its Sales 498,699 501,792 532,350 as of the end of 2018, a year-on-year decrease of KRW 4.3 billion. customer service through intensive training of the technicians Cumulative new acquisitions and capital expenditures in 2018 were Operating income 58,781 75,837 105,660 for DoosanCARE services and the staff at its dealerships, and by KRW 170.0 billion, and depreciation costs totaled KRW 142.2 billion. developing service solutions connected to DoosanCONNECT™. With the construction industry seeing widespread adoption of information and communication technology (ICT), the company has been making continuous investment in the latest technologies, including unmanned and automation technologies. 1) On January 1st 2018, the heavy equipment business operation of Doosan Bobcat in North America and Europe was transferred to Doosan Infracore’s Construction Equipment BG, so the related financial figures of Doosan Bobcat for 2017 are therefore reclassified to those of Doosan Infracore’s Construction Equipment BG 08 09 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis Performance Review & Outlook 6. Intellectual Assets 2. Environmental Performance 1.2 Engine The Engine BG is expected to grow in 2019, despite Doosan Infracore improves its product competitiveness and builds In addition, Doosan Infracore launched ‘CELL’ (Community of Doosan Infracore is subject to the Korean Emissions Trading a slowing global economy, due to increased sales of Construction the foundations for long-term growth by expanding investment into Employee-Led Learning) in 2018 to help its staff with self-led System. In 2018, the company launched the GHG/Energy Reduction Equipment BG and Doosan Bobcat products, as well as additional R&D. R&D at the company consists of heavy product development, learning. CELL is a new learning support system which promotes Council in its efforts to reduce energy consumption and GHG external sales and as a result of its efforts to find new markets, such which undertakes research into the company’s key products, such and supports small, task-related group learning throughout the emissions. All departments related to energy and GHG take part as power generation and vehicle engine products. In 2019, Doosan as excavators and wheel loaders; engine product development, company. Doosan Infracore employees formed more than 70 CELLs in the Council which is responsible for creating sophisticated Infracore will actively put into place a wide range of measures to which focuses on meeting emissions and fuel efficiency regulations; in 2018. climate change strategies, including managing the performance increase sales to outperform market growth. product design and high-stiffness materials; and the technology of its Energy Management System (EMS), establishing a midto center, which focuses on the virtual verification and analysis of 1.3 Suppliers Doosan Infracore helps its suppliers enhance long-term roadmap for emissions trading, and setting emissions These will include expanding its coverage by strengthening networks; R&D. All these R&D activities are aimed to create a distinct technotheir competitiveness through a wide range of support programs, reduction targets. In particular, the setting out of a midto long-term diversifying markets and products; launching next-generation logical advantage for the company, and to establish an advanced covering the development of technology, quality improvement, roadmap to respond to the emissions trading system has enabled engines ahead of the implementation of the EU Stage V and China’s engineering process. and financial support. In particular, the company runs the Doosan the company to conform with the system that will be in place from Stage IV emissions standards; securing new, major customers; Supplier Excellence Program (DSEP) and the Leading Supplier 2020 through preemptive emissions trading. The company’s GHG developing localized engines through LDEC JV; and increasing sales Based on non-consolidated financial statements, Doosan Infracore’s program in order to help its suppliers improve their fundamental emissions in 2018 were 108,244 tCO2, a year-on-year increase of large-sized generator engines and gas generator engines in North R&D expenses in 2018 increased KRW 23.3 billion year-in-year to competitiveness. In addition, it has implemented a multi-party about 10%. This was due to the substantial increase in its producAmerica. It will also meet customer requirements by expanding stand at KRW 135.1 billion, equivalent to 4.4% of total sales. As of benefit sharing system through which its firstand second-tier tion volumes, but the intensity of its emissions has been declining its engine line-up through the development of new, large-sized the end of 2018, the number of intellectual property rights applicasuppliers work together to create and share excellence. continuously since 2016. electronic engines and other advanced technologies, as well by tions made in Korea and overseas by consolidated entities had improving productivity and minimizing the impact of increases in reached 3,576, and the number registered totaled 2,467. Doosan Infracore strives to prevent industrial accidents by improving the cost of raw materials to make its products more cost competitive health and safety management of its suppliers and building a Outlook 2019 while increasing customer satisfaction. cooperative partnership with them. To this end, the company offers Non-Financial Performance safety education to staff at its suppliers, assesses their safety 1. Financial Outlook risks, and provides them with technical support relating to hazard 1.1 Construction Equipment Demand for construction equipment 2. Non-Financial Outlook 1. Social Performance management through the Safety and Health Symbiotic Cooperation in advanced markets is expected to slow a little in 2019 due to As seen at the 2019 Davos Forum held in early 2019, the whole world 1.1 Customers Doosan Infracore has endeavored to meet Program. This program not only offers technological support but also the global economic downturn. Followed by the business right is paying close attention to such concepts as the Fourth Industrial customer needs by developing engines which meet the latest other supports through various means, including safety banners acquisition from Doosan Bobcat in 2018, Doosan Infracore will Revolution, eco-friendly economic development, a fair economy, stringent emissions regulations, such as EU Stage V and China’s and environment and EHS guidelines. gradually expand its market share in 2019 by strengthening its international leadership, and sustainable economic development. Stage IV emissions standards, and by launching special equipment, sales capabilities in advanced markets and increasing sales of mini Accordingly, there has been increasing emphasis on managing including giant rippers and rotary drilling rigs. The company has 1.4 Local Communities Doosan Infracore undertakes a wide range excavators (MEX) through its improved dealer networks. In particextreme weather, climate change, and the risk of natural catastrophes. also sought technological innovations and improvements in its of social contribution activities, so that it can grow in partnership ular, the company will improve customer service in North America fundamental quality, thereby expanding its market presence. with local communities, and fulfill its role as a global corporate by establishing a Parts Distribution Center (PDC) and the North In order to manage these risks, Doosan Infracore examines the citizen. Every year since 2014, the company hosts the ‘Doosan America Customization Plant (NaCup). In China, with the market results of its materiality analysis and external environmental, social In addition, it has been expanding regions where customers manage Day of Community Service’ event, with participation of Doosan possibly slowing down, Doosan Infracore will improve its position by and governance (ESG) evaluation, and then correlates them with their equipment more efficiently through the DoosanCONNECT™ Group employees around the world, including Korea, helping local increasing sales of midto large-sized models, focusing on profitable each department’s business plans. The CSR Committee then reviews service which provides real-time information on equipment communities to develop. Since 2012, the company has run the sales, and improving the soundness of account receivable.In these results and decides CSR strategic tasks of the company. location, operational status, and parts including engines. In 2018, ‘Dream School,’ a program through which its staff and specialist life emerging markets, the company will focus on profitability and the Doosan Infracore’s eight strategic CSR tasks for 2019 include the company introduced DoosanCONNECT™ in Korea, followed by coaches help young people find the right career paths, including management of accounts receivable as global economies slow. establishing a management system and strengthening monitoring its launch in North America, Europe, China, and some emerging through activities that promote self-growth. Doosan Infracore will also improve channel competitiveness, and for raising awareness of human rights; identifying suppliers with markets. Doosan Infracore also offers a range of convenient increase sales of large-sized models in regions with potential for high CSR risks and helping them make improvements in order services, including ‘Smart Maintenance’ service solution product In addition, the company signed a ‘safety culture social contribution’ rapid growth. to strengthen CSR management system of its supply chain; and which provides preemptive maintenance services based on the agreement with the Korean Ministry of Public Safety and Security in reducing GHG emissions. In 2019, the company will establish an information collected through DoosanCONNECT™. 2016 in order to promote safety in local communities, and has been ESG framework and indicators in order them make improvements carrying out a range of activities to create a culture of safety. These the correlation between its CSR tasks and business strategies. To 1.2 Employees Doosan Infracore has been establishing a human include using its health and safety facilities, such as the Disaster this end, Doosan Infracore will involve relevant departments in rights risk management system in order to protect the rights of all Prevention Center, company-affiliated hospitals and other specialist discussions on how it can achieve sustainable growth, and based of its stakeholders, including employees. To this end, the company facilities, to provide firefighting, emergency treatment, and medical on these discussions, the company will motivate all of its staff to distributes a manual on the prevention of human rights risk, support to residents near its Incheon Plant. reflect the CSR in every aspect of their daily work. operates the Human Rights Protection Center, offers employee education on human rights, and operates the Women’s Council. In 2018, the company conducted an online survey to identify the level of awareness of issues surrounding human rights among its employees with the goal of raising their awareness on human rights. In addition, it expanded the scope of online education on human rights to all employees. 10 11 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis Impact Management Sustainable Value Creation The positive and negative impacts that a company have on society can be an element that either contributes or hinders development of the 3. 2018 Sustainability Management Value global human society, and they are also connected to the value that a company provides to its shareholders. Doosan Infracore therefore True Value of Doosan Infracore, including its added economic, social, and environmental values, amounted to KRW 466,453 million as of the pays close attention to the relevance between corporate value and social value, and seeks to enhance its capability in creating social end of 2018, representing 6.5 times more than its financial value. values. To this end, we applied the ‘True Value’ methodology developed by KPMG to analyze our performance in creating social values in (Unit: KRW million) 2018, as we did in the previous year. We plan to reflect the calculation results in our management decision-making and risk management processes. Finance Total 7,876 12,475 2,779 466,453 1. Selecting Indicators 105,282 3,349 619 3,362 81 We selected major topics and quantitative indicators, with our net income, a financial value, serving as the baseline, in order to identify the societal added value resulting from our business operations from economic, social and environmental perspectives. We analyzed global 46,289 research data to determine each indicator’s monetary value per unit. In August 2018, we completed our voluntary soil remediation work and 227,415 acquired confirmation thereof from the government. We have thus excluded the ‘soil contamination’ index from this year’s list. +550% Index Type Details Finance Net income Baseline Financial performance from income generated during the year Employee salaries + Economic effects of monetary compensation for employees Support for suppliers + Economic effects from investments in suppliers’ competencies and win-win support 71,748 (Win-Win Growth Fund, etc.) Economy Economic effects created by paying dividends and interest payments to investors Dividends and interest expense + and creditors Economy Society Environment Economic effects from corporate tax paid to the governments of countries in which Corporate tax + Net Employee Support for Investor and Government Human Contributions Greenhouse Impacts Impacts Impacts True Net we do business income salaries suppliers shareholder value resources to local gas on air on water of waste Value income value (Corporate development communities emissions quality Social effects of HRD investments in employees’ capacity-building education and tax) Investment in human resources development + training Society Social effects from our local community education programs, such as Investment in social contributions1) + the Dream School, and donations Greenhouse gas emissions2) Impact on climate change due to GHG emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2) Air pollutants emissions3) Impact on air quality due to NOx, SOx, and PM emitted during business operations In 2018, our net income (in the non-consolidated basis) increased by 18.7% year-on-year to KRW 71.7 billion, mainly attributable Finance to a surge in sales of construction equipment in advanced markets, China, and emerging markets, as well as an increase in Environment Water usage volume4) Impact of water consumption on water environment, including water-scarce regions profitability of our engine business (P. 8-9). Waste treatment volume5) Environmental impact of waste treatment, such as sales and incineration Waste recycling volume5) + Reduction of environmental impact due to the recycling of waste Our economic net benefit generated in 2018 amounted to KRW 391.5 billion, a year-on-year decrease of 19%, as no dividend was paid out for hybrid capital instruments on the basis of the accounting standards, although there was a slight increase in support Economy for our suppliers, including the Shared Growth Fund and the win-win encouragement fund (P. 87), as well as our corporate tax payments. We also introduced a paper ballot and an electronic voting system (P. 79) to enhance shareholder value, and expanded 2. Value Measurement our compliance program in order to comply with the government’s policy, rules, and regulations (P. 82). Economic, social, and environmental costs and benefits were measured by multiplying monetary value, based on the latest global research materials, to quantitative input data. The data includes the amount of money used to support major management activities and make Our social net benefit generated in 2018 increased by 29.3% year-on-year to reach KRW 10.7 billion due to the increase in our CSR Society investment, as well as environmental pollutant emissions and contaminated area due to management activities. Monetary value then was investment, such as disaster relief and other social contribution activities (P. 109), as well as Dream School operations (P. 96). adjusted in consideration of the price fluctuation rate depending on the time of research and base country, and exchange rates on the last day of 2018 were used. In 2018, our net environmental costs from business operations amounted to KRW 7.4 billion, a year-on-year decrease of 42.3%. There was a slight increase in our GHG emissions, air pollutants emissions, and waste disposal due to an increase in production volume. However, we offset a part of this increase by implementing a midto long-term roadmap and an action plan to meet the requirements of the emissions-trading system (P. 74), and through the recycling of waste recycling (P. 75). In August 2018, we Environment completed our voluntary soil remediation work and obtained government approval for purification, which significantly reduced our Input volume attributable to Monetary value of social costs Economic, social, and environmental costs. In addition, we are currently working to reduce our impact on air quality by installing dust collectors, new business operations or benefits by unit environmental impacts of the year painting facilities, and concentrated catalyst oxidation facilities, and also by improving our odor processes (P. 75). In improving water quality, we are promoting the automation of the entire wastewater treatment process and installing facilities to reduce nonpoint pollution source (P. 75). 1)  * Calculation results are explicit information that was derived to set up a direction for G.Psacharopoulos and H.A. Patrinos, Returns to investment in education: a further update social impact management and value creation based on several assumptions, and (2004) do not indicate integrity. Also, the monetary value applied in the current approach 2)  EPA, Technical update of the social cost of carbon for regulatory impact analysis (2013) can be additionally complemented or adjusted in accordance with announcement 3) EEA, Revealing the cost of air pollution from industrial facilities in Europe (2011) of new research results. There is thus a chance that impact valuation figures of the 4) TruCost PLC, Natural capital at risk: the top 100 externalities of business (2013) same year will change. This information therefore cannot be deemed as part of the 5)  company’s disclosure of financial performance. A. Rabl, J. V. Spadaro and A. Zoughaib, Environmental impacts and costs of solid waste: a comparison of landfill and incineration (2009) 12 13 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis Impact Management UN SDGs Alignment Doosan Infracore seeks to strategically aligns its key businesses with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) guided by its 2. 2018 Activities by Goal direction to contribute to the development of society through cooperation between developed and developing countries as well as Corporate activities Promoting activities Innovation development of new market and new businesses (Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions). Doosan Infracore also does its utmost to go that do not hinder the support for SDGs that contribute to achieving SDGs that promotes long-term change beyond CSR activities to create social values across the overall value chain with an aim to systematically implement the SDGs as a global People LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 corporate citizen (Global Leader in Corporate Citizenship). ・ Maintained smoke-free workplaces ・ Continued to run work-related stress management ・ Developed a digital physical examination record ・ Conducted activities to prevent occupational programs management system diseases ・ Helped employees, including those of suppliers, ・ Developed eco-friendly technologies that prioritize Through constant communication and strategic partnerships with its stakeholders, Doosan Infracore will create synergies. Furthermore, ・ Expanded the installation of automated external improve their health and quality of life customers’ health and safety defibrillators (AEDs) it will focus on strengthening its corporate competitiveness by identifying business opportunities for the future and creating sustainable ・ Operated the integrated global HR system values for the company and society as a whole. ・ Upgraded the functional competency (FC) ・ Ran the Dream School to help youth to discover system for employees in Korea and overseas ・ Operated the Leading Supplier program based on their dreams ・ Provided capacity-building training through the Doosan Supplier Excellence Program (DSEP) a self-led learning system ・ Ran the Junior Engineering Class based on employees’ talent donations ・ Eliminated all forms of gender discrimination ・ Offered gender equality education to employees ・ Operated the Women’s Council and held the HR against women in job allocation ・ Expanded the percentage of female managers Executive Meeting to build a culture of gender ・ Operated flextime to promote a work-life balance (position holders) equality ・ Operated reporting channels, such as the Human Rights Protection Center (Help Line) and the Internal ・ Developed and distributed a manual on Reporting Center ・ Developed an in-house due diligence tool to the prevention of human rights risks based on check the level of awareness on human rights ・ Offered human rights education and conducted the results of focus group interviews (FGIs) campaigns ・ Expanded the Gender Equality Center into ・ Maintained a transparent information disclosure the Human Rights Protection Center ・ Implemented the annual workplace EHS compliance system evaluation ・ Strengthened the alignment between corporate ・ Aligned the company’s key businesses with ・ Analyzed social values by using the ‘True Value’ values and social values UN SDGs methodology ・ Planned and carried out social contribution ・ Formed a partnership with Palantir Technologies ・ Began to establish an ESG framework and indices activities tailored to local communities to build a data-based collaboration platform Product ・ Operated the Concept-X project and applied ・ Introduced hybrid excavators, construction optimized technologies for future construction ・ Conducted the DRAW (Digital edge Reinforcement sites, such as unmanned autonomous equipment Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions Global Leader in Corporate Citizenship equipment with unmanned and automation AT Work) session to nurture talents for the Fourth and 5G technologies, and equipment management Promote a sustainable and inclusive economic development Build a sustainable and inclusive civil society Industrial Revolution solutions by using telematics ・ Developed prerequisite technologies for hybrid powertrain ・ Reflected eco-friendly product management ・ Expanded the gas engine line-up ・ Established definitions and standards for processes in new product development processes eco-friendly products, and calculated the portion ・ Developed technologies and products to secure of eco-friendly products ・ Developed LNG engine technologies to cope with alternative fuel and engine electrification the growing alternative fuel market technologies ・ Fostered GHG and/or energy experts 1. Approach ・ Enhanced the competitiveness of diesel engines ・ Improved combustion and post-processing ・ Developed and produced vehicle engines that ・ Supplied engines that meet the new Chinese technologies to cope with the next-generation Doosan Infracore approaches UN SDGs from the perspective of People, Product, and Processes (3P), and define the activities designed for each satisfy emissions standards of each country emission standards which is scheduled to be emissions regulations goal on its own. This report shows how the company has contributed to SDGs through its strategic performance and CSR activities in 2018 by enacted in 2020 categorizing them into three levels and providing major activities for each level to ensure in-depth analysis of its contributions. Process ・ Helped suppliers improve safety management capacity through the Safety and Health Symbiotic ・ Promoted safety culture social contribution 3P LV ・ Complied with the EHS laws and guidelines Cooperation Program activities through a private-public partnership in Korea and overseas ・ Provided on-site inspection and EHS technology ・ Obtained the Safety Zone Certification, the only ・ Expanded safety facilities at worksites and support for outside suppliers Level 1 Corporate activities that do not hinder the support for SDGs voluntary corporate safety evaluation system in A  ctivities to support and nurture ‘People’ – one distributed safety manuals 01 PEOPLE ・ Operated the process safety management (PSM) Korea of Doosan Group’s core values (Employees, Establishing an environment for seamless implementation system to prevent fatal accidents customers, suppliers, and local communities) of SDGs and the process of responding to laws and policies ・ Operated the wastewater recycling system that the company should observe as a corporate citizen ・ Expanded the wastewater reclamation and reuse ・ Maintained pollutants below 40% of the legal ・ Put a preventive maintenance process in place by system and constructed separate rainwaterrequirement through the automation of all establishing and implementing regular air/water exclusive intake facilities for industrial water wastewater treatment processes quality environmental facility maintenance conservation Activities to consider eco-friendliness and Level 2 Promoting activities that contribute to achieving SDGs 02 PRODUCT ・ Enhanced EMS data reliability by establishing sustainability from such initial stage as R&D Making additional efforts to facilitate the implementation ・ Operated the Energy Management System (EMS) ・ Built an energy intensity management system an energy measuring device monitoring system and product design of SDGs, while executing an implementation process that is ・ Reviewed the way to use renewable energy ・ Identified new energy conservation items for ・ Upgraded the energy monitoring/management more systematic than the prior step continuous energy conservation systems ・ Launched a mobile DoosanCONNECT™ app and ・ Promoted operational innovations through digital upgraded its main features Activities to increase positive impacts while Level 3 Innovation that promotes long-term change ・ Stabilized an ICT-based production processes and transformation ・ Developed ‘Smart Maintenance’ service offering 03 PROCESS promoted industrial development ・ Operated DoosanCONNECT™, a remote equipment preemptive maintenance services reducing negative social and environmental Long-term vision and strategies to promote social management solution ・ Established a global MES platform and promoted impacts of manufacturing process innovation, create Doosan Infracore’s corporate value, and smart factory develop future growth engines ・ Managed disaster risk systematically by operating ・ Made investment in energy efficiency and strived a business continuity management (BCM) system to reduce GHG emissions at the Group level ・ Established an action plan to set and achieve ・ Analyzed the GHG emissions scenario and ・ Launched the GHG/Energy Reduction Council emission reduction goals established reduction goals based on the government’s reduction roadmap ・ Implemented in-house climate change prevention campaigns 14 15 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Our Strategy Relentless innovation is what drives Doosan Infracore forward. At the center of the tectonic change called the Fourth Industrial Revolution, 18 we will grow into a global leader in infrastructure solutions by transforming Strategy Overview not only what we do but also how we do it in step with the digital era. 20 Sustainable Growth 36 Customer Value 48 Innovation 16 17 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Strategy Overview In preparation for market uncertainty, Doosan Infracore is focusing on rebuilding its dealer networks, securing a position of advantage in markets, and strengthening bond and cash flow management through strategic resource allocation into markets with high growth potential in order to enhance financial soundness. We also strive to bolster product and service competitiveness and thus maximize customer value by expanding the product line-up of mini excavators and other equipment and building sales Global Leader foundations for the products; expanding rotary drill rig, in Infrastructure ripper, and other special equipment production and parts Solutions sales; and developing new products that meet EU Stage V and China’s Stage IV emissions standards. In addition, we expanded DoosanCONNECT™-based solutions to a global level and launched the Concept-X project which centers on converging the latest in ICT and Strategy Overview unmanned and automation technology with construction equipment to take the lead in future construction sites. As We aim to continue expanding our businesses to become a global leader in the infrastructure such, Doosan Infracore is speeding up its pursuit of digital solution business, offering not just the best transformation and implementation of new businesses quality products but also total solutions that in response to the fast-changing global business provide better value to our customers. environment. The construction equipment industry is vulnerable to flows of the global economy, government policy, In 2018, Doosan Infracore stayed focused on growth and infrastructure investment, and other macro factors. It also innovation amid rapidly-changing market conditions, has a characteristic of undergoing ups and downs on a and strived to leave a positive impact on society and regular basis. Recently, the industry has been growing stakeholders. on increasing infrastructure investments, a continuing growth momentum of emerging markets, and a booming Taking a step further, under the slogan ‘Powered by mining industry fueled by soaring prices of raw materials. Innovation,’ Doosan Infracore will preemptively respond to Customer Sustainable Smart Business Portfolio In response to rapid market changes, global construction market uncertainties in 2019 and conduct value-focused Value Growth Solution Enhancement equipment makers are actively attracting customers with corporate management, thereby solidifying its reputation distinctive products and services, while also developing as a world-leading company in the construction equipment communication technology (ICT)-linked solutions and other industry. new technologies in pursuit of competitive advantage. Maximize customer value Consistently grow Develop new products Expand business portfolios and satisfaction by offering businesses to and services by converging toward high value-added world-class products, parts, further enhance ICT technologies, such as technologies and solution and services the competitiveness of big data and the Internet business the existing businesses of Things Secure cost leadership Maximize operating efficiency by consistently realizing by creating a smart factory cost innovation and work environment 18 19 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth Global growth of construction equipment business North American/ European Markets 11.9 % Sales grew 11.9% year-on-year to record KRW 759.8 billion in 2018 Emerging Markets 8.5 % Sales grew 8.5% year-on-year to record KRW 1,180.0 billion SUSTAINABLE 01  Strengthening Market Competitiveness in 2018 40 02 Enhancing Product Competitiveness GROWTH Sales grew more than Chinese Market 40% for the past 2-3 % years to record KRW 03 Building a Foundation for Stable Profits 1,315.1 billion in 2018 Global growth of parts business (Unit: KRW billion) 17 % (Year-on-year sales growth rate in 2018) 241.7 206.3 187.5 2016 2017 2018 20 21 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth North American/European Markets In 2019, advanced markets are forecast to grow at a Advanced markets, including North America, which is the bit lower rate due to a global economic downturn. To second largest market in the world (single country basis), maintain its growth momentum and achieve qualitative are growing on increasing infrastructure investments. As growth in the North American and European markets, the construction and oil and gas industries have been on Doosan Infracore will secure mega dealers based on its an upward trend in North America, demand for equipment strong global leadership, operate Customization Plants, in regions where these industries are well developed is and enhance fundamental product competitiveness by expected to grow and thus lead to market growth. The improving parts availability. The company will also expand European market is expected to gradually grow, with product line-ups by launching a mini excavator (MEX) Southern and Eastern Europe leading the growth, followed which is high in proportion to overall sales, improve profits by lower growth trends in major markets, such as Germany by increasing sales of large heavy equipment, and lead the and the UK. Concept-X project-based ICT solution business. Moreover, Doosan Infracore will improve business efficiency and Doosan Bobcat had handled sales of Doosan Infracore’s product competitiveness across the value chain, including construction equipment in advanced markets. However, sales, product development, and production. Strengthening Doosan Infracore reorganized its construction equipment business with a focus on core products, as part of its plan Market to enhance overall business competitiveness, and took over the sales operations effective January 1, 2018. The Emerging Markets Asia, South America, Africa, and other emerging markets Competitiveness company also re-established its business strategies, and worked on developing outstanding mid-to large-sized grew at a higher rate on the strengths of rising material prices, increasing infrastructure investments, and robust dealers and improving channel coverage to build a strong growth of India and other major regions despite sharp sales network. The Parts Distribution Center (PDC) in exchange rate fluctuations fueled by uncertainties in Atlanta was rebuilt to improve its responses to North some emerging countries in the second half of 2018. In 01 American market demands for parts and to increase the past, demand for midto large-sized equipment was supply availability. Also, a PDC was opened in Seattle in high in emerging markets, reflecting the high proportion April 2019 in response to a growing demand for parts in of large infrastructure projects, such as road, railroad, and the northwest region. As a result, sales increased 11.9% port, within the market. However, the compact equipment over the previous year to KRW 759.8 billion indicating a market has been steadily growing as a result of a recent successful takeover of the sales operations for the North rise in labor costs and a spreading urbanization of farming American and European markets. villages. DX75, a crawler-type MEX 22 23 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth generating additional sales is high once construction is launched. The company’s consecutive winning of large ADT supply contracts in emerging markets is the result of its efforts to increase customer satisfaction, such as combining of outstanding products and DoosanCONNECT™ and other innovative service solutions. In Saudi Arabia, Doosan Infracore identified local market demands and preemptively respond to them with products competitive in performance quality and price. As a result, the company won contracts to supply 46 excavators and wheel loaders to be used in mining, infrastructure construction, as well as oil and gas pipeline construction. In Uzbekistan, supply contracts for 47 excavators and wheel loaders were obtained from equipment rental and large companies due to outstanding product and service quality, and based on the company’s long-established trustArticulated dump truck (ADT) worthiness. DL450-5L, a wheel loader of Doosan Infracore In 2019, Doosan Infracore will choose key areas with high potential and focus on strengthening its sales channels and selling large equipment in the selected areas. It will Against this backdrop, Doosan Infracore has categorized by focusing on high-price large equipment sales and In Sudan, in particular, the company won a supply contract further strengthen product and service competitiveness countries into two regions – one for risk management fleet deals. To this end, the company has broken away for 44 excavators and 16 wheel loaders from a large civil by releasing products customized to emerging markets, and the other for sales expansion – in consideration from the simplicity of selling products and instead engineering company that carries out irrigation and public bolstering its sales network, and differentiating services. of each country’s situations, and is taking a different introduced ‘Smart Maintenance’ service, a pilot program works projects due to DoosanCARE and other distinctive In light of a slowing global economy, the company will approach to each category based on its continued efforts offering genuine parts and maintenance service customer-oriented services. In Algeria, the company signed focus on managing profitability and receivables in at expanding coverage and strengthening channel solutions based on information collected through the a contract to supply 27 wheel loaders to a mining company, emerging markets. competitiveness in emerging markets. In addition, DoosanCONNECT™. The company also implemented as a result of its implementation of a strategy that is based the company is steadily solidifying the foundation for a value-selling strategy in emerging markets, such as on an accurate analysis on public companies which make growth in consideration of market characteristics and South America and Southeast Asia, and thus secured up a majority of the domestic market. Also signed was a Chinese Market situations by building a revenue structure that ensures a series of highly-profitable mega deals and special contract to supply 20 excavators to a gold mining company The Chinese construction equipment market, which had a stable inflow of sales even in a slowing market and equipment supply contracts. in Ghana. These and other fleet deals led the company’s been showing signs of recovery since the second half of by making continued efforts to diversify its customer 2018 construction equipment sales to KRW 1,180.0 billion 2016, grew at a rate higher in 2018 than before thanks to mix. Accordingly, Doosan Infracore is employing In July 2018, Doosan Infracore took part in INNOPROMin emerging markets which represents a year-on-year rise increasing national infrastructure investments, a robust different strategies for different category regions – a 2018, the largest industry expo in Russia, and established of 8.5%, thereby maintaining its growth trend for the past development of mining fueled by rising raw material prices, high concentration of sales resources in high-potential the foundation for market expansion by showcasing its three years. and growing needs to replace the aging equipment sold regions and a conservative sales approach in such risky equipment and cutting-edge technologies, including in 2010 to 2011. In particular, sales of midto large-sized markets as Turkey, Argentina, and Russia. In Indonesia wheel loaders and DoosanCONNECT™. As a majority of Doosan Infracore continues to sign fleet deals in emerging equipment rose considerably in proportion due to a robust and the Philippines, the company will steadily increase worksites in Russia are located in remote areas, which markets in 2019. In January, the company signed articulated demand driven by infrastructure and mining projects sales of 20-ton mid-sized products while targeting the makes it very difficult for customers to access dealer dump truck (ADT)1) supply contracts with Singapore and across the country. compact equipment market with DX75, DX140 and other services, visitors showed a great interest in the remote Hong Kong companies. The contract to supply 30 ADTs to products that have yet to be exported. In Chile, the equipment monitoring features of DoosanCONNECT™. KTC, Singapore’s largest engineering construction company, company is increasing sales in underperforming markets, is the largest deal among Doosan Infracore’s ADT supply such as mining and forestry, by developing additional In Iraq, Doosan Infracore secured a supply contract for 45 contracts. Including the 20 ADTs sold to KTC in 2018, it will new customers. 22-ton excavators through competitive bidding, the largest be operating a total of 73 Doosan ADTs. In Hong Kong, 10 of single-item public tenders held in emerging markets. ADTs will be used by the local construction company Luen 1) Articulated Dump Truck (ADT): Large dump truck mainly used in rough In addition to increasing overseas presence and market In Africa, the company signed fleet deals in Sudan, Yau for the new airport construction project. As the ADTs areas, such as mines and quarries. A special articulation system is applied to Doosan Infracore’s ADT to ensure stable and powerful driving share, Doosan Infracore seeks to diversify its customer Algeria, and Ghana as a result of its strategic approach will be used for expanding the Hong Kong airport terminal performance, while a six-wheel drive system delivers even distribution mix and thus expand the sustainable income structure to local markets and based on distinctive services. and constructing additional runways, the probability of of an object’s weight across the truck, thereby increasing grip force 24 25 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth In addition to product sales, Doosan Infracore has As Chinese customer needs steadily become segmented, been focusing on enhancing profitability in preparation a demand is rising for special equipment, such as the for an economic downturn. Specifically, the company rippers1) and rotary drill rigs2). To cease upon such an strived to strengthen channel competitiveness through opportunity to grow its special equipment business and expansion of highly-competitive dealerships; enhance secure a presence in its key market, Doosan Infracore bond management and expand cash sales; and increase has organized a sales unit and set up work processes, high-margin product sales in proportion, and thus and it is now in the process of strengthening its strategic achieved stable business growth in 2018. In addition, the alliances with local companies. As an outcome, Doosan company is providing finance packages customized to Infracore signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) local circumstances and expanding the special equipment in January 2019 with China’s Zhengzhou Yutong Heavy business, while improving its service quality to enhance Industries Company on supplying 1,200 upper structures3), customer satisfaction and providing customer-tailored worth around KRW 250 billion, of excavators necessary for equipment information using social media, including production of rotary drill rigs. Zhengzhou Yutong Heavy WeChat, in order to proactively respond to customer needs. Industries Company is a machinery manufacturer of As a result of these and other efforts to increase market Zhengzhou Yutong Group, the No. 1 bus manufacturer in Introduction of share and profitability, Doosan Infracore recorded sales of Doosan DX800LC-5B China. Since 2011, the Chinese partner has been supplied KRW 1,315.1 billion which represents an over 40% increase around 200 upper structures for production of rotary drill in the Chinese market over the past two to three years and DX800LC, a ultra-large 80-ton excavators to be supplied to rigs, cranes and other special equipment. Doosan Infracore Neimenggu MengXin Group more than a four-fold increase in the past four years. plans to use this supply contract as an opportunity to expand its special equipment market in cooperation with In 2018, Doosan Infracore also focused on bolstering Doosan Infracore maintains its competitive edge in the Zhengzhou Yutong Heavy Industries Company. dealership competitiveness and providing locally-tailored 30-ton excavator sector of the Chinese market. Demand finance packages to increase product sales through for midto large-sized equipment has been increasing in China’s construction equipment market in 2019 is forecast building of strong customer relations. As dealership China with a recent infrastructure and mining expansion. to grow at a rate similar to that of 2018 as the government competitiveness is an important factor in China, the In response, the company has been bolstering its large is likely to maintain its infrastructure investment policy and company made continuous efforts to increase the excavator line-up by launching the DX700, following with market demand to continue in line with the equipment percentage of highly-competitive dealerships, including the DX800LC, an ultra-large 80-ton excavator equipped replacement cycle, while environmental regulation to channel restructuring and performance-linked incentive with Doosan Infracore’s latest technologies as a flagship become more stringent. Despite concerns over a slowdown programs. As a result, the percentage of A-grade dealerships model. Since its 2017 launch, it has received a highly of the Chinese market, Doosan Infracore will achieve (a market share of around 10%) grew from 19% in 2017 to favorable response from the market and customers, sales targets by improving its product mix through midto 24.3% in 2018. Locally-customized finance packages were attested by its steadily-rising sales. In 2016, Doosan large-sized product sales increase and by strengthening designed and offered in consideration of circumstances by Infracore started to change over from dealership to directlychannel competitiveness through special management region, with a focus on preferred sales conditions offered managed chain stores in select areas of Shanxi Province, of regions where its sales are relatively weak. The to preferred customers (different installment payment including Inner Mongolia, Beijing, and Hebei Province company will focus on increasing profit-centered sales arrangements depending on the size of cash deposits) in order to advance into mining or rocky regions where and the percentage of cash sales, improving receivables and a next-generation finance system. To minimize midlarge-scale infrastructure projects abound. By the second soundness, and engaging in other risk management to large-sized equipment supply shortages caused by a half of 2017, the company has completed the network of efforts, with the goal of achieving qualitative growth and sudden surge in market demand, the company supported sales outlets and started to attract customers. continue its 2018 growth momentum in 2019. a smooth product supply by assigning each dealership a number of equipment deemed optimal for the local As a result of its active efforts to expand presence in the environment. midto large-sized equipment market, the company’s midto large-sized excavator sales continue to grow in 2019 as in 2018. In January 2019, Doosan Infracore signed a supply contract for 36 large excavators, including ultra-large 80-ton excavators, with Neimenggu MengXin Group, a mining leader in China. The Neimenggu Group, mining around 20 million tons of coal a year from its four coal mines, signed the contract after a two-month thorough review of the work performance and efficiency, including 1) fuel consumption, as well as the details of the DoosanCARE Ripper: Special equipment with a hook-shaped attachment instead of an excavator bucket to dig up solid soil or soft rocks service program. The supply contract is significant in that 2) Rotary drill rig: Special equipment with a rotating crawler drill attached the company has won over a leading customer of the to the excavator’s arm; and it is used mainly for vertical digging during Chinese mining market as a long-term strategic partner; foundation work 3) Upper structure: An excavator consists of an upper frame, which comand expected to have a positive influence on other large prises a cockpit and arm, among others, and a lower frame for moving potential customers in need of quality mining equipment. and stabilizing 26 27 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth Direction for Midto Long-term Enhancing Product To produce more competitive engine products, the Product Development company has shifted its product development direction To develop products more competitive and lay the toward technologies for alternative fuel and engine electriCompetitiveness foundation for long-term growth, Doosan Infracore fication, while focusing on the performance, fuel efficiency, constantly updates its direction for product development, durability, and reliability. To prepare for next-generation and formulates and implements strategies for developing emissions standards, the company is expanding the scope technologies and products in line with the direction. of its combustion technology R&D to include CNG, LNG, 02 The company sets a product development direction in and other alternative fuels. The company is preparing for consideration of such customer preferences as product engine products of the future by accumulating engine durability and convenience, such market trends as use electrification technologies, including hybrid engines. of eco-friendly fuels, and such base technologies as ICT. Doosan Infracore is preparing for and responding to the Under the direction, Doosan Infracore is developing hybrid market through development of ICT solution connection engine technology in the industrial engine sector. By and unmanned and automated equipment; zero-emissions developing an advanced 48V industrial hybrid powertrain1) equipment; and global platform equipment development. and conducting research on electrification of mechanical parts, the company seeks to secure relevant prerequisite In partnership with Trimble Inc., Doosan Infracore is technologies and build the foundation for growing into a the new products, concepts related to parts information, realizing machine controls (MC) and developing service total powertrain solution company. and equipment inspection. In particular, R&D personnel solutions linked with DoosanCONNECT™. It is also who have worked on the designing of the products, took developing unmanned and autonomous equipment in Developing New Engines to part as an instructor and provided an in-depth education cooperation with external solution-specializing firms. Strengthened Emissions Regulations on diverse subjects, ranging from development concept In addition, electric excavators are being developed in to product operation, helping trainees improve their response to emissions regulations toughening mainly According to its midto long-term product roadmap, Doosan understanding of the products. Service personnel of the in advanced countries. As such, Doosan Infracore is Infracore is focusing on developing new products that company’s European subsidiary who has completed enhancing product competitiveness by reflecting changes meet next-generation emissions standards, including EU advance training participated as a teaching assistant and in customer, social, environmental, and technological Stage V2) and China’s Stage IV emissions standards, while shared their practical know-how with trainees. Through development. also expanding its engine line-up and attracting customers both theoretical and practical training on a continued overseas. basis, the company will deliver as much information as possible to service personnel and thus establish its Stage V In January 2017, the company developed a compact engine as a competitive and sustainable product in G2 Stage V pilot engine in response to a scheduled Europe. enforcement of EU Stage V emissions standards, and after a series of thorough durability and quality tests, it plans Lovol Doosan Engine Company (LDEC), a joint venture of to mass-produce an improved version in 2019 when the Doosan Infracore and Lovol, has been developing a 3.4-liter regulation takes effect. The ultra-low fuel-consumption G2 engine (D34) as part of its plan to mass-produce an combustion (ULFC) technology, an upgraded version of engine that meets China’s Stage IV emissions standards, the combustion technology used in the production of an slated to be in effect at the end of 2020. The engine will earlier model of compact G2 engines, has been applied first be used in agricultural machinery to be manufacto the G2 Stage V model. Improved in fuel efficiency up tured by Lovol, and then introduced to the construction to 6% higher (based on D24) than the previous model, machinery and generator engine markets in China, to be the compact G2 Stage V engine boasts a best-in-class followed by emerging markets with emissions standards performance in terms of power, torque, durability, and similar to those in China. Doosan Infracore will develop reliability. The company also took actions to promote the midto long-term growth drivers by mass-producing sales of G2 Stage V engines, such as operating of a group next-generation engines to meet EU Stage V and China’s of teams dedicated to serving prospective customers and Stage IV emissions standards through advance quality provision of distinctive services. Thanks to the actions and management. to the superior performance features of the engine, the company signed large-scale supply contracts with global companies, including KION of Germany in 2017, and Baoli of China and Arbos of Italy in 2018. 1) Powertrain: Main components that generate power and deliver it to Prior to launching new products equipped with the Stage V the road surface, which include transmission, drive shaft, final drive, wheels, and tires engine, including excavators and wheel roaders, Doosan 2) Stage V: Emissions regulations enacted by the EU in relation to nonInfracore trained service personnel assigned in European road engines that went into effect starting in 2019 (regulates particulate markets for two weeks, covering technologies applied to matter and nitrogen oxide, etc.) 28 29 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth Strengthening Manufacturing Capabilities Increasing External Sales of Engines Doosan Infracore upgraded its Incheon excavator plant in Building a Foundation The global engine market turned upward in 2018 as Doosan Infracore has been seeking to diversify its 2016 into a production system flexible enough to reflect industry demand started to recover thanks to rising oil customer mix to better respond to changes in the global market conditions. The company has since adopted for Stable Profits and raw material prices in the second half of 2017. Riding engine market and ensure stable sales even in a slowing a number of advanced systems, including production on such market growth, Doosan Infracore set a record in market. In addition to internal sales for construction quality monitoring, modularized design application, and engine business sales and increased profit by making equipment and Doosan Bobcat, the company has been efficient production line operations, and as a result, it product mix improvements, such as increasing sales of increasing external sales by extending its market to include 03 was able to streamline job processes, reduce standard gasoline and large generator engines. vehicle, ship, and power generation. It is also pursuing work hours, shorten the distribution distance, increase business diversification and developing technologies per-capita production, and achieve other productivity-rerelevant to engine upstream and downstream sectors, as lated improvements. Moreover, the company expanded well as electronic and hybrid powertrains in an effort to the Fool Proof1) system to major processes with the goal of Average portion of external sales proactively respond to changes to come. In particular, the reducing production defects to zero and ensuring product of engine for the past three years company is developing new products, including a compact quality. It has also established a pull-based supply chain G2 Stage V-standard engine, that meet next-generation system which allows the supply of materials just enough emissions standards to increase external sales, thereby for production of one unit at a time, thereby minimizing the External sales securing long-term supply contracts and large captive waste of materials and lead time. customers, such as LDEC JV. Doosan Infracore operates its unique Doosan Production System (DPS) based on the Lean production method2) in order to ensure the production of consistently high-quality 47.7% products at all of its plants around the world. The DPS reflects Doosan Infracore’s unique systems of synchronize production, standardized manufacturing processes, and constant production line innovation. The DPS is composed of six principles – upkeep and constant upgrade of quality, on-time production, stable operation, full management support, and Team Doosan – and 22 subsequent modules. In order to institute the DPS, the company implements continuous activities such as conducting annual currentstate assessments of plants per module, establishing goals and plans for improvement, and tracking the status of improvement. As a result, the Incheon Plant improved its manufacturing lead time by 13% year-on-year in 2018; and the Gunsan Plant enhance its standard man hour by 9.3%. Doosan Infracore aims at a 15% productivity improvement in the midto long-term future by continually reducing production and work loss, improving standard MH, and adjusting line of balance (LOB)3) at its assembly lines. 1) Fool proof: A device designed to prevent human errors 2) Lean production method: Production system that maximizes production efficiency while keeping production capacity and resources, such as personnel and production facilities at the minimum required level 3) Line of balance (LOB): The efficiency of each unit process of production is analyzed so that improvements can be made to prevent bottlenecks 30 31 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth increasing the market confidence in its vehicle engines The establishment of LDEC JV in March 2018 with Lovol, and bolstering the competitiveness of its vehicle engine the largest agricultural machinery company in China, has business by further strengthening the market competitivemade it possible for high-quality engines produced in ness of the Euro 6 diesel engines which were launched in Korea for advanced markets and economic ones produced 2017, and continuously improving quality and expanding in China for emerging markets to complement each other. customer PR activities. Targeting the vehicle engine markets The joint venture also is expected to generate a great deal of Asian countries which has been relatively lagging behind of synergy in the engine business as it sources engine on emissions regulation, the company is expanding its parts and resources in China through Lovol’s extensive sales beginning with Vietnam. Vietnam’s commercial business network and exports finished products through vehicle market is growing fast, and its vehicle engine market Doosan Infracore’s global sales network. In September DX22 is forecast to grow with the strengthened CO2 emissions 2018, LDEC JV held a start-up ceremony for its 3.4-liter regulations. Accordingly, Doosan Infracore is expanding its G2 engine (D34) produced in China. This engine is the business portfolio beyond supplying of complete engines product of localizing the eco-friendly, high-efficiency to include supplying half-finished products more suitable compact G2 engine developed by Doosan Infracore to High-performance, for vehicle production. In August 2018, Doosan Infracore meet China’s Stage IV emissions standards, slated for eco-friendly engine signed a three-party LOI on the Indonesian National Engine 2020. The D34 engine will be first applied to Lovol’s Produce 20% more Manufacturing Project to advance into the Indonesian agricultural machinery. In March 2019, a groundbreaking power than the existing market, the largest of engine markets in Southeast Asia. ceremony was held for LDEC JV’s engine plant. Scheduled mechanical-type engine The other two parties are PT Boma Bisma Indra (BBI), a to be completed in June 2020, the plant will comprise such of the same class local state-run engine manufacturer, and a local dealer. production facilities that reflect Doosan Infracore’s engine This LOI is in line with the Indonesian government’s production know-how, as an engine block processing The best-in-class fuel and oil efficiency diesel engine localization policy which aims at promoting line, engine assembly line, and parts warehouse, as well the manufacturing industry. By signing the LOI, Doosan as a research lab proto shop, parts quality measurement Infracore has effectively established the foundation for lab and other research facilities. Once completed, the targeting the Indonesian engine market, including parts plant can produce up to 50,000 compact G2 engines (D18, supply, sale, and production. The LOI has also served as D24, D34), and with an additional production line soon As a result, Doosan Infracore signed a contract with As the shale gas markets has recently recovered in North an opportunity for the company to go beyond generator afterward, another 50,000 units, which brings total units Germany’s KION, a world-leading forklift company, in America and Europe, which had remained stagnated in engine sales and expand sales of diverse engines, to over 100,000. As LDEC JV plans to make inroads into June 2017 to supply around 67,000 compact G2 engines the past weighed down by low oil prices, demand for including vehicle, industrial, and vessel engines, in emerging markets with emissions standards similar to by 2028. Three more engine supply contracts followed in diesel and gas generator engines has been on the rise. Indonesia. By taking an integral part in the Indonesia those of China, Doosan Infracore will provide full support 2018 from global companies, including Baoli in China and Leveraging its full line-up of generator engines, ranging project after its entry of the Vietnamese vehicle engine so that the joint venture can perform as well as it has Arbos in Italy, totaling some 43,000 engines. To Baoli, the from mechanical-type engines to the latest in electronic market, the company has secured a strategic beachhead done in the generator engine and construction equipment Chinese fork lift subsidiary of KION, the company will be engines, Doosan Infracore is meeting market demands from which to advance into a high-potential Southeast engine markets in China. supplying around 13,000 compact G2 Stage V engines by not only in the Middle East but also in North America and Asian engine market. Doosan Infracore will strengthen its 2025 which will be used to power the buyer’s main export Europe, while also focusing on attract new customers. global stature as a power solution provider. models. The company also has signed a letter of intent At the Middle East Electricity (MEE) held in March 2019, Increasing AM Sales (LOI) with Arbos, a tractor manufacturer in Italy, on diesel the company unveiled seven generator engine models, Doosan Infracore has been increasing its efforts to expand engine development and supply. A 1.8to 3.4-liter G2 including the DX22 mass-production model unveiled last after market (AM) business and diversify the customer engines will be developed for agricultural machinery and a year as a pilot product. The 22-liter large electronic engine mix to build a revenue structure that can generate total of 27,000 units will be supplied for six years starting DX22 produces superior power compared to its competitors stable sales even in slowdown of markets. To expand in 2020. Thanks to this LOI, Doosan Infracore now has a in the same class. This high-performance, eco-friendly AM business, the company focused on several areas in complete line-up of engines to cover all European markets engine can produce 20% more power than the DV22, 2018 – bolstering the fundamental competitiveness of for engines, ranging from those for construction equipment its mechanical-type predecessor of the same class. Its products through parts captive1) and development of and forklifts to engines for agricultural use, and has thus improved compatibilities and extended parts replacement economy-type parts; optimizing global PDC-centered secured opportunities for further business expansion. By cycle have led to improved customer convenience. In fuel parts supply networks; launching remanufactured engine establishing a strategic partnership with a global brand, and oil consumption as well, the engine outperforms its business; developing part kits, such as filter kit and engine as a follow-up to that with Doosan Bobcat, the leader of competitors. With the launch of the DX22, Doosan Infracore overhaul kit; enhancing service quality by improving AM the compact construction equipment markets in North plans to enter the large electric generator engine market. personnel skills; and expanding marketing through service America and Europe, and to that with Germany’s KION, the solution development and customer communication. As world’s second-largest forklift company, Doosan Infracore In addition to a Stage V engine, Doosan Infracore develops a result of these efforts, sales amounted to KRW 241.7 is steadily strengthening its position in the engine market vehicle engines to emissions standards of all countries, billion (excluding special equipment and attachment and stably expanding external sales. and have them installed in buses, trucks, and commercial performance), a year-on-year rise of 17%. vehicles across the world. The company has been 1) Parts captive: Making parts that go into finished products into a company brand 32 33 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth PDC Network Expanding Value-selling (As of April 2019) Continued collaboration between Doosan Infracore and dealers is important for increasing AM sales and profits as Doosan Infracore implements a value-selling strategy well as improving service quality. The company therefore which looks beyond selling products to offer solutions, held the ‘2018 Parts & Service Sales Representative (PSSR) such as product consulting and services based on Seattle, U.S. Atlanta, U.S. Cardiff, U.K. Yantai, China Ansan, Korea Seminar’ in Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, understanding of customer needs and trust. This strategy (2019) (2018) (1996) (1996) (1994) and Oceania, and trained PSSRs on how to improve AM enables the company to establish strong customer sales and service in their respective region. Through relations based on which it is attracting large-scale PSSR Seminars, the company strengthened dealers’ customers and signing highly-profitable fleet deals. In PSSR capabilities by providing its unique, specialized 2018, the company chose value-selling target countries training as part of the task, ‘generating profits through by region and provided field training to dealers’ sales excellent services.’ Dealers and PSSRs were educated personnel as well as various tools for increasing their on the characteristics and strengths of genuine parts, understanding of equipment. The company also practiced effective sales skills and strategies, and operating value-selling by explaining about diverse solutions that DoosanCONNECT™. Also included in the trained were are of great interest to customers and can be used at equipment operation and maintenance. training and sales sites. ‘Doosan Equipment Sales,’ an application developed to combine and integrate data that Doosan Infracore has developed the ‘Smart Maintenance’ are dispersed among different channels, contributes to service, a product that provides genuine parts and mainteexpand value-selling. This application enables dealers to nance service solutions based on equipment status carry out value standardized sales focused on delivering Miami, U.S. Americana, Brazil Halle, Germany Dubai Singapore information collected through DoosanCONNECT™, and value to customers. It is used at sales sites and helps (2017) (2012) (2017) (2013) (2012) conducted a pilot project targeting Southeast Asian imprint Doosan Infracore’s expertise and quality in the countries in 2018. Smart Maintenance consists basically of minds of customers. In fact, the Doosan Equipment Sales three sub-products of different capacity – Light, Standard, application was used in the presentation of Doosan and Premium. The main difference among the sub-products product strengths, productivity comparisons and total cost Doosan Infracore has been developing genuine parts The operation of the German PDC has substantially is the degree to which detailed program contents can be of ownership (TCO) to a South American mining company, through its Parts Captive Project since 2017. Parts captive improved the company’s ability to respond to European adjusted depending on the market environment and the resulting in winning of a contract. has such benefits as increased sales of genuine parts, market demands for engine parts. The regular order dealer’s program execution capabilities. Doosan Infracore smooth development and modification R&D activities shipment cycle substantially improved from monthly to will develop a set of Smart Maintenance service solution Doosan Infracore will systematize its value-selling strategy application, and minimization of the price influencing weekly, while the time it takes to meet an urgent order products, each of which reflecting the respective region’s by dealer competency and customer and gradually develop factors of new products. Doosan Infracore included parts from customers or dealers was considerably reduced needs and strategic direction, and sell the regionallyconstruction site consulting capabilities in connection captive in its new product development (NPD) process. from an average of seven days to no more than two days. customized service solution products together with its with the Concept-X project. To this end, the company will At a monthly council meeting participated by around 20 In April 2019, Doosan Infracore opened its Seattle PDC global DoosanCONNECT™ service plan. further fine-tune the value-selling strategy and expand working-level managers from relevant departments, the to better serve customers and dealers in the northwest the application of the strategy to on-site sales, thereby company shares and discusses a list of parts selected for region of North America. Doosan Infracore will offer more improved products and achieving stable growth and striking the right growth-profit parts captive and moves forward with internalization. As service solutions that enable customers to save more on balance. a result of such efforts, the percentage of genuine parts Doosan Infracore has integrated global planning and equipment operation costs, while providing parts and carrying the Doosan Infracore brand rose from 40% in master data, including Service Parts Planning (SPP), a services trusted by customers. 2017 to 45% in 2018. In addition, the company develops module the company uses to unify inventory and parts and sells economy-type parts for more price-conscious availability standards which had been different per customers. Quality of economy-type parts is assured and subsidiary in the past, with the goal of supplying parts guaranteed by Doosan Infracore. in a more systematic and efficient manner. As a result, the company’s ability to supply parts to customers has It is important for customer satisfaction that rights parts improved markedly. In addition, the company operates become available and the repair gets done correctly as Manufacturer Managed Inventory (MMI), a method of soon as possible upon receipt of a customer request for forecasting parts demand and suggesting to dealers a equipment repair. Doosan Infracore therefore operates list of recommended parts to have in stock. This enables 10 Parts Distribution Centers (PDCs) and has established acquisition of necessary parts in advance, stabilizes a global parts supply system. In 2018, the company parts supply and minimizes lead time. In 2018, MMI increased parts availability and the speed of its responses was carried out to 10 countries, resulting in a number of to parts quests in the mid-west and east regions of North positive outcomes. It will be carried out to an additional 11 America by rebuilding its Atlanta PDC in the U.S. The countries in 2019. company also established an engine PDC in Halle, near Leipzig of Germany, covering the entire European market. ‘Doosan Equipment Sales’ application 34 35 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Customer Value Special Equipment 9 Material Handler Amphibious Excavator Demolition Log Loader Electric Excavator Product Line-up Front Shovel Car Dismantler Super Long Reach Giant Ripper* CUSTOMER 01  Enhancing Product Quality 02 Developing Products to Meet Customer Needs VALUE * Launched in 2018 03 Enhancing Service Competitiveness Awards DL280-5 wheel loader DoosanCONNECT™ Made the top 50 annual list Received the Grand Prize among heavy duty equipment at the 2018 IoT Innovation by ForConstructionPros.com Awards organized and Equipment Today by KIPFA 36 37 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Customer Value Enhancing related to its construction equipment (including DICC) Risk Management Framework and engine operations since January 2019. Based on the operational risks identified through the risk management Product Quality Organization Culture Policy & Strategy framework, such as risks related to production/purchase/ • Communicate risk • R  isk management policy quality/technology/sales, the Quality Management Team management • Risk management standards identifies key risks to be managed and sets up contingency • Manage internal changes Leadership plans accordingly, thereby establishing systematic risk 01 management measures. System Process • Develop risk management •S  et risk assessment Continually Improving Basic Quality systems guidelines Doosan Infracore is conducting quality-improvement • Define risk management • Assess and respond activities and building a work environment that honors methods Management • Monitor and report Organization the basics and standards with the goal of substantially • Appoint a risk manager improving its basic quality level. Every year, the company for each team identifies the most urgent of quality issues to be addressed • Define teams and and accordingly takes appropriate steps in order to risk managers by risk enhance quality and customer satisfaction. In 2018, 61 issues were identified and 95% of them were addressed, and as a result, basic quality issues dropped by 27%. to be strengthened. The newly-established QMS reflects the latest ISO 9001:2015 content, including stakeholder needs Verifying Equipment Durability and anticipations as well as risk management, and consists Doosan Infracore conducts various tests and thorough of items diagnosis related to management responsibility, reliability evaluations on all its products, including development/parts/manufacturing/market quality, and excavators and engines, to ensure that they perform to resource management. their full specifications in any environments as long as their lifespan. In 1996, the company established the Doosan Infracore plans to conduct a regular QMS diagnosis Reliability Evaluation Center at its Incheon Plant equipped twice a year of production/purchase/quality, R&D, and with the latest in testing facility and equipment, including sales and service units of its construction equipment an environmental tolerance laboratory, large unechoic (including DICC) and engine businesses starting in 2019. chamber, and vibration test laboratory. The center tests Based on diagnosis results, the company seeks to create and evaluates product durability and structural safety in a a virtuous cycle of identifying of tasks, monitoring of wide range of work environments. improvement on the tasks, and verifying of the effectiveness of improvements made, thus continuing to upgrade Construction equipment is used mostly in deserts, QMS Operation Process the QMS. In particular, to strengthen the execution plateaus, wetlands, and other harsh environments. capability in making improvements, the company will Doosan Infracore therefore tested the performance and QMS Diagnosis Strengthening PDCA1)-based Process Operation review diagnosis results and set up how to improve the durability of its construction equipment in extremely cold • Target: Construction equipment In 2018, Doosan Infracore created the Quality Management tasks together with diagnosed departments, share the areas in 2014, for the first time in the history of Korea’s (including DICC) and engine Define Tasks Team dedicated to diagnosing and verifying all quality progress of each task at the Integrated Quality Conference, construction equipment industry, and has continued the businesses  gree on diagnosis findings • A controls in its construction equipment (including DICC) and strengthen monitoring. Through systematic operations test in a bid to overcome limits of the low-temperature • Scope: Operation, R&D, sales, services • Establish plans to execute tasks and engine business operations in a bid to strengthen of the new QMS, Doosan Infracore will quickly reflect testing facility at the Reliability Evaluation Center. the structure and management of its quality controls, and internal/external requirements and changes in its further strengthened quality control and risk management operations, and faithfully act on improvements derived Doosan Infracore plans to construct a proving ground systems. The company had previously operated its quality from QMS diagnoses. (PG) in the second half of 2019 in Boryeong City, South management system (QMS), which covers quality strategy Chungcheong Province to more thoroughly test its and key performance indicators (KPIs), organization, Doosan Infracore operates a risk management system in construction equipment products. With completion of the management, quality awareness, and competency based order to preemptively manage various risks common in Boryeong PG, the company is expected to test and evaluate Verify Improvements Task Management on the ISO 9001:2008. Doosan Infracore added diverse today’s uncertain business environment, and quickly and its products in a more realistic environment and to ratchet • Verify improvements • Review remedial steps through site audit, etc. by task contents to the existing QMS, such as findings of its review effectively responds to emerging risks from a perspective up its product quality and performance to another level. • Document the • Report remedy-related of internal/external environmental changes; improvement covering the entirety of its value chain. For the purpose of improvement measures issues to management measures it derived by evaluating potential issues in systematic risk management, the company has established the QMS; and the need to expand the diagnosis to areas a risk management framework consisting of five items outside of production, purchase, and quality. By doing so, – policy & strategy, process, management organization, the company re-established the way to diagnose its QMS system, and organizational culture – and detailed operation 1) PDCA: Technique used to achieve goals through plan-do-check-act in 2018 and re-defined operational management measures plans by item which have been applied to departments repetition 38 39 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Customer Value Special Equipment that Reflects Customer Needs Doosan Infracore preemptively analyzes market needs, and based on that, it releases special equipment and attachments and diversifies its product portfolio in order to expand into new markets. The company has developed and sells diverse special equipment product groups that meet specific local needs and fit customer work environments, including a material handler, amphibious excavator, demolition, log loader, and electric excavator. As a result, special equipment and attachment sales reached KRW 85.4 billion in 2018. In 2018, Doosan Infracore expanded its special equipment line-up by launching a giant ripper DX520 RP especially DX520 RP Giant Ripper for areas where rocks are either too weak for breaker work Developing or too strong for bucket work. Encouraged by the DX520 RP’s strong sales performance in the Chinese market, the Products to Meet company plans to release it in emerging markets. Doosan Infracore will provide job solutions customized Customer Needs Doosan Infracore also launched the DL280-5, a wheel loader of improved capabilities, including the ability to to different work environments and continue its robust growth through market diversification based on its raise its bucket higher than before when loading materials portfolio of special equipment and attachments whose onto a truck. Developed for use in industrial waste and diverse usage was developed in line with customer needs. recycling treatment facilities, the DL280-5 is built with To this end, the company will expand the cross-adoption 02 key components of enhanced durability and air filter of models developed for different regions in 2019. It will with extended life-time. Also equipped with devises that also strengthen the product line-up through in-house respond to DoosanCONNECT™, the equipment’s current development and ODM expansion, and further expand location, work hours, fuel consumption rates, and other its sales coverage by strengthening cooperative ties with data can be remotely monitored real time. In September global special equipment organizations. 2018, the DL280-5 made the top 50 annual list among heavy duty equipment by ForConstructionPros.com and Equipment Today, well-respected industry magazines in Strengthening Customer Relations North America. Introduced in 2011, the top 50 annual list is through Customization Plant based on customer opinions of new products introduced Doosan Infracore has been operating the Europe Customithrough on/offline media during the year. The selection zation Plant (EuCup) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, a of Doosan Infracore’s DL280-5 is another testimony to the nation with the most cargo volume in Europe, since 2016. high popularity that the new product enjoys. Using a semi knock down (SKD) supply method, the EuCup imports main body and front parts, such as arm and boom, and produces finished products to customers’ specifications. Prior to the operation of the EuCup, all of Doosan Infracore’s products sold in Europe were 100% produced and supplied from Korea, with very few exceptions in which specifications were modified to customer or dealer needs. In particular, when no products were ordered with specifications specified by customers in European, the lead time used to take as long as 16 weeks from production to shipment and delivery. Also, even after products were brought to Europe from Korea, difficulties arose due to differences among customer requirements. For this reason, Doosan Infracore came to the decision to operate an EuCup that can customize equipment to varying needs of European customers and enhance efficiencies in the operation of production facilities. 40 41 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Customer Value Special equipment and attachment of Doosan Infracore Customized equipment production at the EuCup consists With the North American and European market transfer in of inspecting products, upon their arrival from Korea in 2018, Doosan Infracore is establishing a North American accordance with customer specifications, which is followed Customization Plant (NaCup) based on the success of by assembly, testing, cleaning, painting, pre-delivery the EuCup with the goal of strengthening its ability to inspection (PDI), and final delivery. Stability regulation meet customer needs in the North American market. standards in Europe are diverse as environmental NaCup is scheduled to be completed in 2019 in the southstandards are high. The plant therefore is equipped with eastern area of Georgia, the U.S. based on the results a total of 257 types of basic equipment and outsources of a feasibility study carried out in 2018. By continually product assembly, specification change, and painting. expanding customer need-based production, with local customization plants performing a central role, Doosan The EuCup focuses its overall production, scheduling, and Infracore will increase customer satisfaction, enhance inventory efforts on improving the accuracy of its sales production efficiencies, and thus expand its presence in forecasts and strengthening the ability to accommodate advanced markets. a wider array of customer demands. Having stabilized its operations, the plant has substantially reduced the lead time from 16 weeks to 5.7 weeks as of 2017, with customer Results of EuCup Operations delivery accuracy rate improved to 93%. In addition, logistics cost is expected to decrease with the expanded application of the SKD production method. The two main Reduction in lead time 9.6 weeks reasons the EuCup became stable in operations in a short period are the ability to improve its production flexibility through the adoption of the SKD method and the mindset and attitude of its employees solely focused on keeping promises with customers. Another factor is the clear and effective communication between sales and production 5.7 weeks that led to proactive responds to customer demands. The EuCup’s next goals are to further reduce the lead time to five weeks through improvement of the accuracy of its demand forecasts and to enhance profit by customizing production to specific specifications. And in order to achieve these goals, the plant is looking into various measures. 2016 2017 Increase in customer delivery accuracy rate 93 % 61 % 2016 2017 Manufacturing site of the EuCup 42 43 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Customer Value Advancing the DoosanCONNECT™ Service Enhancing Service Doosan Infracore began offering telematics services in Telematics combines wireless communication and the 2005 in China, and in 2015, it launched DoosanCONNECT™, Strengths of DoosanCONNECT™ global positioning system (GPS), enabling the collection Doosan Infracore’s telematics service brand, to provide a Competitiveness and analysis of information, such as equipment location distinctive customer service. Efficiency • Increase worksite management efficiency and operational status, which in turn enables users to • Increase equipment management efficiency monitor operations using PCs, tablets, and mobile devices. DoosanCONNECT™ enables the user to monitor the • Increase work efficiency and curtail costs Through telematics, users can remotely identify where operational status of major parts, including engines and 03 their equipment is, how much work has been completed, hydraulic systems, of all Doosan Infracore’s construction Productivity and how it is operating. They can also ascertain the machinery equipped with telematics devices through the • Enhance work productivity status of consumables, and see if any of them need be DoosanCONNECT™ website (www.doosanconnect.com) or • Improve equipment management convenience replaced. Customers can thus remotely monitor and the mobile application. Doosan Infracore has also created • Increase equipment life expectancy diagnose their equipment, which can substantially a user interface (UI) based on opinions of customers, increase their work efficiencies. Dealers can determine if dealers, and regional service personnel about functions Safety there are errors in equipment and what parts are needed, and design of DoosanCONNECT™, and thus continues • Prevent safety accidents and act accordingly, thereby improving service quality. to improve user convenience and functionalities. And • Protect workers Manufacturers can analyze information collected through based on these improvements, Doosan Infracore officially • Prevent equipment defects telematics and improve their product quality by reflecting it launched the DoosanCONNECT™ mobile application in in production. In addition, it is possible to perform big data the Korean market in November 2018. New and existing analysis based on information thus accumulated. features were either added or strengthened in the application, such as those that allow sales dealers and quality status of equipment in operation via a dashboard; customers to chat, guide service personnel to customer analyze issues by region, equipment type and part; and Scan this QR code with a smartphone to find out locations via the shortest route possible, enable fleet analyze parts quality and defects by equipment type. more about DoosanCONNECT™ dealers to report, allow the user to check fuel status on This has enabled the company to reduce the time needed their equipment, and filter out data by region. for quality data analysis, thus establishing a system that enables a quick analysis and response. It can also be used Doosan Infracore is making progress in developing by relevant departments, such as R&D and service. telematics-based solution services to help customers better check the operation status of their equipment and For such diverse and superior features of Doosan manage them. ‘Fleet Management Report’ is an analysis CONNECT™, Doosan Infracore received the Grand Prize of data – equipment operation and work rates, real-time at the 2018 IoT Innovation Awards organized by Korea fuel efficiency, and error code – collected through the Internet Professionals Association (KIPFA). The IoT telematics service. The report has improved the company’s Innovation Awards is presented to companies and services access to the status of its products in the possession of that lead IoT innovation and development in various customers, for it enables data comparison of equipment industry groups. Its receipt of the award is a confirmation or equipment groups. The plan for 2019 is to provide of the industry’s view that Doosan Infracore maximizes equipment operation guide and consulting services in equipment operation efficiencies and user convenience connection with the Fleet Management Report function. by proactively offering IoT services in the construction equipment field as well as an acknowledgement of its In addition, as DoosanCONNECT™ makes possible an technological prowess. instant checking of equipment locations, operational information, and the replacement status of parts, customers can manage their equipment and business more efficiently and economically. Based on diverse equipment and operation data collected through DoosanCONNECT™, Doosan Infracore developed a Smart Maintenance service product providing a preemptive maintenance service to customers in addition to warranty services. Doosan Infracore started to use data collected through DoosanCONNECT™ for quality improvement to further enhance customer value, and thus made a ‘Global Field Quality Information System’ in 2018, which has strengthened the real-time analysis and visualization of information and field claim data collected through DoosanCONNECT™. Through the system, users can check DoosanCONNECT™ mobile app 44 45 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Customer Value Features of DoosanCONNECT™ Customers who have experienced the effectiveness of DoosanCARE are becoming buyers of Doosan Infracore’s products. In 2019, the company plans to further expand DoosanCARE to North American and European markets, while expanding DealerCARE in emerging markets, mainly Worksite Increased Preventive Strengthened Chile and Myanmar. management work efficiency inspection and service Location check; Equipment management Detection of Doosan Infracore will not only resolve customer complaints and daily, weekly, operation analysis; Management of equipment and monthly and fuel efficiency consumables, abnormality signals on product issues but also find new ways to maximize report management including filters and communication customer satisfaction by improving the quality of and oil rupture DoosanCARE. Strengthening Dealer Service Capabilities Doosan Infracore will continue to upgrade Doosan Doosan Infracore has been continuously improving the CONNECT™ to offer more advanced information and service capabilities of its dealers by providing quality functions. We will develop service solution products based training based on its standardized education and training on collected information through DoosanCONNECT™ and systems, such as Doosan Partners Academy (DPA), the establish an internal data analysis environment with the company’s flagship online training program for dealers; goal of further enhancing customer value. and Hands-on Training in which experts at headquarters use actual equipment identical to those found at worksites to train dealer service personnel on how to identify and Expanding DoosanCARE Services deal with some of the most common causes of customer systematic and professional for service personnel serving off-the-job-training, ‘hydraulic and electrical device service Doosan Infracore offers DoosanCARE to build up complaints. By doing so, Doosan Infracore is fostering South American customers. In 2019, the company plans certification training’ was conducted for two weeks from relationships and grow together with customers. dealer service personnel into a product service expert. to open training centers in Mexico, the largest market in November 26 through December 4 at the Colombia training DoosanCARE is a customer-tailored support service in These efforts of improving dealer service capabilities have Central America, Singapore, the hub of Southeast Asia, center. The trainees were selected among outstanding which service experts visit customers, irrespective of not only led to higher customer value but also evolved into and Ghana, an emerging market force in western Africa. service personnel of dealers in seven Latin American whether they have product or warranty issues, and offer a competitive advantage unique to Doosan Infracore. countries, including Colombia, Chile, and Argentina, who equipment management consulting and maintenance In 2018, Doosan Infracore expanded off-the-job as well had completed the DPA with excellent grades. It is the first training. In the process of providing this service, the To train dealer service personnel in line with market size as in-depth training courses to strengthen its service certification training course conducted at the Colombia company listens to customer opinions so as to identify and growth rates as well as in a systematic and coherent expertise and quality. For two weeks from June 24 through training center. Doosan Infracore plans to continue the and address any problems that customers may have manner, Doosan Infracore opened up a training center July 5, 2018, the first off-the-job training, titled ‘Technical certification training at the Colombia training center in experienced while using Doosan Infracore products. in Colombia in 2018 for the South American region. The Service Training’, was conducted to improve the skills of 2019 to strengthen the service capabilities of its Latin training center was established to overcome limits of the service personnel of major dealers in Africa, including American dealers. In 2018, the company has made a new version of previous training method – trainers used to visit individual Egypt, Algeria, and Sudan. The off-the-job training, of DoosanCARE led by its headquarters, and is providing dealers, and the level and quality of training depended on which curriculum consisting of electric and hydraulic Doosan Infracore also holds ‘Doosan Service Contest’ to DealerCARE in some countries, including Indonesia and dealer circumstances and resources different by market, courses, is developed for trainees who have completed the motivate dealer service personnel and boost their pursuit Colombia. To this end, the company offered DoosanCARE such as expertise of training personnel and availability of required online courses offered by the DPA. The off-the-job of excellence in customer service. Following up on the guidelines and relevant training to dealers so that budget. By equipping the training center with an array of courses were conducted in a hands-on manner, enabling first contest held in 2014, the company held the second local customers can receive a DealerCARE service of equipment necessary for complete and thorough training, trainees to test their learned knowledge on equipment and contest in 2018, participated by 45 service personnel from which quality is as high as DoosanCARE offered by the the company has enabled hands-on training that is more thus improve their understanding of equipment and parts. 30 emerging markets. The finals of the 2nd Contest will be headquarters in Korea. After the training, trainees were tested on their knowledge held in Korea in July 2019. A headquarters training program and skills and accordingly certified. The second off-the-job will be provided to participants of the finals. Doosan As a result of the DoosanCARE service jointly offered by training was an in-depth hydraulic training course Infracore plans to expand the contest into advanced headquarters and dealers in 2018, 852 units of equipment organized by the headquarters PS Team and held in Korea markets and develop it into a global contest where dealers were examined in 35 countries, thereby more proactively in the September. Provided to service personnel of dealers and their service experts from all over the world gather at responding to customer requirements. In Korea, Doosan in emerging markets, the hydraulic training is the last step one place and share their passions for excellence. Infracore has developed a training program for customers of the technical service training consisting of three steps— as well as actual equipment users on equipment characterelementary, intermediate and advanced. Outstanding istics and major maintenance points, which has helped dealer service personnel selected among those who prevent equipment breakdowns and contributed to further had locally completed the elementary and intermediate improve customer value. courses were trained on diagnosing and fixing problems related to hydraulic parts, using the in-house developed Doosan Partners Academy (DPA), online training program learning material Trouble Shooting Guide (TSG). As the last 46 47 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Innovation New Technology Directions for Digital Transformation Operational Innovation through Digitalization Transformation 01 02 01 Concept-X 02 Operational Innovation through INNOVATION Smart Solution & Service Digital Transformation 03 03 New Business New Business Innovation Tele-Operation Succeeded transnational ultra-long range remote control for the first time in the global construction equipment industry Shanghai, China 880 km Doosan Infracore Incheon Plant Munich, Germany 8,537 km Doosan Infracore Incheon Plant 48 49 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Innovation The infrastructure industry is one of the slowest in adopting digitalization despite many inefficiencies within the industry. To break away from As one of the outcomes of such collaboration, the Concept of 5G-based remote control of construction equipment this industry trait and to keep its growth sustainable amid fast changes in customer and industry landscapes, Doosan Infracore launched company unveiled ‘Tele-Operation,’ a 5G-based technology the Digital Transformation project in 2018. Rather than simply adopt digital technologies, the company seeks to innovate construction and • Install cameras on equipment • Attach sensors to the boom, arm, for remote control of construction equipment. Jointly construction equipment operation industries, and thus create sustainable customer value through digital transformation of the business. (overall, left, center, right); and bucket, and other parts of the excavator; developed with LG Uplus, the tele-operation technology film the work environment and measure three-dimensional site Send to the remote control information Support the remote was first demonstrated at the Bauma China 2018 in a Doosan Infracore’s digital transformation consists of three pillars – smart solution & service, operational innovation through digital station control operator by using MG and machine remote control of an excavator located about 880 km away transformation, and new business innovation. The ‘smart solution & service’ envisions a digital innovation that provides total infrastructure control technologies from the Incheon Plant, which was an industry record in solutions, going beyond manufacturing operations. Included in infrastructure solutions are such digital technologies as telematics, Remote control station Remotely-controlled transnational distance of real-time remote equipment electrification, and unmanned and automation technologies. ‘Operational innovation through digitalization’ involves more than improving construction equipment control. Video images of the excavator at work taken by five internal operations, and it centers on connecting the upstream and downstream value chain and optimizing work using data. Lastly, ‘new attached cameras (overall, left, center, right, bottom) were business innovation’ signifies integration and innovation transcending industry boundaries. To this end, the company is making various live-streamed through an ultra-low latency2) network and attempts, including investment in and collaboration with start-ups as well as new business incubation. shown on the monitors at the exhibition, giving viewers a sense of feeling that they were at the actual work site watching the excavator in operation. Also introduced at the demonstration is Doosan Infracore’s ‘3D Machine Guidance (MG)’ system which precisely measures the dimensions of the excavation work area, using sensors attached to Concept-X Concept-X – Shaping the Future of Construction Equipment Germany 5G base station Korea the boom, arm, bucket, and other parts of the excavator. Therefore, the combined application of the tele-operation Information and communications technology (ICT) and 3D MG technologies supports the remote operation and artificial intelligence (AI)-related technologies are creating opportunities to generate new added value. Once of unmanned machinery at worksites, as it enables the rapidly emerging as key future technologies. Against completed, the Concept-X will contribute to improving operator, watching precise topographical data and video 01 this backdrop, unmanned and automation technologies productivity at construction sites, reducing safety risks, images on the screen, carry out work without the help of a developed mainly in the automobile industry are quickly and alleviating labor shortages in the aging era by testing surveyor. spreading throughout construction equipment business, technologies that are optimized to future construction resulting in creation of new products and services. sites, such as unmanned and autonomous equipment, At the Bauma 2019 held in Munich, Germany in April, the construction site measurement using drones, and company succeeded in remote control of an excavator Doosan Infracore launched the Concept-X project 5G1)-based remote control. At the center of the Concept-X 8,537 km away, which is around 10 times of the distance centering on testing the feasibility of new technologies is ‘X-Center’ which monitors and controls the overall work (880 km) covered in the remote control demonstration at Doosan Concept-X prior to adopting them to construction equipment in process, including work site analysis and vehicle control; the Bauma China. In addition to the 3D MG, the company 2017, with the goal of satisfying customer needs and and drones are used to ascertain and measure the worksite unveiled such machine control technologies as ‘Auto environment through 3D scanning. Also, equipment can Grading Assist’ which assists high-skilled leveling work, Concept of the Concept-X be operated unmanned based on topographical data. and ‘E-fence’, a safety function that stops the equipment if To complete the Concept-X, the company is focusing on it moves outside the pre-set parameters of the work area. securing unmanned and automation technologies for 3D mapping construction sites, such as drone survey, plan-based Doosan Infracore is preparing for demonstration of an worksite analysis, unmanned/manned construction integrated vehicle recognition and control system using Truck dumping equipment control systems, unmanned excavator/wheel overall Concept-X technologies and solutions at the loader equipment, and remote construction equipment Boryeong PG, slated for completion in November 2019. control. For successful construction of the Concept-X, With completion of the Concept-X, which is a product and Slope Driving Doosan Infracore is carrying out diverse forms of open solution optimized for future construction sites, Doosan innovation, such as collaboration and technological Infracore will take the lead in expanding and shifting into Analyze the worksite and optimize operations development with professional companies, investments in construction site solutions that support safer and more start-ups, and industry-academia cooperation. Moreover, efficient work, and contribute to customer convenience X-Center the company is moving forward with full speed to develop and value creation. technologies of diverse application in partnership with Trenching Autonomous loading various players in order to secure a distinctive competitive advantage. An initial cooperation with Trimble Inc. was followed by an alliance with LG Uplus for 5G-based remote control technology development, an equity investment in PoteNit, a soaring start-up in the autonomous driving 1) 5G: A network service that can transmit data 100 times more and 20 area, collaboration with Bosch and ASI, superior in AI times faster than LTE, enabling hyper-connected, ultra-high-speed, ultralow-latency (End-to-end delivery time is extremely short in machine-type Autonomous digging and loading and unmanned technologies, respectively, as well as communication) services cooperation with Hanyang University for development of 2) Ultra-low latency: Terminology for extremely short end-to-end delivery integrated control systems. time in machine-type communication 50 51 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Innovation In 2018, the company worked on strengthening operation will be available for use at worksites in the form of management and data collection by building a global comprehensive information, such as logistics flows Manufacturing Execution System (MES) 1) platform of process materials and quality-related information, under the strategy of IT platform integration. IT platform thus enabling more efficient production activities. integration centers on setting standards for IT platforms Doosan Infracore seeks cost/quality/customer service and overhauling and linking all IT systems in the entire innovations, such as improving production efficiencies, value chain, including product development, supply chain shortening the order-to-delivery (OTD) lead time, management, production/quality/facility, and sales and optimizing inventory, and reducing production defects by services. Once all IT platforms are fully integrated and operating the global MES platform, with an aim to build a linked, including those related to production operation, smart, intelligent factory and thus secure a global top-tier material/process distribution, process/parts quality manufacturing advantage. control, facility maintenance/control and other stand-alone systems, it will become possible to manage all work In April 2019, Doosan Infracore established a strategic Operational processes and use all data across the entire value chain, thereby improving both work efficiency and product quality. partnership with Palantir, a US-based unicorn start-up2) in the area of big data. Palantir provides a big data platform Innovation through To build a more advanced global MES platform, Doosan for use in diverse fields, including government, finance, and manufacturing, and provides support for financial Digital Transformation Infracore is working on system integration and standardization with a focus on integrating and linking different risk preemption as well as corporate productivity and quality enhancement. Through its strategic partnership data related to processes, facilities and products; with Palantir, Doosan Infracore plans to build a big data strengthening real-time field controls; improving data platform and thus optimize its business operations and visibility across the whole value chain; and establishing improve the decision-making process. Doosan Infracore 02 the foundation for an autonomous plant where real-time continues to focus on visualizing all data across its entire process control is possible. Begun in July 2018, the global operations and cooperating based on the data with MES platform project is scheduled to be completed in the goal of improving organizational efficiency of the early 2021. Once the global MES platform is upgraded, company. production/process plans and execution data, all fully integrated and connected with one another by then, Moreover, Doosan Infracore plans to expand the range of management beyond its production operations and quality support for supplier to include distribution in order to achieve digital transformation across the entire value chain. Moving forward, the company will go beyond Digital Innovation of Operations digitalization of work processes, and reflect, in its midto Doosan Infracore’s direction to achieve Digital technology is being applied to all industries Doosan Infracore has been moving forward with operation long-term business plan, its unique digital transformation operational innovation through digital transformation in an all-encompassing way, including construction efficiency enhancement and optimization by adopting strategy of creating substantive customer value in line equipment manufacturing, thus facilitating innovation. diverse IT systems. To make further progress, the company with its strategic direction. By doing so, Doosan Infracore Accordingly, companies are responding to the change by seeks operation optimization by strengthening the will introduce new value based on digital technology to moving forward with a digital transformation of their own collection and connection as well as increasing visibility the market, and engage in diverse activities so as to grow centering on expanding data collection, strengthening of all data being generated throughout the whole value Efficient & Easy Way Operation automation and into an innovative company that constantly capitalizes on connection and analysis, and improving data visibility in chain, ranging from all of its operations, including of Working changing how work is done business opportunities. a bid to enhance operation efficiencies and generate new production, R&D, quality control, and sales, to customers value. based on the establishment and execution of strategies Optimal & Flexible Optimizing data analysis-based of innovating operations through midto long-term digital Operation operations In 2018, Doosan Infracore held active discussions with transformation. By doing so, Doosan Infracore aims to professional consulting firms on digital transformation, become a more efficient company. End-to-end Visibility Gaining data visibility and building and as a result, established the direction for and a a data-based collaboration platform roadmap of digital transformation with regards to Doosan Infracore has established the direction and innovating operations. Beginning with tasks related to is promoting successful execution of the operation Base Process & System Operation management data collection, the company is focusing on securing optimization through digital transformation. The direction and data collection data visibility and building a data-based collaboration consists of operation management and data collection platform. (Base Process & System), gaining data visibility and building a data-based collaboration platform (End-to-end 1) Manufacturing Execution System (MES): Production management system that indicates production plan, work order, material requirement, Visibility), optimizing data analysis-based operations productivity analysis, etc. (Optimal & Flexible Operation), and changing how work is 2) Unicorn start-up: A start-up that is assessed as having corporate value done (Efficient & Easy Way of Working). of at least USD 1 billion 52 53 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Innovation Building Up Competitiveness As a company that has been holding fast to its vision and autonomous construction equipment. Through such an through New Business thus preparing for the next logical step, Doosan Infracore investment, the company seeks to further advance the Developing solutions in machinery manufacturing is strives to develop new technology and new business in unmanned and automation technologies that it has been crucial to creation of new business opportunities and thus cooperation with professional firms specializing in the developing jointly with PoteNit since 2015 and to expand a survival in a global market of increasing uncertainty technological, environmental and social areas, and thus the technologies to areas outside construction equipment. and rapid evolution. In particular, convergence of various securing competitiveness for future growth, while diligently technologies is required to build a total solution system adopting itself to various market environments. For In addition to external cooperation in diverse areas, the that can provide greater value to customers. The construcconstruction sites, the company is fine-tuning solutions to company is building a virtuous cycle by implementing an tion equipment industry is going beyond traditional the problems of falling productivity, a rising accident rate, internal process in which development of new business equipment sales and maintenance to provide solutions and a growing manpower shortage in the aging society. ideas as well as viable ways to commercialize them are New Business to productivity improvement. Its business areas are expanding in the direction of offering diverse value to To this end, it is carrying out technology development, including unmanned and autonomous equipment, aerial encouraged. In 2019, Doosan Infracore plans to launch and commercialize new businesses that it has been customers. Major advanced construction equipment survey of construction sites using drones, and remote developing. companies are therefore breaking away from the traditional control based on high speed network technology. Also framework of equipment manufacturing, and instead being developed are future eco-friendly technologies, such Under the vision ‘Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions,’ are seeking to offer customers products and solutions as electricity and hybrid. Doosan Infracore will continue to grow its existing that reflect the latest in digital technology. These include businesses based on its global competitiveness, while 03 hybrid excavators, products equipped with unmanned Doosan Infracore is also looking into ways of cooperating actively developing new business leveraging its cuttingand autonomous technologies, and telematics-based with various start-up not only at home but also abroad, edge technologies. By doing so, the company will secure equipment management solutions. There has been a sharp including those in Silicon Valley, in order to develop additional revenue sources and growth drivers, thereby increase in the spread of solutions and technologies that cutting-edge technologies. A particular focus is on continually expanding its business scope as a total maximize operation efficiencies through the automation discovering start-ups with digital technologies that can solution provider. of equipment and digitalization of worksites throughout complement Doosan Infracore’s business, including various industries, ranging from mining and agriculture to autonomous driving and industrial internet of things, manufacturing, distribution, and construction. and on exploring various modes of cooperation, such as partnership and equity investment. In April 2018, the company signed an investment contract with PoteNit, Korea’s leading autonomous driving start-up, thus shifting into high gear in its drive for developing unmanned and 54 55 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Our Responsibility At the center of Doosan Infracore’s management is sustainability. As a global market force and local community member, we will keep 58 our business growth sustainable by creating outstanding economic, CSR Structure social, and environmental values across our global operations. 64 Employees 71 Environment, Health & Safety 79 Governance & Integrity 85 Suppliers 89 Product Quality & Stewardship 95 Communities 56 57 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility CSR Structure CSR Management System CSR Promotion System CSR Strategies and Strategic Tasks Doosan Infracore conducts its CSR activities, in cooperation with Human Rights and Labor Practices, Environment, Fair Operations, Doosan Group aims to grow into one of the Top 100 Global CSR implement eight CSR strategic tasks, including the establishment its business sites around the world, led by the CSR Part and CSR Customer Values, and Local Communities subcommittees. Led by Leading Companies by 2025, and has been establishing its CSR of an ESG framework and indicators, test-driving of the Concept-X Committee at its headquarters in Korea. The CSR Part, as the BG (Business Group) heads and division heads, the subcommittees strategy system accordingly. Doosan Infracore strives to lead the and development of new business model, and development coordination organization responsible for promoting the company’s are flexibly organized and run according to strategic CSR tasks, realization of the Group’s CSR goal and satisfy the requirements of of prerequisite technologies for hybrid powertrain, through overall CSR initiatives, is in charge of establishing CSR strategies, thereby improving efficiency in decision-making and administrative various stakeholders at home and abroad by embodying CSR in its collaboration between all of relevant departments in the company identifying stakeholder issues and needs, diagnosing CSR levels processes. Once the CSR Committee makes decisions about major business operations based on the group-level strategy. and led by the CSR Committee. at domestic and overseas business sites, formulating strategic issues, including generation, operation, and process of CSR strategic CSR tasks, monitoring CSR activities, and responding to external tasks, the CSR Working Group, composed of working-level staff, Each year, Doosan Infracore puts together the results of a materiality Of the tasks set for 2019, the establishment of an ESG framework evaluations. draws up and implements specific action plans. The headquarters’ analysis, external ESG evaluations, and a company-wide CSR and indicators shows the company’s efforts to more closely align its CSR Committee had been convened every quarter until 2017 since diagnosis in order to draw up and implement its CSR strategic tasks business strategies with CSR in a bid to further enhance its corporate The CSR Committee, as the company’s top decision-making body 2015 when it was launched, and it is now held three times per year, for the year. In 2018, the company set new tasks, which includes values. in CSR, not only promotes the company’s sustainable growth and beginning in 2018, to improve its operational efficiency. establishing GHG emissions reduction targets and action plans, socially responsible activities, but is also responsible for reviewing strengthening the supply chain CSR management system, and risks and opportunities in line with ongoing changes in CSR issues, The CSR Committee in China was formed in 2017. Chaired by the making improvements in quality, while also focusing on existing making decisions about CSR strategies and policies, generating Regional Head, the Committee consists of five subcommittees (as tasks that it had been promoting since 2015 and strengthening strategic CSR tasks, and reviewing the performance results. Doosan same as the headquarters) led by the leaders of each business unit its ability to implement them. In 2019, in addition to further Infracore runs one CSR Committee at the company headquarters in in the country, and it is in charge of operating CSR tasks as well as advancing the 2018 CSR strategic tasks, Doosan Infracore plans to Korea and another in China. The headquarters’ CSR Committee, under reviewing and approving their process. the direct control of the CEO, is composed of five subcommittees – CSR Organization Doosan Group CSR Value Structure CSR Committee Chairperson CEO Doosan Composition Aspiration Proud Global Doosan 10 persons including CFO, BG heads, executives in charge, and directors CSR Goal Top 100 global CSR leading companies1) by 2025 Coordinator CSR Part Subcommittees under CSR Committee Subcommittee Supporting Responsible and Sustainable Growth Human Rights/ Environment Fair Operations Customer Values Local Communities Labor Practices Major Indices CSR Mission Human rights Worksite safety and health Suppliers Customers Community Labor practices engagement Environment and Ethical management Product and technology Respect Reliable Responsibility CSR Value pollutants innovation Community CSR Pillars Green partnership development for People Operating in Engagement Creation On-site energy Green business Green operation and product CSR Working Group 1) Teams in Charge Based on the announcement of the World Economic Forum (Davos Forum) 1) 2) HRM , HRD , Technology HR, EHS3), Facility Management Shared Growth, Audit, Purchasing Labor-management Cooperation Marketing, Technology Institution, CSR Part, General Affairs Finance, Strategy, Corporate Culture Product/Quality 1) HRM: Human Resource Management, 2) HRD: Human Resource Development, 3) EHS: Environment, Health & Safety 58 59 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility CSR Structure Stakeholder Engagement Definition of Stakeholders CSR Strategic Tasks by Year Doosan Infracore puts communication, participation, and cooperation with internal and external stakeholders at the center of its approach to CSR. In order to promote more systemic communication with its stakeholders, the company selects its major stakeholders, identifies and 2017 2018 2019 addresses their interests and issues, and discloses its efforts and outcomes through various communication channels. CSR Governance Support overseas worksites ∙  ∙ Support overseas worksites ∙ Establish an ESG Framework and disclose their CSR information disclose their CSR information indicators Communication Channels and Responses for Stakeholders Human Rights/ Labor Strengthen regular monitoring to ∙  ∙ Build a management system and ∙ Strengthen monitoring and Communication Channels Major Issues Responses enhance the human right mindset: strengthen monitoring to enhance establish management system to Provide employees with human the human rights mindset: Develop enhance the human rights mindset: Shareholders/ ∙ Annual general meeting (AGM) ∙ Improve profitability and establish ∙ Share the company’s midto long-term rights education a due diligence tool for the Conduct advanced human rights Investors a high dividend policy business directions ∙ Disclosure materials monitoring of human rights risks education for relevant departments ∙ Investor relations (IR) ∙ Strengthen disclosures ∙ Make earnings announcements and and provide human rights information on the company ∙ Sound corporate governance provide IR materials consultation by organization website ∙  Business opportunity and risk management ∙ Hold analyst meetings ∙ Conferences Environment ∙ IR meetings Reduce worksite energy use and ∙  ∙ Establish a GHG emissions ∙ Reduce GHG emissions Customers ∙ F ield surveys ∙  Prompt customer complaint handling ∙  roduct presentation through exhibitions P increase energy efficiency reduction target and an action plan ∙ Vice of customers (VOCs) and feedback and dealer meetings Establish a midto long-term ∙  ∙ C ∙  Make improvement to product quality, ∙ Tasks aiming for eco-friendly products  all centers roadmap to respond to carbon performance, safety, and convenience ∙ Incorporate VOCs into products through ∙ J oint workshops trading ∙  Thorough customer information protection the New Product Development (NPD) processes ∙ I ntegrated customer management systems ∙  R&D investment and the strengthening of ∙ Enhance customer accessibility by providing Fair Operations technological capabilities dealers with web-based information and ∙ Strengthen CSR management ∙ Strengthen CSR management system ∙ Differentiated customer service strengthen dealer management system of supply chain: Define core of supply chain: Identify suppliers ∙  Develop eco-friendly, high efficiency products ∙ Boost customer responsiveness through suppliers and identify suppliers with high CSR risks, and support the Happy Call and dealer service training with high CSR risks, and establish improvement activities Employees a management process ∙ L abor-Management Council ∙ Fair evaluation and compensation ∙ Implement the Doosan Credo ∙ Grievance handling system ∙ Education and competence development ∙  Human resources development based on ∙ Intranet ∙ Work-life balance the Functional Competency (FC) system Customer Value ∙  Operate the Women’s Council 1) 2) ∙ Doosan Credo surveys ∙ Win-win labor-management relations Develop the REACH ∙  /RoHS 2 IT ∙ Respond to REACH/RoHS 2 and ∙ Expand service solutions: Diversify ∙  Dialogue with ∙  Active communication within the company ∙  Publish a human rights risk prevention manual system set up an operation system service products, customize local and provide education on human rights the management Two tasks relating to next-generation ∙  ∙ One task relating to next-generation services, and increase the number of countries where the services are Suppliers emissions regulations emissions regulations ∙ Supplier Council ∙  hare more information with suppliers S ∙ F oster Leading Suppliers available One task relating to smart solutions ∙  ∙ One task relating to develop ∙ Supplier education ∙ Expand support to boost suppliers’ ∙ Financial support for suppliers new technologies to secure future ∙ Innovation: Test-drive the Concept-X ∙  Consulting, technical support capabilities through financial, technology, ∙ Operate the Supplier Hotline competitiveness and develop new business models for suppliers education, environment, and ethical ∙ Share CSR guidelines with suppliers ∙ Develop prerequisite technologies management support ∙ One task relating to improve quality for hybrid powertrain ∙ Strengthen fair trade Local ∙ Manage prior quality of new Communities ∙ M  eetings with residents ∙ E  co-friendly products and production ∙  perate the Dream School O products: Enhance quality (the environment, ∙ Workshops for workingprocesses ∙ The Doosan Day of Community Service management ahead of the massNGOs, etc.) level staff in charge of CCI ∙ Improve worksite and surrounding ∙ Proceed CCI (Corporate Community Involvement) production of new products that (Corporate Community environments, and prevent pollution programs tailored to local business sites meet EU Stage V and China’s Stage IV Involvement) ∙ Establish environmental management system ∙ Participate in a meeting with residents in the emissions standards ∙ Sisterhood relationship with ∙ Communicate with local communities western part of Incheon city regarding air quality island regions ∙ Facilitate local communities’ economic improvement development Central/ 1)  REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals): Chemical substance management system of the E.U. that governs the Local ∙  articipate in national P ∙ Compliance with laws and regulations ∙  egulatory monitoring and internal compliance R registration, evaluation, approval and restriction of chemical substances according to their quantity and harmful effects Governments projects ∙ Public-private partnership ∙ Suggest improvement measures through 2)  RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances, Restriction of the use of Hazardous Substances in EEE) 2: A stricter regulation compared with RoHS, ∙ Operate joint programs participation in related organizations’ activities including an increase in the scope of restricted substances, which has been applied in a phased manner since January 2013. It restricts the use of ten ∙ Participate in the government’s public policy substances – four phthalate-related substances were added to the previous six substances, such as lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, projects and two bromine-based flame retardants Media ∙ Press releases ∙ Prompt and accurate information sharing ∙ Issue press releases in a timely manner ∙ P  ress conferences ∙ Support press reporters’ news coverage ∙ R  egular meetings ∙  Find feature items and provide them to ∙ Business site visits the media (field trips) 60 61 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility CSR Structure Materiality Analysis Results of Materiality Assessment Out of 17 CSR issues, Doosan Infracore selected core issues which have high stakeholder interest and business impact – product and service innovations, growth strategies and risk response, win-win cooperation in supply chain and risk management, and global market Materiality Analysis Process expansion strategies. Doosan Infracore conducts a materiality analysis every year to effectively identify changes in the business environment and various matters of interest and issues of stakeholders, and thus reflects them in business activities. The company’s activities, achievements, and In the 2018 Integrated Report, the company is disclosing its major activities, achievements, and plans concerning its CSR issues with a future plans for major issues that are derived from the materiality analysis are disclosed to stakeholders through its integrated report. particular focus on the four core issues. In Our Strategy section, the company presents key information on its business strategies and products. In Our Responsibility and CSR Facts & Figures sections, the company provides information on different CSR areas, including activities and achievements related to its CSR strategic tasks. Step 01 Issue Pool Selection Doosan Infracore conducts a CSR diagnosis every year to identify the level of internal ∙  Materiality Matrix competencies and improvements, and then selects internal CSR issues. In 2018, the Material Issue Contents SDGs Page company continued to apply Doosan Group’s CSR model of diagnosis and performed a self-diagnosis on seven major CSR areas, including customer values, HR, EHS, fair 1 Product and service innovations • •Management Analysis p.02-15 operations, and local communities for its business sites in Korea and China. 2 Growth strategies and risk response • Doosan Infracore ascertains CSR issues and interests of the international community ∙  3 Win-win cooperation in supply chain • •Our Strategy p.16-55 and stakeholders by analyzing media coverage as well as CSR-related international and risk management standards and guidelines, such as Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), RobecoSAM, 4 Global market expansion strategies • Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), etc. •Our Responsibility 5 Change in the way of work and • operational competitiveness Doosan Infracore selects issue pools by putting together internal opinions and ∙  stakeholder issues regarding CSR, and carries out industry benchmarking to identify 6 Product responsibility and • • CSR Structure p.58-63 customer satisfaction the status of responses in the global market. 7 International cooperation for • sustainable development • Employees p.64-70 8 ESG evaluation and disclosure • Step 02 9 Climate change and energy • • Environment, p.71-78 Health & Safety 10 Workplace health & safety • Prioritization The company evaluates issues by maturity, business importance ∙  1) , value chain 11 Eco-friendly products • • Governance & Integrity p.79-84 2) influence , and interest levels of stakeholders, and puts the results together 12 Human rights and labor practices • to define priorities. 13 Corporate governance system • • Suppliers p.85-88 14 Contributions to local communities • 15 Ethical management and compliance • • Product Quality & p.89-94 Step 03 Stewardship 16 Resource efficiency • 17 Management of wastewater • • Communities p.95-97 Review and The CSR Committee reviews the connection between top priority issues and ∙  and waste Feedback business activities, and finalizes the company’s core issues and CSR strategic tasks. Throughout the year, the Committee discusses and manages these core issues through CSR strategic tasks, and relevant business units manage any remaining Interest of stakeholders issues by monitoring industry peers and social changes. 1)  Business importance: The company assesses the importance of each issue in terms of ‘profit, cost, reputation, and compliance’ in the course of Win-win cooperation business conduct by reviewing the related midto long-term strategies and business plans and major industry trends among other factors. in supply chain and risk management 2)  Value chain influence: The company assesses the socio-economic/environmental impact and relative importance of each issue in the value chain. International cooperation for 1 Product and sustainable development 7 3 service innovations Climate change and energy 9 ESG evaluation and 8 disclosure 2 Growth strategies and risk response Contributions to local communities 14 Corporate governance system 13 12 5 Change in the way of work and operational competitiveness 10 Human rights and 4 Global market expansion strategies Resource efficiency 16 labor practices Workplace health & safety 6 Product responsibility and customer satisfaction Management of 17 11 Eco-friendly products wastewater and waste Ethical management 15 and compliance * Each circle represents an issue, and the size of each circle represents the issue’s level of influence in value chain. Importance to business 62 63 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Employees 01 02 Employees Human Rights and Grievance Reporting Channels and Handling Processes Doosan Infracore is operating the Help Line at the Human Rights Protection Human Resources Diversity Center (previously called the Gender Equality Center), while also Development providing all employees with education on gender equality, including prevention of sexual harassment. Respect for Human Rights Doosan Infracore runs diverse management systems and educational As a participant of the UN Global Compact, Doosan Infracore supports The company identifies employees’ grievance through diverse programs designed to share the values and culture of Doosan in the UNGC’s 10 Principles on Human Rights, Labor Standards, channels, such as the Human Rights Protection Center, the Internal order to nurture ‘global leaders who can lead the way in organizaOUR APPROACH Environment, and Anti-Corruption, and complies with the International Reporting Center, and the Cyber Reporting Center on the company tional changes and innovation.’ The company also develops Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization (ILO) website, and promptly responds to them. The company protects the those individuals into global experts in their respective fields with Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Moreover, privacy of the informant by maintaining anonymity, and handles the leadership. We nurture leaders with expertise and the company respects the human rights of its comprehensive grievances in accordance with the relevant company regulations pioneering spirits to drive growth into stakeholders, including its own employees and suppliers. It does and procedures. As a result, Doosan Infracore has handled all major Global HR Information System a global leading company. not tolerate any type of verbal abuse, violence, sexual harassment, grievance reports filed in Korea in 2018. Doosan Infracore has been standardizing and streamlining its HR or other improper acts that violate the spirit of ‘Inhwa,’ meaning systems, processes, standards, and data from the Doosan Credo Based on a corporate culture where employees are considerate harmony between people, in interactions within the company and Respect for Diversity perspective. To this end, the company launched a new HR system of others and diversity is respected, Doosan Infracore helps its with suppliers. Doosan Infracore runs reporting channels, such as the Protection of Employee Diversity As of December 31, 2018, called ‘MY HR’ in March 2017 in order to integrate more than 50 HR employees achieve personal growth at their own pace according Human Rights Protection Center (Help Line) and the Internal Reporting there were 4,468 employees across the world at Doosan Infracore, systems that had been previously used by different subsidiaries in to the Functional Competency (FC) system while applying Center. In the event of a violation, the Personnel Committee will take including 2,720 in Korea (excluding those working for Doosan Bobcat various countries around the world. MY HR is a globally integrated reasonable standards and principles and providing fair opportuimmediate action according to the relevant regulations and provide after its public listing). Given the characteristics of the machine one-stop HR system designed to handle various HR tasks, such nities. Through this, the company has been building a mutually education to ensure that the same violation is never repeated and to manufacturing industry, it is not easy to recruit female employees. as Doosan Competency Model (DCM), management by objectives beneficial cycle in which people grow, and the growth of people in turn leads to the growth of business. In addition, the company build up human rights awareness. The company strives to eliminate bias by having its female engineers (MBO), and development plan (DP), as well as training applications. has been enhancing its organizational culture and win-win take part in the interviews for recruiting. To foster the personal growth It is available to all Doosan Infracore business sites in Korea, China, labor-management relations with the aim of standing proud Enhancing the Management of Human Rights Risks As a global of female staff, the company does not discriminate against its female the U.S., and Europe. All employees have the right to create or view based on the Doosan Credo. enterprise, Doosan Infracore has run a human rights management staff in their job assignments, nor does it place any restrictions on personal information regarding themselves and their team members system since 2015 to fulfill its obligations regarding human rights their assignments. The number of female employees is on the rise, (if they are managers) through MY HR. They are thus required to sign CSR STRATEGIC TASK FOR 2018 and to create a sound corporate culture. The company has gathered and it is expected that the percentage of female managers will also the Pledge of Personnel Information Protection to promise to handle information on human rights status through reporting channels steadily increase. and process the personnel information of themselves and their team Build a management system and strengthen monitoring to members according to certain principles. and focus group interviews, established response processes for enhance the human rights mindset: Develop a due diligence human rights violations, and published and distributed a human Providing Fair Opportunities As specified in the Doosan Credo and tool for the monitoring of human rights risks rights prevention manual. In addition, the company expands its the company’s Ethics Charter, people at Doosan are respected for Doosan Infracore has been building a human rights management their individual characteristics. Their employment, evaluation, and existing Gender Equality Center into the Human Rights Protection HRD Directions of Doosan Infracore system focused on the prevention aspect through its CSR strategic compensation are not discriminated against the grounds of gender, Center in order to raise the employees’ awareness of importance task of ‘building a management system and strengthening religion, disability, age, social status, country of origin, nationality, on respecting human rights, and provides human rights education Developing Proud Doosan Employees monitoring to enhance the human rights mindset.’ It also takes a and conducts campaigns continuously, including online and offline ethnic backgrounds, race, skin color, physical conditions, marital on the World Stage step forward from the existing post-management enhancement education customized to working environment of technical staff and status, pregnancy, childbearing, family type or status, ideology, efforts and education on human rights, and diagnoses the organization’s awareness level on human rights, develops its office workers. In 2018, the company conducted a survey to all its political opinions, sexual orientation, educational backgrounds, own due diligence tool to prevent human rights violations from leaders and office workers in its efforts to preemptively prevent the or military service. Doosan people are also not treated unfairly Develop experts who occurring, and takes necessary preventive activities in advance. depending on their personal relationships with the company’s Develop global leaders will enhance the occurrence of human rights violations. The questionnaire consists HRD Goals who have internalized company's fundamental of four areas, including open communication, respect, teamwork, officials based on their academic or geographical backgrounds. the Doosan Credo competitiveness and take and gender equality, and has been developed to diagnose the level the lead in innovations • Activities and Provided online and offline education for all employees of human rights awareness among its employees and preemptively Women’s Council Doosan Infracore expanded the scope of its Achievements (technical staff and office workers); developed the Women’s Council, launched for the Technology Division in 2014, eliminate potential risks. Doosan Infracore analyzed the results of company’s own due diligence tool for diagnosing the level of the survey, and based on that, it made improvements and managed to company-wide in 2017, thereby listening to the voice of female Competency Leadership Competency Functional Competency human rights awareness among its employees; conducted a survey to all its leaders and office workers, and operated identified risks, with the Human Rights Protection Center taking the employees and sharing information on gender equality from Systems (DCM) (FC) the Women’s Council lead, while the HR Team was in charge of monitoring progress. an unbiased perspective. In 2018, in order to enhance internal • Plans Continue providing human rights education to all employcommunication channels, each member of the Women’s Council ees; provide departments in charge of external projects was assigned to a particular department to identify any violations of Development Development Plan with intensive education on human rights awareness; and Method expand the operation of the Women’s Council Types and Details of Human Rights Violations human rights and collected ideas on improving gender equality in the organization. The Council also held a meeting with HR executives Type1) Details Link to UN SDGs twice in half-year to share the collected feedbacks and took Education Leadership College Professional College Gender; Age, position, and employment type; Country System Discrimination necessary improvement measures. In 2019, it will continue listening of origin and race; and Marriage and childbearing to the voice of diverse minorities, and take actions to fully establish a Verbal and Verbal abuse and violence; Sexual harassment; horizontal corporate culture. physical abuse Alienation and bullying; and Invasion of privacy 1)  The types of human rights violations are based on the company’s code of conduct and guidelines on the creation of a sound organizational culture. 64 65 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Employees Enhancing Functional Competency Developing Global Talent Doosan Infracore has put a sophisticated Functional Competency In addition, the company launched a DRAW (Digital edge ReinforceLeadership Enhancement Under the judgment that the future of In 2012, it introduced the position and promotion system so as to (FC) development system in place, with the head office taking a ment At Work) course in April 2018 in order to cultivate experts who an organization depends on the commitment of its leaders, Doosan present its technical staff with a vision for personal growth and pride central role, in consideration of individual employee’s unique skill can take the lead in making improvements to job performance in Infracore runs leadership training programs at every level in the in their individual ability and status. With the introduction of the sets and capabilities. The company also encourages its employees the Fourth Industrial Revolution era based on their understanding organizational hierarchy, including the leader coaching program, assessment system for technical staff, leaders became aware of the to devise their own education plans according to the result of their and knowledge of big data and machine learning. Participated by partnership coaching program, and team leader workshop designed importance of nurturing their team members’ competency, while FC assessment. 45 employees from various fields, including HR, finance, marketing, to equip the participants with necessary understanding and skills of team members were encouraged to develop their own strengths. The and purchasing, the course was offered for three months until July. leadership. The leader coaching program was offered from July 2018 company also has established technical specialist courses designed Building the FC Development System FC enables employees to January 2019, and its course was designed to enable team and part to help its technical staff further develop their job competencies and to define the competencies they need to perform their duties To improve the technical expertise of its technical staff and support leaders to improve their leadership competencies and exercise their provide them with opportunities for personal growth while working successfully and to set their own roadmap for personal growth based their efforts to develop into technical experts, Doosan Infracore leadership in the most effective ways by learning and putting diverse as an Expert or Meister. In 2016, Doosan Infracore overhauled on their identified strengths and weaknesses. Doosan Infracore offers job training based on its FC system and supports various coaching skills into practice. The partnership coaching program was its FC-based HRD system in cooperation with field leaders and operates an FC-based HR education and development system to help study clubs and their efforts to acquire technical certifications. The developed to help deputy managers and managers figure out their changed the titles of its technical staff from entry-level employees its employees become experts in their respective fields. Since 2015, company has established its job training system for technical staff coaching styles based on their own merits, and use their coaching to managers, thereby bringing about positive effects of raising their the company has been publishing the FC Development Directory in line with the development direction of each job category based skills to maximize partnerships within their units. It was offered on social status. which contains a list of courses and curricula customized for different on the VOCs and feedbacks of production executives and staff two separate occasions in 2018, and the company plans to offer the competency levels in such areas as R&D, manufacturing, and sales at worksites. It prioritized a total of 271 training courses, and has program twice in 2019 as well. and marketing. In 2016, the company completed the FC development been developing and launching in stages. In addition, the company Career Development Paths of Technical Staff system for R&D, production, and sales, and restructured courses in introduced 22 courses in 2018 for study clubs for the purposes of Doosan Infracore also introduced a group coaching program for three areas – R&D, innovations, and sales & marketing – at the Job technology transfer and certificate acquisition, with 160 (including technical field leaders of its Gunsan Plant to help them solve on-site Field Leaders Technical Specialists Academy. In 2017, following the establishment of the FC system for all double counting) employees completing the courses. As a result issues and bring practical changes to daily operations in order to office staff, the company launched the FC Level-Up program, which of continuous efforts to foster technical experts, Doosan Infracore enhance their leadership and make coaching a part of everyday is designed to enable mid-level managers and above to draw up and nurtured 134 master technicians (11% of total number of regular work. In 2018, based on the role model for technical field leaders Technical Managing Directors implement their own development plans. In 2019, Doosan Infracore technical staff) as of December 2018, and 12 of them have obtained established in 2017, the company made improvements in the Meister Technical General Manager Supervising will develop a system which enables the company to systematically their master technician title in more than two areas, meaning that technical leadership education system, and operated a leadership Foreman manage plans and performance of its FC Level-Up activities. the company has obtained 147 master technician licenses. Those course while expanding the technical field leader coaching program Technical Senior Manager employees who acquire expertise through the company’s support to the Incheon Plant. In addition, the company has set an education Technical Manager Expert Foreman Doosan Infracore developed a draft proposal for the FC system system in turn disseminate it throughout the company, creating a plan to boost organizational vitality in order to nurture YBs4) in the Technical Assistant Manager for is technical staff in 2014, with the goal of nurturing technical virtuous cycle within the organization. technical field, and has been running the ‘Vision Camp’ since 2016 Junior Senior Technical Staff Foreman staff equipped with professional competencies and a high degree to enhance their leadership. In 2018, interview was conducted with Technical Staff of competitiveness, and then conducted an FC diagnosis for 11 Vision Camp participants to confirm the high level of expertise, technical job categories in 2017. In 2018, the company developed Outcomes of Development of Technical Staff experience, and competence of Doosan Infracore’s technical staff, an FC diagnosis system, conducted a technical staff evaluation, (As of December 2018; Accumulated figure) and the interview data will be used for internal education programs. held feedback sessions, and implemented FC-linked job training programs and talent cultivation plans. In 2019, Doosan Infracore will further solidify its FC diagnosis basis by improving and upgrading diagnosis system in association with the National Competency 134 3 Education on the Global Work Environment To help its employees work efficiently in a global business environment without any communication difficulties, the company runs ‘Let’s Do Biz English,’ Set the ultimate goal for field leaders as technical managing directors Enhance the technical specialist path and prepare a personnel management system conducive to growth Standards (NCS)1). Master Technicians Master Craftsmen an 80-hour practical English course, in addition to Chinese and into technical specialists Japanese education courses. In 2015, Doosan Infracore launched Competency Development Trainings Doosan Infracore has set 1 Master Craftsman of Korea2), a collaboration website called Global Mobility Support (GMS) to 2 Incheon Metropolitan City Michuhall up a self-directed learning system so that employees may study provide employees assigned to overseas posts with information Master Craftsmen3) voluntarily under their own volition. Employees can search, apply on various regulations, welfare benefits, and tips intended to help for, or access various courses offered by the company’s self-directed them enjoy a pleasant life overseas. The company also runs online learning system on their computers or mobile devices anytime, and offline programs including language courses tailored to its 1)  National Competency Standards (NCS): National standards for knowledge, skills, and attitudes required to perform one’s duties in an industrial setting anywhere through MY HR, an integrated HR system. In December employees and their family members. 2)  Master Craftsman of Korea: This is a craftsman who has the highest level of skilled 2017, the company launched CELL (Community of Employee-Led crafts in 96 trades in 22 industrial fields and who is designated by the President Learning), a new employee learning support system, to promote and Reorganizing Personnel Management System for as such under ‘the Act on Encouragement of Skilled Crafts’ among those who have greatly contributed to the development of skilled crafts and the improvement of support employees’ self-directed, small-group, job-related learning Technical Staff status of skilled craftsmen by engaging themselves in industrial fields for a long activities, currently assembling participants twice a year. Composed Doosan Infracore has been building human resources development period of time. 3)  Incheon Metropolitan City Michuhall Master Craftsmen: This refers to those who of 3-10 persons, members of each CELL make decisions on the study (HRD) systems for its technical staff in line with the Doosan Credo in are designated by Articles 3 and 4 of the ‘Ordinance on the Selection and Support contents and methods by themselves and conduct a group study for order to encourage them to pursue personal development and have of Incheon Metropolitan City Michuhall Master Craftsmen’ among those who are five months in a voluntary yet systematic way. 72 CELLs successfully a clear vision. To this end, the company reformed the systems for equipped with an outstanding spirit of master craftsmen and the highest level of skilled crafts by having worked in the same fields and trades for at least 15 years completed their group study in 2018, and as of April 2019, some 50 job assignment, promotion, and competency evaluation; launched and having greatly contributed to the development of skilled crafts. CELLs are in operation. courses to develop technical experts; and established an FC system. 4) Young Boy (YB): Technical staff hired in 2004 or after 66 67 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Employees 03 Communication and Consideration Doosan Infracore established its Career Development Paths of Technical Staff by creating a technical managing director system and Invigorating Organizational Doosan Infracore runs diverse communication channels, including Operation of Flextime In Korea, Doosan Infracore runs a flextime system to support its employees’ work-life balance. When strengthening the existing technical expert system, thereby offering Culture online and offline grievance mechanisms, the Human Rights working hours need to be altered as a means of improving work its technical staff a choice of becoming a ‘field leader’ or a ‘technical Protection Center, the company website, and the in-house portal with productivity and efficiency, employees can freely adjust their work specialist.’ A technical managing director is a person with leadership the goal of boosting employees’ satisfaction at work through genuine hours by receiving pre-approval from their leaders as long as their and practical skills and plays his/her role as a team leader in the Internalization of the Doosan Credo communication between the company and its employees. In addition, regular working time per day is eight hours. The company also runs company’s production units, presenting technical staff with a All members of Doosan implement the Doosan Credo, a set of the company has been sharing media coverage about the company a work schedule selection system (a part-time work system) at its vision to be a top leader. A technical specialist is a field expert with principles that represents Doosan’s philosophy and unique way of and public notices that it has made externally through ‘D-Briefing’ business sites in Korea for part-time workers who cannot follow an professional skills and strong competitiveness, and the company doing business, on the basis of its fundamental competitiveness since 2016. Moreover, the company shares with its employees the existing recruitment form. helps them grow into top technicians. Through this system, technical and highly advanced and scientific ways of doing business. To create corporate vision, including key business strategies, new businesses, staff can choose from the two development paths – the technical sustained positive outcomes through a virtuous cycle structure, and new growth drivers, through CEO Talks in order to ensure Support for Building a Stable Life In Korea, the company offers specialist track which enables them to grow into Meisters or the all employees of Doosan Infracore strive to internalize the Doosan transparent communication of corporate activities. industrial accident insurance, supports medical costs, and field leader track in which they develop into executives in charge of Credo with its leaders undertaking an exemplary role, and led by carries out regular medical checkups to protect its employees in production sites. Change Agents (CAs). The company promotes and shares the Doosan Work-Life Balance the events of health emergencies or accidents. It also helps its Credo on a continuous basis by annually discovering and honoring Doosan Infracore complies with the labor regulations of the countries employees financially through loans for their children’s tuition Following the first appointment of a technical managing director on exemplary cases of employees who have made an exceptional in which it operates. To further improve its employees’ quality of fees and housing support measures. the company’s 80th anniversary in January 2017, four Meisters were contribution to enhancing fundamental competitiveness, making life, the company offers a wide range of welfare benefits that match chosen in April 2019. The title of Meister is the highest honor granted advances in work practices, and promoting core values of Doosan. each country’s unique situation. In particular, it proactively supports Employee Assistance Program Doosan Infracore provides its to professional technicians who have long been engaged in particular In 2018, the company identified issues from a work productivity a sound work-life balance through family-friendly management employees with the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) which job categories for the purpose of cultivating technical staff and perspective, and designated them as tasks to be addressed. Also, practices, including the operation of childcare centers and the offers counseling and education on health, finance, and other inspiring pride in them. Doosan Infracore selects a Meister through action principles to improve office work productivity have been granting of parental leave, reduced working hours, and family care matters. In Korea, the company has been operating DooHug, an a strict comprehensive evaluation conducted by the Professional developed through executive leadership sessions, and promoted to leave. It also carries out customized activities to improve corporate in-house psychological counseling center, since 2014. (Please Technical Committee that includes evaluation and verification of be executed at the company level. culture by promoting the use of flextime. refer to page 78 of this report for further details about DooHug.) In their personal competencies, fact-checking through 360-degree China, the company offers sand-therapy as a special program for interviews with their colleagues, and in-depth interviews, during a Improving the Way of Working employees and their family members, and operates psychological span of six months. The four Meisters have worked for over thirty Changes Starting from Leaders Doosan Infracore emphasizes counseling programs for expatriate employees and their family years in calibration/testing, welding, engine assembly, and facility the need for its leaders to initiate changes and set a strong example members. maintenance using their top-of-the-line technical competencies, with for others to follow. The company holds leadership sessions on an Support Systems for Family-friendly Business Management (Korea) their colleagues taking them as their role models. Doosan Infracore annual basis in order to bring together the CEO and senior executives System Details Eligibility and Period will continue to foster its technical staff in a systematic way so that to share the latest changes in business management environments, Parking tickets for pregnant employees they can improve their work engagement with pride, thereby building figure out the implications of such changes, discuss the directions Guidebook on pregnancy, childbearing, and childcare a virtuous cycle of growth at the corporate level. that the company’s organizational culture must pursue, and find Pregnant employee Pregnant employee badges, stickers, and parking tickets Pregnant female employees caring program ways to make improvements. In 2018, it launched a company-wide Use of affiliated hospitals, in-house lounges, internal and external campaign and established an action plan aimed at improving its psychological counseling centers, if needed operational efficiency in office work productivity. A specific action Basic support during Compliance with 8-hour workday and prohibition of holiday work Pregnant female employees (the entire pregnancy period) Pregnancy pregnancy Support for medical bills during pregnancy and childbearing Pregnant female employees (from pregnancy to childbearing) plan was devised through in-depth discussions about the need to Shortened working improve reporting culture by reducing the use of PPT and promoting Shortened working hours for the health of pregnant employees Pregnant female employees (reduce working time up to 2 hours per hours during and their babies day until the 12th week and after the 36th week of pregnancy) in-person reporting, to scale down regular meetings, and to eliminate pregnancy Pregnant female employees (once per month until the 28th week of the gray zones in the value chain, which was followed by a strong Leave for prenatal Parental checkup leaves pregnancy; once every two weeks from the 29th to the 36th week; checkup implementation in both bottom-up and top-down directions. and twice per week after the 37th week) Female employees who give birth to a child Childbearing leave (90 days / 120 days for twins) CA Channel Operation Doosan Infracore makes constant improveLeave before or after Male employees whose wives give birth (5 days) ments in its way of working through the Change Agent (CA) channel Childbearing childbearing Female employees who have a miscarriage or abortion run by each executive organization. Serving as a bridge between Miscarriage/abortion leave (Leave duration varies depending on pregnancy period, with a ceiling of 90 days for pregnancy of more than 28 weeks) executives and staff, a CA has a CORE Time on a monthly basis to Childbirth cash gift Cash gift in celebration of childbirth Employees who have childbirth identify inefficiencies at work, discusses measurement for improveEmployees with children aged less than 8 years or second graders ment with leaders and implement necessary tasks. Leave for childcare Childcare leave in elementary school (once per child for mother and father, respectively, and reduced working hours for childcare for a total of one year for parents) Childcare Reduced working Reduction of working hours for child care (15-30 hours per week) hours for childcare In-house daycare Employees with children aged 3-5 years (selected through Daycare centers in Incheon, Gunsan, and Seoul center transparent procedures at a fixed time) Leave of absence to take care of family members suffering from Employees (90 days per year) Special leave of illness or recovering from accidents Family absence Leave of absence intended for family members in need of special Employees (6 months + additional 6 months) care, personal development, and treatment of infertility 68 69 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Employees ・ Environment, Health & Safety 04 01 Moreover, the company runs a life-cycle design program in cooperation with an external professional organization to help retiring employees Win-Win Labor-Management Environment, Integrated EHS Management with any career shift they may be considering. The life-cycle design program offers one-on-one consulting and open lectures in such areas Relations Health & Safety as career exploration, support for starting a business, life counseling, finance, and liberal arts licenses for up to ten days for around six Compliance with Labor Policies EHS Management Strategies months depending on the individual lifetime design goals. Doosan Infracore complies with the labor standards of the In 1995, Doosan Infracore established the EHS Management Policy International Labour Organization (ILO)1). Each year, the company in order to share key elements of its environmental management Recharging Opportunities In Korea, Doosan Infracore encourages conducts investigations to detect any child labor or forced labor strategies both internally and externally. In 2015, the company its employees to take a two-week vacation (a one-week vacation practices within the company through the annual CSR assessment amended the Policy for the ninth time to set the current one which plus an additional one-week vacation) before or after the first week of all domestic and major overseas business sites. According to the consists of five specific principles, including the operation of the OUR APPROACH of August when domestic plants halt their operations. The company results of a 2018 self-assessment, none of the company’s business EHS management system aimed at promoting a better life for human has also implemented the Overseas Advanced Culture Exploration sites in Korea and overseas have resorted to child labor or forced beings and environmental preservation, through which the company Support System for its regular staff − office or technical staff who labor of any kind. It has also signed the Guidelines on the Protection At Doosan Infracore, environmental promotes company-wide participation in EHS management. In joins the company before January 1st of the previous year − to help of the Working Conditions of In-house Subcontractors’ Workers values and safety culture are addition, it declared its EHS management vision of becoming a ‘Global them experience foreign culture on the occasion of their annual with the Korean Ministry of Employment and Labor. Accordingly, Leading Green Company’ and established five strategic tasks for non-negotiable principles to achieve vacation periods. The company offers them round-trip air tickets the company ensures compliance with relevant regulations through achieving sustainable growth. and Eurail passes so that they can take the opportunity to recharge a regular monitoring, and it also complies with the government’s sustainable growth. themselves. This is a differentiated benefit program from other guidelines on fair transactions and thus properly operates in-house Doosan Infracore is striving to use resources more efficiently companies offered to Doosan employees, thus boosting their pride subcontracting activities. and to minimize its environmental footprints by reducing 5 Strategic Tasks for EHS Management in the company. pollutant discharge based on its company-wide integrated Labor-Management Relations Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) management system. Family-friendly Management Doosan Infracore allows its emSince the launch of the Win-Win Labor Union in 2011, Doosan Infracore The company also participates in response to climate change Global Leading Green Company ployees to choose childcare leave and family care leave or reduced has maintained and developed labor-management relations based by making continuous improvements to energy efficiency working hours depending on their situations. The company also on mutual trust and respect, including the strike-free conclusion of and managing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Moreover, it has been establishing a safer work environment by raising runs flextime and leave of absence systems according to the circumcollective bargaining agreement for eight consecutive years. Labor the safety awareness of all its employees and rigorously Strengthen environmental management system stances of the relevant countries. and management continue to communicate through diverse managing risk factors at all worksites. As such, Doosan channels, including the Labor-Management Council and the Welfare Infracore is striving to minimize EHS risks that may arise in its Develop and apply Leading EHS Management indices In Korea, Doosan Infracore runs the Mom’s Caring Program, a corporateSubcommittee, and share major issues through the quarterly business process and to make positive impacts on society. Build an EHS system at overseas business sites wide policy to support pregnant employees. To this end, the Business Information Session. In 2018, the company held diverse Strengthen EHS competencies company publishes a ‘Guidebook on Pregnancy, Childbearing, and labor-management events, including Hanmaeum Day to encourage CSR STRATEGIC TASK FOR 2018 Childcare’ to offer information on support programs available in its technical staff, participation in the Incheon International Half Grow together with suppliers and outside the company regarding pregnancy, childbearing, and Marathon, cheering for a professional baseball team, and support CSR Strategic Task for 2018: Establish a GHG emissions childcare. Also, it creates a ‘Mom and Pop Guidebook’ based on the for local welfare facilities. In addition, each of its business sites in Achieve win-win growth in EHS with suppliers reduction target and an action plan and in-house contractors opinions collected through the Women’s Council, shares it with all Incheon, Gunsan, and Ansan holds a Building a Great Workplace employees, and makes constant updates. Committee meeting every two months, and thus improves work Doosan Infracore aims to effectively respond to Phase II of the environment based on employees’ opinions. Korea Emissions Trading Scheme which will be enacted from Respond to climate change For pregnant employees, the company grants reduced working 2018 to 2020 and to secure a stable and sustainable foundation to cope with an emissions trading scheme. To this end, all of its Establish GHG management systems hours and prenatal checkup leave, while also offering parental Its Chinese subsidiary has established a special council according relevant departments, with the GHG/Energy Reduction Council leave. It guarantees a recovery period for female employees to the Trade Union Law of the People’s Republic of China which is taking a central role, worked together to ‘set an emissions who have suffered from miscarriage or abortion comparable to equivalent to the Labor Standard Act in Korea. The special council’s reduction target and establish an action plan to achieve the Develop eco-friendly products that granted for childbearing. In addition, the company allows members are elected by vote. The company holds a monthly meeting goal.’ Develop products in consideration of its employees, regardless of their gender, to choose either with the special council to discuss major developments and share the environment childcare leave or reduced working hours, and operates in-house opinions on various worksite issues, and discusses wage on an • Activities and Established and operated the GHG/Energy Reduction childcare centers in three locations − Incheon, Gunsan, and Seoul. annual basis. Achievements Council; analyzed GHG emission reduction scenarios and Expand communication with society Furthermore, Doosan Infracore allows its employees to use their set a reduction target based on the government’s reduction leave to take care of family members in need, promote personal Joint Customer Support of Labor-Management roadmap; established a GHG emission reduction investment plan; reviewed detailed activities regarding emission rights Disclose environmental management information development, or focus on infertility treatment. In China, the The labor union and management of Doosan Infracore have been associated with suppliers and ways to utilize renewable Strengthen social contribution activities related to EHS company offers a leave of absence or a shorter workday to female working in unison to overcome the market downturn since 2016 energy; and fostered GHG/energy experts employees who have just given birth to a child. through the joint customer support program by visiting customers across the country, listening to their voice, and providing customer Link to UN SDGs services. In 2018, Doosan Infracore conducted the customer 1)  Compliance with the ILO labor standards: Doosan Infracore ensures that the labor support activities on three occasions, through which the labor union standards of the ILO are complied with at all its global business sites. The company prohibits all forms of discrimination, child labor, and forced labor while promoting identified customer requirements and forwarded them directly to freedom of association. the company’s production sites, thereby further improving product quality and also enhancing brand value of Doosan Infracore. 70 71 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Environment, Health & Safety 02 EHS Management System Doosan Infracore has been enhancing the level of its EHS EHS Organization With central roles performed by the EHS Team at the Incheon Plant, which is the company’s head office, the EHS units Managing the EHS Management System Doosan Infracore has put an EHS management system in place based on international Energy Management and management by systematizing relevant organizations under the EHS at overseas business sites work in unison for systematic and effective standards, and examines the operation of the EHS management Responses to Climate Change Policy and strategies, operating an EHS management system at global EHS management in response to the expansion of overseas business system and the level of compliance with relevant laws and regulations business sites, obtaining international certifications, and reviewing sites and rising concerns about environmental issues worldwide. The by conducting internal and external inspections every year. The the status of implementation. In order to promote more systematic CSR Committee, which is composed of the CEO and the BG heads, global business sites of Doosan Infracore continue to put efforts in Global warming and climate change caused by an increase in GHG EHS management, the company has established an EHS IT system, makes decisions on EHS-related policies, plans, and activities. Each minimizing environmental pollution and damage that can arise from emissions is influencing the ecosystem as well as all areas related to through which it manages EHS-related information in real time and BG holds a monthly EHS steering meeting to discuss EHS issues and corporate activities by earning such international standards as ISO humankind, including industrial activities. To preemptively respond carries out comprehensive analysis of various information, followed share the progress of EHS goals. 14001 Environmental Management Certification and the Occupational to climate change risks and opportunities, Doosan Infracore by reinforcement or improvement if needed. In 2019, the company Health and Safety Management System (OHSAS 18001/KOSHA 18001) forecasts GHG emissions based on its annual production plan, aims to expand EHS support at worksites by developing ‘DooGreen’ Doosan Infracore has been building a global EHS governance Certifications, and through safety inspections on hazardous machines and makes investment in improving energy efficiency and carries which adds such functions as legislation and standards, chemicals, and strengthening EHS support and management for its overseas and equipment and the process safety management (PSM) system. In out activities to achieve the target. The company is also expanding lab safety, firefighting facility management, and employee health business sites since 2017 with the purposes of communicating more addition, they strive to remove industrial accident risk factors. the development and sales of highly energy-efficient, low-carbon checkup record management to the existing EHS IT system. closely with staff regarding EHS philosophies and standards of the products, including electric excavators. company and enabling all its business sites to adhere to the same Self-evaluation of Global EHS To further advance its EHS manageThe company also has developed corporate-wide EHS management level of high EHS standards, regardless of the country or region. ment and strengthen EHS fundamentals, Doosan Infracore conducts Improving Energy Efficiency evaluation indices and applies them to its business sites in Korea In 2018, the company improved the level of EHS standards at its Doosan EHS Rating System (DSRS)1) evaluations as well as evaluations Reducing Worksite Energy Use and Increasing Energy Efficiency and China. For continued improvement and development of activity overseas business sites by sharing EHS strategic tasks and issues, on compliance with EHS laws and regulations. Developed on the basis Doosan Infracore identified and carried out energy conservation performance, Doosan Infracore manages evaluation indices through holding EHS workshops, and visiting worksites. In 2019, Doosan of global standards and in consideration of business characteristics, tasks, built an energy intensity management system, and upgraded a performance analysis every year. By reflecting the EHS management Infracore plans to expand its regular EHS Committee meetings the DSRS is a basis to build an advanced EHS system and create its energy monitoring system according to its CSR strategic task of evaluation status in the performance indices of top management and worldwide, starting with the formation and operation of ‘EHS an EHS culture shared by staff. In 2018, the company carried out ‘Reducing worksite energy use and increasing energy efficiency’ executives of relevant departments, Doosan Infracore is improving committee in overseas production subsidiary (China, DIN).’ DSRS evaluations of the Incheon Plant and made the necessary from 2015 to 2017 at its business sites in Korea. The company the implementation capabilities of the EHS management system and improvements. also upgraded the Energy Management System (EMS) to lay the enhancing management standards. Based on clear EHS standards groundwork for energy-related information reporting that would and the systems linked to its value chain, such as purchasing and Each year, the company conducts EHS compliance evaluations for enable the company to monitor its energy consumption and costs, production, the company seeks to enhance its required capabilities all its business sites to prepare them for external assessments and monthly energy consumption trends by energy source, and energy and increase implementation capabilities by applying the ‘EHS inspections, while ensuring that they always comply with relevant intensity performance in relation to production. It also built an committee in overseas production subsidiary (China, DIN).’ laws and regulations. The evaluation is carried out through field energy measurement equipment monitoring system, thereby guidance to review proper use and management of dangerous enhancing its EMS data credibility. In 2018, the company identified machines, equipment, and chemicals, as well as the status of safety and took actions on energy conservation tasks, such as efforts to EHS Policy ISO 14001 Certified Worksites training progress. Evaluation results are linked to the management by improve gas consumption intensity by upgrading facilities at its objectives (MBOs) of relevant executives and the integrated reward paint factory, more efficient operations of compressed air and dust Operation of the EHS System: We establish, operate and system by duty type, which in turn is increasing employee awareness collectors, and installation of high-efficiency lamps. As a result, the 01 continue to develop a system designed to improve EHS impacts of our products, activities, and services. Korea (Incheon, Gunsan, Ansan) China (Yantai) ISO 14001 and identifying areas where improvement is needed, thereby leading to actual improvements. In 2018, the company conducted two EHS company’s energy intensity (energy costs / production expenses) improved by 5% over the previous year despite a significant surge in Compliance with EHS Regulations: We adhere to national and compliance evaluations at its business sites in Korea and China, and production volume. international EHS regulations and agreements, establish strict of its in-house suppliers. In particular, one of the two evaluations was 02 internal management standards, and faithfully implement carried out through the self-assessment in order to improve worksite Responsible Responses to Climate Change them. execution capability in complying with laws and regulations. In 2019, GHG Emissions Management In managing GHG emissions at Safety and Health Management System Certified Worksites Development of Eco-friendly Technology to Boost Customer Doosan Infracore plans to expand the scope of EHS compliance business sites in Korea, their energy consumption (electricity, LNG, Safety: We develop eco-friendly technologies that place top evaluations to include DIN. In addition, the company will expand etc.) is gauged by plant and production line, and the data is analyzed OHSAS 18001 Korea (Incheon, Gunsan, Ansan) 03 priority on our customers’ health and safety, and then preserve the integrated EHS reward system to include its internal suppliers through the integrated EHS IT system to identify monthly emissions China (Yantai) resources and energy to actively contribute to sustainable to further improve the level of its EHS compliance by raising the amount. Given the characteristics of the company’s assembly environmental conservation and fight against global warming. suppliers’ awareness of the importance on EHS. Realization of Zero Occupational Accident: We create a pleasant KOSHA 18001 and safe people-centered work environment, improve the health Korea (Incheon, Gunsan) Energy Consumption in 2018 (Korea, TJ) 04 and quality of the lives of all our employees and suppliers, and 2,067 TJ aim for zero accident at work. Communication with Stakeholders: We expand communication with our stakeholders and disclose EHS performance 05 transparently in order to continue to grow as a trusted and respected company that fulfills its social responsibilities. 1)  Doosan EHS Rating System (DSRS): The EHS evaluation system developed by Doosan Group to evaluate the EHS level of its worksites quantitatively and to Electricity 1,632 TJ Fuel 435 TJ encourage them to make improvements; Doosan Group has made adjustments to (LNG, diesel, etc.) the ISRS applied by global leading companies to suit its own circumstances. 72 73 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Environment, Health & Safety 03 processes, indirect emissions from purchased electricity account for about 73.3% of its total GHG emissions, while the remaining Improving Resource Efficiency Reuse and Recycling of Waste To ensure the efficient use of limited resources, Doosan Infracore pursues design optimization, checks Management of Soil Contamination In 2010, Doosan Infracore conducted a voluntary soil contamination survey of the areas percentage is emitted from manufacturing processes and stationary or and Reducing Environmental its plant facilities, and maintains them in the optimal operational where facilities that cause soil contamination were operating in the mobile combustion. In 2018, the company’s total GHG emissions rose state, thereby conserving resources in its daily operations. In Korea, the Incheon Plant, and completed soil remediation in those areas over by around 10% to 108,244 tCO2, mainly attributable to the increased Impact company has been implementing its resource recycling policy, enabling the following three years. In 2013, it carried out soil contamination production of construction equipment and engines during the year. the company to reuse 94% of its waste in 2018. Doosan Infracore surveys of the areas surrounding all its worksites. The company has Doosan Infracore explores better ways of using limited resources plans to further increase its resourcization rate by improving additional undertaken additional voluntary soil remediation work since 2014 Response to Emissions Trading Doosan Infracore was designated more efficiently while striving to minimize the impact of its business recycling plans and waste disposal methods such as diversification of and completed it in August 2018, receiving confirmation from the as subject to the Korean government’s GHG & Energy Target activities on the environment and local communities. To this end, the recycling methods and segmentation of waste by type. municipal government. Management System in 2010, and fulfilled all its legal obligations by company has adopted various ways of promoting the eco-friendly 2014. The government introduced a new emissions trading system use of resources and conducts activities to reduce the discharge of Management of Environmental Pollutants Strengthening Environmental Disaster Response System in 2015, and the company became subject to the new scheme. pollutants. Doosan Infracore controls its emissions of pollutants more Water Quality Management All wastewater generated from Doosan Infracore has established an emergency response system for Accordingly, Doosan Infracore kept its GHG emissions at around 68% strictly than required by laws in all relevant areas. The company’s production processes go through a physical, chemical, and biological environmental spills, including a pollutant leakage block system at of the quota allocated by the government, recording the average of performance in using resources and managing emissions over the treatment process at the wastewater treatment facility and is purified the Incheon Plant and spill monitoring system, in order to minimize 313,383 tCO2 for three years from 2015 to 2017 which was the first past three years is found in the ‘CSR Facts & Figures’ section (pages before final discharge. The company operates nonpoint pollution the possibility and impact of environmental accidents. The company phase of the scheme. Only the Incheon Plant is subject to the second 106-107) of this report. source reduction facilities to remove the environmental risk of increased the number of floodgates from four to six to minimize phase from 2018 to 2020, and it is now managing its emissions in a polluting nearby ocean waters with rainwater that may have deposited the risks of pollutant leakage through rainwater. It also further stable manner. Improving Efficiency in the Use of Resources at plant sites and carry pollutants. The facilities ensure that clean strengthened its infrastructure to respond to the risks by installing Water Reuse As extreme weather, such as drought and heavy rain water is discharged after going through a vortex device and a pollutant detection sensors and building automatic water gate Doosan Infracore set ‘establishing a midto long-term roadmap on rainfall, becomes more frequent, the importance of managing water fiber-type filter. Also, additional water gates were set up on general shutdown systems along with the replacement of old wastewater carbon trading’ as one of its 2017 CSR strategic tasks, identified resources has been increasing. To reduce water consumption, the drains, thereby building a system that blocks the spread of pollution pipes. In 2018, the company upgraded its environmental utility sign potential GHG emissions reduction amount, and established a Incheon Plant has been operating a wastewater recycling system at its source even in the event of an unexpected leakage of hazardous management to strengthen environmental accident monitoring roadmap for emissions reduction and decision-making process for designed to recycle the effluent discharged from its wastewater substances. More than 52% of the wastewater generated at the system, and further enhanced its ability to respond to emergency trading. By doing so, the company laid the foundation for operating treatment facility and reuse it for the manufacturing processes. The Incheon Plant goes through in-house treatment and is reused for its situations. As a result, there were no major environmental accidents the emissions trading scheme through preemptive emissions trading Plant has continued to expand the use of recycled effluent, including manufacturing processes, resulting in minimized outside discharge of during the year. In 2019, Doosan Infracore plans to build an integrated and establishing a midto long-term direction for dealing with the sand treatment tower at the casting plant, and reused 52% of pollutants. Wastewater of the Gunsan Plant is purified at a legitimate monitoring system for environmental accidents by establishing an the emissions trading scheme. In 2018, to effectively address the its wastewater for manufacturing processes in 2018, thereby saving wastewater treatment facility which then flows into each respective environmental accident control center through the upgrade of its second phase of the national emissions trading scheme and lay the KRW 107 million on its water bills. It also established a wastewater local government’s sewage treatment plant for retreatment. Doosan IoT-based environmental management data calibration sensors groundwork for a stable, sustainable response system to the scheme, reclamation and reuse system that enabled it to reuse 4,469 tons of Infracore also set an internal standard on discharging water pollutants and the integration of different manufacturing process sensors. all the relevant departments of the company, with the GHG/Energy water in 2018. In addition, a separate rainwater-harvesting system at around 40% of the legal requirement, as part of strenuous efforts to The company will also operate a preventive maintenance process Reduction Council taking a central role, worked together to ‘set an was built to reuse 348.5 tons of rainwater for landscaping and comply with environmental laws and regulations. by establishing and implementing air/water quality environmental emissions reduction target and establish an action plan to achieve coolants. facility maintenance intervals. In addition, Doosan Infracore will the goal.’ In addition, the company analyzed GHG emission reduction Management of Air Pollutants and Odors Air pollutants, such enhance its capability to respond to environmental emergency by scenarios and set a reduction target based on the government’s as NOx, SOx, dust, and volatile organic compounds (VOCs), are upgrading its environmental accident identification and response reduction roadmap; established a GHG emission reduction Wastewater Reuse (Incheon Plant) generated from the company’s production processes, from electric scenarios for each process. investment plan; reviewed detailed activities regarding emission furnaces and painting process. To minimize damage to local rights associated with suppliers and ways to utilize renewable energy; communities and reduce environmental hazards, Doosan Infracore Reducing Environmental Impact on Local Communities and fostered GHG/energy experts. sets up dust collectors, new painting facilities, and concentration Doosan Infracore has intensified its efforts to minimize environmental catalytic oxidation facilities at each worksite unit, leading to impacts of its operations on local communities, and thus making As a result, the GHG emissions of the Incheon Plant recorded 88,572 reduced discharge of air pollutants. Doosan Infracore conducts strict continued improvements to create a clean living environment. In tCO2, or 43% of the amount allocated by the government for the year, Production Wastewater measurements, more than the self-pollutant measurement cycle 2015, the company set up a digital signboard to display information achieving the goal it had set at the beginning of the year by 103%. Process that is legally required, and monitors pollutants. The company set a on air pollutants in the Incheon area in cooperation with three other As such, Doosan Infracore is responding to the scheme in a stable manner. 52% 107 standard so that pollutants are emitted at less than 40% of the legal requirement. companies located in the area. The company fulfills its obligations as a corporate citizen by engaging in precautionary management of factors that may cause resident complaints, such as foul odors, Reuse Cost savings (KRW million) The Incheon Plant conducted an external diagnosis on its processes as well as making continuous investments in local communities, GHG Emissions in 2018 (Korea, tCO2) that generate odors to contribute to improving air quality in the including the Hwasu wharf improvement project near the Incheon metropolitan area and enhancing residents’ quality of life nearby the Plant. 108,244 tCO2 Plant. Based on the outcome, it established an improvement plan together with the respective local government, and continues to increase facility investments to improve processes that generate odors Incheon Gunsan Ansan Parts Seoul Leased Office and to apply eco-friendly processes. In addition, it has been carrying Plant Plant Distribution Center Office Building (Icheon) out monitoring along the worksite border and nearby areas since 2017 88,572 16,798 1,847 857 170 with the goal of managing odors in a more systematic manner. 74 75 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Environment, Health & Safety 04 Expansion of Safety Management Culture Enhancing Worksite Safety country’s only voluntary corporate safety evaluation system and entails a comprehensive evaluation of building design, construction, Building a Culture of Safety The company continues to promote Safety Management for Outsourced Projects Doosan Infracore is Risk Management and maintenance. In 2017, Doosan Infracore received a detailed compliance with the EHS 3-3-3 Basic Rules and engage in safety further strengthening safety management to prevent supplier safety evaluation on six safety areas, including the safety management culture activities, including improvements in the field of safety, to accidents during outsourced projects at its worksites. The company system, firefighting, building/fire proof, dangerous goods, machine/ achieve zero accident. Each month, the heads of business groups enhanced on-site patrol operations to check on-site safety status Worksite Safety Management with a Focus on Prevention electricity/gas, and evacuation/natural disaster, from experts provide safety reports to employees. The company has designated once a day and made the results reported to the management. It Safety Training In line with the increasingly strict Occupational in the field of disaster and safety. The company actively made April as Health and Safety Month during which it strives to improve also operates the Safety Walk every month in which executives, Safety and Health Act, corporations’ responsibility for industrial improvements for matters that were pointed out, and obtained safety and raise safety awareness through education sessions, production managers, and EHS officers carry out a safety patrol and accidents has been increasing as they are now subject to such the Safety Zone Certification for the second consecutive time in promotional campaigns, and inspections. Visitors to its worksites come up with improvements, thereby managing potential safety penalties as suspension of work/business even in cases that occur December 2017 following 2014. The Certification is valid for three are required to watch a video on safety precautions first to raise their risks. at their suppliers’ premises. Doosan Infracore provides safety years. Investments in safety and firefighting are not expenses but safety awareness. education aimed to boost its employees’ safety management a must to protect its employees. The company therefore will further Social Contribution Activities for Safety Culture In 2016, Doosan capabilities as well as to raise their awareness with the conviction spread awareness of the importance of fire and disaster prevention Support for Suppliers’ Safety Management Capabilities Doosan Infracore signed a memorandum of understanding on ‘Social that the root causes of occupational accidents must be removed. In and systematically and efficiently manage safety facilities based on Infracore has been implementing ‘Symbiotic Cooperation Programs’ Contribution Activities for Safety Culture’ with the Korean Ministry 2019, the company aims to promote voluntary participation in and the Safety Zone Certification. since 2012 to help its suppliers boost their safety management of Public Safety and Security and promoted safety culture in local raise level of EHS throughout the company by enhancing leadership capabilities in accordance with one of its EHS principles – ‘We aim communities, including its suppliers, by leveraging its expertise. and raising awareness. To this end, it will increase the number of Respond to Process Safety Report Evaluation Worksites with large to create a pleasant and safe people-oriented working environment, The Social Contribution Activities for Safety Culture constitute collective training hours for its managers and supervisors from 16 harmful, dangerous facilities have risks of fatal industrial accidents, improve the health and quality of life of all employees, including a new CSR activity model under which the Korean government online education hours to 8 online education hours plus 16 offline so that they are required to operate the Process Safety Management those of our suppliers, prevent losses, and thus ultimately and the public and private sectors join forces to utilize corporate collective education hours. (PSM) system. Accordingly, they create a report on comprehensive, realize a zero-accident workplace.’ Launched by the Ministry of expertise in their efforts to establish a strong safety culture in local scientific prevention activities, such as process risk assessment Employment and Labor in 2011, the Symbiotic Cooperation Program communities. In 2018, the company conducted on-site inspections Worksite Hazard Management Doosan Infracore implements a and establishment of a safe operation and emergency plan, and is designed to urge large companies to improve their suppliers’ of, and provided EHS technical support to its outside suppliers and discussion-based risk factor identification process with its workers submit to the government, after which the government examines health and safety capabilities and to prevent industrial accidents suppliers participating in the Symbiotic Cooperation Program, while to encourage them to manage risk factors by themselves in the first and reviews the report and has the respective worksite implement through continuous cooperation. In March 2018, the company offering fire prevention and first-aid education to residents and place by observing and improving potentially hazardous behaviors. preventive activities with the goal of preventing fatal industrial held a ceremony to launch a team devoted to the implementation children living in the neighborhoods around its business sites. In 2018, a total of 5,592 risk factors (3,267 in Korea, 2,325 in China) accidents. Aiming to earn a better grade in the regular inspection of the ‘2018 Health and Safety Symbiotic Cooperation Program’ were identified, and necessary corrective actions have been taken. on the PSM report, Doosan Infracore revised the PSM report of its with participation of 22 suppliers. Throughout the rest of the year, Industrial Accident Rate Management The traditional method Incheon and Gunsan plants and carried out an internal audit on the it focused on improving internal and outside suppliers’ safety used to calculate the industrial accident rate does not faithfully Acquisition of Safety Zone Certification Doosan Infracore’s Incheon Plant’s PSM in 2017. Based on the results of the internal practices by identifying and improving their risk factors, providing reflect the incidence of minor accidents. Doosan Infracore business sites in Korea are all certified by the government in terms audit, the company identified improvement measures, such as technical support for their risk assessments, and supporting safety therefore began to use the LTIR1), TRIR2), and LWSR3) indices in of disaster safety with the Incheon and Gunsan Plants’ acquisition increasing supplier safety training, expanding the scope of job safety placards and EHS safety guidelines. In particular, it focused on 2018, which allowed the company to identify minor accidents that of the Safety Zone Certification in December 2014 and November analysis (JSA), and revising safe work permissions, and continues to promoting the Safety Observation System (risk factors self-control), resulted in lost time as well as those who received treatment at 2015, respectively. Awarded by Safety Zone-CERTI® and supervised inspect the implementation status. a scheme for removing potential risks based on concentrated daily the company or its suppliers. By doing so, the company aims to by the National Fire Agency, the Safety Zone Certification is the monitoring by not only field supervisors but also ordinary staffers, prevent minor accidents from repeating and becoming a major so that suppliers themselves can identify risk factors and work on accident, and to further strengthen supplier’s safety management. them. Accident rate indices are managed as a major key performance Acquisition of the Safety Zone Certifications indicator (KPI) of respective executives, based on which Doosan In addition, Doosan Infracore offers data on EHS accident Infracore plans to further promote a safety management culture. prevention cases as part of its efforts to raise safety management Safety management Firefighting Building/Fire proof Dangerous goods Machine/ Evacuation/ awareness at suppliers while conducting field inspections and system Electricity/Gas Natural disaster providing EHS technical support for its outside suppliers. Six categories 2 3 1)  LTIR (Lost Time Incidents Rate): Number of incidents involving more than one-day closure of workday per 100 workers, Total number of lost time cases/Total number consecutive times Period of validity: years of hours worked by employees * 200,000 2) T RIR (Total Recordable Incidents Rate): Number of recordable incidents that require treatment for injuries or illness per 100 workers, Total number of injuries and illnesses/Total number of hours worked by employees * 200,000 3)  LWSR (Lost Workday Severity Rate): Number of lost work days experienced per 100 workers, Total number of lost work days/Total number of hours worked by employees * 200,000 76 77 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Environment, Health & Safety ・ Governance & Integrity 05 01 Enhancing Employee Health Programs to Manage Job Stress Doosan Infracore conducts surveys on job stress and implements specialized occupational stress Governance & Corporate Governance Management management programs for the benefit of employees’ mental health, particularly for high-risk groups. In 2018, it conducted a work-related Integrity stress survey to all employees to help them better manage their job Improving Employee Health Management stress. Those in need of stress management were offered in-house Composition of Shareholders and Equity Occupational Disease Prevention Doosan Infracore holds a counseling with ‘DooHug’ and an external counseling service if Doosan Infracore is a key subsidiary of Doosan Group and operates 34 monthly meeting of the Musculoskeletal Disorder Improvement needed. Launched in April 2014 for the first time among affiliates financially consolidated or subsidiary companies (based on its annual Working Council, which is composed of labor union officials, of Doosan Group, ‘DooHug’ is a professional counseling service reports) around the world. By the end of 2018, the number of its shares worksite managers, and employees in charge of EHS and producoffered in partnership with an external professional institution. It issued stood at 208,158,077, of which the largest shareholder, Doosan tion, to discuss physical load risks and identify ways of making provides employees with professional counseling services about Heavy Industries & Construction, owned a 36.28% stake. Its equity OUR APPROACH improvements. The company also arranges for medical profesnot only their work-related concerns but also personal worries, capital stood at KRW 1,040 billion. sionals to visit its worksites regularly as part of its efforts to improve including their families and childcare. The company keeps all employees’ health and boost their morale. As the number of workers DooHug counseling details and personal information strictly At the heart of Doosan Infracore’s suffering from hearing problems, such as noise-induced deafness, confidential, and pays all of counseling expenses. Moreover, sustainability lies transparent Ownership Structure has been increasing, Doosan Infracore has set a strategic direction Doosan Infracore runs a ‘healing program’ for teams. From August and ethical management for its (As of December 31, 2018) (Unit: %) to fundamentally minimize noise-generating processes while also to October 2018, the company provided members of 20 teams offering high-quality earplugs and other protective gears, and who were shown by the survey to need stress management with a stakeholders. providing education on proper use of them. In addition, with the healing program comprising a personality test and various stress 19.95 Doosan Infracore implements transparent management through Foreigners increasing amount of surface particulate matter around the country, reduction exercises, such as Mind Touch. In 2019, Doosan Infracore independent governance system and prompt information disclothe company has developed response guidelines which call for the will conduct a company-wide survey and expand the scope of its provision of protective gears and proper work breaks starting at the programs to manage job stress, including DooHug, post-traumatic sures. Beyond compliance management, the company strives to ensure that ethical management serves as the foundation of all 36.28 stage of caution. stress disorder (PTSD) education for field managers, and activities its decision-making. It secures the stability of its management Doosan Heavy Industries & designed to protect the psychological health of emotional workers. environment by implementing transparent management and Construction Health Management Programs In helping its employees manage strengthening preemptive risk management through strict their health, Doosan Infracore operates various health promotion Certified as Excellent Worksite in Employee Health internal control system. 30.13 programs, including the installation of automated external Promotion Individuals defibrillators (AEDs) and the preparation of a low sodium diet The Incheon Plant was re-certified by the Korean Ministry of menu. Whenever a healthcare issue such as the spread of an Employment and Labor and the Korea Occupational Safety and infectious disease arises, the company operates the Emergency Health Agency in September 2016 for its excellence in promoting Situation Room and promptly offers the relevant information on employees’ health, following its initial certification in August 2013. 13.62 0.02 preventive measures to its employees. The company pays for The Gunsan Plant was first designated as an Excellent Worksite in Institutions Persons specially related with mandatory vaccinations for six diseases – yellow fever, cholera, Employee Health Promotion in November 2015, and re-certified the largest shareholder malaria, typhoid, hepatitis A, and tetanus – designated internally in February 2019 in recognition of its exemplary in-house health for employees who go on business trips to countries with limited promotion activities customized for the characteristics of workers, Shareholder and Investor Communication healthcare. including a health management program, a musculoskeletal Communication Channels Doosan Infracore actively seeks out disorder prevention program, and a job stress prevention program. the expectations and demands of its shareholders, investors, IT System for Health Checkup History Management In December Designated worksites are awarded the benefit of being exempted customers, and other stakeholders when making key decisions. The 2018, Doosan Infracore began to develop an Integrated EHS IT from supervision by the Ministry of Employment and Labor for company strives to attract investments in the global market by earning system in order to prevent failure to meet deadlines for health the next three years. The company will continue employee health recognition for its genuine values in terms of growth potential and checkups and trainings through corporate-wide schedule managepromotions as part of its efforts to create a better workplace. technological prowess. It has therefore established an investor-friendly ment; reduce productivity losses caused by delays in the placement investor relations (IR) strategy and carries out shareholder-friendly of production technical staff; prevent legal risks caused by missing communication. In addition, the company holds company briefings special check-up data; and to promote voluntary health promotion and securities investment conferences, and also invites institutional based on management of the health checkup result history of investors to its worksites to offer them diverse and reliable information. each employee. Scheduled to be launched in May 2019, the system is composed of six items, including health checkup history Protection of Minority Shareholders Doosan Infracore has adopted management, management of chemicals used for each task, and and operates a paper ballot, an electronic voting system, and an management of working environment measurement results. electronic proxy solicitation system to protect the voting rights of its minority shareholders. When sending out notices of its annual Link to UN SDGs general meeting (AGM), the company encloses paper ballots so that shareholders can exercise their voting rights if absent. Their votes are valid under the condition that they arrive at the company one day prior to the date of an AGM. 78 79 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Governance & Integrity 02 Disclosure of Corporate Information Operation of an Independent BOD Doosan Infracore complies with all applicable legal disclosure The BOD and Its Decision-making Systems As the company’s deliberates and makes resolutions on matters specified under the relevant national laws and the company’s Articles of Incorporation, Ethical Management requirements. It also strives to disclose information in a balanced highest decision-making body in relation to corporate management, matters entrusted by the AGM, key management policies, and manner, concerning its financial and non-financial activities, through the Board of Directors (BOD) oversees and approves decisions on important matters concerning business execution. It incorporates the voluntary disclosure of the company’s compliance program (CP) massive investments or borrowings, the consolidation or division opinions and suggestions of shareholders, executives, and employees status and CSR activities. of business entities, and other major business issues, from the collected through AGMs and IR activities into its decision-making Ethical Management Policies perspective of long-term growth. process. It maintains its independence from controlling shareholders Doosan Infracore applies the Code of Conduct of Doosan Group and executives, and checks and balances corporate decisions to established in 2014 to all of its business sites around the world. In STATUS OF DISCLOSURE ACTIVITIES Composition and Operations of the BOD The BOD of Doosan ensure the company’s transparent management. this way, the company is enhancing its corporate competitiveness ・ Financial Disclosure of provisional statistics on sales performance; Quarterly Infracore is composed of three internal and four outside directors who and fulfilling corporate social responsibilities based on the spirit of and biannual reports and statements of affairs; Disclosures relevant were transparently appointed through an AGM. The Outside Director There are three committees under the BOD which are entirely Inhwa, customer-centered management philosophy, transparent to AGM and special shareholders’ meetings; Disclosure of changes in the shareholding structure; and Disclosure on the Online Provision of Candidates Recommendation Committee recommends outside director composed of outside directors – the Audit Committee, which is management, and innovation. Enterprises Information (OPNI) system operated by the Korea Fair Trade candidates who are suitable for establishing a transparent governance responsible for guaranteeing the transparency and independence Commission, etc. structure and enhancing the BOD’s expertise. Outside directors are of audit procedures; the Internal Transaction Committee, which It has also connected the company-wide operation system with the ・ Non-financial Status of CP operations; Disclosure of CSR activities including integrated reports; and Disclosure of information through company appointed in consideration of their ownership of the company’s is designed to boost the transparency of corporate management ERP, e-procurement, evaluation of internal control, and fair trade presentations, etc. shares, potential conflicts of interest, careers with the company’s through the establishment of CP; and the Outside Director Candidates compliance systems to improve the transparency and efficiency of competitors, diversity, and stakeholder representativeness. The BOD Recommendation Committee, which has the authority to recommend its business activities. The Audit Team is in charge of auditing ethical outside directors. management of the company, while the Internal Control Team develops the internal control system and evaluates its operations. Intra-organizational Decision-making System BOD Activities in 2018 All directors are allowed to participate remotely in the BOD meetings via telecommunication devices Communicating and Promoting Ethical Management capable of transmitting audio and video data, which is considered to Doosan Infracore discloses the Code of Conduct and irregularity BOD be present at the actual meeting. Directors shall not delegate their reporting process on its website to ensure that both its internal and authority to a proxy. Directors with a vested interest in a particular external stakeholders can access such information easily. In addition, agenda item are prohibited from voting on it so as to maintain the CEO issues a letter requesting strict compliance with the Code of Outside Director Candidates Audit Committee Internal Transaction Committee transparency in the decision-making process. In 2018, the BOD held Conduct to all the company’s first-tier suppliers two times per year. Committee Recommendation Committee (4 outside directors) (3 outside directors) (3 outside directors) nine meetings during which deliberations and resolutions were made To prevent recurrence of Code of Conduct violations, the company on a total of 31 agenda items, including reports on the company’s clearly identifies the process and cause of issues that arise during Roles & Accounting audits, management Review and approval of large-scale Recommendation of business performance, an inspection of internal accounting system the work process, and creates and shares a white paper. Moreover, to Responsibilities performance audits and inspection internal transactions (more than outside director candidates of internal accounting system KRW 5 billion per case or per quarter) operations, and the provision of equipment for the earthquake maintain a transparent ethical management system, Doosan Infracore operations and audits of internal transaction recovery effort in Indonesia. The attendance rate of the directors in urges newly hired employees to sign a written oath pledging their 2018 was 85.7%. compliance with the Code of Conduct. It also requires new suppliers to submit a written oath pledging not to engage in unethical business BOD Evaluation and Remuneration The remuneration of internal practices. The company requires each of its team leaders, part leaders, Composition of BOD (As of March 27, 2019) and outside directors is determined within the limits approved at the and higher level managers, as well as its executives to write and AGM. The company also implements a performance salary system that submit a statement of interests form on an annual basis, with an aim Name Current Position / Role in the BOD 2018 Attendance Changes links executive compensation with business performance. Directors to remind them of the strict compliance standards. In 2018, all those Park Yong-maan Director of Doosan Infracore / Chairman of the BOD 78% Appointed on Mar. 27, 2019 are therefore given a salary corresponding to their pay grade as well as required to submit the statement complied with the obligation. Internal Sohn Dong-youn President and CEO of Doosan Infracore 89% Appointed on Mar. 28, 2018 a performance bonus based on the organization’s business results. Directors To ensure their independence from the management and controlling Training on the Code of Conduct is designed to raise employees’ Go Seokbum President and CEO of Doosan Infracore 100% Appointed on Mar. 28, 2018 shareholders, members of the Audit Committee receive remuneration awareness of ethical business practices and control the ethical risks Director of Yuhan Foundation / Chair of the Outside Director Candidates Han Seung-soo 67% Appointed on Mar. 28, 2018 only as directors and are prohibited from receiving any other types of involved in their business transactions in advance. Doosan Infracore Recommendation Committee, Member of the Audit Committee compensation. provides the training to all its employees, and notifies them of major President of Yoon Economic Research Institute / Chair of the Audit Committee, ethical management issues by posting the details on the bulletin Yoon Jeung-hyun Member of the Internal Transaction Committee, Member of the Outside Director 100% Appointed on Mar. 28, 2018 The total amount of approved pay for directors and auditors in 2018 board of each business site. The company expanded the scope of its Outside Candidates Recommendation Committee was KRW 15 billion, of which KRW 6,660 million was actually paid. online training to include managers of its Chinese subsidiary in 2017 Directors Attorney at Kim & Chang / Chair of the Internal Transaction Committee, The payment amount was calculated based on the pay for three in addition to managers at its domestic business sites, and has been Jung Byung Moon Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Outside Director Candidates 100% Appointed on Mar. 31, 2017 registered directors excluding outside directors and members of the continuing to do so. Recommendation Committee Audit Committee, one outside director excluding members of the Audit Professor at Business School, Korea University / Yoon Sung Soo 100% Appointed on Mar. 28, 2018 Committee, and five members of the Audit Committee who were paid Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Internal Transaction Committee from January to December 2018. Completion rate of Completion rate of * The tenure of a director is by the end of AGM for the third fiscal year after his/her appointment ethical management training ethical management training (Korea) (China) 98.5% 95.3% 80 81 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Governance & Integrity 03 04 Establishment of Fair Trade Practices Doosan Infracore adopted the Compliance Program (CP) in 2002 to ensure transparent business Internal Controls Risk Management market prices that may negatively affect the fair value of the financial instruments and the company’s cash flow, the management of the operations and fair competition, and has been doing its business company measures risks arising from changes in prices regularly and according to the Code of Conduct that meets global standards. To manages key investment assets separately. build a culture of fair trade and horizontal transactions, the company discloses the CEO’s Declaration on Compliance and four major Audit and Monitoring Doosan Infracore is fully aware of various strategic, operational, Credit Risk Credit risk arises from ordinary transactions or investment pledges (responsible contracts for win-win cooperation between large In line with the increased scope of the company’s management and financial and non-financial risks that may harm its corporate value and activities when customers or business partners do not follow the companies and SMEs, fair selection and management of suppliers, responsibility with the expansion of its overseas business and the incur economic losses. The company therefore has established risk conditions of the relevant business agreements. It may also arise from establishment and operation of the Internal Review Council, and adoption of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), management processes which are designed to enable its executives cash, cashable assets, derivatives, and deposits in banks and other desirable paperwork and its retention in subcontracting transactions) Doosan Infracore has been operating an independent audit team and working-level employees to detect abnormalities and take financial institutions. Doosan Infracore manages its credit risks with on the company website. The company uses a standard subcontract in China for audit and monitoring since 2012. The Audit Team at its prompt actions. The risk management processes ensure effective the purpose of minimizing losses under its credit policies. For credits in form for the machinery industry published by the Korea Fair Trade headquarters in Korea is striving to increase overseas subsidiaries’ risk controls through various elements, such as identification of risk which default is anticipated at the end of the fiscal year, the company Commission, and carries out all matters related to the selection of accounting and management transparency based on respect for factors, evaluation of the potential impacts of risks on the company, properly assesses the risks involved and addresses the results in its suppliers and contract execution through the ERP system. The Internal subsidiaries’ responsible business management. establishment of countermeasures, monitoring of changes in risk consolidated statements of financial position. Review Council, held more than three times each month, reviews levels, and constant reporting based on a coherent reporting system. contracts with suppliers and price-decision processes. By connecting Internal Controls Evaluation System Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk mainly arises from a shortage of the CP operating system to the Internal Review Council, the company Doosan Infracore established the Doosan Internal Control Assessment Financial Risk Management liquidity. It materializes when a corporation fails to fulfill its blocks unfair subcontract transactions in advance with the Council System (DICAS), an internal controls evaluation system, in 2006 Doosan Infracore has classified its financial risks into four types – obligations to pay off financial debts or to finance its normal re-validating the justification of executed subcontracts on a quarterly and since then it has been carrying out regular evaluations for its market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, and capital risk – and monitors operations. To prevent such situations, Doosan Infracore establishes basis. Also, in order to promote a culture of fair trade, the company entire business areas, ranging from finance to sales, purchasing, and manages them by risk type. quarterly and annual financial balance plans which allow the provides incentives not only to first-tier suppliers that have adopted and production. The results of the evaluations are reported to the company to minimize the influence of business, investments, and the CP, but also to firstand second-tier suppliers that sign fair Audit Committee, board meetings, and AGM, following the reports to Market Risk Foreign exchange risk occurs as a result of changes financial activities on the monetary balance. The forecasts help the transaction agreements between them. CFO and CEO in accordance with the ‘Act on the External Auditing of in currency exchange rates, which may affect the forecasting of company secure and maintain sufficient liquidity in preparation for Corporations.’ In 2014, the company began applying the same internal future deals, perceived assets and liabilities, and net investment possible liquidity risks in the future. In 2018, Doosan Infracore further expanded its fair trade organization to controls evaluation system to its subsidiaries in China. in overseas operations. Doosan Infracore has set basic strategies enhance the inspection and management of matters related to CP and with an aim to reduce fluctuations in profits and losses due to Capital Risk Capital risk management involves the maintenance of subcontract execution. It also enhanced the subcontract compliance Internal and External Reporting Systems changes in foreign exchange rates, and carries out hedge trading an optimum capital structure to ensure the company’s capabilities, education for its staff, improvement of data request process such as Doosan Infracore operates various internal and external reporting through exports and imports. Interest rate risks are related largely to thereby enabling it to provide its shareholders and other stakeholders carryout system, and the prior discussion, and follow-up monitoring systems to facilitate immediate reporting of any unethical acts, such adjustable rate deposits and loans. To preemptively deal with such with corporate profits while reducing capital expenditure. Doosan processes. The company has been issuing letters for the CP guidelines as bribery, unfair business transactions, and corruption, as well as risks, the company minimizes external loans through its reserve funds, Infracore maintains its capital in alignment with its debt ratio. It also and action recommendations, offering education on subcontracts and violations of the Doosan Credo, its Code of Conduct, regulations, and reduces high interest rate loans, improves the borrowing structure, manages capital risks by adjusting its dividend paid to shareholders, unfair trade practices, and improving the fair transaction monitoring relevant laws. The reporting channels include website, Cyber Reporting monitors changes in interest rates, and establishes countermeasures. repaying share capital, and issuing new shares and selling assets to system since 2018. Going forward, Doosan Infracore will build a strong Center, mail, telephone calls, fax messages, and personal visits. The Since its financial instruments are exposed to the risk of changes in reduce debts. compliance culture by encouraging its employees to voluntary reduce Cyber Reporting Center operates in three languages of Korean, English, illegal subcontracting risks among other things. and Chinese, and is open to anyone including employees and external stakeholders. Informant’s identity remains confidential, guaranteeing Risk Management Process Compliance with the Anti-graft Law In Korea, the ‘Improper Solicitahis/her anonymity. Received items are handled promptly according Communication with stakeholders tion and Graft Act,’ also known as the anti-graft law, went into to the applicable procedures, and the company’s actions, including Relevant internal and external stakeholders are informed of the risks that have occurred and the results of the company’s response to the risks according to its risk management procedures. Doosan Infracore continuously effect on September 28, 2016. Intended to prevent public officials’ correctives, are notified to the informant and disclosed company-wide, communicates with its stakeholders through quarterly earnings results and annual integrated reports. corruption, the Act applies to employees and their spouses of thereby further raising ethical awareness among staff. all public institutions, including constitutional agencies, central administrative agencies, and local governments, schools, and media PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 PHASE 5 outlets. The Act forbids improper solicitations to public officials and other relevant persons, and prohibits them from accepting financial Establish a Foundation Recognize Risks Identify Risks Evaluate Risks Respond to Risks for Risk Management or other advantages. Since 2016, Doosan Infracore has been carrying out various activities to raise awareness among employees, such Establish strategies, Build a risk pool by Identify potential Rate the identified risks Categorize required as providing education on the prohibition of solicitation to all its organizations and risk defining all uncertain risk factors and according to the degree responses into companymanagement systems, in risk elements that might categorize them into of danger involved, in wide or by functional employees in Korea and expatriate employees in China, sending appropriate areas consideration of their consideration of overall affect future management measures depending out CEO messages, and collecting voluntary compliance pledges business environments environments intensity and frequency on the risk and mitigate signed by the employees. It is also conducting continuous monitoring and industry before analyzing the the degree of danger by characteristics to manage required control level and distributing risk-specific through a dedicated task team. In addition, the company has added risks efficiently determining necessary manuals and providing compliance education on the anti-graft law to the Code of Conduct management priority education on risk training it provides every year to ensure continued training on the law. prevention PHASE 6 Monitor Control risks by continuously monitoring for any changes in the level of risk and report on a regular basis 82 83 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Governance & Integrity ・ Suppliers 01 Non-financial Risk Management The company has categorized its non-financial risks into three – Safety Risk Doosan Infracore takes diverse preventive measures to Suppliers Strengthening Suppliers’ environmental, safety, and disaster risks – and built a preemptive minimize potential risks, and strives to raise employee awareness Competitiveness risk response system. For full details of the company’s responses to on health and safety. The company has expanded the scope of its its environmental and safety risks, please refer to the ‘Environment, health and safety management to include outsourced projects and Health & Safety’ section on page 71. outside suppliers, while enhancing monitoring aimed at preventing Doosan Infracore focuses on raising its overall competitiveness occupational accidents. It also requires worksite visitors to watch in purchase and production by helping its suppliers boost their Environmental Risk In order to minimize possible risks from a safety video before entry. Furthermore, the company engages competitiveness. To this end, the company provides a range of support environmental pollution, Doosan Infracore promotes diverse in comprehensive public-private joint disaster response drills, programs, including financial support, competency enhancement environmental management activities, including efficiency establishes countermeasures for emergency crisis situations, and training, and on-site guidance. In addition, it is implementing the improvement of its resource use, reduction of pollutants through encourages its staff to be fully aware of them. Leading Supplier (LS) project in order to help its core suppliers grow OUR APPROACH facilities to reduce environmental impacts, and the enhancement of into small giants based on the Doosan Supplier Excellence Program environmental accident prevention and response systems, based on Disaster Risk Doosan Group has established its own Business (DSEP), a system for fostering suppliers. Moreover, Doosan Infracore its EHS management system. To minimize climate change risks, the Continuity Management (BCM), a risk management framework, at We seek ways to grow together has been actively promoting the multi-party benefit sharing system, company carries out greenhouse gas emissions reduction activities the group level. It has published a BCM manual that is categorized with our suppliers to realize which is designed to expand its supplier development programs to by making investments for energy efficiency and conducting energy into 20 mandatory infrastructure items. It has developed an second-tier suppliers, achieve cost reductions and other common the value of win-win management. reduction activities. It considers future scenario analysis to examine emergency notification system that can reach all its employees goals, and share the outcomes. the impact of climate change on business, and vice versa. The rapidly in the event of a crisis, so that leaders of business units can Doosan Infracore considers win-win growth with suppliers outcomes of such activities are disclosed to external stakeholders, check on the safety of their members quickly, and the members as a primary source of its competitiveness. The company Fostering Leading Suppliers including local residents. can respond systematically according to the company’s emergency therefore shares its technology, quality, and management Doosan Infracore conducts an annual survey of core suppliers response procedures. In 2012, it contracted with International SOS, systems with its suppliers to strengthen their competency according to the criteria for core suppliers defined by the analysis of a medical and travel security services company, and has since and build a virtuous cycle of partnerships. In addition, the transaction dependency and supplier relationship segmentation. And company helps them improve CSR capabilities in an effort provided comprehensive overseas safety management services to the company helps them have the capability to supply quality products to fulfill its roles and responsibilities in building a sound its expatriate employees or those traveling overseas on business. All at competitive prices on time by making innovative improvements in economic ecosystem. Doosan people across the world have access to emergency medical the areas of plant operations, quality assurance, and manufacturing relief from war, natural disaster, or accident, and information on technologies. It also makes continuous efforts to foster them to be CSR STRATEGIC TASK FOR 2018 travel security overseas. Leading Suppliers, setting a benchmark for other suppliers. The LS project aims not only to solve problems that suppliers are facing Strengthen CSR management system of supply chain: Define but also to build capabilities of their own and secure fundamental core suppliers and identify suppliers with high CSR risks, and competitiveness through oneto three-year support programs. With establish a management process the goal of fostering 50 Leading Suppliers by 2022, Doosan Infracore Key Risks and Relevant Responses As the occurrence of CSR issues, such as human rights, selected and supported a total of 26 suppliers between 2014 and environment, and safety of suppliers, has been on the rise, Key Risks Responsive Measures 2018, and plans to select five more suppliers in 2019. the CSR management system of supply chain has also been Global economic slowdown Maximize profitability and strengthen core competitiveness gaining importance around the world. Against this backdrop, Strategic risks Doosan Infracore strives to help its suppliers manage their Stricter environmental regulations on products Develop and apply eco-friendly technologies CSR more systematically. To this end, the company set its CSR Market risks Manage exchange rate fluctuations, interest rates, and price risks strategic task for 2016 as to ‘strengthen CSR management system of supply chain: Support EHS improvement activities Credit risks Manage credit risks and minimize losses through safeguard measures in bonds at suppliers’ which was followed by the 2018 strategic task to Financial risks ‘strengthen CSR management system of supply chain: Define Liquidity risks Establish quarterly and annual financial balance plans core suppliers and identify suppliers with high CSR risks, and Capital risks Reduce capital costs and manage liabilities establish a management process,’ and carried out activities to accomplished the tasks. Quality risks Establish a quality management system Operational Ethical management and compliance risks Audit unethical irregularities, provide employees with ethical training risks • Activities and Defined core suppliers; set criteria to define suppliers Risks related to personal information Establish personal information protection guidelines, build an information management Achievements with high CSR risks and conducted surveys to identity protection and data security system, and provide employees with information security training current status; and establish relevant processes to manage suppliers with high CSR risks Environment: Climate change risks, Build a climate change response system, manage environmental pollution materials, environmental pollution, and grievance risks and disclose information Non-financial Engage in risk factor management activities, enhance fire safety management (operation risks Safety: Worksite fire and occupational accidents of the Disaster Prevention Center), and boost safety management for outsourced work Link to UN SDGs Disaster: Natural disasters, man-made hazards Build the BCM and practice its applications * Responses to strategic risks are reflected in all of the company’s business processes and thus they are not mentioned separately 84 85 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Suppliers 02 Strengthening the CSR Competencies of Suppliers Financial Support LS Development Stages Doosan Infracore has established systems and programs designed Diverse Supplier Support In Korea, Doosan Infracore helps its suppliers enhance their financial Year One Intensive guidance and cultivation for overall to enable its suppliers to lay the groundwork for their response to Programs soundness by providing them with four types of financial support – CSR issues, including ethical management, fair trade, human rights, direct support, indirect support, mixed support, and special support. improvements in the entire DSEP module environmental protection, and social problems. Competitiveness Enhancement Programs Stage 1 Strengthening CSR Management System of the Supply Chain Supporting the Enhancement of Suppliers’ Competitiveness An Financial Support for Suppliers in 2018 (Korea) Diagnosis Identify capabilities that need to be Doosan Infracore has developed the Supplier CSR Guidelines, which exclusive team, composed of dedicated staff from the Supplier Programs Amounts Supported improved by diagnosing factory operations, consist of 27 clauses under 10 categories, such as labor, human Development Team and Shared Growth Team, visits suppliers if Facility Provided suppliers with quality assurance, and manufacturing rights, health and safety, environment, ethics, and fair trade, and necessary, in order to help them conduct innovative activities. In 2018, Investment interest-free facility KRW 1.3 billion technologies distributed them to its suppliers in the form of newsletters and 196 Doosan Infracore employees − twice as many as planned at the Fund investment funds Direct booklets. The company also reflects the Guidelines in its purchase beginning of the year − helped suppliers with their innovation efforts Support Provided financial support Stage 2 Planning Financial policies to ensure that consistent principles are applied not only to for more than five consecutive days1). Specifically, Doosan Infracore for shaping fixtures Support for KRW 22.8 billion Draw up of plans by Doosan Infracore’s to enhance product diagnosis and evaluation but also to purchase, based on which the staff helped suppliers improve their manufacturing capability by Shaping Fixtures experts and supplier staff to address competitiveness the identified capabilities company urges its suppliers to engage in practical CSR activities. providing key technical support for welding, materials manufacturing, Helped suppliers receive Network Loans, and non-destructive inspection; and support for innovation in the Indirect loans to fund operations KRW 30 billion Family Corporate Stage 3 Development For more systematic CSR management of its supply chain, Doosan fields of 3 P’s 6 S’s2), Lean3), DTC4), Single PPM5), quality guidance and Support with low interest rate (promised) Loans based on deposits Carry out improvement activities Infracore established criteria to define core suppliers in 2018; problem solving, localization, and product development. according to the DSEP for one year and Helped suppliers receive KRW 78.5 billion conducted a survey on their status; conducted an on-site evaluation Mixed Shared loans to fund operations (raised) offer supplier staff training Growth on their response to CSR issues, such as human rights protection, Management Doctor System Doosan Infracore is an active Support with low interest rate KRW 77.6 billion Special Fund ethical management, and EHS; and identified suppliers with high participant in the Management Doctor System which is currently being based on deposits (loaned) Stage 4 Sharing CSR risks. As regards suppliers with high CSR risks, the company promoted by the SME Support Center of the Federation of Korean Industrial Innovation Share improvements at the supplier required them to make improvements according to the management Industries (FKI). Suppliers recommended by large companies are Campaign conference held every October process, and has been monitoring the progress through on-site selected through a review process, whereupon experts from three 4.0, Special KRW 300 million Made contributions to inspections. parties – large companies, suppliers, and the FKI’s management Special Contribution shared growth programs Support (the Win-Win for secondand third-tier consulting team – help them improve management environments and Foundation) suppliers Year Two Post-management through DSEP maturity Doosan Infracore plans to enhance CSR management capabilities of solve problems. Contribution evaluations and continuous management its suppliers through comprehensive supplier evaluation linked to to Win-Win KRW 100 million the CSR evaluation and improvements. Competency Building Training for Suppliers’ Staff Doosan Supporters Year Three DSEP re-evaluation to enhance self-reliance and re-launch of the LS program for necessary Infracore reflects its suppliers’ feedback into the Supplier Academy, suppliers Reflecting CSR Elements into Supplier Evaluation Doosan a customized training program to help suppliers secure competitiveInfracore reflects CSR elements, such as employee training, ness, and offers the program every year. In 2018, 82 employees Support for the Creation of Sound Corporate Ecosystem labor management, environmental management, and regulatory from 38 suppliers benefited from the Supplier Academy in 14 areas, Beginning in 2017, Doosan Infracore has been running a supplier The LS project is aimed at raising suppliers’ fundamental competitivecompliance, in the evaluation and registration of its new suppliers including quality, manufacturing, and production costs. In 2019, support program that helps reduce the wage gap and increase welfare ness by enabling them to secure supply capacity and quality at all of its business sites in Korea and China. In the area of EHS in the company plans to expand the curriculum to include a course benefits for the employees of its secondand third-tier suppliers6), competitiveness in terms of a comprehensive ranking evaluation particular, such as environment and health, the company evaluates to learn how to understand global management situations and in-house subcontractors7), and service providers. For the employees of (supplier evaluation). status of building foundations and level of practices including respond to markets, and a management course for environmental those companies, it provides them with KRW 1.2 million per year (KRW establishment of relevant systems and improvement in risk factors. management. To this end, it has launched nine courses in four areas 100,000 per month for each person) to reduce their wage gap in the Expanding Participation in the Benefit Sharing System The company also has been conducting on-site EHS inspections − management, quality, manufacturing, and production costs – form of Win-Win Encouragement Funds while also offering high school The benefit sharing system is an agreement made between large of new suppliers prior to their registration since 2015. In China, the and 201 employees of suppliers are expected to attend. Doosan tuition fees to their children and allowing them to use the company’s companies and smalland medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to company established the ‘Supplier EHS Evaluation Criteria’ in 2016, Infracore will continue to offer a curriculum customized for the daycare center free of charge in an effort to enhance their welfare improve suppliers’ capabilities to deliver high quality goods on time and it has since distributed them to its local suppliers and helped level of suppliers while gradually increasing the number of trainees benefits. and share the benefits with one another. It is an iconic model for them conduct self-assessment. as part of its efforts to help suppliers enhance their fundamental the creation of a healthy corporate ecology. The multi-party benefit competitiveness. 1)  Criteria of the Korea Fair Trade Commission: 5 days = 1 person (1 day = 8 hours, sharing system has advanced one step beyond the ordinary benefit based on the time and attendance criteria) sharing system to include second-tier suppliers. Doosan Infracore Seminars for Suppliers Starting in 2017, Doosan Infracore has been 2)  3 P’s 6 S’s: 3 P’s (Proper Items, Proper Quantity, Proper Place), 6 S’s (Safety, Sort, Straighten, Shine, Standardize, Sustain) collects suppliers’ suggestions regarding quality improvements or holding the ‘Seminar for People in Charge’ for its suppliers twice a 3)  Lean: Activities designed to minimize inventories and innovate work processes, design changes through the benefit sharing system, reflects the year to introduce its win-win growth programs, motivate suppliers to thus reducing costs and enhancing productivity suggestions into its products, and it shares the outcome, thereby actively participate in and take advantage of the programs, and help 4)  DTC: Design to Cost Innovation 5)  creating win-win partnerships with its suppliers. The company plans them build competency. At the seminars held in 2018, the company Single PPM (parts per million): A quality innovation campaign designed to achieve the quality management goal of reducing the ratio of faulty products to under to improve its suppliers’ fundamental competitiveness by expanding introduced the background of adopting the compliance program 10:1,000,000 products the benefit sharing system to include not only first-tier suppliers but (CP) and the way of implementing CP, and shared information on the 6)  Secondand third-tier suppliers: Suppliers that depend more than 35% in terms of sales on Doosan Infracore’s first-tier suppliers that count on the company by more also their second-tier suppliers in order to establish a culture of fair benefit sharing system, EHS management, and suppliers’ response than 35% in terms of sales transactions in subcontracting within the industry. to the minimum wage increase in Korea and 52-hour workweek 7)  In-house subcontractors: Employees of in-house subcontractors (except for large system. companies and foreign enterprises) 86 87 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Suppliers ・ Product Quality & Stewardship 03 Establishing a Culture of Product Quality Shared Growth & Stewardship Building Win-Win Partnerships Strengthening Communication with Suppliers Doosan Infracore strives to build a virtuous cycle of partnerships for To enhance communication with its suppliers, Doosan Infracore is shared growth with its suppliers. Such efforts are led by the Supplier running a ‘Supplier Hotline’ and holding agreement ceremonies and Development Team and the Shared Growth Team, with a focus on meetings. The CEO visits the company’s second-tier suppliers twice a improving suppliers’ jobs and technical competencies while enhancing year to listen to their concerns and find solutions to their problems. In their financial soundness and actively communicating with them China, senior executives attend a meeting with suppliers twice a year, OUR APPROACH through the Integrated Cooperation Council. share the purpose of shared growth, and encourage commitment to realizing shared growth. Doosan Infracore provides Doosan Infracore strives to offer customers better value through products that take into account not just performance Shared Growth System Integrated Cooperation Council For active and effective communicaworld-class products, parts, and but also customer safety and environmental impacts. In tion with suppliers, Doosan Infracore launched the Integrated services with a goal of maximizing addition, the company focuses on improving product quality, Cooperation Council in 2015. The Council meets twice a year to share enhancing customer services, and having more dialogues Vision Shared Growth in Global Enterprises the company’s business plans, quality policies, and the latest global customer value. with customers in order to become a company trusted by trends including environmental restrictions, and to align the strategies customers. Competitiveness enhancement programs of the company with its suppliers and strengthen mutual exchanges. Shared Profit sharing/ financial support CSR STRATEGIC TASK FOR 2018 Growth Grievance Handling Channel for Suppliers Doosan Infracore has Programs Support for joint advance into overseas markets established the Supplier Hotline on its company website in the Respond to REACH/RoHS 2 and set up an operation system Enhancement of communication Shared Growth section, through which people may express their Chemical regulations are becoming increasingly strict in Korea RoHS 3, which has stricter standards than RoHS 2, such as the overall opinions and grievances about the company’s trade practices and overseas, and prohibition of sales, penalties, and other expansion of restricted materials, will come into effect in July Shared Build a virtuous cycle partnership enabling and shared growth activities or request shared growth programs. Growth Policy shared growth with suppliers risks in cases of non-compliance are also rising. Businesses 2019. Accordingly, responsible department and executive office In addition, the company has put diverse communication channels are therefore required to improve their chemicals management will strengthen monitoring and management of hazardous in place, such as telephone, fax, and postal service, and notifies to system. Doosan Infracore does not use many hazardous Competitiveness Enhancement Support Center chemicals use and commence the development of alternative Organization its suppliers. All communication made through the Supplier Hotline chemicals in its production processes or its products given the substances as part of continued efforts to minimize risks related in Charge (composed of in-house experts in shared growth, fostering of suppliers, purchase, quality, and R&D) is kept strictly confidential, and for those wishing to maintain their nature of the industry in which it operates. Nevertheless, in order to hazardous chemicals. anonymity, the Hotline can be used anonymously. Doosan Infracore to minimize negative impacts on its stakeholders, the company makes sure that no one faces retaliation for submitting grievance, and has built the REACH1)/RoHS 22) IT system in 2017, and based on critical issues are reported to the CEO and relevant executives. that, in 2018 it set up response process and operation system • Activities and Created a CF (Cross Function) Team for company-wide Achievements hazardous chemicals management and operations; by creating a cross function (CF) team to manage hazardous Motivating Shared Growth Doosan Infracore reflects the shared established a policy to manage restricted materials; chemicals at the company level; developing a policy to manage growth performance of the relevant executives in the evaluation distributed work process guidelines to the relevant restricted materials, providing trainings to staff at suppliers in departments; provided trainings to staff at suppliers in of their management by objectives (MBO), and it also reflects the charge and helping them establish management process; and charge and helped them establish management process; findings of the benefit sharing system in the MBO of executives in developing alternative materials. developed alternative materials to respond to RoHS 2; charge of purchasing in order to promote the system. Furthermore, established response processes at overseas subsidiaries; requested for input and renewal of REACH/RoHS 2 to encourage suppliers to participate in shared growth activities, it substances; and included supplier’s obligation for REACH/ reflects their involvement in shared growth and relevant performance RoHS 2 in the basic purchase contract form in the comprehensive supplier evaluation. 1)  REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals): Chemical substance management system of the E.U. that governs the registration, evaluation, approval and restriction of chemical substances according to their quantity and harmful effects 2)  Restriction of Hazardous Substances in EEE (RoHS): The EU directive that restricts the use of hazardous substances, including lead, cadmium, mercury, chromium, and flame retardants, such as PBBs and PBDEs, in the production of electrical and electronic products RoHS 2: A stricter regulation compared with RoHS, including an increase in the scope of restricted substances, which has been applied Link to UN SDGs in a phased manner since January 2013. It restricts the use of ten substances – four phthalate-related substances were added to the previous six substances, such as lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and two bromine-based flame retardants 88 89 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Product Quality & Stewardship 01 Customer-centered Product The scope of application of the relevant regulations has been expanding from finished products to include parts. In response, At Doosan Infracore, products that preemptively meet mandatory environmental regulations of each market in five areas – fuel In March 2013, construction equipment and excavators were designated by law as a subject to a recall in Korea. Voluntary recall Development Doosan Infracore included supplier’s obligation for REACH/RoHS 3 efficiency, durability, noise control, safety, and emissions control involves the company making a direct report if it discovers an in the basic purchase contract form in order to raise suppliers’ – are defined as eco-friendly products. And those that surpass the issue and officially implements preemptive correction measures. awareness of the importance on hazardous substance management. mandatory level are defined as premium eco-friendly products. The In December 2017, Doosan Infracore voluntarily chose one of its Strengthening Product Responsibility It has also continued to assist suppliers with training and on-site portion of premium eco-friendly or eco-friendly products has been products as a subject of recall for it found possible defects in the Doosan Infracore is committed to securing customer safety and guidance to improve the management competency of their staff, increasing from 73.9% in 2016 to 84.6% in 2017, and 87.4% in 2018. lower heater of the fuel filter which may cause an inflow of moisture minimizing environmental impact throughout its entire process and helped them establish management process. Doosan Infracore into an inner pin, damage it, overheat the fuel filter and thus make ranging from product development to production and sales. To this will urge the suppliers to respond to the regulations and offer online the filter stop functioning. The company sent out a recall notice end, the company strives to ensure customer safety and convenience trainings to support an improvement of relevant competencies. to customers and offered free repairs at designated maintenance from the product planning and development stage, and also focuses centers or locations preferred by consumers. 02 on expanding the development of eco-friendly products in order to Conflict Mineral Management The international community has Process to Reflect Customer Feedback minimize the environmental impact of product manufacturing and use. In addition, it aims to contribute to the improvement of human designated four minerals – tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold – that are mined in 10 war-torn countries in Africa, including the Democratic Responsible Customer Collecting and Responding to Customer Feedback Doosan Infracore rights and the environment in areas that produce conflict minerals by Republic of the Congo, Sudan, and Central Africa, as conflict minerals. Service collects and promptly handles customer feedback and requests continuously monitoring the use of conflict minerals in its products. These countries are believed to still be caught up in conflict as rebels through its dealers and direct visits to major customers. It also are raising funds by monopolizing mining and distribution of the regularly holds meetings to share voice of customers (VOC) in which Compliance with International Safety Standards At the planning minerals. In addition to the loss of lives caused by long-standing Preemptive Response for Customers major suppliers participate, and thus uses them as opportunities to stage, the company sets up new product development and verificadisputes, the mining also causes serious social problems, such as Doosan Infracore has been solidifying its relationship with customers analyze and apply market trends. tion plans by reviewing various countries’ technical regulations and forced labor for local residents, human rights problems related to based on trust by acting ahead of customers’ requests. The company international standards on safety and environment, including fire, child labor, and pollution caused by over-mining. Use of conflict provides information on products for customer safety and increased In Korea, the Customer Support Center receives customer requests, explosion, noise, rollover, electromagnetic compatibility, and toxic minerals as core materials for automobiles, mobile phones, and convenience, and carries out voluntary preemptive correction and assigns personnel who are in a position to quickly visit customchemicals. It also reflects the guidelines set forth in major technical personal computers, has become an issue, and as a result, the measures. ers through the Global Positioning System (GPS). This is followed by regulations when setting up its product development objectives, international community, including the U.S., the EU, and OECD, has the ‘Happy Call’ with customers one day after in order to check final such as the ‘Rules on Construction Machinery Safety Standards’ of established regulations and guidelines to eradicate the use of conflict Providing Information for Customer Safety Doosan Infracore progress. To smoothly provide services to customers, the company Korea, the ‘Machinery Directive’ of Europe, and the ‘Guobiao (GB) minerals. At Doosan Infracore, relevant teams collaborate to respond complies with regulations of each country related to increased has built a one-stop after market (AM) service system from sales Standard’ of China. The company also ensures that its products are to the conflict minerals issue based on the guidelines presented customer safety, including Safety Standards and the Product Liability to end-of-life disposal, and continues to enhance its dealer service manufactured to meet the regulations of the markets to which they by the ‘Conflict Minerals Regulatory Response Center’ of the Korea Act, and takes all the necessary actions to prevent related accidents. training. It also carries out trainings for office and field staff of the will be exported. Moreover, Doosan Infracore runs the Global Product International Trade Association. Going forward, the company will To ensure safe operation and maintenance of its products, the Customer Support Center on a quarterly basis in line with a new Compliance Council (GPCC), through which it shares information establish standards and procedures designed to identify the use of company provides customers with safety labels of three levels – product release. As an outcome of such efforts, the company has on the latest trends in global safety regulations and standards and conflict minerals and their origin with the purpose of preventing the danger, warning, and caution – according to the severity of the safety achieved 97.6% of claim settlement ratio within the timeline set by discusses preemptive responses to any changes. use of conflict minerals in the first place. risks involved. It also specifies matters that are critical to customer customers. safety in a product manual. Doosan Infracore complies with ISO Management of Hazardous Chemicals Doosan Infracore seeks ways Increasing Eco-friendly Products Doosan Infracore is conducting 92441) with respect to the safety labels attached to its construction In China, dealers receive customer feedback and requests through to respond to various hazardous chemicals regulations, including its business based on its corporate philosophy which defines equipment and publishes operator manuals for its machinery in the Service Call Center and aim to handle them within 24 hours the EU’s REACH/RoHS 3, and the ‘Act on the Registration and minimizing environmental footprint as a corporate responsibility accordance with ISO 67502). and complete their services within seven days. VOCs are reflected Evaluation etc. of Chemical Substances’ and the ‘Chemicals Control through which the company can create values. In accordance with in product design and quality improvement. Doosan Infracore Act’ of Korea. To this end, the company conducted a total inspection this corporate philosophy, the company established definition Preemptive Correction Measures Preemptive correction measures provides various online and offline trainings to enhance the technical on hazardous chemicals used throughout its work processes in and management standards for eco-friendly products in 2015, and are improvement measures carried out by manufacturers after capabilities of its dealers’ service personnel. Approximately 20 2015; conducted a study on the possibility of replacing some of reflected the eco-friendly product management process in its new making notices to customers without any external pressure. For better emergency service engineers make three-month training visits hazardous chemicals, and replaced or removed 11 types of chemicals product development process and completed an upgrade of the preemptive correction measures, the company not only utilizes local to around 30 dealers throughout China to provide training on subject to management under The Chemicals Control Act in 2016; environmental friendliness index in 2016. staff at its overseas business sites but also dispatches its experts mechanical repairs and maintenance while also helping to solve and developed a world-leading process and IT system to respond to from the head office to any location in the world. Construction technical issues of the company’s C (Chinese) models. As a result REACH/RoHS 2 and completed its roll-out at Doosan Infracore China equipment must be able to withstand rough work environments. The of these efforts, in 2018, the company achieved 87% and 88% in Products that surpass Corporation in 2017. In 2018, to cope with even stricter regulations Classification of the eco-friendly product company therefore repeatedly checks the whole range of equipment claims processing rates for all its models and C models, respectively. systematically, the company created a CF team for company-wide Eco-Friendly Products criteria and perform features, from performance of the specialty parts to simple malfuncIt also achieved 87% in making design improvements by successfully above a certain level hazardous chemicals management and operations; established Premium tion, when performing preemptive correction measures, and makes working on 26 cases out of 30 design-related VOCs. in the environmentala policy to manage restricted materials; distributed work process Eco-friendly friendliness index of corrections so that the product can be delivered to customers in the guidelines to the relevant departments; developed alternative Products the relevant market(s) best possible state. In addition, the company frequently manages materials to respond to RoHS 3; established response processes at the major correction measure status using a system for quicker overseas subsidiaries; input new REACH/RoHS 3 substances and preemptive correction measures. requested renewal. Eco-friendly 1)  ISO 9244: International standard specifications on general rules regarding Products construction equipment safety labels 2)  ISO 6750: International standard specifications on the format of construction equipment manuals (guidance and content) Products that preemptively satisfy the environmental regulations of the relevant market(s) 90 91 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Product Quality & Stewardship 03 Building Customer Trust in Marketing and Sales Stages Customer Feedback Collection and Handling Process Responsible Marketing Policies Doosan Infracore sets and Quality Stabilization and infrastructure system by laying foundations for a quality management system and improving its quality system; and make continuous efforts complies with proactive and responsible customer service policies Standardization to improve fundamental quality. with an aim of building customer trust and enhancing its product KOREA OVERSEAS values. For responsible marketing, it provides the latest product Company-wide Integrated Quality Conference Doosan Infracore information via its website and social media channels, along with The Foundation of Quality Management has been holding the ‘Company-wide Integrated Quality Conference,’ Registration with the call center Registration with dealers unique brand guidelines to serve as the yardstick for marketing Quality Management System To achieve its vision of developing participated by the CEO, every month since 2010 with the goal of and communication activities, including advertising and sales into a ‘Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions,’ Doosan Infracore attaining the highest quality from a customer’s perspective. The Service action and entry Overseas subsidiary / Service entry promotions. The company complies with legislation related to sales, has established and been operating a customer-oriented quality conference agenda reflects results of the product quality analysis marketing, and information security, and was not subject to any management system. In 2018, the company set its midto long-term and shares improvement points and responses. sanctions for falsehood including exaggerated advertising practices quality management direction, which is to focus on strengthening Integrated input of information on customers’ requests and malfunctions in 2018. proactive quality and global quality management system, improving Quality Improvement Index Management Doosan Infracore focuses Decision on claims mass production quality, and increasing quality capabilities. It on making innovations in parts quality and improving product Protection of Consumer Information Doosan Infracore has also created the Quality Management Team which is in charge of perfection with a goal of manufacturing products that meet customer Finalization of claims established and implemented its own customer information diagnosing and verifying the quality management system of the needs. The company has selected initial quality and warranty quality Adding weight protection system. It encrypts its personal information database for company. In addition, Doosan Infracore sought to enhance overall as indices for customer recognition, and set an ambitious goal to information security and conducts integrated monitoring of access to quality management across the entire value chain by overhauling increase customer satisfaction through quality management. its information system, including any activities suspected of abuse or the Quality Management System (QMS) which evaluates the quality leakage. The company has prepared guidelines on the management management level of such areas as production/purchase/quality, Project Tracking System The Project Tracking System (PTS) is of information security and provides education on information R&D, sales, and services, and comes up with measures to make Doosan Infracore’s system for managing quality projects. Using PTS, Management of major claims Notification to a department in charge / Information sharing security to all its employees every year. Doosan Infracore has not improvements. It also built a risk management framework to better the company checks the progress status of the projects related to been subject to any sanctions for leakages of its customers’ personal respond to quality risks. market quality, process quality, and advance quality, responses information or violations of relevant laws in the past three years. to VOCs, and improvement effects to help the company make In 2019, Doosan Infracore will continue to place top priority on quality. improvements to quality and accelerate the pace of improvement. Standardizing Product Post-sale Management Services Doosan Promotion of Digital Marketing In order to promote direct communiMore specifically, the company will secure a quality competitiveness In 2019, Doosan Infracore plans to improve work efficiency and Infracore offers its customers the 4-One Service – One Hour Contact, cation with customers, Doosan Infracore operates digital marketing of new products; enhance its global quality management by build a regular monitoring system by promoting PTS advancements, One Day Repair, One Touch Repair, One Plus Service – to deal channels for each country. In China, the company has been using establishing differentiated quality strategies for different regions; such as implementing auto-tracking system to check the progress with product malfunctions and provide technical assistance. The WeChat, the largest messenger service in the market since 2016, enhance mass production quality and strengthen proactive quality of quality improvement tasks, complementing supplier audits company strives to provide One Touch Repair on the day that service to provide product news, information regarding used products and management by reinforcing suppliers’ quality competitiveness and and manufacturing quality modules, and establishing customer requests are made. It therefore continues to make improvements parts, and functions to help customers manage their equipment expanding the scope of their quality management; establish an complaints database. in its technical capabilities and service procedures while building a in a customer-tailored way, and to identify customers’ demands comprehensive customer support system that leaves no blind spot for products. As of 2018, the company’s WeChat followers totaled unaddressed and supplies parts in a timely manner. around 60,000 which is more than two-fold increase in the last two Quality Management System years, while the running total of WeChat clicks exceeded 1.4 million, Customer Satisfaction Management Doosan Infracore has been and the total number of social media exposures surpassed the 12 standardizing its customer services to improve its overall customer million mark. In the massive Chinese market, the company identifies Global Leader in service quality, and providing all its service personnel with customer demand for products through digital marketing, including WeChat Infrastructure Solutions satisfaction (CS) trainings in order to foster them into CS experts. In and other online media, in addition to that identified through its addition, the company conducts CS surveys on provided services dealerships around the country, which in turn is leading to our sales. Customer-centric quality management system through Happy Calls in Korea and China and strives to keep the In 2018, Doosan Infracore sold some 330 excavators in China through satisfaction level above 4.5 points on a scale of 1-5 points. In 2018, the digital marketing leveraging WeChat and other social media the level of satisfaction in Korea stood at 4.73 points. channels. Development quality Parts quality Manufacturing quality Market quality NPD Process Doosan Infracore operates the New Product DevelopFollowing the successful launch of the official Instagram account of • Upgrade the New Product • Develop parts in connection • Establish global standards to • Lifetime management regarding ment (NPD) process with the participation of such departments as Doosan Infracore in 2017, the company opened its Facebook and Development (NPD) Process with NPD comply with global quality quality issues (occurrence• Strengthen quality • Run programs to nurture • Continue to improve manufacturing improvement-completion) R&D, Advance Quality, Sales Strategy, and Marketing, to reflect VOCs LinkedIn accounts in 2018, thereby expanding communication with pre-verification through suppliers with world-leading quality through Doosan Production • Improve quality and service quality into the new product development. The company’s business sites customers across the globe. As such, the company continues to post front loading competitiveness System (DPS) recognized by customers in Korea, China, and Europe operate customer feedback collection information on its equipment, news highlights of the company, and • Solve fundamental problems • Curtail warranty costs channels from diverse perspectives. They have also built the NPD customer events by using YouTube and other social media channels, through the Design for Six Sigma (DFSS) 4.0 in 2013, with improved perspectives in terms of laws, safety, and further enhancing the corporate value of Doosan Infracore. Going quality. They are currently operating the NPD 4.3 to ensure quality forward, the company will leverage social media marketing more innovation throughout all steps of product development. effectively with an aim of providing information and promoting sales. Leadership/Resource management 92 93 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Product Quality & Stewardship ・ Communities 01 Considerable Improvement of Fundamental Quality Doosan Infracore focuses on quick, considerable improvements to Enhancing Supplier’s Quality Management Doosan Infracore has put the statistical process control (SPC) system Communities CCI Strategies and Directions its fundamental quality to secure core competitiveness and increase in place and analyze data in order to prevent quality defects and customer value. Aiming to improve the fundamental quality level by ensure stable manufacturing processes. Through the operation of the more than 7% compared to the current level, the company operates SPC system, the company expects to make continuous improvements key tasks every year, strengthening compliance with basic quality in fundamental quality and reduce warranty costs; build a foundation CCI System rules with a focus on plants and suppliers. The company will strive for quality data analysis based on big data; secure data reliability CCI Strategies Doosan Infracore generates not only business to minimize problems that customers may encounter while using by automating data input; and improve work efficiency through the opportunities but also social values by leveraging its expertise their equipment by gradually improving its quality through various automated transfer of suppliers’ quality information. In 2018, the and competencies in order to grow into a trusted and reputable preventive quality management endeavors. These activities include company registered and managed data on 198 inspection items of company that contributes to the sustainable growth of its own and managing the company’s and suppliers’ proactive quality factors, 51 suppliers, resulting in continuous improvements. In 2019, Doosan local communities as well. To this end, the company plans and OUR APPROACH strengthening the pre-shipment inspection process through the Infracore plans to expand the scope to 256 items of 68 suppliers. executes corporate community involvement (CCI) activities that take re-examination of pre-shipment inspection time and items, and into account characteristics of local communities based on its CCI creating a precautionary quality team to strengthen proactive quality We are leveraging our capabilities guidelines and continuous communication with local communities. management for new products. The company will continue improve to create a better society by The CSR Part at the head office is taking a central role and works in the quality of the entire phase from parts to manufacturing and final partnership with staff in charge at its overseas business sites. In investing in our communities. inspection in order to prevent possible quality problems before 2018, based on the corporate-wide CCI strategy, the company updated equipment is delivered to customers. Based on its pursuit of sincere corporate community involveits CCI Portfolio to identify its current CCI status and set directions for ment (CCI), Doosan Infracore has established a global CCI selecting focus areas. Going forward, Doosan Infracore will focus on Strengthening Quality at the Parts Production Stage system and guidelines that reflect its corporate capabiliCCI activities related to human resource development, products, and In order to minimize the number of defects at the production stage, ties and social demands while carrying out CCI activities business areas based on the CCI strategy and portfolio. Doosan Infracore is continuing to improve parts quality in partnership worldwide guided by a common set of core values. The CCI Committee ensures that donations are spent in a transparent with its suppliers. As a result, the company’s initial/warranty quality, way. Together with its employees around the globe, Doosan which serves as a quality index of construction equipment parts, Infracore is striving to implement CCI programs that are CCI Strategies has improved by more than 23% and 42% in Korea and China, instrumental to the development of local communities. respectively, over the past three years. To prevent fluctuations in quality due to personnel change and process improvement, Doosan Top 100 global CSR leading companies Infracore assigns different reporting obligations according to the Goal by 2025 1) business type of each supplier, while enhancing quality management through pre-inspections. It also holds worst quality supplier meetings to raise suppliers’ awareness on the importance of quality and urge them to implement quality-first policies. It conducts quality To boost local communities’ future audits customized to each supplier’s level of quality and business Mission competitiveness and the company’s corporate type to help them improve quality, and inspects their quality values through strategic CCI activities systems, processes, and products on a regular basis to prevent quality defects and ensure the consistency in quality management. In 2018, the company conducted quality inspection audit and OSA To promote the shared growth of the company Value and society through CCI activities for 86 suppliers, and in 2019, it plans to expand the target to 93 suppliers. Doosan Infracore will continuously prevent quality issues by diagnosing and checking quality risks in advance, including cases Support Support for Support for of transfer of suppliers’ contractual status, and modifications in based on the 3 Strategies the next local design or processes. company’s core generation communities competencies 1) Based on the announcement of the World Economic Forum (Davos Forum) Link to UN SDGs 94 95 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Communities 02 Support Based on the Company’s Core Competencies Operation of the CCI Committee and the CCI Council Doosan Infracore spends donations after carrying out a comprehensive Doosan Infracore selected mentors and mentees for the 4th class of Dream School in 2017 and the 5th in 2018, carrying out related Doosan Infracore leverages its business resources to promote its CCI Employee Engagement review of the public interest and appropriateness of programs activities for two years. Throughout the last seven years since 2012, activities, including expertise in construction mechanical engineering and institutions, and the relevance of programs to the company’s 320 employees and around 400 youth shared the journey to nurture and product development. CCI direction. For more transparent and proper collection of dreams of youth. The company will continue to provide support, such donations and execution thereof, the company has launched the as employee mentoring, experiential activities, professional coaching, Support for Natural Disaster Relief In the event of a massive Employee Donation CCI Committee, an organization that deliberates on and determines and peer activities, so as to enhance independence of the youth and disaster such as an earthquake or a typhoon, Doosan Infracore Participated by approximately 75% of the Doosan Infracore all matters related to donation, in 2017 and established relevant help them grow into active and responsible members of society. promptly provides construction equipment, such as excavators, employees in Korea (excluding expatriate employees), the employee regulations. Led by the CEO, who also serves as the chairman of wheel loaders, and compact construction machinery, and donation consists of ‘Collection of Small Change from Employees’ the CSR Committee, the CCI Committee is comprised of the CFO Construction Support for Hope Elementary Schools in China Under funds for relief efforts, thus providing support based on its core Salaries’ and ‘Opening Donation Account.’ The company’s matching and executives in change of legal affairs and CSR. The Committee the slogan of ‘We will build a beautiful China together,’ Doosan competencies – one of the company’s core CCI strategies. It has grant amount is added and the funds are donated to the Community deliberates where to spend donations followed by reviews of Infracore China Corporation (DICC) has been participating in provided construction equipment and donations for rapid relief Chest. The details of fund execution are disclosed transparently how much to spend on each proposed program considering each ‘Project Hope,’ a public service project that involves the provision and recovery from devastating natural disasters around the world through the company’s CCI Information System and in-house portal program’s relevance to the company’s business and its public nature of educational support for Chinese youth and improvement of the over the years, such as Hurricane Katrina in the U.S. in 2005, the news service. together with the company’s financial situation. Doosan Group’s CCI educational environment in underprivileged regions of China. DICC Sichuan earthquake in China in 2008, the earthquake in Haiti in Committee, which is composed of executives from six affiliates of the has been supporting the construction of Hope Elementary Schools, 2010, the Tohoku earthquake in Japan in 2011, Typhoon Haiyan in Building a System for Employee Engagement Group including Doosan Infracore, discusses and makes decisions thereby providing local youths opportunities for education and the Philippines in 2013, and the devastating earthquake in Nepal in Doosan Infracore is operating various systems to establish a corporate on policies on donations along with the donation beneficiaries and contributing to the development of local education and sustainable 2015. The company provided construction equipment worth around culture where employees participation in CCI is encouraged. The amounts for each affiliate. In addition, donations worth KRW 500 development of the country. Out of a total of 37 planned Hope USD 1 million (around KRW 1.2 billion) for damage recovery from the company built a CCI Information System on the company Intranet to million or those deemed necessary to be reviewed by the BOD are Elementary Schools, 34 Schools have been built, sharing hope with earthquake that hit Indonesia in October 2018. It recognized the increase employees’ awareness of the company’s voluntary services deliberated and approved by the BOD. children. DICC also operate an ‘honorary school principal system’ urgency of damage recovery immediately after the earthquake, and while keeping track of their participation and managing the employee together with dealerships in China, and it has been holding the through discussions with the Indonesian government, the company donation. In addition to company-led CCI programs, Doosan Support for the Next Generation ‘Doosan Hope Travel Summer Camp’ every summer since 2007. chose equipment that were needed for the damaged sites and Infracore operates a support system for voluntary service clubs run Dream School Doosan Infracore has been running ‘Dream School’ Teachers and students of Doosan Hope Elementary Schools from all offered emergency support through a local dealer. The equipment by employees. In addition, the company operates diverse support since 2012 together with World Vision, an international NGO devoted around the country join the summer camp, which enables students was used for restoration of areas that were damaged due to the programs, such as the CCI diligence and indolence system and reward to humanitarian aid across the world. As one of the company’s to enjoy cultural experiences while having fun. Under the honorary collapse of infrastructure, such as buildings and roads. system, to encourage voluntary participation of employees in CCI flagship CCI programs, the Dream School helps youth nurture their principal system, the CEOs of Doosan Infracore dealerships are activities. dream for five years from second grade of middle school by offering appointed as principals with the aim of encouraging participation of Donation of Equipment and Model Doosan Infracore donates mentoring programs, education for self-discovery, projects to dealers and ensuring continued support for the schools. excavators, parts, and engines produced in the course of product Doosan Day of Community Service improve problem-solving capabilities, and experiential programs to development stage for tests to the relevant departments of Doosan Day of Community Service refers to CCI activities participated help them shape their career path. Middle school mentees take part Support for Local Communities universities and vocational high schools to be used as educational by employees of Doosan Group. They figure out the needs of local in a mentoring program provided by Doosan Infracore employees Doosan Infracore carries out corporate community involvement (CCI) materials. Moreover, to help soldiers stationed along the country’s communities across the globe in which Doosan Group carries out for two years – it also includes education for self-discovery, activities in consideration of the characteristics and needs of local snow-heavy northern border, the company has donated compact business and lend a helping hand. Doosan Infracore takes part in the specialist mentoring sessions, and career experiences. High school communities with an aim to grow together with them. The company track loaders and attachments to military units in the Gangwondo Doosan Day of Community Service every year and makes small but mentees engage in self-directed activities, including meeting with holds workshops with staff in charge of CCI at its business sites, province in February 2018 to facilitate the soldiers’ errands of meaningful changes. The company also holds a photo/video contest professionals through Dream Club activities, in an effort to shape and shares the CCI direction and major annual schedule, while weeding and clearing snow in hazardous areas. to share heartwarming moments of the event with all the particitheir career paths. collecting their opinions. By doing so, Doosan Infracore promotes pants. Going forward, Doosan Infracore plans to actively participate various CCI activities that address the needs of communities based The Junior Engineering Class Launched in 2008, the Junior in the Doosan Day of Community Service which is based on a corpoThe first year of Dream School mainly consists of ‘Dream Leaders’ on cooperation with reputable non-profit organizations in local Engineering Class is a talent donation circle mainly consisting of rate culture of voluntary participation. activities where a mentor and mentee meet once a month to communities. Doosan Infracore’s R&D executives and employees. The volunteers discover the mentee’s area of interest and dream. There are also teach elementary school students about scientific principles in fun other activities that form a sense of closeness between mentors Local Hope CCI Activities Doosan Infracore carries out a variety of and easy ways through the assembly of science kits at regional child and mentees including the ‘Summer Camp’ where mentees meet CCI activities with the participation of not only its employees but also centers, schools, and hospitals. friends from other regions, ‘Professional Mentoring’ where mentees their family members in a way that the activities can bring practical meet professionals, and ‘Home Coming Day’ where mentees meet assistance to local communities. In Seoul and Gunsan, the company Dream School graduates. In the second year, the ‘Dream Project’ strives to improve the residential environment of the neighborhoods is executed to improve youth’s problem-solving capabilities in the in which its business sites are located. In Incheon, the company Fourth Industrial Revolution era that is changing the world faster than offers free packed meals to the undernourished as part of its ever. Mentees think about, identify with, and discover solutions for efforts to improve the welfare of local residents. The company also daily life problems that requirement improvement, and challenge continues to supply kimchi and briquettes to the underprivileged themselves to find solutions, thereby enhancing their independent in local communities. It undertakes the Local Hope CCI activities problem-solving skills. with funds raised through voluntary financial contributions from its employees as well as the company’s donation in the form of a matching grant. 96 97 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries (in Korean won) December 31, 2018 and 2017 2018 2017 Appendix Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents ₩ 1,053,016,029,210 ₩ 943,481,141,254 Short-term financial instruments 261,439,186,727 160,166,932,394 Short-term investment securities 14,288,402,916 34,182,400,175 Trade and other receivables 1,353,418,884,045 1,197,046,622,163 Financial Performance Derivative assets 8,956,727,423 1,868,202,287 Inventories 1,524,363,766,335 1,254,963,515,735 99 Other current assets 211,338,773,310 175,725,123,533 4,426,821,769,966 3,767,433,937,541 Consolidated Financial Statements Non-current assets Long-term financial instruments 848,391,912 10,500,000 103 Long-term investment securities 99,008,790,522 93,687,457,663 Independent Auditors’ Report Long-term trade and other receivables 10,891,458,308 16,150,386,229 Non-current derivative financial assets 7,996,253,597 4,387,862,259 Investments in subsidiaries and associates 67,912,129,252 91,838,684,125 Property, plant and equipment 1,782,632,844,011 1,786,904,298,672 Non-Financial Performance Intangible assets 4,328,656,381,720 4,169,281,753,860 Investment properties 26,308,106,687 20,609,998,094 105 Deferred tax assets 205,848,185,403 251,122,643,405 Other non-current assets 72,242,380,666 74,662,610,602 CSR Facts & Figures 6,602,344,922,078 6,508,656,194,909 Total assets ₩ 11,029,166,692,044 ₩ 10,276,090,132,450 110 Liabilities Independent Assurance Report Current liabilities Trade and other payables ₩ 1,613,823,764,093 ₩ 1,281,736,493,268 Short-term borrowings 937,599,855,700 1,409,287,187,360 Current portion of bonds 505,338,874,285 474,641,545,632 112 Current portion of long-term borrowings 173,048,137,404 96,310,179,828 Global Network Current tax liabilities 25,849,607,446 32,398,041,440 Derivative liabilities 12,301,480,333 4,026,802,750 Provisions 179,066,431,365 167,059,619,793 Other current liabilities 331,546,013,747 230,185,572,715 3,778,574,164,373 3,695,645,442,786 Non-current liabilities Non-current other payables 1,156,747,007 1,218,603,784 Bonds 944,061,136,540 1,154,956,082,362 Long-term borrowings 1,708,761,427,603 1,513,805,807,222 Net defined benefit liabilities 406,106,460,314 451,858,134,854 Non-current derivative liabilities 4,127,632,054 41,708,762,306 Deferred tax liabilities 204,364,376,024 93,587,876,395 Non-current provisions 20,377,900,315 9,584,045,726 Other non-current liabilities 140,821,964,241 140,563,747,861 3,429,777,644,098 3,407,283,060,510 Total liabilities 7,208,351,808,471 7,102,928,503,296 Equity Share capital 1,040,790,385,000 1,040,000,595,000 Capital surplus 213,014,383,085 211,545,565,029 Other components of equity (129,310,962,134) (108,457,073,777) Accumulated other comprehensive income (256,805,144,728) (334,050,917,882) Retained earnings 1,049,189,116,801 784,702,285,730 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company 1,916,877,778,024 1,593,740,454,100 Non-controlling interest 1,903,937,105,549 1,579,421,175,054 Total equity 3,820,814,883,573 3,173,161,629,154 Total liabilities and equity ₩ 11,029,166,692,044 ₩ 10,276,090,132,450 98 99 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Profit or Loss Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries (in Korean won) Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries (in Korean won) Years Ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 Years Ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 2018 2017 Attributable to Owners of the Parent Company Other Accumulated Revenue ₩ 7,730,107,942,853 ₩ 6,567,897,225,498 Share Capital Hybrid Capital Components Other Comprehensive Retained Total Non-controlling Total Capital Surplus Instruments Earnings Interests Equity Cost of sales (5,936,246,301,169) (5,024,999,368,311) of Equity Income Balance at January 1, 2017 ₩ 1,037,276,570,000 ₩ 249,488,144,851 ₩ 508,259,603,649 ₩ (42,440,546,020) ₩ (270,371,100,895) ₩ 578,245,971,895 ₩ 2,060,458,643,480 ₩ 1,387,918,098,648 ₩ 3,448,376,742,128 Gross profit 1,793,861,641,684 1,542,897,857,187 Total comprehensive income Selling and administrative expenses (945,734,195,514) (882,128,558,541) Profit for the year 148,594,494,986 148,594,494,986 148,048,263,884 296,642,758,870 Operating profit 848,127,446,170 660,769,298,646 Remeasurement of net (5,908,110,490) (5,908,110,490) (809,481,219) (6,717,591,709) Finance income 104,252,463,898 296,665,608,495 defined benefit liabilities Finance costs (303,338,799,287) (455,734,726,941) Revaluation reserves of property, plant and 33,549,343,476 34,930 33,549,378,406 998,319,119 34,547,697,525 Other non-operating income 36,084,086,449 64,152,908,525 equipment Other non-operating expenses (63,697,135,116) (72,931,806,741) Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial (4,403,370,796) (4,403,370,796) (4,403,370,796) Loss on disposal of investment in subsidiaries and associates (5,001,734,320) (3,294,696,326) assets Profit before income tax 616,426,327,794 489,626,585,658 Share of other comprehensive income 368,821,194 368,821,194 28,278,690 397,099,884 Income tax expense (222,256,598,381) (192,983,826,788) of associates Profit for the year ₩ 394,169,729,413 ₩ 296,642,758,870 Share of retained earnings (64,025,578) (64,025,578) (7,820,743) (71,846,321) of associates Profit is attributable to: Exchange differences (96,515,360,869) (96,515,360,869) (61,335,272,170) (157,850,633,039) Owners of the Parent Company ₩ 246,409,919,128 ₩ 148,594,494,986 Cash flow hedges (4,748,766,062) (4,748,766,062) (651,402,204) (5,400,168,266) Non-controlling interests 147,759,810,285 148,048,263,884 Total comprehensive income (71,749,333,057) 142,622,393,848 70,873,060,791 86,270,885,357 157,143,946,148 Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders the Parent Company for the year Transactions with owners Basic earnings per share ₩ 1,184 ₩ 627 Cancellation of 1,053,454,693 (1,053,454,693) Diluted earnings per share 1,115 620 share options Transfer of capital surplus (82,200,482,487) 82,200,482,487 Issuance of bonds with 41,976,882,023 41,976,882,023 41,976,882,023 warrants Exercise of stock warrants 2,724,025,000 1,227,565,949 3,951,590,949 3,951,590,949 Dividends paid for hybrid (18,366,562,500) (18,366,562,500) (18,366,562,500) capital securities Dividend of subsidiary (28,541,041,200) (28,541,041,200) Repayment of hybrid capital (508,259,603,649) (58,904,993,351) (567,164,597,000) (567,164,597,000) securities Disposal of subsidiary (6,058,079,713) 8,069,516,070 2,011,436,357 133,773,232,249 135,784,668,606 shares Total transactions with owners 2,724,025,000 (37,942,579,822) (508,259,603,649) (66,016,527,757) 8,069,516,070 63,833,919,987 (537,591,250,171) 105,232,191,049 (432,359,059,122) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Balance at December 31, 2017 ₩ 1,040,000,595,000 ₩ 211,545,565,029 ₩ Balance at January 1, 2018 ₩ 1,040,000,595,000 ₩ 211,545,565,029 ₩ ₩ (108,457,073,777) ₩ (334,050,917,882) ₩ 784,702,285,730 ₩ 1,593,740,454,100 ₩ 1,579,421,175,054 ₩ 3,173,161,629,154 ₩ (108,457,073,777) ₩ (334,050,917,882) ₩ 784,702,285,730 ₩ 1,593,740,454,100 ₩ 1,579,421,175,054 ₩ 3,173,161,629,154 Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries (in Korean won) Changes in accounting policy (899,052,422) (899,052,422) (372,370,064) (1,271,422,486) Years Ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 1,040,000,595,000 211,545,565,029 (108,457,073,777) (334,050,917,882) 783,803,233,308 1,592,841,401,678 1,579,048,804,990 3,171,890,206,668 Balance after changes 2018 2017 Total comprehensive income Profit for the year ₩ 394,169,729,413 ₩ 296,642,758,870 Profit for the year 246,409,919,128 246,409,919,128 147,759,810,285 394,169,729,413 Other comprehensive income Remeasurement of net 13,693,307,289 13,693,307,289 23,852,184,725 37,545,492,014 defined benefit liabilities Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Revaluation reserves Remeasurements of net defined benefit liability 37,545,492,014 (6,717,591,709) of property, plant and (2,371,378,063) 5,372,314,020 3,000,935,957 3,000,935,957 equipment Revaluation reserves of property, plant and equipment 3,000,935,957 34,547,697,525 Gain on valuation of Gain on valuation of equity instruments at fair value financial assets at fair 296,376,151 15,369,022 311,745,173 -311,745,173 311,745,173 value through other through other comprehensive income comprehensive income Share of other comprehensive income of associates 397,099,884 Share of retained earnings (105,025,966) (105,025,966) (4,480,100) (109,506,066) of associates Share of retained earnings of associates (109,506,066) (71,846,321) Exchange differences 79,549,916,777 79,549,916,777 50,099,619,391 129,649,536,168 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Cash flow hedges (229,141,711) (229,141,711) 2,739,947,489 2,510,805,778 Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (4,403,370,796) Total comprehensive income 77,245,773,154 265,385,883,493 342,631,656,647 224,447,081,790 567,078,738,437 Exchange differences 129,649,536,168 (157,850,633,039) for the year Cash flow hedges 2,510,805,778 (5,400,168,266) Transactions with owners Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 172,909,009,024 (139,498,812,722) Cancellation of 1,117,895,000 (1,117,895,000) share options Total comprehensive income for the year ₩ 567,078,738,437 ₩ 157,143,946,148 Exercise of stock warrants 789,790,000 350,923,056 1,140,713,056 1,140,713,056 Total comprehensive income for the year is attributable to: Dividend of subsidiary (53,727,499,200) (53,727,499,200) Owners of the Parent Company 342,631,656,647 70,873,060,791 Disposal of subsidiary (19,735,993,357) (19,735,993,357) 154,168,717,969 134,432,724,612 shares Non-controlling interest 224,447,081,790 86,270,885,357 Total transactions with owners 789,790,000 1,468,818,056 (20,853,888,357) (18,595,280,301) 100,441,218,769 81,845,938,468 ₩ 567,078,738,437 ₩ 157,143,946,148 Balance at December 31, 2018 ₩ 1,040,790,385,000 ₩ 213,014,383,085 ₩ ₩ (129,310,962,134) ₩ (256,805,144,728) ₩ 1,049,189,116,801 ₩ 1,916,877,778,024 ₩ 1,903,937,105,549 ₩ 3,820,814,883,573 100 101 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix Consolidated Financial Statements・Independent Auditors’ Report Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries (in Korean won) Independent Auditors’ Report Years Ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 2018 2017 Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations ₩ 1,043,288,274,293 ₩ 896,739,191,660 To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of ・ Evaluated appropriateness of methods used by management and whether Profit for the year 394,169,729,413 296,642,758,870 Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. they have been consistently used Adjustments 731,167,416,259 683,827,770,950 Opinion ・ Tested completeness of sales quantity information subject to revenue Changes in operating assets and liabilities (82,048,871,379) (83,731,338,160) We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of deductions programs Interest received 15,117,484,431 11,127,322,178 Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the ・ For selected samples, tested accuracy of the inputs and variables used for Interest paid (166,701,900,364) (185,853,970,400) “Group”), which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position the management estimates, including sales quantity information, costs Dividends received 4,265,837,456 2,108,514,977 as at December 31, 2018 and 2017, and the consolidated statements of profit incurred, and associated contractual rate Income taxes paid (58,191,953,508) (58,429,689,782) or loss, and the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, and Net cash inflow from operating activities 837,777,742,308 665,691,368,633 (2) Impairment assessment of goodwill consolidated statements of changes in equity and consolidated statements of Cash flows from investing activities cash flows for the years then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial Why it is determined to be a key audit matter As at December 31, 2018, Decrease in short-term financial instruments 22,809,378,447 25,050,508,204 statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. the carrying amount of goodwill is ₩ 2,920,112, million, which accounts for Disposal of long-term investment securities 229,129,080 3,388,601,075 26.5% of the total assets of the Group. The Group performed an impairment In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present Decrease in loans 525,036,293 assessment on goodwill by using estimated recoverable amount of goodwill fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group Disposal of property, plant and equipment, and investment properties 25,288,647,854 41,292,473,602 allocated to the cash-generating units group (CGU group) and did not recognize as at December 31, 2018 and 2017, and its consolidated financial performance goodwill impairment as the recoverable amount of CGU group exceeds its Disposal of intangible assets 242,643,718 1,226,414,034 and its consolidated cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with carrying amount. Given the magnitude of goodwill balance in the consolidated Disposal of investments in associates 36,424,000,000 International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Republic of financial statement, and the extent of judgement of management estimating Increase in short-term financial instruments (101,272,254,333) (12,141,264,000) Korea (Korean IFRS). in the recoverable amount, we consider impairment assessment of goodwill to Acquisition of long-term investment securities (3,393,765,000) (3,510,363,900) Basis for Opinion be a key audit matter (Note 13). Increase in loans (393,666,636) (168,851,490) We conducted our audits in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing. Our How our audit addressed the key audit matter Key audit procedures we have Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (150,822,172,341) (134,197,987,710) responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s performed in relation to the goodwill impairment assessment are as follows. We: Acquisition of intangible assets (109,604,453,424) (77,460,993,080) Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures (18,059,850,000) (65,864,874,081) ・ Obtained an understanding and evaluated how management assessed of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical goodwill impairment Others (14,820,807,038) (33,902,408,352) requirements of the Republic of Korea that are relevant to our audit of the Net cash outflow from investing activities (312,848,133,380) (256,288,745,698) consolidated financial statements and we have fulfilled our other ethical ・ Evaluated reasonableness of identifying CGU by management for its responsibilities in accordance with the ethical requirements. We believe that assessment of goodwill impairment Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 637,834,889,738 1,380,727,776,826 the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a ・ Evaluated accuracy of the market capitalization used to measure the net fair basis for our audit opinion. value of the CGU group and examined subsequent changes in the market Proceeds from issuance of bonds 283,474,563,443 1,015,382,768,080 capitalization after the reporting period Change in subsidiary equity 140,764,800,002 133,721,600,000 Key Audit Matters ・ Evaluated reasonableness of key assumptions used in measurement of Repayment of borrowings (909,251,648,286) (1,115,135,547,875) Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were the net fair value by comparing them with relevant external information Repayment of bonds (521,653,462,500) (765,000,000,000) of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of available Dividends paid (53,727,499,200) (46,907,603,700) the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of Exercise of call options from hybrid capital securities (570,521,500,000) the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion (3) Impairment assessment of capitalized development costs Net cash inflow(outflow) from financing activities (422,558,356,803) 32,267,493,331 thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Why it is determined to be a key audit matter As at December 31, 2018, the Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 7,163,635,831 (36,766,746,091) (1) Revenue recognition – Estimation of liabilities related to revenue deductions carrying amount of development costs capitalized as intangible asset is ₩ Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 109,534,887,956 404,903,370,175 233,055 million. The Group operates several R&D centers in Korea, the United Why it is determined to be a key audit matter As at December 31, 2018, Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial year 943,481,141,254 538,577,771,079 States, Europe and other regions, and invests significant amounts to develop new the Group has recorded ₩ 195,625 million of liabilities related to revenue Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year ₩ 1,053,016,029,210 ₩ 943,481,141,254 products and technologies. Given the magnitude of the balance of development deductions, including incentives, promotions and rebates. The Group offers costs capitalized in the consolidated financial statement, and the extent of customers a variety of incentive and promotion programs. Costs incurred in judgement of management required, we consider impairment assessment of connection with these programs are recognized as deductions from revenue, capitalized development costs to be a key audit matter (Note 13). and any unsettled amounts are recognized on an accrual basis. Incentive and rebate arrangements are complex, and judgement of manageHow our audit addressed the key audit matter Key audit procedures we ment is required in estimating unsettled amounts. Given the extent of have performed in relation to the impairment assessment of capitalized complexity and judgement involved, we consider estimation of revenue development costs. We: deductions related to incentives, promotions and rebates recognized as at ・ Obtained the details of capitalized development costs and reconciled the December 31, 2018 to be a key audit matter (Note 3). total amount to the amount recorded in the general ledger How our audit addressed the key audit matter We have, utilizing the work ・ Tested development costs capitalized by examining management’s of component auditors, performed related audit procedures including the assessment documentation and assessing whether the criteria set out in followings. We: the relevant accounting standards have been met on a sampling basis ・ Assessed appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies for the ・ Obtained an understanding and evaluated the development progress incentive and promotion programs and prospect of the projects selected as a sample by interviewing with appropriate project manager and performing other procedures, and ・ Evaluated design and tested operating effectiveness of related internal assessed appropriateness of management’s conclusion on impairment controls analysis ・ Performed lookback analysis by comparing the estimation of prior year to ・ Examined whether the actual sales have been generated from the projects actual results selected and evaluated reasonableness of sales and profitability forecasts to assess future economic benefits of the projects capitalized 102 103 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix Independent Auditors’ Report・CSR Facts & Figures (4) Evaluation of provision for warranty The reason it was determined to be a Key Audit Matter As at December 31, ・ Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform CSR Facts & Figures 2018, the carrying amount of provision for warranty amounts to ₩ 197,492 audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that million. The Group provides product warranties for certain periods after sales is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of of products and recognizes provision for warranty by estimating expected not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for Disclaimer Transparent Management repair expenses. The performance obligation of warranty is determined one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 1)  Data on the worksites in China began being included in 2016, when the CSR rollCorporate Governance based on diverse assumptions such as warranty periods, expected warranty omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. out to overseas worksites was conducted 2)  As the business transfer of Machine Tools Business Group (BG) was completed in Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 expenses and the nature, extent of the warranties the Group provides. We ・ Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to 2016, relevant data is excluded from some figures Participation rate drew attention to the adequacy of the warranty evaluation considering the fact design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not 3)  As Doosan Bobcat completed its IPO on the KOSPI on November 18, 2016, its data of directors in Korea % 88.1 86.9 85.7 that the management’s estimation is intervened in measuring the provision for for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s is excluded BOD meetings1) warranty (Note 18). internal control. 1) From 2018, changes in the reporting scope were made from participation rate of How the matter was addressed in the audit We performed the following audit ・ Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the outside directors (in 2017 Integrated Report) to the participation rate of internal reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by and outside directors. Accordingly, the participation rate for the past 3 years was procedures in relation to the evaluation of provision for warranty of the Group. We: Economic revised. management. ・ Obtained understanding of accounting policies in recognizing provision for ・ Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going Economic Growth: Sales Records warranty, and understood and evaluated the relevant internal control Ethical Management concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 ・ Verified the accuracy of basic information for accounting estimation used Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that KRW by the management Sales million 5,729,550 6,567,897 7,730,108 may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going Ethical Korea % 95.3 98.7 98.5 ・ Compared reasons for the major assumptions, that management used for concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required Operating management KRW estimating the relevant liabilities, with the past performance Consolidated 490,818 660,769 848,127 trainings China % 100.0 94.6 95.3 to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the income million ・ Independently recalculated the balance of liabilities as at December 31, consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, Net income KRW * Once a year per person 115,985 296,643 394,170 2018 to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence (loss) million obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or Collection rate Other Matter Sales KRW 2,204,890 2,651,329 3,058,277 conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. million of statement of % 100 100 100 Auditing standards and their application in practice vary among countries. interests form The procedures and practices used in the Republic of Korea to audit such ・ Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated Operating KRW Separate 45,924 137,632 181,518 financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the income million * No. of employees who submitted a signed copy of statement of interests form / consolidated financial statements may differ from those generally accepted No. of office worker who has a job title of part leader or higher from among employees and applied in other countries. consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions Net income KRW in Korea and expatriate employees in China (56,312) 60,472 71,748 and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. (loss) million Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Compliance We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among Consolidated Financial Statements 2018 other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit Financial Soundness: Financial Status Classification Unit 2016 2017 Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Legal measures on No. of consolidated financial statements in accordance with Korean IFRS, and for cases 0 0 1 identify during our audit. unfair trade conduct such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the KRW Total assets 10,026,809 10,276,090 11,029,167 Korea We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we million Fine levied due to preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material a violation of laws KRW 0 0 382 have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, Total KRW million misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Consolidated 6,578,432 7,102,929 7,208,352 or regulations and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may liabilities million In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsiKRW * The company was subject to corrective measures and a fine from the Fair Trade reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, Total equity 3,448,377 3,173,161 3,820,815 Commission due to a violation of Article 12-3, Paragraph 3 of the Fair Transactions in ble for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, million related safeguards. Subcontracting Act, and completed payment. In relation to this matter, a cancellaas applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern tion request lawsuit (filed on December 18, 2018) on a correction order and others From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we KRW basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group Total assets million 4,846,201 5,053,901 4,923,151 is underway. or to cease operations. determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the Total KRW Separate 3,042,101 3,707,435 3,516,787 Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless liabilities million Customers financial reporting process. KRW law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in Total equity 1,804,100 1,346,466 1,406,364 million Protection of Personal Information Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Statements communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such Research & Development Violations of No. of Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Korea cases 0 0 0 Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 protection of consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material communication. customer’s personal No. of misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report KRW information China cases 0 0 0 The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s R&D investment 97,552 111,802 135,084 million that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, report is Hee-Young Park, Certified Public Accountant. Korea but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Korean R&D investment % 4.4 4.2 4.4 per sales Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when Environment it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered * Based on separate financial statements material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected Environmental Expenses to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these No. of Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Application cases 3,193 3,422 3,576 consolidated financial statements. Intellectual Global Environmental properties No. of investments and Korea KRW 8.6 16.7 17.6 As part of an audit in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing, we Registration cases 1,936 2,184 2,467 billion Seoul, Korea operating costs exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism * Number of intellectual property rights applications and registration made at home throughout the audit. We also: March 19, 2019 and abroad; Based on consolidated financial statements Environmental Management System Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 This report is effective as of March 19, 2019, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Accordingly, No. of Worksites with Korea sites 3 3 3 the readers of the audit report should understand that there is a possibility that the above audit report may have to be revised to reflect the impact of such ISO 14001 (EMS) subsequent events or circumstances, if any. certification No. of China sites 1 1 1 104 105 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix CSR Facts & Figures Energy Usage Air Emissions Effluents and Waste Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total TJ 812 1,871 2,067 Total1) tonCO2eq 87,413 97,955 108,244 NOx1) ppm 0.8 12.9 20.3 Korea ton 67,544 58,953 81,861 LNG TJ 200 216 251 Scope 1 tonCO2eq 23,707 26,890 28,951 Sox2) ppm 0.0 0.4 0.2 Emissions Incheon ton 60,139 51,288 74,244 Korea of effluents Electricity TJ 490 1,463 1,632 Scope 2 tonCO2eq 63,708 71,067 79,295 VOCs Gunsan ton 7,405 7,665 7,617 (Continuous Korea Diesel TJ 114 124 109 2) tonCO2eq/ Intensity KRW million 0.040 0.037 0.035 China ton 61,498 57,737 58,037 Energy Incheon type/Nonppm 15.0/5.7 9.8/25.2 11.6/11.8 usage volume Others continuous Emissions of Total tonCO2eq 71,082 79,625 88,572 BOD 1) mg/L 6.2 13.1 17.1 (Including (LPG, type) 3) TJ 8 68 75 greenhouse direct and kerosene, Incheon Scope 1 15,085 16,924 18,102 COD 2) mg/L 14.8 23.7 18.4 gas1) tonCO2eq Dust (Electric Incheon indirect etc.) Emissions (Including Scope 2 55,997 62,701 70,470 arc furnace/ mg/m3 3.2/3.3 4.6/6.0 5.7/6.8 Suspended usage) tonCO2eq of air mg/L 3.8 12.7 3.0 LNG m³ 855,611 1,305,168 1,759,423 direct and Others)4) solids 3) pollutants9) Emissions indirect Total tonCO2eq 13,668 15,518 16,798 Electricity kWh 9,992,440 14,931,783 21,751,102 NOx5) ppm 0.10 0.37 1.82 of water BOD 4) mg/L 89.5 188.7 144.7 China 1) emissions) Gunsan Scope 1 tonCO2eq 7,533 8,706 9,636 Steam ton 5,038 5,998 9,812 6) pollutants SOx ppm 0.20 0.10 0.04 COD 5) mg/L 104.6 161.0 169.1 Scope 2 tonCO2eq 6,135 6,812 7,163 Gunsan Gunsan Diesel ton 683 1,174 1,913 VOCs7) ppm 4.80 6.39 7.05 Suspended Total tonCO2eq 2,666 2,812 2,874 mg/L 13.2 7.0 15.2 solids 6) 1) The scope of disclosure was changed to include all worksites in China (DICI, DICC, Dust8) mg/m3 2.40 3.56 4.13 DISD) in 2018 which resulted in a slight increase in energy usage compared to previOthers Scope 1 tonCO2eq 1,089 1,259 1,214 China COD mg/L 33.0 23 20.5 ous years VOCs mg/m3 12.43 10.15 3.80 Scope 2 tonCO2eq 1,577 1,554 1,662 China 1) Legal standard 120mg/L, company’s internal standard 48mg/L Dust mg/m3 14.22 11.12 10.44  Total tonCO2eq 22,486 31,867 2) Legal standard 130mg/L, company’s internal standard 52mg/L Resources Usage 1) L egal limit: 200ppm, company’s internal limit: 80ppm 3) Legal standard 120mg/L, company’s internal standard 48mg/L Scope 1 tonCO2eq 6,668 10,049 2) Legal limit: 400ppm, company’s internal limit: 160ppm 4) Legal standard 400mg/L, company’s internal standard 160mg/L Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 China 3) Continuous type: Legal limit: 40ppm, company’s internal limit: 32ppm / 5) Legal standard 400mg/L, company’s internal standard 160mg/L Scope 2 tonCO2eq 15,817 21,818 Steel plate 1) ton 8,001 Non-continuous type: Legal limit: 200ppm, company’s internal limit: 160ppm 6) Legal standard 200mg/L, company’s internal standard 80mg/L 2) tonCO2eq/ 4) Electric arc furnace: Legal limit: 20mg/m3, company’s internal limit: 8mg/m3 / ton/ Intensity KRW million 4 4 Steel plate Others: Legal limit: 50mg/m3, company’s internal limit: 20mg/m3 KRW 0.004 intensity million Emissions of Total weight Total tonCO2eq 14,338 21,500 30,843 5) Legal limit: 200ppm, company’s internal limit: 80ppm ton 21,179 27,179 32,691 greenhouse DICC 6) of waste Scrap metal ton 17,438 25,170 29,974 Scope 1 4,116 6,646 10,021 Legal limit: 400ppm, company’s internal limit: 160ppm gas3) (Yantai) tonCO2eq Recycled 7) (Including Legal limit: 40ppm, company’s internal limit: 32ppm Scrap metal ton/ Scope 2 tonCO2eq 10,222 14,854 20,821 Korea ton 19,571 25,334 30,881 Fuel KRW 0.008 0.009 0.010 direct and 8) Legal limit: 50mg/m3, company’s internal limit: 20mg/m3 volume Incheon3) intensity usage million indirect Total tonCO2eq 968 1,008 9) Due to the amendment to Enforcement Decree of the Clean Air Conservation Act (Act Recycling emissions) DISD No. 492 of the Ministry of Environment), a boiler was classified as an air pollutants % 92 93 94 Sand Scope 1 tonCO2eq 5 11 rate (Yantai) emission facility in 2016, and relevant data has been calculated and managed ever (molding ton 22,586 14,484 17,762 Scope 2 tonCO2eq 964 996 since General sand) 2) ton 18,453 23,932 29,309 waste ton/ Total tonCO2eq 17 17 Sand Others 2018 Specified KRW 0.010 0.006 0.006 Classification Unit 2016 2017 Incheon ton 1,861 2,321 2,349 intensity million (Including Scope 1 tonCO2eq 17 17 waste DICI) Emissions CFC, HCFC, * Intensity is calculated based on sales of separate financial statements of each year Scope 2 tonCO2eq 0 0 Incheon ppm 0 0 0 Recycling of ozoneCH₃Br, R-22 Waste % 94 94 95 1) No usage of steel plate at the Incheon Plant since the excavator plant advancement 1) rate T here is a difference between the total emissions volume by GHG type and the total of depleting discharge CFC, HCFC, 2) Molding sands are 100% recycled worksites which sums up rounding off numbers of each worksite’s emissions substances Gunsan CH₃Br, R-22 ppm 0 0 0 and recycle General ton 647 743 727 3) No usage of steel plate, scrap metal, and sand at the Gunsan Plant 2) Intensity is calculated based on sales of separate financial statements of each year waste 3) Figure was calculated by applying energy usage volume to the ‘Yantai Energy Reduction * Zero emissions of ozone-depleting substances Specified Information System’, and can be subject to error. Doosan Infracore plans to carry out Gunsan ton 218 183 306 Water usage waste ton 631,849 554,044 605,326 external verification of GHG emissions to increase reliability. volume Recycling – Source of Scope 1 emissions includes LNG, diesel fuel, LPG, gasoline, and carbon % 55 71 78 ton/ dioxide (shielding gas for welding) rate Water usage Korea KRW 0.287 0.209 0.198 Water intensity 1) Total weight million ton 2,161.8 3,469.5 6,086 usage of waste 1) Recycled or ton 83,365 85,450 67,742 Recycled reused water 2) China ton 1,291.3 1,814.5 2,801 volume 2) Water usage China3) ton 64,735 64,152 67,863 Recycling volume % 60 52 46 rate 1) I ntensity is calculated based on sales of separate financial statements of each year 2) 1) Hazardous and general waste Total volume of reused water, including reused waste water, reclaimed water, and 2) Waste steel, waste wood recycled rainwater 3) Figures for 2016 and 2017 are data of DICC, and the scope of disclosure was expanded to include all worksites in China (DICC, DISD, DICI) in 2018 106 107 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix CSR Facts & Figures Safety Occupational Safety and Health Provision of No. of 104 74 99 Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Education Part casting molds companies Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Korea Annual employee Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 development to strengthen KRW Korea % 2.90 1.92 1.29 14.5 12.8 21.9 turnover rate 1) Korea % 0.37 0.52 0.84 capacity suppliers’ billion Average annual training Occupational No. of 57.5 47.9 31.7 enhancement capacity of hours per person hours accident rate China % 0.22 0.10 0 20s % 1.70 3.65 2.26 support China developing companies No. of 77 77 Korea parts 30s % 5.00 2.33 1.59 Average training KRW * Based on accidents requiring medical care covered by Industrial Accident Insurance Turnover rate 679 480 1,022 expenses per person 1,000 * Figures include multiple provision of casting molds to suppliers by age 2) 40s % 1.90 1.72 0.93 LTIR1) 0.98 50 and above 0.00 0.18 0.35 Average annual training No. of % hours 14 17.1 17.3 No. of hours per person 2) Korea 40 41 33 China TRIR Korea 2.46 companies 1) Based on regular workers. Total number of turnovers in 2018 / Annual average number in EHS support Average training KRW No. of Korea in 2018 221 290 289 LWSR3) 48.95 China 3 0 expenses per person 2) 1,000 companies 2) Based on regular workers. Total number of turnovers in 2018 by age / Annual average number in Korea in 2018 by age 1)  There was a change in the per-capita annual average training time and training expense LTIR 0 1) A  s the business transfer of Machine Tools Business Group (BG) was completed in April 29, management standards starting in 2016 2016, data on the EHS support by the Machine Tools BG is excluded. TRIR China 0 Per-capita annual average training time=(Total training time for office and technical Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 personnel)/Total number of employees. Per-capita average training expenses=(Total training LWSR 0 expenses for office and technical personnel)/Total number of employees Employees Number of Male 1) No. of 94 116 118 2) Korean won calculations are based on the average exchange rate of the year * Began to manage safety-related data based on LTIR, TRIR, and LWSR in 2018 persons 1) employees on Korea LTIR (Lost Time Incidents Rate): Number of incidents involving more than one-day closure of workday per 100 workers, Total number of lost time cases/Total number of Employment parental leave No. of Participation rate in Female 2) persons 10 14 16 hours worked by employees * 200,000 Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 education on human 2) TRIR (Total Recordable Incidents Rate): Number of recordable incidents that require Number of No. of rights protection and Korea % 88.8 96.7 96.0 No. of Male 1,206 875 884 treatment for injuries or illness per 100 workers, Total number of injuries and Korea persons 2,550 2,602 2,720 employees persons sexual harassment illnesses/Total number of hours worked by employees * 200,000 Korea prevention Number of No. of eligible for No. of 3) LWSR (Lost Workday Severity Rate): Number of lost work days experienced per 100 China 1,143 1,266 1,299 childcare leave 3) Female persons 43 47 54 employees persons workers, Total number of lost work days/Total number of hours worked by employees * 200,000 No. of Global persons 3,919 4,027 4,468 Number of Male No. of persons 4 14 14 Community Involvement employees on Korea No. of Win-win Growth Office persons 1,388 1,426 1,505 childcare leave 4) No. of Female persons 12 11 10 Community Involvement Activities By job Korea No. of Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Technical 1,162 1,176 1,215 Support for Suppliers persons Number of Male No. of 3 7 15 persons Including person employees Number of overlap 587 978 1,046 Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 No. of By Non-regular 1) persons 151 87 66 returning to work Korea employees who Korea Excluding after childcare No. of Number of employment Korea Female persons 14 9 9 participated in overlap person 332 374 385 suppliers No. of type Ratio of leave 5) CCI activities 45 42 62 % 5.9 3.3 2.4 received companies non-regular 2) China person 242 595 1,696 financial support Continue to Male % 33 83 100 3) No. of work rate for 12 Total hours of Disabled persons 35 28 32 No. of hours 2,527 5,247 4,422 Financial Amount of KRW Korea CCI activities Korea financial support 1) billion 43.0 43.5 43.5 months after Female % 21 100 100 support National merit No. of childcare leave 6) persons 75 82 90 Ratio of cash recipient 4) % 17.5 0.1 0.3 2016 2017 2018 settlement cases No. of Male No. of 95 67 58 Classification Unit Diversity Korea Elderly 5) 174 219 224 Number of persons persons Number of 1 per 1 per 1 per employees on China CCI KRW Times No. of 100 26 68.5 77.3 payments month month month Male No. of 2,394 2,408 2,479 parental leave Female persons 20 26 9 investment 1) persons million 1) Excluding indirect support Korea Female No. of 156 194 241 Return to CCI CCI persons investment % 0.12 0.26 0.25 work rate after China % 100 100 100 investment Support for parental leave per sales2) No. of No. of developing cases 59 45 28 Office persons 569 550 561 Technical technology CCI KRW By job China 1) Employees who began their paternity leave in 2018 China 13,563 28,803 109,743 development Korea No. of investment 3) 1,000 Support for Technical persons 574 716 738 2) Employees who began their maternity leave in 2018 support No. of 3)  1) Used amount of donation protecting 8 7 6 Staff in Korea with children aged eight or under, or second graders in elementary school or cases technology No. of below 2) CCI investment/Sales of each year based on separate financial statements By Non-regular persons 17 62 41 3) 4) Number of employees who began childcare leave in the base year Korean won calculations are based on the average exchange rate of the year employment China Training type Ratio of 5) Number of employees who returned from childcare leave in the base year No. of 17 11 14 % 1.53 4.70 3.10 courses Course non-regular 6)  (12 months after the return to work) Number of current employees in 2018 from among Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 employees who returned in 2017 / Employees who returned in 2017*100. Calculation for 2018 is No. of Employee participation rate Korea Staff at Disabled 0 0 0 based on figures as of April 2019 Education suppliers No. of persons in the salary fraction donation % 80 75 75 persons 204 124 82 campaign 1) support completed No. of Elderly persons 4 7 7 trainings Diversity China Labor Union Annual fund raised by the salary KRW No. of 78,321 60,514 61,052 Training No. of Male 958 1,087 1,117 fraction donation campaign 2) 1,000 China hours 18 28 52 persons Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 hours 1) No. of Excluding staff sent to overseas worksites Female persons 185 179 182 Union membership rate Korea % 71.2 78.5 93.4 2) Excluding the matching grant made by the company Number of 179 260 196 Contract workers (entrustment, technology entrustment, outside directors, advisory, outside * Technical staff (1,090 with membership out of 1,167 in total as of 2018) Competitiveness Korea operation man-day 1) persons persons persons appointment) enhancement days support 2) Non-regular/Total staff*100 Number of China man-day 156 286 357 3) Based on MY HR; national disabled classification (levels 1-6) supports 4) Based on MY HR; national merit recipients (person with a merit number or someone * Fair Trade Commission standard: 5 days=1 person (1 day=8 hours, Based on the application approved) period of punctuality) 5) Above the age of 55 (Based on total staff in Korea) 108 109 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report We were engaged by Doosan Infracore to provide limited assurance Assurance Standards Opinion on the ‘2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report’ for the year ended We conducted our engagement based on the International Standard on • Stakeholder Inclusiveness December 31, 2018 (further ‘the Report’). Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Assurance Engagements other – Doosan Infracore operates communication channels with key Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by stakeholders such as shareholders/investors, customers/ has come to our attention to indicate that the Report is not presented Context and Scope the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, and also dealers, employees, suppliers, local communities (environment/ fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on AA1000AS. The standards require that we comply with applicable NGOs), local/central government and media. criteria. whether the Report is presented fairly, in all material respects, in ethical requirements, including independence requirements, and – We are not aware of any key stakeholder group that has been accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurMay 2019 excluded from dialogue in the Report. Reporting Initiative (GRI). We do not provide any assurance on the ance about whether the Report is free from material misstatement. KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp. achievability of the objectives, targets and expectations of Doosan CEO Kim, Kyo Tai Infracore. Limitations • Sustainability Context A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope – Doosan Infracore has established a process to incorporate CSR The scope of our engagement conforms to the KPMG Sustainability than a reasonable assurance engagement, and consequently does in management’s decision-making and the business manageAssurance Manual™ (KSAM™), including the aspect of “materiality”. not enable us to obtain assurance on all significant matters that ment plans of relevant teams, thereby securing continuity. With regards to financial data, our procedures were limited to we may become aware of in a reasonable assurance engagement. – We confirmed that Doosan Infracore recognizes general verifying that they were correctly derived from audited financial Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. business management and social responsibility management statements. To obtain a thorough understanding of Doosan comprehensively and applies such understanding within the Infracore’s financial results and position, the audited financial This report has been prepared solely for Doosan Infracore in Report. statements produced on 29 March 2019 should be referred to. accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Doosan Infracore for our Responsibilities work, or for the conclusions we have reached in the assurance report. • Materiality As stated in the ‘Reporting Principles and Standard,’ Doosan – Doosan Infracore conducts a materiality test in determining Infracore is responsible for all content within the Report in respect Main Assurance Procedures material issues. of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. It is the responsibility Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on – We are not aware of any material aspects concerning its of Doosan Infracore’s management to establish and maintain whether the Report is presented fairly, in all material respects, sustainability performance which have been excluded from the appropriate performance management and internal control systems in accordance with the reporting criteria. Procedures performed Report. from which the reported sustainability information is derived. to obtain a limited level of assurance on a sustainability report consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for Our responsibility is to perform a limited assurance engagement and the preparation of information presented in the integrated report, • Completeness to express a conclusion based on the work performed. and applying analytical and other evidence gathering procedures, as – Doosan Infracore applies reporting scope, boundary and appropriate. These procedures included the following: temporal criteria. Independence – In terms of criteria mentioned above, we confirm that the Report • Confirmation on whether the financial information presented in In conducting our engagement, we have complied with the requireis suitable for stakeholders to assess social responsibility the Report was correctly derived from Doosan Infracore’s audited ments of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of performance. financial statements Ethics for Professional Accountants , issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants. We do not engage in any and all • Inquiries to gain an understanding of Doosan Infracore’s processes activities that may influence our independence from Doosan Infracore. for determining the material issues for key stakeholder groups KPMG has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with • Interviews with relevant staff at corporate and business unit levels the Code, and to prevent conflicts regarding independence. responsible for providing the information in the Report • Visit to Doosan Infracore’s offices in Doosan Tower • Comparing the information presented in the Report to determine whether it is in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, Doosan Infracore’s performance on corporate social responsibility 110 111 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Global Network Headquarters Production Subsidiaries Sales Subsidiaries Parts Distribution Center Headquarters Production Subsidiaries Sales Subsidiaries UN Global Compact – 10 Principles Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Seoul, Korea | Human Rights Yantai, China | Beijing, China | Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 489, Injung-ro, Dong-gu, Incheon, Korea 489, Injung-ro, Dong-gu, Incheon, Korea proclaimed human rights; and The paper used in printing the 2018 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report is Chennai, India | Americana, Brazil | certified as an environmental-friendly product by the Forest Stewardship Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Council®. In addition, the report was printed at an FSC-certified print shop using Santiago, Chile | Elnesvågen, Norway | Doosan Infracore (China) Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Labor Standards soy oil ink which drastically reduces the emissions of air pollutants. Groot-Ammers, Netherlands | Investment Co., Ltd. 185, Dongjangsan-ro, Gunsan-si, Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Suwanee, U.S. | Prague, Czech Republic Business Locations in Korea 19th Fl., Tower B., Gateway, No. 18, Jeollabuk-do, Korea recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Xiaguangli, North Road, East Third Ring, Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Seoul Office Doosan Tower, 275, Jangchungdan-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and +82-2-3398-8114 Chaoyang District, Beijing 100027, China Doosan Infracore China Co., Ltd. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. No. 28, Wuzhishan road, ECO & Tech. Parts Distribution Center (PDC) Incheon Plant 489, Injung-ro, Dong-gu, Incheon Environment +82-32-211-1114 Doosan (China) Financial Leasing Development Zone Yantai, Shandong, Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Gunsan Plant 185, Dongjangsan-ro, Gunsan-si, Jeollabuk-do Corp. China Ansan, Korea | Yantai, China | challenges; +82-63-447-3043 20th Fl., Tower B., Gateway, No. 18, Halle, Germany | Dubai | Singapore | Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Ansan Parts 48, Yongdam-ro, Sangnok-gu, Ansan-si, Gyeonggi-do Xiaguangli, North Road, East Third Ring, Doosan Infracore Norway AS. Americana, Brazil | Miami, U.S. | Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Service Center +82-31-400-2114 Chaoyang District, Beijing 100027, China Atlanta, U.S. | Seattle, U.S | Cardiff, U.K. technologies. Varholvegen 149 N-6440 Elnesvågen, Date Published June 2019 Norway Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Publishing Team D  oosan Infracore Communication extortion and bribery. CSR/Shared Growth Team CSR part E-mail: csr.di@doosan.com Doosan Infracore supports UNGC – Ten Principles. Planning and Design Talantone Creative Group 112
