SUSTAINABLE & UNGC DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION REPORT ON PROGRESS 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 The 2018 Nigeria LNG Sustainable Development Report is reflective of the relevant sections of the latest editions of company information on Statement of Business Principles, Our Code of Conduct, Facts and Figures, etc., as domiciled in: http://www.nigerialng.com 02 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT This publication is produced by the Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Department of Nigeria LNG Limited. More information on the company's operations can be found at www.nigerialng.com or www.nlng.com. All correspondence regarding this publication should be addressed to: Nigeria LNG Limited, NLNG Road, Eastern Bypass, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Nigeria. Phones: +234 (0) 803 907 4000, 802 473 4000, (0) 84 28 4000 Email: info@nigerialng.com facebook.com/nigerialnglimited youtube.com/NgLNG linkedin.com/company/nigeria-lng-limited twitter.com/nigeriaLNG 03 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS BACKGROUND 6 NLNG: PROFILE 7 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 9 LABOUR PRINCIPLES 20 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES 27 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 36 04 Aerial view of NLNG Plant Complex, Bonny Island SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 BACKGROUND In December 2015, Nigeria LNG Limited (NLNG) became a signatory Our UNGC membership is a public declaration of our continued to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). This is acclaimed the commitment to incorporate social, environmental and corporate world's largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative, with governance in our policies and procedures, whilst embedding a culture business and non-business participants from 160 countries. of integrity. The UNGC supports companies to: Through our UNGC membership and the annual Communication on Progress (COP), we will transparently inform the public on how we £ Do business responsibly by aligning their strategies and operations align our practices with global business principles of responsible with the UNGC's Ten Principles, anchored on four global areas of behavior, support our host communities and continuously engage our human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. customers, suppliers and service providers on the need for responsible business practices. £ Take strategic actions to advance broader societal goals, such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals, with an emphasis on The contents of this report can be veried in our publications: Facts and collaboration and innovation. Figures on NLNG 2018, Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy, Statement of Business Principles, Our Code of Conduct, etc. 06 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 NLNG: PROFILE Nigeria LNG Limited (NLNG) was incorporated as a limited liability standards, honesty and integrity. We help to build a better Nigeria by company on May 17, 1989 to harness Nigeria's vast natural gas efficiently processing, shipping and profitably marketing the country's resources and produce Liqueed Natural Gas (LNG) and Natural Gas gas resources and putting out the flares. Thus, diversifying the economy Liquids (NGLs) for export. and minimising the environmental impact of our activities and products. It is owned by four shareholders, namely, the Federal Government of Nigeria, represented by Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation We will set the standards in community relations and technology (49%), Shell Gas B.V. (25.6%), Total Gas Electricite Holdings France transfer, and actively promote the sustainable development of Nigerian (15%) and Eni (10.4%). The company has two subsidiaries: Bonny Gas businesses. We will provide to our shareholders a good return on their Transport (BGT) Limited and NLNG Ship Management Limited (NSML). investment. We will provide an exciting and fulfilling place to work and the opportunity for staff to develop their potentials. Our Vision Finally, we will execute and operate our business in Nigeria with an … a global LNG company helping to build a better Nigeria. international outlook and mind-set. Nigeria LNG Limited will continue to be a global LNG company renowned for its operational excellence, cost leadership, high HSE 07 Reps of NLNG Board of Directors at the Shareholders Loan Repayment Ceremony, 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support NLNG's human rights and respect the protection of objectives and practices are internationally proclaimed in full alignment with UNGC human rights; and principles on Human Rights. We strive to conduct our activities in a manner that Principle 2: respects the rights and dignity Make sure that they are not of all people. This is a complicit in human rights business imperative for abuses. NLNG. 09 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS NLNG's commitment to employees as captured in our Statement of These include: Business Principles and Ethics remains sacrosanct: “to respect the human rights of our employees and to provide them with good and safe Social Performance: all major projects must have a social working conditions, competitive terms and conditions of employment.” performance plan and address the social impacts of our operations on the local communities. Also, in Principle 5 (Human Rights) of the NLNG Code of Conduct, we commit to comply with applicable laws and regulations including the Security: NLNG provides adequate infrastructure and commits to United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the core keeping staff, contractors and facilities safe in a way that respects the conventions of International Labour Organization. rights of all, including our host communities. We also regularly engage with our external stakeholders and always Contracting and Procurement: we not only seek to work with strive to contribute, both directly and indirectly, to the general wellcontractors and suppliers who contribute to sustainable development being of our host communities. and are economically, environmentally and socially responsible but in addition, take steps to inspire corresponding actions to achieve this. Our human rights requirements are embedded in Our Code of Conduct manual and other policies, which clearly state our position to Principles on harassment employees, customers, suppliers and all our partners. NLNG demonstrates commitment to the Human Rights principles of the UNGC, through Principle 4 of Our Code of Conduct Policy which addresses issues of harassment in the workplace, thus: 10 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 “NLNG will not tolerate harassment. We will not tolerate any action, conduct or behaviour that is humiliating, intimidating or hostile. Complaints hotline and supporting resources Treat others with respect and avoid Our commitment to human rights is further situations that may be perceived as entrenched with the introduction of the Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) and the Ethics Line inappropriate. (Whistleblower) platform where parties come forward Feedback, criticism and challenge must with complaints of abuses, unethical business always be delivered in an appropriate practices, injustices and suspicious behaviours and respectful manner. In particular, be capable of compromising human rights standard in aware of cultural sensitivities what is the organisation. acceptable in one culture may not be acceptable in another. It is important to be aware of, and understand, these differences.” 11 Plant personnel during shutdown activities, 2018 Staff at 2018 HSE Day SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 IMPLEMENTATION We maintain periodic but consistent engagements with our external Our Social Performance principles are especially designed to ensure stakeholders and always endeavour to contribute, both directly and compliance with the law and to achieve continuous performance indirectly, to the overall well-being of our host communities. improvement, while promoting a culture in which all NLNG staff and contractors share the same commitment. Principle 3.3 (Human Rights) of Our Code of Conduct document highlights the following expectation from all our stakeholders: As it was in 2018, effort at promoting Human Rights was in focus at the 2019 NLNG “Partners” Safety Leadership Conference. At this £ You must ensure that your work complies with NLNG's gathering of CEOs of companies doing business with NLNG, a commitments to human rights in Social Performance, Security, reenactment of commitments to “Goal Zero” was made to set fresh Human Resources and Contracting and Procurement. targets for HSSE&SP. At this event, fresh commitments were made on critical elements for achieving “Goal Zero” such as leadership support, £ If you know of or suspect any potential human rights violations trust, investment in people and empowering to deliver. relating to our business, it is your duty to speak up. Our social performance commitments as further entrenched in Principle 3.1 of Our Code of Conduct (HSSE and Social Performance) corroborates that: 14 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 IMPLEMENTATION £ Conduct Joint Management Site Engagement with Contractor In addition, the following are some expectations of NLNG from Safety CEOs Leaders: £ Demonstrate Safety Leadership £ Integrate Care for people in our Business £ Total commitment to safety in facilities and company locations £ Build a competent workforce £ Not words but actions £ Empower staff to keenly observe and intervene £ The mind-set that there will be zero incidence because of me £ Recognize and Reward staff and contractors who demonstrate £ Right skills and competences for people are important exemplary behaviour £ Sustained campaign to all persons £ Create an enabling working environment for all staff to work and £ A refocus of the hearts and minds of our people on Safety return home safely every day £ Always share learnings £ Achieve an incident and injury free business operations £ Zero is now Our Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) and Ethics Line were significantly managed in 2018 by Human Resources (HR) and Corporate Governance (GRC) professionals. 15 Family Sized Unit (FSU) brieng SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 MEASURES OF OUTCOMES In furtherance of the inclusion of Respect (for self and others) in the core Stand-down for Safety values of NLNG in 2017, innovations to promote Human Rights in 2018 resulted in the establishment of Family Sized Units (FSU) across £ Stand-down for Safety was a bold statement to primarily express the company. The FSU initiative has recorded tremendous progress in NLNG's disapproval of risk normalisation in its business. the management of information and relationships in the organisation with regard to safety and the environment. Employees were empowered to stand-down tools for one hour to reiterate “Goal Zero” objectives of no harm to people, no leaks in our 275 Family Sized Units (FSU) pipelines and no fatality and to sustain a safe and conducive working environment where everyone goes back home to their families. £ The Family Sized Unit is a cluster of 15-20 individuals cutting through all staff categories – from management cadre to junior HSSE and Social Performance and Contracting/Procurement level, integrating any and everyone in our business. This is to further reinforce staff access to information, create opportunity to £ NLNG Annual Contractor CEOs Safety Leadership Conference demonstrate mutual respect, care, etc., thereby promoting The and the mandatory commitment to sustain safe work standards are Universal Declaration of Human Rights. delivering desirable safety standards with zero fatality, year on year. 17 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 Successful HSSE and Social Performance Control Framework ISO 14001:2015 & ISO 9001:2015 Independent Audits £ NLNG was one of the first companies globally to achieve the ISO £ Following an independent audit of our Health, Safety, Security, 1400:2015 (Environmental Management System) & ISO Environment (HSSE) and Social Performance (SP) Control 9001:2015 (Quality Management System) certifications. Framework (CF) in 2018 by Shell Global solutions, NLNG Following the release of the 2015 versions and moratorium from recorded the best ever report in the company's history, with a zero SGSS to preceding holders who were certified on the older version serious, zero high, six (6) medium and one (1) low potential risk of the certificates, NLNG successfully accomplished all findings. undertakings – review of manuals, processes, procedures and competency gap closures against the ISO clauses of 2015 – to attain and retain its certifications. Further details of these activities can be found in our Facts and Figures on NLNG 2018 and in relevant sections of our website, http://www.nigerialng.com 18 Management Facility Inspection (MFI), Plant Complex, Bonny Island SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the The effective abolition of child NLNG'S labour practices, freedom of association and labour evident in Our Code of the effective recognition of Conduct and Business the right to collective Principles, fully align with the bargaining UNGC Labour Principles. Principle 4: Principle 6: The elimination of all forms of The elimination of forced and compulsory labour discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 20 NLNG Contractor CEOs Safety Conference, 2019 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS NLNG’s commitment to employees is predicated on “equal Though Principle 3 of our Code of Conduct specifically speaks to opportunity” which endorses Principles 3 and 4 of the UNGC. Our Principle 6 of the UNGC, our Labour Principles and practices of “equal Business Principles further attest to this commitment through the opportunity” provides a platform that aligns with the entire Labour following statements: Principles of the UNGC in more ways than one, as is noted below: £ To respect the human rights of our employees and to provide them £ We offer equal opportunity to all. with good and safe working conditions, competitive terms and conditions of employment. £ We draw on the widest possible talent pool and endeavour to attract the very best of people, always. £ To promote the development and best use of the talents of our employees; to create an inclusive work environment where every £ We are committed to eliminating all forms of unhealthy and unsafe employee has equal opportunity to develop his or her skills and working conditions through the sustained efforts of our HSE “Goal talents. Zero” campaigns and compliance to Work-Life Balance initiative. £ We recognize that commercial success depends on the full At NLNG, we have confidence on all and rely on everyone to adhere to commitment of all employees. our practices on “respect” and “equal opportunity”. £ To encourage the involvement of employees in the planning and direction of their work; to provide them with channels to report concerns. 22 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 IMPLEMENTATION Our commitment to Equal Opportunity as is stated in our Business Principles and Principle 3.5 of Our Code of Conduct adheres to the UNGC Labour Principles and, in addition, demands similar commitment from our stakeholders with the following statements: £ When making employment decisions, including hiring, evaluation, promotion, training, development, discipline, compensation and termination, you must base them solely on objective factors, including merit, qualifications, performance and business considerations. £ You should understand the value of diversity and must not discriminate in any way based on race, colour, religion, age, gender, disability, ethnic origin or nationality. Maritime Centre of Excellence (MCOE) Simulation Room, NLNG Plant 23 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 MEASURES OF OUTCOMES Progress made on our commitment to the UNGC Labour Principles can iii. Reinforce the right behaviour that is positive and inspirational be measured by our position on diversity and inclusiveness and to our people promoting a thriving corporate culture focused on equal opportunity as iv. Promote and embrace a culture of respect and equality that reinforced by our core values of Integrity, Teamwork, Respect, celebrates the uniqueness of every individual or group Excellence and Care (ITREC) for people and the environment. v. Realise our aspiration to provide a conducive work environment where all employees are valued for their Diversity & Inclusiveness distinctive skills, experience and perspectives £ In 2018, NLNG introduced a functional role for Diversity & 2018 ITREC WEEK Inclusiveness to further establish clear guidance regarding our obligation to equal opportunity, value for diversity and an inclusive £ “Living Our Core Values” was the theme for 2018 ITREC Week. work environment; with a view to focus and monitor the following TREC Week is an annual event that commemorates our core key objectives: values. In line with our tradition, ITREC Week is another opportunity to review our ways of working, in driving excellence and continuous I. Move from conversations to action and clearly demonstrate improvement vis-à-vis our core values and 10 Leadership our commitment to promote equality, diversity and inclusion Behaviours (10Bs). ii. Tackle and mitigate all kinds of discrimination (within the confines of the law) 24 NLNG staff celebrating their cultural diversity at the 2018 ITREC Week SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 £ The “Food Meets Culture” event of 2018 ITREC Week gave expression to the deep messages of NLNG's commitments to Diversity & Inclusiveness. Irrespective of age, gender, religion, belief, disability, ethnic origin or nationality, NLNG staff celebrated some of the various foods and cultures of some of Nigeria’s many tribes as individuals and as groups. It was a testament of our commitment to tolerance, respect and equality for one and all. Details of some of these activities can also be found in our Facts and Figures on NLNG, the latest being 2019 edition and in relevant sections of our website, http://www.nigerialng.com Celebrating cultural diversity 2018 ITREC Week 26 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a NLNG has aligned itself with precautionary approach to Principles 7, 8 and 9 of the environmental challenges UNGC on the Environment Principle 8: through its policies and Undertake initiatives to practices as is evident in Our promote greater Code of Conduct and environmental responsibility, Principle 9: Business Principles: and challenges Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 27 NLNG Management on courtesy visit to His Excellency, Barr. Nyesom Wike (CON), Governor of Rivers State SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS NLNG Statement of Business Principles is explicit on our commitment This requires us to engage regularly with and take account of the views to contribute to sustainable development. Our Policy on Health, Safety of our stakeholders in order to create new profitable opportunities and and Environment guarantees a systematic approach that enables us to reduce our technical, non-technical and financial risks while respecting pursue our goal of no harm to people, efficient use of raw materials the needs of our neighbours”. and energy and protection of the environment, in conformity with the relevant legislation and regulations. Nigeria LNG Limited is in complete compliance with applicable legislations on our environmental practices. We maintain continuous Principle 3.1 of NLNG Code of Conduct specifically speaks to our engagement with stipulated regulatory bodies in Nigeria: the Federal commitment to Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Social Ministry of Environment (FME), Department of Petroleum Resources Performance (HSSE&SP). It states that “NLNG and its subsidiaries are (DPR), Rivers State Ministry of Environment, etc., to obtain permits for required to have a systematic approach to the management of health, our various operations. safety, security, the environment and social performance. It should be designed to ensure compliance with the law and to achieve continuous We undertake regular reviews of existing and proposed environmental performance improvement, while promoting a culture in which all laws and regulations that impact or have the potential to impact our NLNG staff and contractors share this commitment”. business and seek sustainable measures to mitigate these. Similarly, Principle 3.2 of our Code of Conduct, substantiates our commitment to Sustainable Development by stating that “ NLNG embraces sustainable development principles within all its activities, to deliver sustainable outcomes. 29 NLNG ofcials with beneciaries of the company’s Youth Empowerment Scheme SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 IMPLEMENTATION In addition to our Policy on Health, Safety and Environment (HSE), From inception to date, NLNG has maintained regular engagements NLNG maintains a robust HSE system year on year which guarantees on issues of the environment with community based organisations sustainable management of our people, assets, stakeholders and the (CBOs), the federal and state ministries of environment in Nigeria, as environment in a way that guarantees sound health, safety, security and well as the relevant international stakeholders. social performance. These interfaces afford NLNG the opportunity to annually submit to In line with this and our “Goal Zero” initiative, NLNG is committed to mitigation and compliance monitoring exercises for identified the sustainable use of resources and the environment to ensure: mitigation and measures, following the EIA on its six (6) Train Plant. In addition, NLNG periodically submits to external audits from such £ No harm to our employees, contractors, hosts communities, independent auditors as British Standards Institution (BSI) and Shell neighbours (zero incident, injury or fatality) Global Solutions, among others. NLNG is ISO 14001:2015 & ISO 9001:2015 certified and conducts regular monitoring of its own to £ No damage to the environment (zero leaks from our pipelines and gauge HSE performance, in pursuance of continuous improvement operations) and to foster a positive HSE culture within the organisation. £ No future liabilities and negative impact on the environment 31 Finima Nature Park conservation of pristine nature Images from Finima Nature Park SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 In support of biodiversity and nature conservation, NLNG established Finima Nature Park spans an area of rain forests, mangrove swamps an approximately 1,000 hectares nature conservation park on Bonny and ecologically important reserve of sandy soil with fresh water ponds Island, Rivers State. With the aim of preserving the natural environment and tall timber overlooking the beach. This diversity is a worthy of its host communities of Bonny Kingdom, the park is a pristine natural representation of the ecology of the Niger Delta region and affords habitat of interesting flora and fauna most of which are prevalent and great research opportunity, being home to some wildlife species of high endemic only to Bonny Island. conservation value. Finima Nature Park was established for the conservation, recreation This is also part of NLNG's contribution to national and global and research of the flora, fauna and cultural heritage of the Ibani conservation, in line with Rio Agenda 21, Ramsar Convention and people of Bonny Kingdom. It is presently managed by a not for profit Convention on Biology organisation (NGO) with the requisite expertise, the Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF). 34 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 MEASURES OF OUTCOMES We have consecutively reported in our published Facts and Figures on the company has initiated forest protection and biodiversity NLNG, the latest being the 2019 Edition, signicant progress in the conservation enlightenment campaigns in accordance with following areas, as part of efforts to enforce and promote the UNGC recommended EIA mitigation measures, as an approach to achieving goals on Environment: its environmental objectives. i. Biodiversity Surveys and Monitoring ii. Discharges to water Our partnership with community-based organisations (CBOs) like the iii. Sewage treatment and disposals Bonny Environment Consultants Committee (BECC), etc, has helped iv. Solid waste management sustain the campaign on forest protection and biodiversity v. Hazardous and non-hazardous waste conservation. In 2018, Finima Nature Park grossed over 16,000 visits, vi. Air emission an over 150% increase in the number of visits in 2017. vii. Environmental noise measurement and performance viii. Monetization of gas in protection of the environment Further details of our role in this aspect can be found in our Facts and ix. Job creation and local content development Figures on NLNG 2019 under “Biodiversity and Nature Conservation”. This is also available on NLNG website, http://www.nigerialng.com NLNG considers public consultation and enlightenment as fundamental to fostering good relationships with its neighbours. Thus, 35 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: NLNG's two major policies: Businesses should work Our Code of Conduct and against corruption in all its Anti-Bribery and Corruption forms, including extortion and (ABC) Policy are well aligned bribery. with UNGC's Principle 10 on anti-bribery and corruption. 36 A staff engagement session in 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS In accordance with our Code of Conduct, Statement of Business payment, soliciting or acceptance of bribes in any form Principles, Policies and Procedures, NLNG is completely aligned to including facilitation payments is unacceptable. United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principle 10, which states that “businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including ii. Employees must avoid conflicts of interest between their private extortion and bribery”. We uphold the highest standards of ethics in our activities and their part in the conduct of company business. relationship with stakeholders, including but not limited to employees, Employees must also declare to NLNG potential conflicts of customers, suppliers, regulators, shareholders, host communities, interest. All business transactions on behalf of NLNG must be NGOs, etc. and encourage our stakeholders to abide by our core reflected fairly and accurately in the accounts of the company in value of Integrity which is integral to all of our dealings. accordance with established procedures and are subject to audit and disclosure. Principle 3 of the General Business Principle addresses this directly and states: The Management and Board of Nigeria LNG Limited insist on zero tolerance for bribery and corruption in NLNG. This sets the tone in i. NLNG insists on honesty, integrity and fairness in all aspects of driving a multi-faceted Anti-Bribery and Corruption agenda through our business and expects the same in our relationships with all the organisation, to assist employees and stakeholders to manage the those with whom we do business. The direct or indirect offer, inherent risks. 38 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 IMPLEMENTATION At NLNG we build relationship based on trust. Principle 5.1 of Our £ You must not make facilitations payment or other such payments. If Code of Conduct (on Anti-Bribery and Corruption) ensures that we a facilitation payment has been requested or made, you must comply with this provision to protect our reputation. We understand immediately report it to your line manager. that even unsubstantiated claims of bribery can hurt our reputation, thus we never accept or pay bribes, even if as facilitation payments. £ Know who you are doing business with by conducting appropriate due diligence as set out in the ABC Manual. We comply with the anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) laws of Nigeria and of the countries in which we operate and do business. Involvement £ Dealing with government officials poses a greater bribery risk, so in bribery and corruption will attract disciplinary action, dismissal, legal you must follow the mandatory requirements in the ABC Manual. proceedings and, possibly, imprisonment. £ You must comply with all anti-bribery and corruption laws of In addition, NLNG expects the following commitments from all our Nigeria and those of other countries we have dealings with. stakeholders: £ You must report corrupt behavior. Turning a blind eye to suspicions £ You must not offer, pay, make, seek or accept a personal payment, of bribery and corruption can result in liability for NLNG and for gift or favour in return for favourable treatment or to gain a individuals. business advantage. You must not allow anybody else to do so, on your behalf. 39 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 Every staff is required to declare any perceived, potential or actual agents and business partners, including governments and government conflict situation that exists in the course of their engagement with and officials”. on behalf of the company. The status of all declared conflicts are reviewed and resolved by company management. NLNG Ethics Line was set up in 2012 to underline our commitment to the UNGC's Principle 10. To date, we have maintained a confidential Similarly, staff are required to declare gifts and hospitality given or and anonymous platform where information on unethical business received from the company's business partners and associates. The practices, perceived or potential violation of laws, rules and annual conict of interest declaration also provides a medium for staff regulations or policies can be reported. members to attest to the NLNG Code of Conduct & Business Principles. NLNG Ethics Line is a toll free resource that is open to all stakeholders. Principle 5.2 of Our Code of Conduct specifically states “It is important I t i s m a n a g e d b y a n e x t e r n a l p a r t y, t o g u a r a n t e e to do the right thing – and be seen to do it. For this reason, we confidentiality/anonymity. No call tracing or recording devices are ever discourage our staff from accepting gifts and hospitality (G&H) from used, and callers may remain completely anonymous, if they so wish. business partners, or offering G&H to them, especially those you would Callers are given a number and call back date at the end of their calls. not be comfortable telling your manager, colleagues, family or the Should they desire to follow up on the status of their report, or want to public that you had offered or accepted. In particular, you should never provide additional information, they simply call back and reference this allow G&H, either offered or received, to influence business decisions information. or give other people a reason to suspect there might be an influence. We encourage you to make NLNG's policy on G&H known to our 40 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 IN 2018 NLNG’s ABC PROGRAMME FOCUSED ON SUSTAINING THE ACHIEVEMENTS KEEPING THE FROM THE ABC WHISTLE-BLOWER TRAINING PLATFORM ACTIVE MAINTAINING OUR MEMBERSHIP OF ENHANCING UNGC INTEGRITY DUE DILIGENCE ON COUNTERPARTIES DRIVING INCREASED KEEPING THE GIFTS COMPLIANCE WITH AND HOSPITALITY DECLARATION OF REGISTER UP TO DATE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST 41 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 MEASURES OF OUTCOME Anti-Bribery and Corruption Training and Awareness Vendors Forum to reinforce our commitment to ensuring that our counterparties are aware and abide by our Business Principles, Code The 'tone at the top' towards bribery and corruption in NLNG is one of of Conduct and ABC Policy. zero tolerance. NLNG ensures to continuously raise the awareness and encourage employees, vendors, suppliers and other counterparties to Conflict of Interest (CoI) make good faith reports on unethical behaviour or misconduct. This is aimed at promoting an environment of accountability, fairness and NLNG sustained its impressive compliance rate in CoI declaration and ethical behaviour. Reported cases are monitored, investigated and close out across the business in 2018. This is driven by general closed within set and permissible targets. improvement in CoI awareness in NLNG on account of ABC trainings, continuous engagements, etc., in 2018 and the previous year. Integrity Due Diligence (IDD) The introduction of the annual conflict of interest declaration remains a In 2018, the practice to conduct Integrity Due Diligence (IDD) on all medium for employees to attest to the NLNG Code of Conduct & counterparties as a component of the overall counterparty risk Business Principles. management was sustained. In addition, we held interactive sessions on our Business Principles with suppliers and vendors at the Integrated 42 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2018 Ethics Line (the “whistleblower”) NLNG maintained its active participation in 2018, ensuring its value system and approach to business is in alignment with the 10 Principles Our Ethics Line (the “whistle-blower) has helped deepen our of UN Global Compact. commitment to fighting corruption at NLNG. With confidentiality and anonymity guaranteed and increased awareness, NLNG ethics line is This we have done to support and shape a sustainable future through becoming increasingly popular at reporting issues of perceived or voluntary contribution, timely submission of the annual potential infractions and misgivings. Communication on Progress (COP) and CEO's statement of continued support; reaffirming our signatory level of engagement with the In 2018, the NLNG Ethics Line remains a toll free resource that is organisation. managed by a reputable external firm. No call tracing or recording devices are ever used. Whistle-blowers are assured of 100% anonymity Further details of our anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) program and and confidentiality. the Whistleblower platform can be found in the latest edition of our published Facts and Figures on NLNG 2019 and under the “AntiMembership of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Bribery and Corruption (ABC)” and “Whistleblower” sections of the NLNG website, http://www.nigerialng.com NLNG became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the world's largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative with business and non-business participants from 160 countries, in 2015. 43 Visit by His Excellency, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo (GCON), Vice President of Nigeria and Her Excellency Ipalibo Harry Banigo, Deputy Governor of Rivers State to NLNG Plant Complex, Bonny Island
