SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PDF Edition – 67 pages ­VELUX.com/our-company/sustainability 1 Table of contents Our approach to sustainability 3 Leading the change 37 Letter to our stakeholders 4 Putting people first 38 UN Sustainable Development Goals 9 Pioneering sustainable buildings 42 Five focus areas in our 2018 sustainability Partnering with Stakeholders 45 reporting 11 Influencing framework Conditions 48 Sustainability highlights 12 Responsible business 50 Energy and climate 13 Product quality 51 Sustainable production 14 Human Rights 52 Sustainable products 17 Code of Conduct for Employees 53 Code of Conduct for Suppliers 54 Zero waste 21 GDPR compliance 55 Zero waste 22 Fair competition and anti-corruption 56 Employee Foundation 58 Sustainable sourcing 24 The ­VELUX Foundations 60 Sourcing of sustainable and certified wood 25 Risk management in a ­sustainability context 61 Managing hazardous substances 27 Reporting principles 65 Safe and healthy workspace 28 Health and safety 29 People and development 32 Diversity 35 Sustainability Report 2018 2 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY For many years, the VELUX Group has worked systematically with sustainability taking our starting point in the Model Company Objective, which was formulated by our founder, Villum Kann Rasmussen, in 1965. We create products that are useful to society, while we continuously seek to minimise our footprint and lead the development of better living environments. Sustainability Report 2018 3 Our approach to sustainability LETTER TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS The VELUX Group is a company with a clear purpose, a purpose which is greater than developing and selling the best roof windows in the market. Our purpose is to be a Model Company and by that to contribute to a sustainable development of society. The Model Company Objective was formulatWe see this not only as a duty; we see it as ed in 1965 by our founder and expresses our a big opportunity. Sustainability and social intention to create products that are useful to responsibility make for good business, because society, while treating our customers, suppliers, consumers demand it and because leading with employees and shareholders better than most innovative, sustainable solutions give compaother companies. nies competitive advantage. Every day, we do our best to live up to this ambition. Sustainable products We take responsibility It is no longer enough to deliver good quality products and solutions. Products need to When we look for solutions to crucial chalbe sustainable and respectful of the Earth’s lenges like climate change, poverty and health resources. We try to live up to these expecissues and how to create global, sustainable tations by ensuring resource efficiency in our growth, we cannot rely on governments alone production and by optimising our products to to take action. We all have to act. The VELUX help create bright and healthy places in which Group takes this responsibility very seriously. to live, work, learn and play. The good news is that since 2015 we have Our most recent contribution is a smart-home had a common framework for securing a more product that operates windows and sun-shadsustainable future with the UN Sustainable ing to ensure a healthy and pleasant indoor Development Goals. At the VELUX Group, our climate at all times. Indoor sensors monitor the task is now to turn some of these goals into temperature, humidity and CO2 concentration tangible actions, which make a difference to inside the home and then open or close roof people and planet. windows or shading to create a healthier living environment. Sustainability Report 2019 4 Letter to our stakeholders Our approach to sustainability In our production, hundreds of small initiatives This report provides numerous examples of and actions add up to significant reductions how we engage in partnerships to fulfil our of climate impact, less waste and protection responsibilities. For instance, by our active enof natural resources. In order to achieve our gagement in the Active House Alliance and by climate and environmental objectives, we set up our Healthy Buildings Day that brings together specific targets, which we report externally on policy makers, legislators and the building a yearly basis. community. Furthermore, with our Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) membership we support We believe in the empowersustainable forest management as part of our effort to protect the environment and ensure ment of employees biodiversity in forested areas. As a company we can always do better by Even if we have come far, we continue to chalWe continue to support the United developing our people and by having them conlenge ourselves: Are we doing enough and are Nations Global Compact and are tribute their passion, experience and expertise. we doing the right things? A new Sustainability committed to the initiative and its We strongly believe in empowerment, since it Strategy 2030 published in 2020 will deliver on principles. is often the ones who encounter the problems, our ambitions to take sustainability to the next who are the best innovators. This is our Communication on level for the benefit of planet and people. Progress in implementing the We seek to offer a good work-life balance and principles of the UN Global Compact. David Briggs, CEO VELUX Group provide a safe and healthy workplace guided by our vision of zero work-related accidents. In 2018, an important focus area has been employee safety and safety leadership at all factories. We cannot do it alone, we need partnerships It is our belief that we can only create a more sustainable world if we work together across private and public sectors, across industries, across educational institutions and across national boundaries. Sustainability Report 2018 5 Letter to our stakeholders Our approach to sustainability VELUX Model Company holders and society, while minimising adverse impacts. Objective The VELUX Model Company Objective was Read more about the Model Company Objective drawn up by the company’s founder in 1965 and the VELUX Values and serves as the basis of all VELUX activities. The Model Company Objective provides a longterm perspective on the company’s developOur company ment and guides decisions and actions at all The VELUX Group is headquartered in Denlevels of the organisation. mark and employs 11.400 people at sales and production sites in 40 countries. The Model Company Objective expresses our wish to create value for the company and for In late 2018, the VELUX Group acquired comsociety, while behaving responsibly towards all panies JET Group, Vitral and Wasco Skylights. our stakeholders in daily business. The Model Consequently, the CO2 emissions and recycling/ Company Objective from 1965 mirrors the EU reuse rates etc. of those companies are not definition of Corporate Social Responsibility included in this report. Methods and data from 2011, which states that a company must collection procedures will now be aligned so take responsibility for its impact on society and the impacts of the acquired companies can be maximise shared value for owners, other stakeincluded in future reporting. “ It is the Group’s purpose to establish a number of Model Companies, which co-operate in an exemplary manner. By Model Company we mean a company working with products useful to society, which treats its customers, suppliers, employees of all categories and shareholders better than most other companies. A Model Company makes a profit, which can also finance growth and maintain financial independence.” Villum Kann Rasmussen, 1965 Sustainability Report 2018 6 Letter to our stakeholders Our approach to sustainability Our products The VELUX brand is one of the strongest brands in the building industry and offers products and services within: ›› Roof windows and skylights ›› Modular skylights for commercial buildings ›› Flat-roof windows and sun tunnels ›› Blinds and roller shutters ›› Flashings and installation products ›› Active (digital) products Sustainability Report 2018 7 Letter to our stakeholders Our approach to sustainability Foundation ownership set new standards for healthy and sustainable Sustainability is important buildings with focus on daylight, fresh air and The VELUX Group is wholly owned by VKR energy efficiency. for VELUX employees Holding A/S, a limited company owned by foundations and family. Foundation ownership ensures sustainable, long-term thinking and Towards Sustainability Strategy social responsibility and that a significant 2030 of employee proportion of the company’s profits is returned 72% With our current climate strategy ending in to society. respondents state that sustainability is 2020, preparations for a new Sustainability Strategy 2030 are underway. In order to important for them and that sustainability The financial results of the VELUX Group are is important for VELUX’s reputation develop a viable, long-term strategy for susincorporated in VKR Holding’s consolidated tainability, we involve employees, key subject accounts. In 2018, VKR Holding’s revenue matter experts, top management and external amounted to EUR 2,6 billion (DKK 19,6 billion) partners in defining sustainability goals and and net profit for the year came to EUR 240 strategies. This bottom-up approach ensures a million (DKK 1,8 billion). strong mandate throughout the organisation, aiming to tackle social, environmental and A large share of the profits of VKR Holding A/S economic challenges and opportunities in the is returned to society by THE VELUX FOUNDAcoming years. TIONS. The foundations operate independently from VKR Holding A/S and its companies. of employee 33% Firstly, employees across sites and functions were invited to give their views on Sustainabilrespondents state that VELUX could do better In 2018, THE VELUX FOUNDATIONS grantity in a global survey. Their input was used to on one or more sustainability parameters ed EUR 118 million in total (DKK 888 million). prepare a workshop for sustainability experts and key stakeholders within the VELUX Group. Why sustainability matters Secondly, 35 subject matter experts participatSustainability is deeply ingrained in the VELUX ed in a workshop in June 2018 to define focus way of doing business. We continuously seek areas, ambitions, KPIs and risks for the coming to minimise our footprint in the way we source, strategy period, based on key insights from the design, manufacture and sell our products. We employee survey, the UN Global Compact and are aware that our sustainability efforts go bethe UN Sustainable Development Goals. This yond our own activities and take a responsible was followed up by a workshop in December approach through the entire supply chain. of employee 36% 2018 with our top-25 leaders, where they gave the direction of the new 2030 sustainability respondents state that VELUX has room We work to create better living environments strategy, based on the input and recommenfor improvement in sustainability matters that balance care for people and planet. We dations from the subject matter experts and do this by putting people first in our product employees. development and by contributing new product solutions that support health and well-being The new 2030 Sustainability Strategy for the in buildings. We reach out to building owners, VELUX Group will be launched in 2020. the building community and policy-makers to Sustainability Report 2018 8 Our approach to sustainability UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) call for governments, businesses, and the general public to act for a sustainable future for people and planet. The 17 SDGs are all important and interconnected, but we focus our efforts on those that matter most to our business and where we can make a unique contribution to realising the goals. Our contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES In the developed world, we have become the indoor generation, Three out of four buildings in Europe are energy inefficient, and Today, 55% of the world’s population lives in urban/suburban spending around 90% of the time indoors. Buildings in European buildings account for 40% of all energy consumption. In order settlements. By 2050, the UN expects that two thirds of the cities tend to be old. In most EU countries, about two thirds of to improve energy efficiency and curb CO2 emissions, we take world population will live in cities. This rapid urbanisation/ the residential stock was built before the first European thermal action in a number of ways. suburbanisation calls for new approaches to urban planning building regulation came into effect in 1979. In Europe alone, and densification in order to make urban areas safe, healthy some 84 million people live in damp and unhealthy buildings and ›› All VELUX roof windows and accessories are carefully and sustainable. 30 million people suffer from lack of daylight. designed to minimise heat loss and maximise solar heat gain through the pane. VELUX products are part of the solution for sustainable cities Action is needed to find ways to improve living conditions in ›› Through a series of building experiments, we have demonand communities. Energy efficiency and access to daylight and buildings, and this quest is at the heart of the VELUX business. strated that it is possible to comply with EU 2020 legislation a good indoor climate are important elements in ensuring affordfor new buildings with existing technologies and without able, healthy and sustainable housing for city dwellers. ›› Our products create bright and healthy buildings for people to compromising people’s health and well-being. live, work, learn and play in. ›› We continuously develop sustainable products for buildings ›› All VELUX production and warehouse sites are certified ac›› As a founding partner of the Active House Alliance, we of any size and purpose. cording to ISO 50001 energy management. We continuously explore new building concepts that combine healthy and cominvest in energy efficiency projects and the use of renewables ›› We increasingly apply smart and intelligent technologies to fortable buildings with care for the environment and energy at our sites. improve indoor climate. efficiency. ›› We create and share know-how and invest in building ex›› By publishing the Healthy Homes Barometer once a year, we periments that can inspire cities and communities to create provide new knowledge on smart and healthy buildings to better living environments home owners, legislators and the building community. Through these activities, we support UN SDGs 3.4 (reduce pre-mature mortality through prevention of diseases) and 3.9 (reduce deaths and illnesses caused by pollution of air, water and soil). Sustainability Report 2018 9 Our approach to sustainability 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS The VELUX Group pursues a safety vision of zero work-related injuries. All our manufacturing sites SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals are OHSAS 18001 certified and we reinforce a strong health and safety culture with an unrelenting focus on safety risk management and leadership engagement. The realisation of the Sustainable Development Goals depends on a strong commitment to partnerships and cooperation at all levels and across public-private sectors. We carefully manage the environmental footprint of our activities. All our production and warehouse sites are certified according to ISO 14001 environmental management. We aim for zero-waste At the VELUX Group, we collaborate with government institutions, the building community, NGOs, in our production and document the environmental impact of our products through Life Cycle end-users and the broader civil society to enhance the development of affordable, healthy and Assessments. 97% of the waste from our production is reused in other types of products or used sustainable buildings. for heat production. 99.5% of the wood used in our production in Europe is sourced from certified, sustainable forests. We are a founding partner of the Active House Alliance, which brings together some of the world’s leading building component manufacturers, specifiers and research institutions. Its ambition is It is estimated that housing accounts for up to 50% of all material consumption in Europe. to create a viable, independent and internationally influential alliance for affordable, healthy and Resource efficiency is one of the key targets in our production. sustainable buildings. The VELUX Group is 100% owned by VKR Holding. A large share of the profits of VKR Holding is returned to society by the VELUX FOUNDATIONS, which support scientific, environmental, social and cultural purposes in Denmark and abroad. The foundations operate independently from VKR Holding and its companies. Sustainability Report 2018 10 Our approach to sustainability FIVE FOCUS AREAS IN OUR 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING Our Sustainability Report 2018 is structured around five focus areas. The first four areas deal with our special reEnergy and climate Zero-waste production Sustainable sourcing sponsibility as a production company, including topics like We want to reduce emissions from our We want to optimise our material We use certified, sustainable wood impact on climate and environment, resource efficiency, production. efficiency and eliminate waste from and seek to increase the use of recyoccupational health and sustainable sourcing. production. cled materials. The fifth area concerns our thought leadership and activities in creating healthy buildings. People Leading the change We want to provide a safe and healthy where we contribute to the moveworkplace for all VELUX employees. ment towards healthier, sustainable and affordable buildings solutions. Sustainability Report 2019 11 SUSTAINABILITY Our approach to sustainability HIGHLIGHTS 43% 22% 97% 99.5% of wood used in VELUX windows reduction of carbon footprint of of the energy used at VELUX sites of waste materials from production VELUX factories compared to the comes from renewable energy of VELUX windows is recycled or in Europe comes from FSC or PEFC 2007 baseline. sources. used for heat generation. certified forests. 2.7 96% 98% 99% of VELUX suppliers have signed the work-related accidents per one million of VELUX employees took part in the of installers/dealers agree that VELUX Supplier Code of Conduct working hours – four times lower than 2018 Global Employee Survey. The VELUX products are high-quality the industry benchmark. Our safety score for Satisfaction & Motivation and reliable products. vision is 0 accidents. was 71 and for Loyalty 79, both well above external benchmarks. 633 students 100 million 300 300 building professionals met at 633 student projects from 58 countries participated in views of the Indoor Generation viral film the VELUX Healthy Buildings Day International VELUX Award for Students of Architecused to raise awareness about the consein Brussels. ture 2018. quences of indoor living. Sustainability Report 2018 12 ENERGY AND CLIMATE We want to reduce the carbon footprint of our production activities by increasing energy efficiency and by using renewables. We take a holistic approach to product sustainability, including parameters like carbon footprint, energy balance, sourcing, and recyclability, while ensuring that our products contribute to a healthy indoor climate. By reducing the carbon footprint of our production and products, we support the following UN SDG’s: 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Sustainability Report 2018 13 Energy and Climate SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION In 2018, we achieved a 43% reduction in our carbon footprint compared to the 2007 baseline. Our target remains a 50% reduction by the end of 2020. We have reached 43% Reduction Our Goal for 2020 50% Policy and goals We continuously work to reduce the carbon We believe that co-operation with our suppliers, footprint of our activities through high energy customers and partners can help us set higher efficiency and by transitioning to renewable stan dards for energy and climate, create energy sources. In order to achieve our climate innovative solutions and encourage sound and environmental objectives, we set up specific behaviours. targets, which we report externally on a yearly basis. The goal of the ­VELUX climate strategy is to reduce CO2 emissions by 50% in 2020 compared to the 2007 baseline. Sustainability Report 2018 14 Sustainable production Energy and Climate Activities ›› by step, energy consumption and CO2 emissions are reduced by improving enWe work systematically to fulfil our energy and ergy efficiency and increasing the use of climate goals through: renewables. In 2018, work to replace old lighting with new LED lighting continued, as well as the replacement of comCertified ISO 50001 Energy Management pressors to new, more energy-efficient All V ­ ELUX production and warehouse sites in models with heat recovery. Furthermore, Europe and our headquarters are certified acfeasibility studies were carried out cording to ISO 50001 for energy management. for investment in a new bio-boiler for heating in 2019. Since JTJ in Sonneborn Improving energy efficiency and expanding started systematic energy management, share of renewables the factory has initiated energy saving We invest in energy efficiency projects and measures that save close to 550 tonnes on-site renewable energy production. In 2018, CO2 annually. some of the major developments were: ›› The new bio-boiler fired by wood chips Purchase of renewable electricity from production at our factory in produced at offshore wind farms by Certified Namyslow, Poland, is up and running. The Guaranty of Origin Our first priority in the allobio-boiler has replaced 80% of the fossil cation of certified renewable power is Poland, fuels used for heating and returns CO2 due to the fact that a large proportion of elecsavings of 2,500 tonnes/year, the equivtricity supply in Poland comes from coal-fired alent of emissions from 600 European power plants. In 2018, 64% of the electricity households. In 2018, the factory was used at ­VELUX factories in Poland was renewawarded the STENA Circular Economy able power from offshore wind farms owned by Award for its contribution to promote Danish energy company Ørsted. The plan is to circular economy initiatives. increase the share of certified green electricity ›› Our plant in Skærbæk, Denmark, within the next two years to reach 100% reextended its bio-boiler system, fired by newable power in V ­ ELUX production in Poland, wood chips, to cover 70% of the heating as well as reaching our overall 2020 ambition demand, compared to 50% before the of 50% CO2 reduction in our global carbon extension. The plant has achieved CO2 footprint compared to the 2007 baseline. savings of more than 300 tonnes/year. ›› Since 2016, our factory JTJ in Sonneborn, Germany, has worked systematically with energy management. Step Sustainability Report 2019 15 Sustainable production Energy and Climate Performance Next steps ›› In the period 2016-18, energy management The new ­VELUX Sustainability Strategy and energy efficiency projects at production 2030 will be published in 2020 with clear and warehouse sites reduced CO2 emissions targets and activities to continue improving by approx. 11,000 tonnes. ­VELUX performance. Our sustainability efforts ›› In 2018, 22% of the energy used at ­VELUX go beyond our own activities and the new stratsites comes from renewable energy sources, egy will look to take a responsible approach notably on-site biomass (wood chips), solar throughout the entire supply chain. energy and purchases of certified, renewable electricity produced at offshore wind farms. New, global energy planning process ›› From 2007-18, we reduced our carbon footA structured global energy planning process print by 56,000 tonnes, corresponding to a will be rolled out throughout the organisation total reduction of 43%. in 2019 to follow up on progress, share best practices and keep up momentum to achieve our 2020 climate goals. Continue CO2 reductions We will continue to pursue the target of 50% CO2 reduction by 2020 compared to the 2007 baseline through energy-efficiency measures and investments to replace fossil fuels with renewable energy sources. Sustainability Report 2018 16 Energy and Climate SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Creating products useful to society is the VELUX core business. For more than 75 years, we have created better living environments with daylight and fresh air through the roof, offering a wide product portfolio, ranging from roof windows to modular skylights, sun tunnels, various sun-screening products and roller shutters. We work to improve the sustainability of our products through the entire product life cycle. Policy and goals Our windows and accessories are designed and We carry out V­ ELUX Environmental Product produced to enable healthy and sustainable Assessments (VEPA) and third-party verified buildings that provide more daylight, more Environmental Product Declarations (EPD) for fresh air and nearly-zero energy consumption. new products and upon market request. We pursue opportunities to use smart-home technology to support our vision of healthy and We continuously scout and develop sustainable sustainable buildings. materials for use in ­VELUX products. We work intensively on optimising the energy efficiency We use Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to measure and lifetime of panes to improve the energy and document the impact of our products, efficiency and CO2 footprint of our products. from the sourcing of materials to daily use and disposal. The LCAs document that ­VELUX roof windows can provide net CO2 savings over the lifetime of the windows. Sustainability Report 2019 17 Sustainable products Energy and Climate Activities ­VELUX Active with NetAtmo Roof window made of reclaimed timber The ­VELUX In 2018, the new V ­ ELUX Active with NetAtmo 2018 saw the development of a roof window Sustainability concept was launched. V ­ ELUX Active products made of reclaimed timber. The test series with are designed to improve indoor health and 125 windows was made for the Dutch market Scorecard screens well-being through smart controls. Sensors in order to investigate the feasibility materials for: monitor levels of CO2 and humidity, gathers of using reclaimed timber, while still mainweather data and then automatically operates taining the high-quality standard of ­VELUX roof windows, blinds and shutters to optimise windows. The viability of large-scale production Global Warming Potential the indoor climate – thereby adding a health of windows made of reclaimed timber is now (GWP) is the CO2 emission and well-being dimension to the intelligent being carefully evaluated by a product developrelated to the acquisition of home and pushing innovation in this area to the ment team. 1 kg of raw material. next level. VELUX ACTIVE can be used right away on electrical roof windows. On manual Sustainability Scorecard for materials Sustainable Sourcing is windows, a solar motor upgrade kit can be A new Sustainability Scorecard for materials measured as the renewable added to run VELUX ACTIVE. evaluation has been developed. During 2018, or secondary raw material the new Sustainability Scorecard was tested content. The use of renewNext steps for photovoltaic future to screen different materials for new products able and secondary materials We invest in energy efficiency projects and or for the modification/update of existing can reduce the pressure on on-site renewable energy production. In 2018, products. scarce virgin materials. some of the major developments were: ›› ­VELUX Modular Skylights offer photoRecyclability refers to the voltaic modules that fit skylight modules end-of-life recyclability to form a homogeneous and sustainable potential of materials. Recyglass roof for atriums at schools, hospiclability is measured as the tals, museums and shopping centres. sum of potential treatment ›› A new flashing has been developed to methods. place ­VELUX windows in photovoltaic roofs, enabling homes to become energy positive. Sustainability Report 2018 18 Sustainable products Energy and Climate EXCELLENT OUTSTANDING V ­ ELUX Modular Skylights enable certified buildings ­ ELUX Modular Skylights for large V glass roofs are designed to take full advantage of daylight and fresh air through the roof in schools, hospitals, office buildings and other commercial buildings. The very low thermal conductivity of the profiles and a range of low-energy glazing options make the total modular solution highly energy-efficient. Photovoltaic modules are also available for easy integration of renewables. The modular skylight solution is a durable solution with an estimated service life of 40 years and comes with all required environmental assessments and declarations for building certification according to all common certification schemes. Siemens Head Office, Denmark, Green Solution House, Denmark, Trumpington College, United KingGeelen Counterflow, Netherlands, LEED Gold DGNB and Active House dom, BREEAM Excellent BREEAM Outstanding Sustainability Report 2018 19 Sustainable products Energy and Climate Performance Next steps ›› Ongoing Life Cycle Assessment of individual ›› In 2019, the V ­ ELUX Technology Department products. Our LCAs document that roof will implement a new materials strategy, windows can provide net CO2 savings over where sustainability aspects of ­VELUX prodtheir life cycle. ucts are a key focus area. ›› Ongoing preparation of internal V ­ ELUX En›› Continue use of Sustainability Scorecard for vironmental Product Assessments, following screening of materials. the EPD requirements, which allows us to ›› The new VELUX Sustainability Strategy present the environmental performance 2030 will be published in 2020 with clear of our products in a uniform way to our targets and activities to continue improving end-users. VELUX performance and the sustainability ›› The amount of CO2 captured in a wooden of our products through the entire product VELUX roof window size 118x78 cm is aplife cycle. prox. 20 kg. For a PU window with a wooden core, the CO2 capture is about 14 kg. The carbon footprint of a VELUX product during its life cycle + = 226 KG 28 KG -637 KG 23 KG -29 KG -389 KG Raw material Production Use Disposal Recovery The CO2 calculation is performed for a GGL SK08 2068 window installed for 40 years in a home in Würtzburg, Germany; including pane replacement after 20 years Sustainability Report 2018 20 ZERO WASTE We strive to improve material efficiency, bearing in mind our vision of zero waste during production. In 2018, 97% of waste from our production processes was recycled or used as an energy source for heat generation. In aiming for zero waste, we contribute to UN SDG 12 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Sustainability Report 2018 21 Zero Waste ZERO WASTE Policy and goals Activities Buildings account for one third of the world’s resource consumption. Three billion tonnes ISO 14001 certification of production sites of raw materials go into the building industry All our production sites hold ISO 14001 certievery year. 40% of solid waste comes from the fication in order to enhance the environmental construction or demolition of buildings. performance on an ongoing basis. As a major supplier to the building industry, our Wood optimisation and recycling vision is to reach zero waste from our producIn our production, we continuously work to tion and products. We continuously work to optimise the use of wood to reduce waste and ensure high material efficiency and zero waste get the most out of raw materials. In 2018: through optimisation, reduction, recycling and ›› We conducted a study on how to make reuse of materials in our products and producthe most out of every tree trunk in tion processes. partnership with other industrial users so that every piece of the wood is used for This means that we: the most optimum purpose. ›› Experiment with using recycled materials, ›› We conducted a study of new ways of such as wood, glass, aluminum, PU, PVC and reusing waste wood. 100% of the waste composites. wood is already reused, but the goal of ›› Prolong the service life of our products by the project is to find potential value-addensuring easy maintenance, long durability ed applications. and upgradability, e.g. replacement of panes. ­VELUX windows have an expected service PU optimisation and recycling life of 40 years or more. The V ­ ELUX factories producing PU (Polyure›› Apply closed-loop, zero waste processes at thane) windows continuously work to reduce our production sites. the use of PU and reuse PU, by for instance: ›› Offer backwards compatible products to ›› Optimising the wood construction and PU ensure that they are easy to replace and processing to reduce the amount of PU. upgrade, e.g. panes, electronics, blinds and ›› Using recycled PU VRW (end-of-life and shutters. production waste) in screw driver handle previously made from virgin PU. Sustainability Report 2018 22 Zero Waste Pane optimisation New business models Performance Next steps The ­VELUX pane factories continuously work to ­ ELUX Netherlands launched a take-back V ›› In 2018, 97% of waste from our production ›› Transition to ISO 14001:2015 at all V ­ ELUX reduce the amount of glass used in production service for ­VELUX roof windows to contribute processes was recycled or used for heat production sites in Europe during 2019 and and to optimise the performance of V ­ ELUX to the recycling of construction waste. Every generation the first half of 2020. windows, by for instance: year, 23 million tonnes of construction waste ›› Implementing new methods for cutting is generated in the Netherlands alone. V ­ ELUX ›› 75% of production waste was recycled ›› Development of the new Zero Waste factory glass sheets to reduce glass waste. NL works with SUEZ, a company specialised ›› 22% of production waste (most of it our programme will be initiated end 2019 for in managing waste and raw materials. By own renewable energy timber waste) roll-out in 2020. ›› Optimising gas filling of panes to ensure the best possible energy balance of dismantling V ­ ELUX roof windows after use and was used in bio-boilers at V ­ ELUX plants ›› Implementation of new initiatives to windows. re-using the raw materials, the circularity of the ›› 1% of production waste was categorised continuously reduce waste in main material product is raised to an even higher level. The as hazardous waste and treated as such fractions. ›› Eliminating the need for glass cover take-back service is not free of charge, but we sheets during transportation in order to ›› 2% of production waste was sent to offer this service at no profit so it is cheaper reduce glass wastage. landfill than what installers must pay for the removal ›› Improving energy efficiency of ovens for of regular construction and demolition waste. tempering glass. Moreover, 99.6 % of glass waste from production was recycled. 1% Direct recycling of PVC cut-offs In a drive towards zero waste at the V ­ ELUX factory in Partizanska in Slovakia, new ways to recycle PVC cut-offs from roof window production of have been investigated. In 2018, 483 ! categorised as Hazardous 2% tonnes of PVC were delivered to a recycling partner. 22% Recycling of ­VELUX fiberglass composite sent to For V­ ELUX Modular Skylights, we use a comlandfill posite fiberglass material for ultra-strong proProduction waste for files with high insulation properties and more bio-boilers than 40 years’ service life. We continuously strive to ensure the recyclability of composite material, and in 2018 we entered a new con75% tract with a composite upcycling specialist. After crushing, the granulated composite is used in cement production to replace fossil fuels for Production waste incineration, as well as in sand, limestone and other additives for the final cement mix. On recycled a yearly basis, 100 tonnes of ­VELUX composite are re-used. Sustainability Report 2018 23 SUSTAINABLE SOURCING We constantly seek to maximise the use of sustainable materials and we carefully manage the use of hazardous substances in our products and during production. Through sustainable sourcing we contribute to UN SDG 12. 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Sustainability Report 2018 24 Sustainable Sourcing SOURCING OF SUSTAINABLE AND CERTIFIED WOOD In 2018, 99.5% of the timber used in ­VELUX products available in Europe was sourced from certified, sustainable forests. The remaining 0.5% is FSC-controlled wood. Policy and goals We recognise the importance of sustainable Stewardship Council) and/or PEFC (Programme forest management as part of our effort to for the Endorsement of Forest Certification). protect the environment, ensure biodiversity, Our factories in USA and China are not PEFC or 99.5% tackle climate change and respect the rights of FSC certified, but use FSC-controlled wood. local communities in forested areas. We source wood as close to our factories as Our efforts in sustainable wood sourcing possible. Our wood is sourced from Norway, support UN Sustainable Development Goal Sweden, Finland, Estonia, Russia, Poland, no. 15, Life on Land, and promote sustainable France and the USA. We use Scots Pine (Pinus management of all types of forests, halting Sylvestris) for wooden windows and Norway deforestation, restoring degraded forest and Spruce (Picea Abies) for PU windows. SUSTAINABLE WOOD USED substantially increasing afforestation and reforThe V­ ELUX Group has been a member of FSC IN VELUX PRODUCTS estation globally. Denmark and FSC International since 2016. All V ­ ELUX windows produced in Europe for the All V ­ ELUX windows are manufactured at European market fulfil the requirements of the ­VELUX-owned factories. All factories in EU Timber Regulation. Europe are certified according to FSC (Forest Sustainability SustainabilityReport Report2018 2019 25 Sourcing of sustainable and certified wood Sustainable Sourcing Activities Next steps ›› In 2019, we will continue to work with Wood audits suppliers, PEFC, FSC and other partners to In order to uphold the FSC and PEFC certimaintain a minimum level of 99.5% certified fication, we carried out 65 internal audits wood in our ­VELUX products available in during 2018. External audits and performance Europe. follow-up have now been integrated into the ›› A test window made out of reclaimed wood purchasing setup with an annual supplier will enter the product development process meeting and monthly performance reviews. to evaluate the viability of the product with This contributes to our overall performance and a view to scale up production. compliance with the two systems. ›› A new strategy for increased sourcing of sustainable materials is under preparation Performance and will be released in 2019. ›› The Materials Technology Department will ›› 99.5% of the wood used for ­VELUX wincontinue to optimise the energy efficiency dows is sourced from certified, sustainable and lifetime of window panes in order to forests. The remaining 0.5% is defined as improve the energy efficiency and carbon ‘controlled’ wood by FSC. All our wood footprint of our products. suppliers are certified to PEFC, FSC or both. In comparison, only about 30% of the wood sold globally comes from sustainable, certified forests. ›› All our activities comply with the EU Timber Regulation (EUTR). ›› All wood cut-offs and wood chips 0.5% Controlled wood 29% from our production sites are used for recycling or heating purposes. ›› All direct suppliers have signed the ­VELUX Code of Conduct for Suppliers. FSC Certified 70.5% PEFC Certified Sustainability Report 2019 26 Sustainable Sourcing MANAGING HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES We design and manufacture products that are safe to humans and nature. Hazardous substances are carefully managed during manufacturing, use and disposal. Policy and goals Activities The V­ ELUX Group carefully manages the use of ›› In 2018, we issued the V ­ ELUX Restricted hazardous chemicals and materials. In line with Substance Management Standard (VRSMS). the V ­ ELUX Environmental Policy, our internal All suppliers supplying V­ ELUX locations in standards and international regulation, we Europe must comply with the standard’s take a proactive and precautious approach to requirements. managing hazardous substances. Performance From 2018, hazardous substances are man›› 412 suppliers have signed the VRSMS, aged by the new ­VELUX Restricted Substance which was issued in October 2018. Management Standard that applies to all suppliers to ­VELUX sites in Europe. The standard ›› ­VELUX products have been tested A+ is based on, but not limited to, the following in VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds), legislation: according to the French regulation on VOC emissions from construction products. ›› REACH ›› RoHS Directive Next steps ›› Persistent Organic Pollutant Regulation ›› A targeted effort will ensure that all suppliers to ­VELUX sites in Europe have signed ›› Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive the VRSMS by the end of 2019. ›› Substances that deplete the ozone layer ›› Preparation of a global database with all ›› Biocidal Product Regulation substances currently used in production, laboratories and test facilities. ›› Screening and risk assessment of all new chemicals/materials before they make their way into our production. Sustainability Report 2018 27 SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKPLACE By building and maintaining a strong safety culture, we strive to eliminate work-related injuries and occupational diseases. We invest in and develop people to be passionate performers and provide equal opportunities for everybody. By striving to provide a safe and healthy workplace, we support UN SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production). 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Sustainability Report 2018 28 Safe and healthy workspace HEALTH AND SAFETY In 2018, the number of work-related accidents per one million working hours was 2.7. This makes our accident frequency about four times lower than the comparable industry benchmark. The long-term vision is zero accidents. Our accident rate is four times lower than the industry benchmark Policy and goals We believe that accidents at work and occupaThe V ­ ELUX Safety Policy stipulates that all tional diseases are neither determined by fate ­VELUX employees are expected to take personal nor unavoidable. They always have causes. responsibility, engage in health and safety By building and maintaining a strong safety activities and look out for their colleagues. culture, the causes can be eliminated and We have systems in place, where employees work-related accidents and occupational are obliged to register safety hazards, improvediseases can be prevented. ments and near-miss accidents. All V ­ ELUX manufacturing and warehouse sites are certified according to ISO 45001 (Occupational Health and Safety Management, previously known as OHSAS 18001). We run an extended, internal auditing system to monitor compliance with all critical safety standards. Sustainability Report 2018 29 Health and safety Safe and healthy workspace Activities 7 Golden Rules for Safety Leadership 1 HSE&E plan 2020 We continued the roll-out and implementation of our Health, Safety, EnTaking leadership – demonstrate commitment vironment and Energy 2020 plan at V ­ ELUX production and warehousing sites during 2018. 2 7 Golden Rules for Safety Leadership In 2018, 500 ­VELUX leaders at production and warehousing sites parIdentify hazards – control risks ticipated in Safety Leadership Training based on the ‘7 Golden Rules for Safety Leadership’, see below. The leaders are audited in safety leader3 ship as an integrated part of our extensive safety auditing programme. Workplace risk assessment Define targets – develop programs We carried out risk assessments of more than 5,000 workplaces in our Supply System, introduced risk mitigation measures and further improved 4 standard working instructions to prevent incidents in daily work. Ensure a safe and healthy system – be well Workplace ergonomics organized We started to develop a new workplace ergonomics programme ready 5 for implementation in 2019. The new programme includes ergonomic assessments, systematic improvement processes, ergonomics training, Ensure safety and health in machines, equipsystematic prevention, ergonomic workplace design and training on-site ment and workplaces trainers. 6 Hazardous materials management In 2018, we issued the ­VELUX Restricted Substance Management Improve qualifications – develop competence Standard (VRSMS.). All suppliers are to sign up by the end of 2018 at the latest for compliance with the VRSMS or state that they are in the 7 process of replacing non-VRSMS materials with safer alternatives. Fire risk management Invest in people – motivate by participation We have implemented a new V ­ ELUX Fire Loss Prevention standard, including external and internal auditing across all ­VELUX production and warehouse sites. 18 internal auditors were trained in fire risk management and all sites are now working on further improving mitigations and making other ongoing improvements. Sustainability Report 2019 30 Health and safety Safe and healthy workspace Performance Next steps In 2018, we set a stretch target for an accident In 2019, we will: rate of less than one accident per one million ›› Have a special focus on noise reduction at working hours, which would earn us the World our production sites Class Safety label. We did not achieve this goal, ›› Continue Safety Leadership training and as our accident frequency rate was 2.7. follow-up ›› Develop a Contractor Safety Standard However, the accident frequency rate of 2.7 achieved in 2018 is still about four times lower ›› Implement a company-wide hazard reportthan the comparable industry benchmark. ing system ›› Integrate a new and improved chemical The rate of absenteeism due to accidents in management system in our existing ISO 2018 was 0.4 compared to our target of max. 14001 management system at all V ­ ELUX 0.2. Group production sites ›› Implement a global V ­ ELUX database with all Although we have some way to go, this corchemicals used in production, laboratories relates to only about one third of the industry and testing facilities. Each chemical will be benchmark. risk-assessed to establish a basis for decisions about elimination/substitution. At the same time, all new chemicals/materials will be screened and approved before implementation. ­ ELUX sites without work-related accidents for the last 12 months or more V ›› North European Logistics Centre, Denmark – 9 years ›› Thyregod Bygningsindustri, Denmark – 4 years ›› Skærbæk Bygningsindustri, Denmark – 3 years ›› Gåsdal Bygningsindustri, Denmark – 4 years ›› ­VELUX China – 1 year ›› VELSOL, France – 1 year ›› ­VELUX Greenwood, USA – 1 year Sustainability Report 2018 31 Safe and healthy workspace PEOPLE AND DEVELOPMENT We continue our activities to nurture and develop our unique ­VELUX culture. Key actions are strong leadership, global collaboration, people development and passionate performance. Policy and goals Activities Our market leadership depends on our ability to attract, retain and engage the best people. We Passion and performance invest in and develop people to be passionate Key activities to nurture and improve our culperformers. ture involved strengthening leadership, supporting global collaboration, developing people and We strive to provide a safe and motivating boosting passion and performance throughout work environment where people are treated the organisation. with respect and offered equal opportunities for development. A global approach to people development In 2018, we continued the roll-out of a global We respect the principle of freedom of associaapproach to people development, comprising tion and the right to collective bargaining. four career clusters: Professional, Specialist, Project Manager and People Manager. The tool is used across the entire organisation to discuss career aspirations and development opportunities for the individual employee. Sustainability Report 2019 32 People and development Safe and healthy workspace Performance Employee engagement survey 2018 employee level 2018 employee level of Employee turnover, Employee turnover, In October 2018, we ran our third of loyalty Employee satisfaction level of loyalty and motivation and Employee non-production commitment level of workers productionand satisfaction workersmotivation Global Employee Survey. It had a re% % Employee turnover, non-p sponse rate of 96%, the highest ever. 100 100 Global Employee Survey: Overall loyalty and commitment score 100 Global Employee Survey: Overall loyalty and commitment score 100 The score for Satisfaction & Motivation was 71 and for Loyalty 79, both well above external benchmarks. 80 80 80 80 Across the organisation, we saw an increase in scores on both parame60 60 60 60 ters, and the number of teams with low scores decreased by 50%, thanks to a structured follow-up on the last 40 40 40 40 survey carried out in 2017. As in previous years, we can see that it is still employees’ job content, the 20 20 20 20 management skills of their immediate managers and the strong V ­ ELUX 0 0 0 brand that are the most important 2016 2018 2014 2016 2018 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 factors for high satisfaction, motivaGlobal Emplyee survey: Global Emplyee survey: tion and loyalty. Overall loyalty score Overall satisfaction and motivation Global collaboration In order to support global collaboraAs the survey changed from 2014 to 2016 benchmarks are not available for 2014. tion, we offer employees a course on navigating our global organisational matrix. In 2018, 133 employees took part in this course. Sustainability Report 2018 33 People and development Safe and healthy workspace In 2018, we continued Besides the leadership development Next steps programmes, ­VELUX also has global our global leadership detraining programmes for project ›› In 2019, we will implement a New velopment programmes: managers and specialists, covering Managers Programme to ensure that new managers in ­VELUX both professional and personal development. Locally, the ­VELUX compahave a strong and relevant toolbox ­VELUX Management in Practice nies supplement with further training to support their roles as people for all employees. managers. This training programme is primarily for new managers in the V ­ ELUX ›› In Q2 2019, we will launch a supGroup, but also relevant for experiplement to the Global Employee enced managers, requiring a deep Survey, called Team Talk, where understanding of the ­VELUX global Leadership training managers can make their own business model. Employee level of loyalty a surveys to follow-up on the team’s The purpose is to ensure an unengagement on an ongoing basis. Global Employee Survey: Overall loyalty and commitment score derstanding of group strategy, our 350 ›› During 2019, we will intensify the business, organisation, culture and focus on building a stronger pipeexpectations to managers based 300 line. Among others, we will launch on our values and principles, plus to a new Graduate Programme, a build networks between newmanag250 layered approach to talent maners in the ­VELUX Group. agement and an additional focus 200 on people development amongst Passion for Leadership our people managers. The overall purpose of this pro150 gramme is to develop essential mindsets and competencies to lead 100 according to our V­ ELUX values and Organisation & Leadership principles. 50 The programme consists of three modules: Passion for People, focusing 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 on the individual leadership style with the aim to further develop a Number of participants in Passion for Leadership and Passion for Performance training constructive mindset and leadership; Passion for Performance, creating awareness and building skills corresponding to the different leadership levels in the organisation; Passion for Business, helping managers navigate and lead in a global matrix organisation with multiple perspectives and common goals. Sustainability Report 2018 34 Safe and healthy workspace DIVERSITY Being a good and inclusive workplace for all employees is part of the V ­ ELUX heritage. It is our fundamental belief that the composition of the workforce must reflect the composition of society Policy and goals The Model Company Objective reflects the In 2018, the gender distribution in the VELUX ­­ ambition of the ­VELUX Group to be a good and Group was 62% men and 38% women. Our inclusive workplace for all employees. We aim Board of Directors includes five men and two to strike a level of diversity that reflects the women, which is considered to be an adequate demography of the surrounding society. gender distribution by the Danish Business Authority. Sustainability Report 2018 35 Diversity Safe and healthy workspace Gender equality in senior management In 2018, 17% of ­VELUX top management and senior managerial positions were held by Gender equality on Gender equality on Age distribution, women. We strive to achieve a better gender balance on managerial levels, by: Board of Directors senior management all employees % % % ›› Encouraging the hiring of more female 100 100 100 managers and a diverse workforce in general Women in board of directorsWomen in senio Male Male 60 in terms of age, ethnicity, nationality and gender. We work actively to ensure equal 80 80 Female 80 Female 50 development opportunities for everybody. ›› Prioritising diversity in terms of gender, 40 ethnicity and nationality when recruiting for 60 60 60 leadership or specialist positions. ›› Applying a company-wide performance 30 evaluation tool and external benchmark to 40 40 40 ensure equality. We use a structured annual 0-2 evaluation tool for managers and administrative staff to ensure transparency and an 20 20 20 objective approach to career development and appointment of managers. 0 0 0 A new 2030 Sustainability Strategy for the 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ­VELUX Group will be launched in 2020. As part of the preparation for the new strategy, we will Male Male Age 0-29 Age 50-59 Female Female Age 30-39 Age 60+ evaluate our present effort within this area and Age 40-49 define new ambitions. Among these, there will be a new target for equal gender distribution. Sustainability Report 2018 36 LEADING THE CHANGE The V ­ ELUX Group was founded on a vision of daylight and fresh air through the roof. Today, we lead the change towards healthy, sustainable, smart and affordable building solutions by putting people first, partnering with stakeholders and influencing framework conditions. By leading this change, we primarily support UN SDG 3 (Good Health and Well-being), 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities), 17 (Partnerships for the Goals). 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Sustainability Report 2018 37 Leading the change PUTTING PEOPLE FIRST In designing sustainable and healthy buildings, we put people first and take a holistic approach to balance care for people and planet. 90% 75% 80 mil. 82 mil. of all buildings are too hot in summer, too cold in winter. People spend about Europeans live in is used for treatment of asthma 90% of the time indoors unhealthy buildings every year in Europe alone (Healthy Home Barometer 2016/2017) Policy and goals With our products and solutions, we want to We seek to pioneer sustainable buildings, help create healthy and sustainable buildings. inspire the building community and challenge In order to do this, we take the lead in raising framework conditions that govern the building awareness about the importance of daylight sector. In doing so, we take a holistic approach and fresh air for people’s health and well-being. that balances people’s health and quality of life with energy efficiency and environmental protection. Sustainability Report 2019 38 Putting people first Leading the change Activities, performance and next steps 90% Indoor air Spotlighting the Indoor Generation in late 2018, 10% of people would now put 5x In 2018, we took an important step to advance daylight and fresh air on their top-three lists if awareness and start a global conversation they were to renovate their homes. Likewise, Audience Project registered a 9-13% increase about indoor lifestyles and healthy homes in the in people’s awareness about a good indoor of our time general public. environment protecting their health. is spent more polluted Today, people in the developed world tend indoors to spend 90% of their time indoors. But are In 2019, the Indoor Generation campaign conpeople aware of the consequences of an indoor tinues to encourage home owners to consider lifestyle? Our comprehensive Indoor Generation how daylight and fresh air through the roof can Survey of 16,000 respondents during spring improve health for the indoor generation and 2018 found the answer to be ‘no’, and revealed how these basic factors of human well-being a large gap between perception and reality can be leveraged in home renovation projects. when it comes to the effect of indoor living on people’s bodies and minds. Based on decades of research and co-opera40% tion with leading universities, partnership with specifiers and the results from over 30 certified Active Houses, we launched the Indoor Generation campaign to raise awareness about the consequences of an indoor lifestyle that most higher risk people are subjected to today. of asthma The campaign was spearheaded by a short, Watch the Indoor Generation movie here in damp or viral film and supported by the Indoor Genermoldy home ation Survey and by local Indoor Generation 2,200,000 campaigns in four European markets, including TV commercials and informative campaign web sites. One year into the Indoor Generation campaign, Europeans suffer from asthma we have had more than 100 million views of the because of damp homes viral film and more than 2,000 news articles. According to a survey from Audience Project Sustainability Report 2018 39 Putting people first Leading the change SUBURBANISATION – The Healthy Key facts from the VELUX Healthy Homes Barometer 2018 Homes Barometer 2018 Every year, the ­VELUX Healthy Homes Barometer (HHB) takes the pulse of European buildings and examines 75% 30% how they can be improved to benefit people, societies and planet. In 2018, we issued the fourth edition of the HHB, with a spotlight on suburban living environments and the potential of renovation to create healthier and more sustainable homes. 75% of Europe’s population lives in 2 out of 3 homes in Europe are Office workers spend at least For the first time, HHB 2018 also cities and suburbs more than 40 years old and 30% of the time indoors in office explored working environments and only 10 % of the building stock environments why investing in good indoor climate currently holds an A or B energy in work spaces makes for a good classification business case. only The Healthy Homes Barometer 2018 54% 47% was produced in partnership with the consulting agency Ecofys/Navigant 1-2% and the Fraunhofer IBP research institute. The Healthy Homes Barometer 2019 will be published in October. 54% faster growth of suburbs Only 1-2% of the building stock is 47% of office workers have no 1 out of 6 Europeans live in an uncompared to city centres in the renovated every year natural light in their working healthy home, mostly because their past 50 years environment home is too cold during winter Sustainability Report 2019 40 Putting people first Leading the change ­ ELUX sponsored guide V Inspirational tools to healthier homes for home-owners to My New Home VR In conjunction with the World Climate Summit create healthy homes at COP24, the World Green Building Council The V ­ ELUX Group continuously devellaunched the V­ ELUX sponsored Healthier ops apps, handbooks and other tools to Homes, Healthier Planet Guide in December disseminate knowledge and inspiration 2018. The guide takes a combination of the V ­ ELUX ACTIVE to home-owners on the benefits of latest research into air quality, thermal and wiht NETATMO proper daylighting, natural ventilation acoustic comfort and lighting and translates and smart automation. this into simple, low-cost and practical strategies to make homes healthier for both people and planet. Among others, the guide recommends ventiMyDaylight lating homes for fresh and clean air, insulating homes to boost energy efficiency and maximising the use of daylight in homes to release health benefits and save on energy for lighting. ­VELUX Pro Sustainability Report 2019 41 Leading the change PIONEERING SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS Through experimental building projects based on the Active House principles, the V ­ ELUX Group pioneers solutions for healthy and energy efficient buildings. Policy and goals Windows are unique. They are among the few Renovation of the aging building stock repbuilding components that can provide a positive resents an obvious opportunity, since 90% of energy balance by solar heat gain through the our current residential properties will still be in pane. We want to make the most of this quality use by the year 2050. Our strategy therefore and pioneer buildings that contribute more than targets development of methods for sustainthey consume, in terms of indoor climate and able, affordable renovation to ensure healthy, environmental impact. comfortable and energy efficient buildings. Through a series of Active House projects during the past decade, we have demonstrated how buildings of tomorrow can be built today, and since 2017, the Active House label has been applied as a global quality stamp for comfortable and sustainable buildings. The label is one of the few building certification schemes that take health and well-being into account as an important parameter in the sustainability rating. Sustainability Report 2018 42 Pioneering sustainable buildings Leading the change Activities, performance and next steps Ten years with Active Houses A healthy home makes a big difference and sleep quality during nights has improved. In late 2017, the Bah family moved into the Overall the move into RenovActive has meant ­RenovActive home in Anderlecht, a social housa better quality of life for the whole family, ing semi-detached home, refurbished according consisting of parents and three children. AUSTRIA MALAYSIA to the Active House principles. Since the family BELARUS NORWAY 107 moved in, their experiences have been closely Le Foyer Anderlechtois, the social housing asACTIVE BELGIUM POLAND monitored by sociologists. In the mid-way sociation that owns the estate, is in the process HOUSES BULGARIA PORTUGAL report, the sociologists noted the highly posiof refurbishing 86 homes according to the IN 23 COUNTRIES CANADA RUSSIA tive rating of the home. RenovActive model. In 2018, six homes were CHINA SLOVENIA replicated and the refurbishment continues next DENMARK THE NETHERLANDS 20 WITH The main benefits reported by the family are year. GERMANY UKRAINE increased physical comfort, which leads to HUNGARY UNITED KINGDOM LABEL better health and well-being. More specifically, The RenovActive building renovation concept ITALY USA LITHUANIA the family is very satisfied with the thermal was co-developed and co-funded by the V ­ ELUX comfort, the indoor air quality and the level of Group in order to establish Active House prindaylight, especially during autumn and winter. ciples for affordable and healthy renovation of The family notes that symptoms of hay fever, social housing. sneezing and coughing have been reduced Next step: professional house builders homes, the campaign illustrates advantages of go ‘Active’ generous daylight and natural ventilation for The movement towards active, intelligent added value to both house builder and buyer. homes for indoor health and well-being is now influencing professional house builders, who offer healthy homes as part of their portfolios. Examples are Jadarhus in Norway and Schwörer Haus in Germany. In 2018, ­VELUX Group carried out a targeted healthy home campaign towards the professional house building community. With reference to previous model home concepts, showcasing how health and energy-efficiency go hand in hand with new built single-family Sustainability Report 2018 43 Pioneering sustainable buildings Leading the change VELUX Knowledge Centre for Daylight, Energy daylight visualisation and calculation tool in and Indoor Climate (DEIC) the industry. The new version is faster and The DEIC Knowledge Centre has become a more precise including features for daywell-known part of the building community as light simulation of sun tunnels and VELUX a trusted source on matters related to daylight, Modular Skylights. The Daylight Visualizer is indoor climate, ventilation and energy efficiency available for free download and use. in buildings. The Knowledge centre is staffed by experts and scientists, who support professionHealthier homes guide and tools for building als working with building research, design, conprofessionals struction and operation with facts and insights on the effects of windows in buildings. In 2018, The final deliverable of the Sustainable Living the main focus areas of DEIC have been: in Buildings programme carried out by ­VELUX is the Healthy Homes Handbook – an inspira›› Publishing an updated version of the Daytional guide for architects and other building light, Energy and Indoor Climate Book with professionals on how to design according to new and extended information on daylight the Active House principles with daylight and and health. The DEIC Book is available natural ventilation. The guide will be rolledonline for free out across Europe in face-to-face or in online ›› Preparing for the Indoor Generation Survey presentations of best practices during 2019. In carried out by YouGov in spring 2018 among addition, the guide will be used in the onboard16,000 respondents in Europe and North ing of new colleagues in ­VELUX. America investigating the effects of modern indoor living on health, well-being and productivity. ›› Releasing new, updated version of the VELUX Daylight Visualizer, the preferred VELUX Daylight Visualizer Sustainability Report 2018 44 Leading the change PARTNERING WITH STAKEHOLDERS We engage with key industry stakeholders to discover innovative solutions for better living environments, today and tomorrow. Strategy and goals Active House presents methods to create healthier and more comfortable homes, while The V­ ELUX Group engages with key stakeholdminimising the climate impact based on three ers in the building industry, researchers and basic principles: Energy, Environment and Comscientists to advocate and co-create innovative fort. Active House builds upon the knowledge solutions that balance care for people with care and practices of the Passive House concept and for natural resources and the environment. takes this even further by adding a strong user-centric approach, adding aspects of daylight, thermal comfort and air quality in a year-round Activities, performance perspective. and next steps Active House Alliance The V­ ELUX Group is one of the founding partners of the Active House Alliance, a global, non-profit network of builders, researchers, designers, contractors and manufacturers, who work together to realise a new vision of People First in the building industry. Today, the Alliance counts more than 40 universities, designers, engineers, development partners and industries. Architect: Juri Troy Photographer: Jörg Seiler Sustainability Report 2018 45 Partnering with stakeholders Leading the change Active House Alliance events and achievements in 2018: Active House Symposium New Active House book and Awards 2018 2018 also saw the publication of the book The Active House Symposium 2018 was held ‘Active House: Smart Nearly Zero Energy at the Politecnico di Milano where 200 experts Buildings’ as a result of a close coopdiscussed the topic of Architecture of Comfort eration among researchers, architects, and Economy. A professional jury selected six engineers, designers and experts from winners of the Active House Awards 2018, Active House Alliance and Politecnico di awarding projects from China, Canada, GermaMilano. The book evaluates ten years of ny, Italy, and Denmark. Also, special honorary Active House design principles and shares awards were given to two Active House projbest practices in the academic building ects in China, the Wuhan University Stadium community. and Qingdao International Airport. Active House Days in Kiev, Ukraine 1,800 building professionals attended the Active House Days in Kiev in June. The conference had a special focus on education and advancing quality building design, balancing energy efficiency with indoor climate. Guangzhou Design Week, China Guangzhou Design Week is a very influential event for architects, interior designers, developers and building material companies. At the Guangzhou Design Week 2018, Active House played a key role as an example of a future building concept with focus on energy, climate During the Design Week, ­VELUX China co-orand comfort. The Active House stand featuring ganised a seminar on ‘Active Response and a 92 m2 Active House apartment built in just 20 Reflection on Liveable Buildings’ together with days attracted over 10,000 visitors per day. By the Active House Academic Committee of the sharing this example of rapid construction of Architectural Society of China. The seminar was Active homes, Active House wants to introduce attended by almost 500 building professionmore people to the concept and its ease of als making it one of the highly popular events implementation. during the exhibition. Sustainability Report 2019 46 Partnering with stakeholders Leading the change Buildings 2030 – New study on the potential of healthy buildings in a renovation context Partly funded by the V ­ ELUX Group, the Buildings 2030 study investigates how renovation of offices, schools and hospitals could greatly improve health, well-being and productivity of European citizens. The findings of the study show that the majority of European buildings are inefficient and do not deliver optimum indoor conditions for studying, working and healing. The study, performed by BPIE (Buildings Performance Institute Europe) is based Challenging the architects of tomorrow our time, plus genuine engagement in environFacts about IVA 2018 on the review of more than 400 academic mental, social, cultural and political issues. ›› 633 student projects In 2018, the International ­VELUX Award for articles, case studies and expert interviews, Students of Architecture (IVA) took place for ›› Representing 250 different schools of archifocusing on health, well-being and productivthe eighth time, challenging the global comSome projects challenged the political and tecture ity in buildings. munity of architect students to explore the social discussions and addressed issues of light ›› In 58 countries The findings show that the annual value challenges and opportunities in designing with in war zones, refugee camps and immigration. ›› Awarding nine regional winners and two of improved performance through holistic daylight. Others dealt with environmental concerns relatglobal winners renovation amounts to: ed to water shortage, air and water pollution, “What is happening in the world and what can desertification and infertile land, all using day›› Go to iva.­VELUX.com for more information ›› Schools: 7-13 days school days saved per we do?” was the recurring, underlying question light as a conveyor and messenger in the broad year of the majority of the student projects. The spectrum of issues. ›› Offices: EUR 185-315 billion gross value jury noted a clear focus on responsibility and added in increased productivity every considerations for some of the major issues of year ›› Hospitals: average length of hospital stays reduced to 5.3 from 7.6 days, equivalent to savings of EUR 38-114 billion per year Sustainability Report 2018 47 Leading the change INFLUENCING FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS We engage with local, regional and global policy-makers, authorities, NGOs and interest groups to promote a sustainable world. Through our advocacy work, we try to find solutions that increase building renovation to benefit the health and well-being of people and our planet. Strategy and goals Day featured some of the latest research and practical examples for commercial implemenThe V ­ ELUX Group was founded on a vision to tation, among others the findings of the ­VELUX bring daylight and fresh air through the roof Healthy Homes Barometer 2018 as well as user and into people’s lives and homes. This vision testimonials from RenovActive in Brussels and still defines the strategy for our advocacy work Schwörer Healthy Home in Germany. today. We work to promote proper and healthy buildings for all, in legislation at global, regional In the evening of the Healthy Buildings Day, and local levels. more than 50 legislators and industry stakeholders were gathered for further discussions in the European Parliament, zooming in on Activities, performance required changes to the framework conditions and next steps to encourage healthier building practices for new builds and particularly renovation projects. Healthy Buildings Day 2018 The European Commissioner for Climate Action in Brussels & Energy Miguel Arias Cañete was the first keynote speaker, highlighting developments The V ­ ELUX Healthy Buildings Day in Brussels within climate and energy legislation in the EU. gathered more than 300 professional house Legislators from several European countries builders, specifiers, journalists and other stakecontributed national perspectives on impleholders around a discussion about healthy – and mentation of new EU legislation on building unhealthy – buildings. The Healthy Buildings performance. Sustainability Report 2018 48 Influencing framework conditions Leading the change Together to combat climate change Towards 2050: New EU Energy The Paris Climate Agreement commits the Performance in Buildings Directive world to keeping the global temperature rise The V­ ELUX Group welcomes the new EU well below 2°C and to pursuing efforts that Energy Performance in Buildings Directive that will keep the temperature increase at 1.5°C to came into force in June 2018. The directive combat climate change. The ­VELUX Group is requires an increased focus on affordable buildcommitted to supporting this target and proing renovation, raising the ambition of annual moting a sustainable world, not only through building renovation from 1% today to 3% going our own products and operations, but also by forward. influencing framework conditions, policies and standards. Throughout negotiations prior to the approval of the new directive, the ­VELUX Group made the case for indoor climate as an important According to the UN Environment and Interparameter in future building renovation. We are national Energy Agency, buildings account for happy to see these considerations reflected in 30% of global energy use and 28% of global the new directive, which focuses on health and CO2 emissions. Furthermore, for that to be in comfort levels in buildings, including aspects of line with the Paris Climate Agreement, final indoor air quality, adequate ventilation as well energy consumption per square metre for the as thermal and visual comfort and smart home Adam Ambrozik, Corporate Affairs Manager V ­ ELUX Polska and Kamil Wyszkowski, Representative/President of the Board Global Compact Network Poland. existing building stock needs to decrease by technologies. 30% globally by 2030. The next step is national implementation of the V ­ ELUX Polska Therefore, we continue to be part of the global new directive, where the ­VELUX Group continawarded at COP24 dialogue to combat climate change, e.g. at the ues to argue the case for indoor climate as a VELUX Polska received the award in recognition COP, and we emphasise building renovation as crucial driver of health and well-being. ­ ELUX Polska received a prize for its work on V of its actions to implement the UN Sustainable a key driver to achieve global targets for energy the Polish edition of the Healthy Homes BaromDevelopment Goals and UN Global Compact in efficiency to curb global warming. eter 2018. The Polish Ministry of Investment its business and in Poland in general, through its and Development and Global Compact Network focus on healthy homes and energy efficiency in Poland presented the award at a ceremony in buildings. Katowice during COP24. Sustainability Report 2019 49 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS As a Model Company, the VELUX Group strives to run a responsible business, deliver sustainable products and treat employees, customers and suppliers better than most other companies do. By running a responsible business, we contribute to UN SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production). 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Sustainability Report 2018 50 Responsible business PRODUCT QUALITY VELUX roof windows are designed and manufactured for a service Policy and goals Next steps life of 40 years or more. 98% of installers and dealers agree that Quality is a cornerstone of the VELUX busi›› Continue to improve quality performance in VELUX products are high-quality and reliable products. ness and essential to fulfilling our vision of the entire value chain and exceed customer leading the change towards smart and healthy expectations in order to support our VELUX buildings. Our roof windows are developed for a brand and retain and grow our market service life of 40 years or more. position. ›› Continue to develop our present Factory Activities Production Control system to effectively control the parameters critical to our proof installers and dealers agree 98% We ensure high quality in products and production processes and product quality. that VELUX products are high cesses by following the VELUX Group Quality ›› Extend the use of our process and product Policy and the VELUX Quality Management quality and reliable products. system, based on the ISO 9001 standard. data as input for working with prediction models and artificial intelligence to transform reactive inspection into proactive In 2018: control of our processes. ›› 98% of dealers and installers agreed with the statement that the VELUX Group offers reliable and high-quality products, according to a third-party survey of more than 8,100 dealers/installers in 20 countries. ›› We issued no warnings to customers regarding defective products. ›› 0.8% of sold windows required warranty service within the first three years after purchase. Sustainability Report 2018 51 Responsible business HUMAN RIGHTS The VELUX Group is firmly committed to conducting our business Forced labour and human trafficking Activities lawfully and ethically. Our ethical business conduct is founded in The VELUX Group prohibits the use of forced ›› The Global Employee Survey, which comlabour and any form of human trafficking. We the Model Company Objective, expressing our wish to behave in an do not accept any use of forced bonded labour. prises all VELUX employees, was carried out in 2018. 96% of our employees responded exemplary manner in all aspects of doing business. No worker shall be required to lodge deposits to the survey and the results show that or identity papers with their employer, and our employees, including those stationed in workers shall be able to move around freely. We locations with a high risk of human rights indo not allow the use of physical punishment or fringements, are satisfied with their working other forms of physical, sexual, psychological conditions and working environment in the or verbal abuse as a method of control in the VELUX Group. workplace. ›› In 2018, a new set of CSR & Sustainability Child labour Policies, based on the UN Global Compact No forms of child labour shall be allowed in the and comprising a section on human rights VELUX Group or at our suppliers. was adopted by The VELUX Management Group. Freedom of association and ›› New VELUX Codes of Conduct for both emcollective bargaining ployees and suppliers and a whistle-blower We respect our employees’ rights to form, system were rolled out in the global organijoin or not join a labour union without fear of sation in 2018. reprisal, intimidation or harassment. Where employees are represented by a legally recognised union, we are committed to establishing a Next steps constructive dialogue with its freely chosen In 2020, we will finalise the new 2030 SustainPolicy and goals of the International Labour Organization (ILO). representatives. The VELUX Group is comability Strategy of the VELUX Group, where This includes avoiding infringing the rights of mitted to bargaining in good faith with such In the VELUX Group, we put people first by human rights will be addressed. individuals, groups and communities through representatives. developing products and solutions that create our business activities and relationships. bright and healthy buildings for life, work and Discrimination: We have a diversity policy statplay. Inside the company, we invest in and Our work with human rights goes beyond our ing that all employees must have equal opportudevelop our employees. own activities, and we set high standards for nities and treatment and that no employee may suppliers in relation to human rights, working be discriminated based on age, race, gender, The VELUX Group is a global company with conditions and non-discrimination policies. We colour, religion, sexual orientation, etc. operations all over the world. We are commitrecognise the importance of maintaining and ted to respecting human rights, including the promoting fundamental human rights, focusing Working conditions: We ensure that working principles set forth in the International Bill of on: conditions, hours, rest periods, leave and wages Human Rights and the core labour conventions are in accordance with local regulations and industry practice. Sustainability Report 2018 52 Responsible business CODE OF CONDUCT FOR EMPLOYEES In the VELUX Group, we work according to our Model Company Objective and are firmly committed to doing business lawfully and ethically. Strategy and goals A whistle-blower system ensures that non-ethical behaviour can be identified, reported and The VELUX Code of Conduct for Employees acted on by internal and external parties. The outlines the main principles of ethical behaviour system is designed as a secure hotline, operated and serves as a guideline to making business by an external partner, where employees can decisions and solving ethical dilemmas. report issues related to illegal or unethical business behaviour. The VELUX Code of Conduct for Employees supports the ten principles of the UN Global In 2018, one report was registered in the whisCompact and governs our business in the tle-blower system and investigated. following areas: Read more ›› Protection of human rights and labour rights ›› Provision of safe and healthy working conditions ›› Prevention of corruption and business ethics ›› Protection of personal data and company information Sustainability Report 2019 53 Responsible business CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SUPPLIERS We work with suppliers who share our commitment to responsible business practices. In 2018, 99% of VELUX suppliers signed the VELUX Code of Conduct. Policy and goals Activities Compliance with the VELUX Code of Conduct In 2018, we implemented a new Supplier Evaluis mandatory when doing business with the ation and Approval Process. VELUX Group. Supporting high standards of labour, environment, human rights and anti-corruption is an integral part of the VELUX way of Performance doing business, as stated in our Model Compa›› 99% of suppliers to the VELUX Group have ny Objective. signed the Code of Conduct. ›› Since the launch of the Code of Conduct The purpose of the Code of Conduct for Suppliin 2001, we have been able to correct ers is to make sure that all VELUX products and non-compliance issues in partnership with services are developed and manufactured in a suppliers and have not yet been forced to responsible way throughout the entire supply terminate a business relationship with a supchain. The Code of Conduct is built on the ten plier solely due to Code of Conduct non-comprinciples of the UN Global Compact and outpliance issues. lines our expectations to suppliers. ›› In 2018, we carried out 40 Supplier Quality The VELUX Code of Conduct for Suppliers Audits to optimise supplier performance covers the following areas: and to verify compliance of our suppliers’ products and processes. ›› Climate and environment ›› Human rights and working conditions ›› Health and safety Next steps ›› Anti-corruption ›› We continue to audit our suppliers to ensure ›› Information and data compliance with the VELUX Code of Conduct for Suppliers. The goal is for all product-related suppliers to ›› In 2019, implementation of the new VELUX have signed the VELUX Code of Conduct. Restricted Substances Manual (based on the We expect our suppliers to share the VELUX EU legislation EC 1907/2006 “REACH”) will Code of Conduct with sub-suppliers so that it is be a special focus area to ensure compliance enforced throughout the supply chain. among our suppliers. Read more Sustainability Report 2019 54 Responsible business GDPR COMPLIANCE Since May 25, 2018, complying with GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) has been mandatory for all companies handling personal data of EU citizens. In order to comply with GDPR, the VELUX Furthermore, we launched an internal GDPR Group has implemented a Group Internal website, which serves as a one-stop shop and Privacy Policy and updated the IT Security toolbox for GDPR in the VELUX Group. EmployPolicy in accordance with GDPR. Furthermore, ees can find general information, documents we have implemented new processes in case of and forms on GDPR, or answers to questions in data breach and set up an operating model for a frequently asked questions (FAQ) document. sustained compliance. In 2018, an e-learning course was launched to Next steps ensure that the VELUX Group is compliant with We have established a global Privacy CommuGDPR. The e-learning course must be completnity Team, which oversees continued GDPR ed by all VELUX employees in the EU with a compliance. Global and local business units VELUX PC. are audited on GDPR compliance, including IT security. Sustainability Report 2018 55 Responsible business FAIR COMPETITION AND ANTI-CORRUPTION The VELUX Group complies with the Competition Law Compliance Policy laid down by our owner, VKR Holding A/S. All relevant managers commit to the policy by signing the Competition Law Compliance Declaration. Policy and goals ›› Legal due diligence in connection with all mergers and acquisitions. Fair competition is essential for economies ›› Approval of essential trade documents (into function effectively and to ensure the best cluding trade conditions, sales and delivery outcomes for our customers. The VELUX Group terms, distribution and licensing agreements, runs a comprehensive competition programme co-development contracts, and sales and to ensure that all our companies adhere to delivery terms) by the competition law speinternational and national regulation and to cialists of the Group General Counsel. prevent any form of anti-competitive behaviour. Our leading position in the market makes this Tax programme critical to our business. The VELUX Group Legal Policy and the VELUX The VELUX Group acts with integrity and Group Competition Law Compliance Policy detransparency in tax matters. Our approach is scribe our approach to customers and competguided by the VKR Group Tax Policy, which itors and deal with our approach to mergers, acapplies to employees as well as consultants and quisitions and other relevant issues. The policies advisors involved in tax issues ,and by VELUX set up a compliance programme that includes Tax Guidelines. the following compliance measures: ›› Information and training, e.g. carried out Anti-corruption as individual training, workshops, seminars and e-learning programmes on antitrust and The VELUX Group applies a zero-tolerance competition law. approach to corruption. Our Anti-Corruption Policy guides employees in their everyday work. ›› Guidelines, procedures (including approval The policy requires management to ensure procedures) and instructions. that bribery does not occur, to implement local ›› Personal annual declarations of compliance guidelines for receipt of gifts and entertainto be signed by all general managers. ment, and to avoid facilitation payment. ›› Competition law reviews by the Group General Counsel of our parent company and his Activities team (hereinafter referred to as the “Group General Counsel”). Competition:The Group General Counsel is responsible for monitoring and pointing out Sustainability Report 2019 56 Fair competition and anti-corruption Responsible business significant competition law issues (threats We aim to respect both the wording and spirit The Group General Counsel trains relevant key and opportunities) in relation to the business of tax legislation and we are committed to employees in the VELUX Group Competition activities of the VELUX Group. For that reason, properly reflect our commercial reality in the Law Compliance Policy and in the competition a specialised team of competition law counsels, tax we pay. We do not engage in artificial law compliance guidelines and instructions. headed by the Group General Counsel, advises non-business driven transactions or business on competition law matters on an ongoing basis structures solely for the purpose of reducing Every year, all general managers sign a declaand the team conducts compliance reviews tax. ration to confirm that all necessary measures where and whenever it is deemed relevant. Furto secure full compliance with competition/ thermore, the team conducts training of general Our co-operation and communication with tax anti-trust law applicable to the VELUX Group managers, sales managers and other relevant authorities is timely, honest and appropriate. have been duly implemented. For example, the employees of the VELUX Group and informs measures ensure that all relevant staff have them of relevant changes to competition law Anti-corruption been informed of all requirements regarding legislation in order to ensure compliance with We train managers and employees in the competition/anti-trust law. the VELUX Group Competition Law Compliance VELUX Group on anti-corruption policy and Policy. Finally, the team issues sub-policies, guidelines. Every year, VELUX ensures that all senior whenever necessary, to ensure compliance with managers have completed our anti-corruption the Competition Law Compliance Policy. A whistle-blower programme was launched in e-learning and that the policy is implemented in 2018. Any criminal or illegal activities can be their respective areas of responsibility. In 2018, the VELUX Group has introduced an reported to the whistle-blower system enhanced programme in its Online Sales OrIn 2018, one incident was registered in the ganisation to secure and document the internal information barriers, preventing exchange of Performance whistle-blower system and subsequently investigated. sensitive information that could lead to infringeSince 2012, the VELUX Group has been subject ment of competition law. to an investigation by the European Commission regarding VELUX market behaviour due to a Next steps complaint put forward by one of our competIn 2019, VELUX will continue the ongoing proTax itors accusing the VELUX Group of breaching cess of adapting our comprehensive competition The VELUX approach to tax is built on the same competition law. programme to new legislation, while improving foundation as the “Model Company” stateThe European Commission’s comprehensive inthe programme through for instance new digital ment, a commitment to being a good corporate vestigation ended in June 2018 with a rejection tools. citizen, whilst being conscious of the need for of the competitor’s complaint. After thorough profitability. investigation of the accusations of the competitor, the Commission found no breaches of competition rules by VELUX or other VKR Group companies. Sustainability Report 2018 57 Responsible business EMPLOYEE FOUNDATION In 2018, the Employee Foundation donated almost €1.153 million to employees, their families and non-profit community projects. Policy and goals Furthermore, the Employee Foundation allocated 1,000 grants to employees to prevent The Employee Foundation of the VKR Group health-related problems, e.g. activity trackers, was established in 1991 to support present and blood pressure monitors, bicycle helmets or retired employees and their immediate families. bathroom scales. The Employee Foundation has three main objectives: Performance 1. To support employees and their close Between 1992 and 2018, more than 4,100 families, typically in the event of unforeseen people received financial support from the situations or for final education of employEmployee Foundation, either for themselves or ees’ children. for their families. In the same period, more than 2. To support non-profit activities near VKR 1,900 projects within the vicinity of VKR Group Group companies. companies received support. 3. To present the Villum Kann Rasmussen Award in recognition of outstanding achievements by VKR Group employees. Next steps The Employee Foundation of the VKR Group Activities will continue its grants to support present and retired employees and their immediate families In 2018, 386 grants totaling almost EUR as well as local communities near VKR Group 899,000 were made to present or retired companies. employees in need of assistance in distressed circumstances or to their children’s final educaThe foundation is in the process of making a tion or training. new strategy that will make the foundation more visible and loosen the restrictions on who In 2018, 115 grants totaling about EUR can apply for support by lowering the required 254,000 were made in support of non-profit number or years of employment from five to community projects near the VKR Group’s three years. companies worldwide. Sustainability Report 2018 58 Responsible business THE VELUX FOUNDATIONS VILLUM FONDEN In 2018, VILLUM FONDEN granted EUR 83 Examples of grants given in 2018: ›› ‘Coding Pirates’ is an after-school activity VILLUM FONDEN & VELUX FONDEN million (DKK 625 million) to 109 projects. where volunteers meet with young children once a week and guide them in creating and innovating with new technologies. VILLUM A large share of the profits of VKR Holding A/S is Research in technical and natural sciences FONDEN has granted EUR 0.5 million (DKK returned to society by THE VELUX FOUNDATIONS – In 2018, VILLUM FONDEN funded 71 research3.9 million) for boosting the organization through recruitment and training of volunVELUX FONDEN and VILLUM FONDEN, in Danish. The ers within two of three research programmes: teers. Villum Investigators, Villum Young Investigators two foundations support scientific, environmental, social and Villum Experiment. Villum Investigators ›› ‘Engineering in Schools’ offers training and resources for science teachers, enabling them and cultural purposes in Denmark and internationally. is a biannual programme for experienced elite to provide problem-based teaching. The scientists, rewarding 11 scientists with a total The foundations operate independently from VKR of DKK 400 million in 2017. The common aim aim is to boost pupils’ interest and literacy Holding A/S and its companies. of the three programmes is to promote excelin science and technology. The project has received EUR 1.3 million (DKK 10 million). lent research. In 2018, the foundation granted more than EUR 41 million (DKK 307 million) ›› ‘From niche to mainstream: Increasing VILLUM FONDEN was established in 1971 and VELUX to research in technical and natural sciences, diversity in computer science’ is an outreach FONDEN in 1981, and until now, the foundations have emphasising: ›› 18 Villum Young Investigators, who are campaign aiming to increase the intake of female students at the Danish IT University. granted approximately EUR 1.5 billion. young, upcoming scientists, received a total The project has received EUR 0.4 million of EUR 20 million (DKK 153 million) (DKK 2.8 million). In 2018, THE VELUX FOUNDATIONS granted EUR 118 ›› 53 Villum Experimenters, all venturing a Chocolaterie in Hungary helping young people ‘moon shot’ in their field of research, received million in total. a total of EUR 13 million (DKK 100 million) with autism ›› A Villum Kann Rasmussen professorship to KockaCsoki in Hungary is a social enterprise, Jens Nørskov, returning to Denmark from which manufactures high quality chocolate Stanford University, USA, representing a products and helps young people with autism to grant of EUR 4 million (DKK 28 million). become more self-sufficient in their daily life and support them in finding their way into the open Children, youth and science labour market. VILLUM FONDEN has a new grant area focusing The project is called ‘CUBE POINT’ and is funded on the younger generation’s ability to embrace as part of VILLUM FONDEN’s focus on vocationthe co-existence between nature, technology al education and training and youths’ transition and humanity. to the labour market in Central and Eastern Europe. The foundation has supported the project with a grant of EUR 0.6 million (DKK 4.2 million). Sustainability Report 2018 59 The VELUX foundations Responsible business VELUX FONDEN In 2018, VELUX FONDEN granted EUR 35 million (DKK 263 million) to 906 projects. Research in marine plastic pollution Plastic debris polluting the sea is a growing environmental problem that calls for efficient and climate-neutral solutions. A grant of EUR 2.7 million (DKK 20 million) from VELUX FONDEN will enable the establishment of a new centre, MarinePlastic, for research in marine plastic pollution. The Danish centre will be officially inaugurated on 1 February 2019, and it will gather researchers across universities and academic disciplines with the aim of developing research-based understanding of types of pollution, sources, frequency and the environmental consequences of marine plastic pollution. Senior citizens digitalise our cultural heritage VELUX FONDEN recognises the potential of active senior citizens who contribute to society. In 2018, 827 grants were given to active senior citizens – mainly smaller grants compared to the other grant areas of the foundations, averaging less than EUR 4,000 (DKK 27,000) each. One example of the many projects supported is active senior citizens helping some of the 500 local archives across Denmark in gathering and digitalizing historical pictures, documents and memories. The senior citizens are vital in this process of creating cultural and historical coherence through a central, national portal where the material is uploaded and saved. Sustainability Report 2019 60 Responsible business RISK MANAGEMENT IN A ­SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT Our activities involve inherent risks that could potentially challenge our responsible and sustainable business practices. We work proactively to manage sustainability risks in order to ensure a positive development of the company and to protect people, assets and reputation. Since 2018, we are required to disclose potenDuring 2018, relevant internal stakeholders tial CSR and sustainability risks for the VELUX were asked to assess the materiality of several Group. The risk assessment of our activities is corporate social responsibility risks related to based on the UN Global Compact and its four their fields of work. They assessed the likelihood themes concerning Human Rights, Labour of a negative incident occurring and the potenrights, Environment and Anti-Corruption. The tial impact to our business. Below, we describe Risk Management Policy of the VELUX Group the risks and how we work to mitigate them. ensures that sustainability risks are identified, assessed and mitigated. Our risk management policy applies to the entire company. Sustainability Report 2018 61 Risk management in a s­ ustainability context Responsible business Sustainability risks and mitigation Health and Safety: Environment: Safe management of hazardous substances Risk mitigation Responsible waste management Risk mitigation As stated in the VELUX Group Safety Policy, To protect employees, consumers and the The importance of responsible use of resourcGoverned by the VELUX Environmental Policy, we are determined to create and sustain a environment, we have established a work es is growing globally. we mitigate this risk by pursuing a vision of safe working environment and our vision is to group with a clear focus on minimising the risk zero waste in our production. The VELUX Group carries risks of not using have zero work-related accidents. of hazardous substances. raw materials optimally in our production and Aiming for zero waste is ambitious and In our production, however, we use materials In 2018, the work group issued the VELUX creating waste that could negatively impact involves both material efficiency and waste that pose a potential risk to this vision as they Restricted Substance Management Standard the environment and resource availability. utilisation. may contain substances that can be hazard(VRSMS), which, in addition to the EU-regMaterial efficiency implies continuous optious to our employees and the environment if ulated thresholds for allowed substances, misation of our production processes to get not handled and used correctly. describes the materials and substances not the most out of the raw materials in the first allowed in products delivered to us by our place. Material efficiency for all major raw suppliers. material categories is an important focus area All suppliers were required to sign the VRSMS at our factories. by the end of 2018 to be compliant or state Waste utilisation implies upcycling or recycling that they are in the process of replacing nonof materials and waste from our production. VRSMS materials with safer alternatives. We continuously experiment with new methAs a next step, an improved global chemical ods of recycling waste as a resource in our management system will be implemented own products or as a resource in others. and embedded within our existing ISO 14001 management system at all VELUX Group production sites. This will enable a proactive approach to managing hazardous substances and provide an even better framework for continuous improvements and hazardous materials governance. Sustainability Report 2018 62 Risk management in a s­ ustainability context Responsible business Corruption: Suppliers: Fair competition Risk mitigation Corruption and bribery Risk mitigation Fair competition is essential for economies to The VELUX Group runs a comprehensive The VELUX Group sets high standards for how Before entering co-operations with new function effectively and to ensure fair treatcompetition programme to ensure that all we do business and we expect our suppliers to suppliers, we audit them to ensure that they ment of our customers. our companies adhere to international and do the same. adhere to our high-quality standards. national regulation and to prevent any form of Fair competition must never be compromised, We work with many types of suppliers and All suppliers are required to sign the VELUX anti-competitive behaviour. and the VELUX Group has policies in place this involves the risk of creating too close Code of Conduct for Suppliers, which clearly to make sure that we live up to national and Our leading position in the market makes this partnerships where stakeholders, both on the outlines what behaviour we do not tolerate international regulation in all aspects of our programme critical to our business. supplier and buyer side, may not act in the from our suppliers in relation to corruption and business. best interests of the company. bribery. The VELUX Group has always welcomed and Since 2012, the VELUX Group has been embraced fair competition and competes on By signing the Code of Conduct, our suppliers subject to an investigation by the European the merits of VELUX products, services and and other partners confirm that corruption Commission regarding VELUX market beprices. VELUX wants customers to choose the and bribery is not part of their business aphaviour due to a complaint put forward by one products that are right for them in open and proach and that they refrain from using such of our competitors accusing the VELUX Group well-functioning markets. methods. of breaching competition law. VELUX has a firm policy of always complying The European Commission’s comprehensive with competition law. Since the 1990s, VELUX investigation ended in June 2018 with a has had a comprehensive Competition Law rejection of the competitor’s complaint. After Compliance Programme in place and a VELUX thorough investigation of the accusations Competition Law Compliance Policy describes of the competitor, the Commission found no the VELUX approach to customers, markets breaches of competition rules by the VELUX and competitors. Group or other VKR Group companies. A compliance culture is embedded throughout the VELUX organisation. All VELUX employees are bound by the VELUX Competition Law Compliance Policy and on-going training takes place by means of interaction with internal and external competition counsel as well as an e-learning programme, designed specifically for employees in marketing and sales. Sustainability Report 2018 63 Risk management in a s­ ustainability context Responsible business Logistics: Human and labour rights: Working conditions at suppliers Risk mitigation Respecting human and labour rights in the Risk mitigation VELUX Group With sales and distribution in more than 40 The VELUX Group is committed to respecting countries, the VELUX Group operates a global human rights throughout our value chain and Treating customers, suppliers and employees Our approach to human and labour rights is supply network. When choosing logistic supplilogistics is no exception. with respect is at the core of how we do outlined in our CSR & Sustainability Policies, ers, the VELUX Group always seeks to engage business in the VELUX Group. Being a large which build on the Ten Principles of the UN All our suppliers are required to sign our Code with suppliers that live up to our high-quality company with production in many locations Global Compact, which clearly state that we of Conduct for Suppliers in which they state standards. carries potential risks in relation to forced are committed to respecting human rights, that they live up to the International Bill of labour, child labour and freedom of association including the principles set forth in the InterThe transportation and logistics industry is Human Rights and the core labour rights set and collective bargaining. national Bill of Human Rights and the core a market characterised by huge diversity in out by the International Labour Organization labour conventions of the ILO. This includes supplier landscape – from very small one-man (ILO) as reflected in the Declaration on the the prohibition of the use of any type of forced companies to large multi-national players with Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. labour, child labour and human trafficking. a complex network of third-party vendors Furthermore, the VELUX Group has estabexecuting their services. This poses a risk that We also clearly respect our employees’ rights lished a centralised logistics unit with the purproper working conditions are not ensured to form, join or not join a labour union without pose of streamlining agreements with logistics throughout the VELUX logistics chain. fear of reprisal, intimidation or harassment. contractors in order ensure that they and their subcontractors live up to our standards both Furthermore, we do not allow any type of socially and financially. discrimination. We work towards a diverse workforce and ensure that working conditions at our locations are in accordance with local regulations and industry practice. Our risk analysis in 2018 showed, that the combination of our deeply-rooted value-based approach, including the high integrity of our local managers, led to a low risk of human rights infringements across all locations. In support of this, the Global Employee Survey in 2018, comprising the entire VELUX Group and answered by 96% of employees, showed that our employees are satisfied with their working conditions and working environments. Sustainability Report 2018 64 Responsible business REPORTING PRINCIPLES This is the eighth annual Sustainability Report published by the VELUX Group. The purpose of our Sustainability Report is to provide stakeholders with a transparent, fair and balanced view of how the VELUX Group works with Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability to fulfil our objective to be a Model Company. The VELUX Group compiled the company’s Sustainability Report 2018 using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainability Reporting Guideline as methodology. Sustainable Influence on stakeholder assesment & decisions Buildings End user health Fair Competition Climate and Environmental Circular energy Product AntiEconomy Life cycle Corruption Human rights Health and Sustainable Supply chain safety wood Management Employee Development Sigificance of economics, environmetal & social impacts Sustainability Report 2018 65 Reporting principles Responsible business Governance People development and diversity Waste and environment Corporate Social Responsibility is governed by The data was collected and processed by the The environmental data in the report was the VELUX Management Group. VELUX Group’s HR function. The term senior collected, compiled and validated by the VELUX We have identified the economic, environmental managers is used for general managers in sales Group’s HS&E function. and social issues that are of importance to the and production companies, for employees assessment and decisions of our stakeholders referring directly to the VELUX Management Sustainable wood and where we, as a business, have significant Group and for other selected key employees. The data is from FSC and PEFC chain of cusinfluence throughout the value chain: upstream Employee numbers are defined as head count tody registrations of purchased wood for the in our supply chain, at our suppliers and our own and calculated at end of year. European factories. These are consolidated SAP operations; and downstream in the supply chain, Our performance results from the Global registrations that are subject to FSC and PEFC through our products and how we act in the Employee Survey are compared to the external audits. We benchmark our own performance market. benchmark: Ennova’s Global Employee and with the global performance level evaluated Leadership Index survey. www.ennova.com by UNECE and FAO “Forest Products – Annual Collecting and processing data Market Review 2014-2015”. The data is collected annually according to a We compare gender diversity to the external fixed reporting procedure. Data was compiled benchmark from the Confederation of Danish Code of conduct for the calendar year 2017 as end-of-year data Industry’s analysis of women in senior manageThe data on the number of product-related supexcept for brand and satisfaction tracking, ment and boards. pliers that have signed our Code of Conduct was which was compiled during the year. collected, compiled and validated by the VELUX Employee Foundation Group’s purchasing function. Product quality The data was collected and processed by the The data on warranty service in the first three Employee Foundation. The figures are based on years was collected and processed by the VEfinancial registrations also used in the annual LUX Group’s quality function. report of the foundation, and hence subject to financial audits. Fair competition Data on anti-corruption e-learning comes Safe and healthy workplace from completed registrations in the e-learning The health and safety data in the report was software. Anti-competitive behaviour (Annual collected, compiled and validated by the VELUX Declaration) is based on the number of general Group’s HS&E function. managers who signed the declaration. The declarations were collected by Legal Affairs in early Climate and energy 2018, declaring no breaches to competition law The environmental data in the report was had occurred during the year. collected, compiled and validated by the VELUX Group’s HS&E function. Sustainability Report 2018 66
