About Horizon Business School Horizon Business School is an international business school which focuses on professional business qualifications. Our core mandate is to provide education opportunities to individuals aspiring for higher and professional education through face to face teaching and students who are unable to take advantage of traditional modes of education. Our diploma qualifications are recognized internationally and we have developed partnerships with awarding bodies and professional organisations worldwide to enable students acquire global certifications such as ABMA Education, United Kingdom and Institute of Administrative Management, United Kingdom. Specifically, Horizon Business School provides quality professional education to students through distance learning and face to face teaching. Our mission is to give students formal qualification through classroom settings, as well as to develop in them the discipline and capability to become professionals in today's knowledge driven society. The goals of the Horizon Business School are to:  Offer through distance learning and face to face teaching professional education that are responsive to the needs of learners and the society which they are a part;  Develop a system of education to enhance professional careers and promote distance learning and face to face teaching;  Develop and adapt delivery systems appropriate to distance learners and face to face teaching;  Provide leadership in the development of distance learning and face to face teaching in the countries that the School operates 1 and in the appropriate use of information and communication technologies of education; and  Make instructional packages and study materials accessible to students through collaborative arrangements, institutional agreements, and other appropriate mechanisms. Vision Horizon Business School shall be at the forefront of the knowledge driven society as a leading business school that provides distance learning and face to face teaching. Mission Horizon Business School seeks to provide wider access to quality higher and professional education. It shall adhere to the highest standards of excellence, qualitative and professional education. Specifically, Horizon Business School has the following objectives: ● Provide opportunities for qualitative and global certifications by offering professional qualifications. ● Develop a system for enhancing professional careers and improving technical skills especially for those who cannot leave their jobs or homes for full-time studies; and ● Contribute towards upgrading the quality of distance learning and face to face teaching, in general, by developing, testing and utilizing innovative instructional materials and technology, and sharing these with other professional bodies, business schools, colleges and universities through collaboration and partnerships. 2 Programmes Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply (CIPS) Horizon Business School offers the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply certifications from certificate to professional diploma levels ranging from: 1. Certificate in Procurement and Supply 2. Advanced Certificate in Procurement and Supply 3. Diploma in Procurement and Supply 4. Advanced Diploma in Procurement and Supply 5. Professional Diploma in Procurement and Supply ABMA Education, United Kingdom Horizon Business School offers programs of ABMA Education, United Kingdom at diploma, advanced diploma and graduate diploma levels in business management and shipping and logistics. Professional Post Graduate Diploma in Quality Management Horizon Business School offers professional post graduate diploma in quality management awarded by Six Sigma Certification Institute, USA. Students who complete the professional post graduate diploma can progress onto master degree programmes at universities worldwide and learn how to apply quality in project management and avoid project delays and failures at their organisations. PURPOSE AND VALUES Principle 1 | Purpose Horizon Business School will develop the capabilities of students to be future generators of sustainable value for business and society at 3 large and to work for an inclusive and sustainable global economy. Principle 2 |Values Horizon Business School will incorporate into our academic activities and curricula the values of global social responsibility as portrayed in international initiatives such as the United Nations Global Compact The current strategy of the School is clearly driven by the School’s mission of developing global leaders with the focus on responsibility, innovation and concentration on ethical and sustainability values. The current strategy is also based around developing program capabilities to position the college among the very top of business schools globally and continuing to support and improve the School’s leading programs. Purpose and Values principles are provided within the modules for developing professional business competencies in Horizon Business School curriculum, in line with our commitment to develop the competencies of our students and professionals in the area of sustainability. Horizon Business School has integrated these issues in the learning objectives and outcomes in all the executive programs at the School. Corporate responsibility, sustainable business and business ethics are part of the core curriculum of the executive education at Horizon Business School in the following courses: ✓ Corporate Governance ✓ Contract Management ✓Business communication ✓ Human resources Management ✓ Strategic management ✓ Crisis communication ✓ Marketing 4 ✓ Business law ✓ Public administration ✓ Corporate strategy ✓ Project Management ✓ Organization Behaviour ✓ Business law The key benefits of these principles at Horizon Business School are not only to understand the latest research but also to provide key examples of it in cases, thus enabling its transfer into the everyday life of participants. Therefore Horizon Business School has pooled experts combining academic knowledge with capabilities to teach and consult for businesses. METHOD AND RESEARCH Principle 3|Method Horizon Business School will create educational frameworks, materials, processes and environments that enable effective learning experiences for responsible leadership. Principle 4 |Research Horizon Business School will engage in conceptual and empirical research that advances our understanding about the role, dynamics, and impact of corporations in the creation of sustainable social, environmental and economic value In accordance with the Method principle, Horizon Business School is certain that the work of fostering learning environment begins with the creation of college’s community, including recruitment and support of students, lecturers and staff. A big step forward is distance learning (e-studies) development which gives the opportunity to study not only on campus 5 at Horizon Business School but outside the confines of the School. Distance learning is based on the main principle – study wherever you are! In an online learning environment students can find all necessary study materials, tasks, literature, submit assignments, communicate with lecturers and peers through online platforms and watch videos online . This study environment is also highly appreciated and used by full-time and part-time students. Horizon Business School’s Research area proves that the School meets the growing demand in analysing and developing corporate ethics, responsibility and sustainability, and leadership. These standards have been recognized by employers and integrated in the inner life of enterprises. There are several examples of how Horizon Business School incorporates the principles of PRME into its educational offering in these aspects: ✓ Guest lectures given by employers ✓ Guest lectures given by international partners ✓ Publications about the topics related to PRME principles ✓ Researches about the topics related to PRME principles PARTNERSHIP AND DIALOGUE Principle 5|Partnership Horizon Business School will interact with managers of business corporations to extend our knowledge of their challenges in meeting social and environmental responsibilities and to explore jointly effective approaches to meeting these challenges. Principle 6|Dialogue Horizon Business School will facilitate and support dialog and debate among educators, students, business, government, consumers, media, civil society organizations and other interested groups and 6 stakeholders on critical issues related to global social responsibility and sustainability in organisations. The School engages in partnership and dialogue with stakeholders and participants of the corporate network for the development of learning environment, student knowledge, skills and opportunities. These links have been strengthened with engaging activities and actions. Stakeholders have taken part in conferences and workshops, given guest lectures at Horizon Business School. Future Perspectives Sustainability and social responsibility will always be a fundamental part of Horizon Business School. The School’s strategic objectives are: ✓ continue to embed teaching and learning on responsibility and sustainability into the curriculum of its executive education programs. ✓ extend multi-disciplinary work through collaboration with other higher education institutions and enterprises ✓ extend teaching and learning activities that develop staff and students’ sustainability literacy and capabilities ✓further integrate the School’ research expertise ✓ identify new opportunities for improving the environmental performance 7
