Communication of Progress DATA RESPONS ASA 2019 Content 1. CEO Statement 3 2. Human rights 4 3. Labour 5 4. Environment 6 5. Anti-corruption 7 2 Data Respons ASA – GC COP 2019 CEO Statement I am pleased to confirm that Data Respons reaffirms its support of the United Nations Global Compact. We will continue to conduct our business in line with the ten principles related to human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continuously improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles in our company. We have already embarked on a journey to integrate sustainability into our DNA, strategy, culture and day-to-day operations and communicated our commitment to our stakeholders. We have identified a set of sustainability goals to achieve in the years to come. These will be explain in this COP. Also, this year, we have initiated mapping our CO2 footprint in order to reach our goal on becoming CO2 neutral by 2025. As a company we believe technological development is a key enabler to a more sustainable world. That is why we aim to be involved in as many sustainable technology projects as we can, with a minimum of 50 each year. So far this year, we have worked on recycling services, electrification and smarter energy management, to mention a few. We have already achieved our goal of delivering 50 sustainable customer projects this year and the number will be increased in the years to come. Data Respons will also publish its first Sustainability report to our stakeholders together with the annual report in April 2020. 3 Data Respons ASA – GC COP 2019 2. Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, policy and goals Data Respons is committed to respecting and promoting human rights of all individuals potentially affected by our operations. We respect the fundamental principles set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and related UN documents. (UN Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights) Data Respons supports and respects internationally recognised labour rights, including the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining within national laws and regulations. Any violation or discrimination due to gender, ethnicity, religion or sexual orientation will not be tolerated. We are opposed to all forms of human trafficking and child labour abuse and shall not employ or contract any forced or compulsory labour. Relevant policies: • Code of conduct (Data Respons companies and employees must comply) • Data Respons Supplier Conduct Principles • United Nations 10 principles (Data Respons companies, employees and partners must comply) • Data Respons Conflict Mineral Policy Actions taken: • Data Respons have created a set of Supplier Conduct Principles in order to ensure safe working conditions throughout Data Respons' supply chain, ensuring that workers are treated with respect and dignity, impartially and fairly, that business operations are environmentally sound, and that business is conducted in accordance with internationally recognised principles and relevant international conventions (including UN global Compact, ILO Conventions, United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and UN Conventions on Children’s Rights). Goals for 2020: 1. The Data Respons Supplier Conduct Principles are to be communicated to suppliers of Data Respons and their subsidiaries and included in all new contracts with larger partners/ suppliers 2. Conduct sustainability audits at 3 largest partners in Taiwan during 2020 (Data Respons Solutions) 3. Zero serious work related incidents reported within Data Respons companies 4 Data Respons ASA – Supplier Conduct Principles 3. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, policy and goals Data Respons Supplier Conduct Principles are based upon internationally accepted and advocated principles for ethical and legally compliant business practices. Data Respons expects that its partners and suppliers will comply with the principles and will actively promote such principles with their own partners and suppliers. Data Respons supports and respects the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining within national laws and regulations. We are opposed to all forms of human trafficking and child labour abuse and shall not employ or contract any forced or compulsory labour. We comply with the UN Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights. Relevant policies: • Universal labour rights are included in the Data Respons Supplier Conduct Principles • Code of conduct (Data Respons companies and employees must comply) • Data Respons Conflict Mineral Policy Goals for 2020 (see section 2.) 5 Data Respons ASA – Supplier Conduct Principles 4. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, policy and goals At Data Respons, we firmly believe that the implementation of new technology is a key enabler for a more sustainable world. Consequently, we have set a target of contributing to a minimum of 50 sustainable technology projects during 2019. Nevertheless, we recognise the environmental and social impact of our business development and have started a journey to become CO2 neutral by 2025. On our road to becoming CO2 neutral Data Respons is currently undertaking a mapping process to find our footprint in order to steer our course in the right direction to reach our goals. We will during 2020 define steps to reach our goal and make the necessary changes in the way we do business. Sustainability through technology As a key player in a large a participating member of the UN Global Compact, the 17 Sustainability Goals guide us in our daily sustainability work and we maintain our firm commitment to the target of 50 sustainable technology projects in 2019, a target we are well on the way to achieve. Each project need to contribute to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Furthermore, we are recruiting young talents and developing them into leading technology specialists. Relevant policies: • Code of conduct (Data Respons companies and employees must comply) • Data Respons Supplier Conduct Principles Goals for 2019: 1. Conduct a minimum of 50 sustainable technology projects* across the group Outcome: 50 projects reached within the third quarter of 2019. 2. Implement recycling system for waste in all our offices Outcome: All offices have implemented recycling stations as of October 1. 2019 3. Conduct a sustainability dialogue with major customers advocating for making sustainable choices within our technology projects. Outcome: Conducting sustainability dialogues have been incorporated into project kick-offs and planning and project evaluations. 4. Find Data Respons CO2 footprint for 2018 Outcome: Will be ready in December 2019. Goals for 2020: 1. Analyse the findings from our CO2 footprint mapping and create an action plan to become CO2 neutral by 2025 2. Become CO2 neutral by 2025 3. Conduct a minimum of 70 sustainable technology projects* across the group 4. Continue Sustainability dialogue with our customers and key suppliers 5. Introduce carbon budgets for all subsidiaries 6 Data Respons ASA – Supplier Conduct Principles 5. Anti corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals Data Respons does not tolerate corruption in the private or the public sector. We are committed to complying with all applicable laws and regulations enacted to fight corruption and bribery. Relevant policies: • Code of conduct (Data Respons companies and employees must comply) • Anti-Corruption certification, ISO37001, has started in the organisation • Data Respons Supplier Conduct Principles Goal for 2020 1. Plan for further implementation of the anti-bribery management system ISO37001 within Data Respons companies. 2. Measure the knowledge about the Data Respons Code of Conduct 3. Integrate Data Respons Code of Conduct in any relevant on-boarding programs 7 Data Respons ASA – Supplier Conduct Principles
