Länsförsäkringar AB Sustainability Report Extract from the Annual Report About us Länsförsäkringar AB Länsförsäkringar AB is wholly owned by the regional insuraddition to the Parent Company, Länsförsäkringar AB, the ance companies, together with 16 local insurance companies. Group consists of Länsförsäkringar Sak, Länsförsäkringar Through its distinct role in the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s Bank, Länsförsäkringar Fondliv, Länsförsäkringar Liv and the value chain, Länsförsäkringar AB contributes to increasing subsidiaries of these companies. Länsförsäkringar Liv is not competitiveness and reducing costs for joint development. consolidated in the Group since the company is operated In turn, this creates possibilities for the regional insurance according to mutual principles. companies to be successful in their respective markets. In Länsförsäkringar in brief Länsförsäkringar comprises 23 local and customer-owned ance companies. The regional insurance companies are regional insurance companies and the jointly owned Länsowned by the insurance customers – there are no external försäkringar AB and its subsidiaries. Customers are provided shareholders and meeting customer needs and requirewith a complete offering of banking, insurance, pension and ments is always the primary task. The Länsförsäkringar real-estate brokerage services through the regional insur­Alliance has 3.9 million customers and 6,700 employees. 3.9 million customers 23 local regional insurance companies Länsförsäkringar AB Länsförsäkringar Länsförsäkringar Länsförsäkringar Länsförsäkringar Sak Försäkrings AB Bank AB Fondliv Försäkrings AB Liv Försäkrings AB Supplements the regional insurOffers a broad range of banking Offers pension savings with fund Manages traditional life ance companies’ non-life insurservices to the regional insurmanagement and guarantee ­assurance taken out before ance offering with specialist ance companies’ customers management and personal­-risk September 2011 when the products, serves as an engine through Länsförsäkringar Hypoinsurance to the regional insur­company was closed for new for new business and is respontek, Länsförsäkringar Fondförance companies’ customers. business. sible for joint reinsurance. valtning and Wasa Kredit. W  e make and keep a joint promise in 23 regional accents. Rating Company Agency Long-term rating Short-term rating Länsförsäkringar AB S&P Global Ratings A-/Stable – Länsförsäkringar AB Moody’s A3/Stable – Länsförsäkringar Bank S&P Global Ratings A/Stable A–1 (K–1) Länsförsäkringar Bank Moody’s A1/Stable P–1 Länsförsäkringar Hypotek1) S&P Global Ratings AAA/Stable – Länsförsäkringar Hypotek1) Moody’s Aaa – Länsförsäkringar Sak S&P Global Ratings A/Stable – Länsförsäkringar Sak Moody’s A2/stable – 1) Pertains to the company’s covered bonds. Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 The 2018 fiscal year Earnings 2018 Figures in parentheses pertain to 2017 •• Operating profit for the Länsförsäkringar AB Group amounted Operating profit for the Operating profit, Bank to SEK 2,351 M (2,825). The return on equity amounted to 9% (11). ­Länsförsäkringar AB Group •• Operating profit for the Länsförsäkringar Sak Group amounted to SEK 460 M (1,028). The combined ratio amounted to 94% (88). •• Operating profit for Länsförsäkringar Bank amounted to SEK 1,510 M (1,599). Net interest income strengthened to SEK 4,497 M (3,996). Combined ratio non-life insurance Managed assets unit-linked insurance •• Operating profit for Länsförsäkringar Fondliv increased to SEK 673 M (600). Premium income amounted to SEK 9,010 M (9,133). Commission and fee income increased to SEK 1,671 M (1,578). Five-year summary 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Länsförsäkringar AB, Group1) Operating profit, SEK M 2,351 2,825 2,286 2,155 1,469 Equity per share, SEK 2,462 2,269 2,046 1,858 1,675 Total assets, SEK M 506,835 473,773 421,816 384,595 355,933 Return on equity, % 9 11 10 11 7 Own funds for the group (FRL)2), SEK M 43,870 44,172 40,602 36,9053) – Solvency capital requirement for the group (FRL)2), SEK M 33,874 33,441 30,121 28,2333) – Own funds for the financial conglomerate, SEK M 43,870 44,172 40,352 – – Capital requirement for the financial conglomerate, SEK M 33,874 33,441 30,121 – – Länsförsäkringar Sak, Group Premiums earned after ceded reinsurance, SEK M 5,891 5,623 5,342 5,074 4,099 Technical result for insurance operations, SEK M 402 977 435 821 611 Operating profit, SEK M 460 1,028 644 908 791 Solvency ratio, % (Länsförsäkringar Sak Försäkrings AB) 228 221 260 2353) – Länsförsäkringar Bank, Group Deposits from the public, SEK M 108,142 99,404 91,207 83,925 76,790 Loans to the public, SEK M 289,426 261,444 226,705 201,964 179,424 Operating profit, SEK M 1,510 1,599 1,467 1,175 935 Return on equity, % 8.3 10.0 10.1 8.9 8.3 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio, Bank Group, % 14.24) 24.3 24.8 23.7 16.2 Tier 1 ratio, Bank Group, % 15.54) 26.8 27.5 26.6 16.2 Länsförsäkringar Fondliv Premium income, SEK M 9,010 9,133 8,637 8,645 8,543 Operating profit, SEK M 673 600 512 516 373 Managed assets, SEK M 125,805 128,140 114,450 102,807 93,610 Solvency ratio, % 135 152 150 1413) – Länsförsäkringar Liv (not consolidated in Länsförsäkringar AB) Premium income, SEK M 1,684 1,533 1,720 1,919 2,639 Net profit for the year, SEK M 609 3,121 2,359 5,143 1,966 Collective consolidation ratio, New Trad, % 105 117 114 114 120 Collective consolidation ratio, Old Trad, % 124 123 125 120 120 Solvency ratio, % 200 207 195 1823) – 1) Excluding Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB, which is operated according to mutual principles. According to Swedish Insurance Business Act (FRL), the Solvency II directive in Swedish law. 2) 3) Opening balance on 1 January 2016 under Solvency II. 4) As of 31 December 2018, the application of the risk weight floor for Swedish mortgages changed, which will reduce the capital ratios from this period. Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Success lies in the balance between local and shared About Länsförsäkringar AB Länsförsäkringar AB and its subsidiaries are commissioned by the regional insurance companies to conduct joint banking, non-life insurance, pension and life-assurance operations, pursue strategic development activities and provide service in areas that generate economies of scale and efficiency. All to create conditions for the regional insurance companies to develop the offering close to their customers. Länsförsäkringar AB is wholly owned by the 23 regional insurance Mission companies, together with 16 local insurance companies. The regional Länsförsäkringar AB is tasked with conducting profitable business insurance companies impose demands on effective capital use and activities in banking, non-life insurance, pension and life assurance, a balanced and market-based return on equity set according to each developing the customer meeting – everything from products and subsidiary’s operations and risk. In 2018, the return on equity concepts to channels and tools to providing business service to the amounted to 9%. In addition to the Parent Company, Länsförsäkrinregional insurance companies. This ensures that the regional insurgar AB, the Group consists of Länsförsäkringar Sak, Länsförsäkringar ance companies can offer their customers the right range of prodBank, Länsförsäkringar Fondliv, Länsförsäkringar Liv and the subsidiucts and enables private individuals, companies and agricultural aries of these companies. Länsförsäkringar Liv is not consolidated in ­customers in Sweden to live with a sense of security. The Länsför­ the consolidated financial statements since the company is operated säkringar Alliance’s reinsurance cover is managed through a number in accordance with mutual principles and the earnings accrue in their of cover pool solutions and joint group insurance cover by Länsentirety to the policyholders. försäkringar Sak. Owner Control million customers/owners regional insurance companies E AND SAL VIC ES AD Bank Insurance Pension Real-estate brokerage SA ION IM CLA NT DJ EV E US PR TME MS N T AND CLAI Länsförsäkringar AB is a limited liability company and also the Parent Comthe regional insurance companies have the same clear purpose for their pany of a financial Group, which is individually owned in various holdings by owner­ship, are proactive and collectively hold sufficient financial capacity the 23 regional insurance companies and 16 local insurance companies, which to safeguard long-term ownership. in turn are owned by a total of 3.9 million insurance customers. The Boards of Directors of the regional insurance companies are formally responsible for Owner control logic owner control. Based on the federal organisation and the purpose of the ownThe logic behind owner control centres mainly on the relationship between ership of Länsförsäkringar AB, these companies have together created joint the Länsförsäkringar AB Board of Directors, Länsförsäkringar AB’s General forms for owner control that comply both with the requirements usually Meeting and the regional insurance companies’ owner consortium. Formal imposed on owner control and with the federal conditions. owner control takes place through the General Meeting, although the regional Owner control at Länsförsäkringar AB has clear advantages compared insurance companies’ owner consortium and their representation on Länswith the owner control of many larger financial groups. This is because all of försäkringar AB’s Board are also important components. The duties of the 4 About Länsförsäkringar AB Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Balance between local and shared Governance of risk-taking and capital use The Länsförsäkringar Alliance has developed a balance between the Länsförsäkringar AB’s business activities are conducted to generate small and the large-scale. Cooperation between the regional insura profit so that the company can pay returns on equity at market levance companies through Länsförsäkringar AB has emerged from a els. All capital that is not required for Länsförsäkringar AB’s operadecentralised perspective, not the other way round. The local comtions is returned over time to the owners in the form of dividends. panies decided to cooperate to achieve economies of scale and to The Group’s capital situation in relation to its combined risks forms concentrate on the most important issues: meetings with customers the basis of decisions on dividend payments. Länsförsäkringar AB and developing close customer relationships. endeavours to maintain a balance between capital strength and Certain elements of the Länsförsäkringar Alliance are conducted risk-taking to justify a minimum credit rating of A. on a large-scale to generate economies of scale, for example, prodThe regional insurance companies are extremely well consoliuct development and IT systems. Other areas are better suited to dated and thus are highly capable of contributing capital to the being conducted on a smaller scale, such as personal customer Group. Accordingly, the Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s capital meetings. Success is found in balancing these elements. The basis for strength is assessed not only based on its own situation but also cooperation in the Länsförsäkringar Alliance is that as much of the includes the capital strength of the regional insurance companies. operations as possible are conducted by the local companies and Rating agencies and other stakeholders take this approach. essentially all customer contact is to take place at this level. For Länsförsäkringar, the core concept is to meet and get to know customers, and this is best achieved on a small scale. Economies of scale arise in the cooperation between the regional insurance companies that takes place through Länsförsäkringar AB and its subsidiaries. Experience shows that local decision-making authority combined with joint strength creates substantial added value for customers. Owner control of Länsförsäkringar AB Länsförsäkringar AB ÄKRINGA Ö RS R Länsförsäkringar Sak Försäkrings AB SF AL MEETI AB’ ÄN ENER NG G L s Länsförsäkringar Bank AB NA N RI ’ O L INS LänsförsäkLänsförsäkLÄNSFÖRSÄK Länsförsäkringar Fondliv Försäkrings AB WN URANCE ringar AB ringar AB D BOAR ER C M GA ONSORTIU Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB* RA IO S B’s REG NIE PA * The company is operated according to mutual principles and is not COM consolidated in Länsförsäkringar AB. General Meeting are formally governed by law and the Articles of Association. Länsförsäkringar AB’s Board pursues the strategies and targets that the The duties of the consortium are governed in the regional insurance compa­owners agree on, thus implementing the owners’ assignments. The regional nies’ consortium agreement. The Chairman of the consortium is appointed insurance companies’ mandate to Länsförsäkringar AB’s Board is decided in by the regional insurance companies. the consortium and is documented in the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s governLänsförsäkringar AB’s Board is elected by the General Meeting, which ance documents. At the same time, Länsförsäkringar AB’s Board has a major comprises representatives of all shareholders. The Board is elected based responsibility for safeguarding the capital invested in Länsförsäkringar AB on a process controlled by the owners through a Nomination Committee by the regional insurance companies. Länsförsäkringar AB’s Board decides appointed by the General Meeting. The Nomination Committee’s composition, on the direction and scope of the operations based on its assignment from mandate period and so forth are governed in the Articles of Association. The the owners. Chairman of the consortium is responsible for the process of renewing the Nomination Committee. Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 About Länsförsäkringar AB 5 Joint business Companies and offering Länsförsäkringar Länsförsäkringar Sak Group Bank Group Länsförsäkringar Sak is responsible for the non-life insurance Länsförsäkringar Bank offers banking services to private individoperations, including pet and crop insurance, which have been uals, agricultural customers and small businesses. Sales and assigned to Länsförsäkringar AB by the regional insurance comcustomer service are carried out through the branches of the panies. Its role is to complement the regional insurance comparegional insurance companies and via digital channels and by nies’ offering with specialist products to meet customer needs, telephone. Deposits and certain lending operations are and to start new business that can be channelled out to the ­conducted in Länsförsäkringar Bank, while most of the lending regional insurance companies. Pet-insurance operations are and funding operations are conducted through the subsidiary conducted in the subsidiary Agria Djurförsäkring. LänsförsäkLänsförsäkringar Hypotek. The subsidiary Länsförsäkringar ringar Sak manages the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s joint reinFondförvaltning offers mutual funds. The subsidiary Wasa Kredit surance cover and internal Alliance reinsurance with a number offers financing services to corporate customers and private of pool solutions, and underwrites some internationally individuals – primarily leasing, renting and hire purchase. Länsassumed reinsurance. försäkringar Bank is the fifth largest retail bank in Sweden. Earnings 2018 Earnings 2018 Operating profit amounted to SEK 460 M (1,028). Of the LänsOperating profit amounted to SEK 1,510 M (1,599) impacted by försäkringar Alliance’s total premiums earned of SEK 26.8 bilnon-recurring costs of SEK 407 M. Net interest income rose 13% lion, premiums earned from Länsförsäkringar Sak accounted to SEK 4,497 M (3,996). for SEK 5.9 billion. Combined ratio Increase in business volumes to SEK 561 billion A successful Länsförsäkringar AB – what does that mean to us? A successful LänsA successful Länsförsäkförsäkringar AB – charringar AB is a prerequisite acterised by innovation, sensifor successful regional insurance tivity and curiosity – gives us the companies. And vice versa. By basis to be a leader in our local being successful in its deliveries market. Our joint development to the regional insurance compaactivities are central to offering nies, we can create further value relevant solutions for a secure for our customers locally. In all life with no incidents – now and 23 parts of the country. in the future. Jens Listerö Ulrica Hedman President of ­Länsförsäkringar President of Länsförsäkringar Blekinge Uppsala 6 Companies and offering Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Länsförsäkringar Länsförsäkringar Fondliv Försäkrings AB Liv Försäkrings AB Länsförsäkringar offers pension savings, primarily occupational Länsförsäkringar Liv, which is closed for new business, manpensions. Fund management, guarantee management and ages traditional life assurance that was taken out before it was ­personal-risk insurance are offered through Länsförsäkringar closed in 2011. Länsförsäkringar Liv conducts traditional life Fond­liv. Länsförsäkringar Fondliv is a leader in the unit-linked assurance for its customers divided into four portfolios: New insurance market for individual occupational pensions, comTrad, Old Trad, New World and Insured Pension. Customers manding a market share of 18% measured in premium income. with insurance policies under Old Trad have had the opportuLänsförsäkringar’s fund range comprises 38 of its own funds nity to transition their existing insurance to New Trad since and about 52 external funds. 2013. Customers with New World and Insured Pension have also received the offer to transition to New Trad since 2018. Earnings 2018 Earnings 2018 Operating profit increased to SEK 673 M (600). Premium income Profit amounted to SEK 609 M (3,121). Länsförsäkringar Liv’s amounted to SEK 9,010 M (9,133). earnings are not consolidated in Länsförsäkringar AB since the company is operated according to mutual principles. Managed assets Managed assets It is a privilege to be able Länsförsäkringar AB and to work in the context of the regional insurance a shared focus on creating secucompanies – the best of both worlds. rity and opportunities for our The regional insurance companies’ customers, who are also our ownlocal presence, personal customer ers. Our development is based on contact and business acumen. sustainable and innovative value Länsförsäkringar AB adds coordicreation. Länsförsäkringar AB’s nation, specialist expertise and tremendous work is the key to more business lines. Local and success in this endeavour. shared – in genuine cooperation. Beatrice Kämpe Nikolausson Ricard Robbstål President of Länsförsäkring President of Länsförsäkringar Kronoberg Göteborg och Bohuslän. Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Companies and offering 7 Drivers and trends Our business environment Drivers and trends in our business environment affect future customer requirements and thereby Länsförsäkringar’s operations, business model and development needs. This presents many challenges but Länsförsäkringar has favourable conditions to optimally meet evolving needs, primarily based on its broad ­customer base, local knowledge, a long-term approach and highly skilled employees. The customers’ needs in focus More and more customers are seeking security from a supplier that they have confidence in, making the brand a key cornerstone of the ­customer experience. To deliver products and services that meet customer expectations, the supplier must understand customer needs and behaviour, and base development activities and ­customer contact on customer insight. Länsförsäkringar has favourable conditions to best meet customer needs, primarily founded on a broad customer base, local knowledge and a unique business model that supports both local and digital customer meetings. Länsförsäkringar’s starting point is always the customer and all communication is based on customer data and thus on knowledge. Länsförsäkringar’s award-winning bank app adds immense customer value. The sharing economy that is emerging involves using resources sustainably and economically. There is also a desire to remove “the middle man” and technology is enabling new consumption models. Sharing a taxi, home, car or ideas and borrowing what you can are becoming increasingly common to maximise comfort and flexibility at minimal cost. These new emerging needs present new business opportunities for banking and insurance. Länsförsäkringar must be innovative and collaborate within the Länsförsäkringar Alliance – the customer ­experience must always be local and close, whereas development can be ­carried out jointly. Priority issues for our stakeholders A stakeholder dialogue was conducted Provide information Promote the creation of in 2018 to identify our stakeholders’ ­expectations of Länsförsäkringar AB’s about sustainable security for customers. ­sustainability efforts. claims adjustment and how Coordination of the group’s customers can avoid claims claims-prevention activities and accidents. and responsible investments Customer are important areas. For further information on the stakeholder dialogue, see page 131. Owner 8 Our business environment Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Technology Climate Regulations Rapid technological progress brings with it Climate change – the result of higher carbon Regulatory development will continue to new banking and insurance solutions and emissions – causes global warming. A have a significant impact on banks and insurnew business opportunities. Traditional warmer climate, which leads to extreme ance companies over the next few years. competition is being continuously chalweather conditions such as hurricanes, Examples of new major regulations introlenged by new and innovative companies. ­torrential rain and drought, will have major duced in 2018 include MiFID II, the General For the insurance industry, technological socio-economic consequences; the forest Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), PSD II development creates opportunities for fires and drought in Sweden in the summer and the Insurance Distribution Directive greater relevance, improved risk assessof 2018 are evidence of this. (IDD). IORP II and the Fifth Anti-Money Launment, individualised products, claims-preClimate risk is the area of sustainability dering Directive will be incorporated into vention services and predictive analysis for that presents the greatest challenge for Swedish law in 2019 and 2020, respectively. preventing claims. Länsförsäkringar. For the insurance indusWork is in progress at EU level to produce Länsförsäkringar’s development activitry, global warming can lead to significant legislation for a sustainable financial market. ties must be innovative, with rapid product claims costs. That is why environmental Länsförsäkringar welcomes this developdevelopment and testing capacity, in order claims-prevention activities are extremely ment since it seeks to harmonise standards to deliver new services demanded by its important for Länsförsäkringar. Länsförsäkand sustainability assessment c­ riteria. customers. In 2018, Länsförsäkringar carringar AB participates in a UN initiative with Harmonising legislation within the EU ried out several pilot projects in health, other insurance companies to prepare tools also adds to complexity. Extensive rules are claims prevention, security and crime for climate risk analysis. often implemented in the form of both prevention. Climate change also affects banks, for directives and EU regulations. In addition, Länsförsäkringar’s continued developexample, in respect of property values, thus guidelines are published by European superment of robotics and automation enhances also affecting lending from the banks. A clivisory authorities while the Swedish Finanefficiency. New technology also makes it mate risk scenario analysis of Länsförsäkcial Supervisory Authority issues regulapossible to process customer data together ringar Bank’s mortgage portfolio estimating tions and general guidelines. with social data to learn more about cusexpected credit losses in various scenarios Länsförsäkringar is well-positioned to tomers and the market, with Länsförsäk­ was carried out in 2018. A similar scenario meet the changes under the regulations. It is ringar’s broad customer base and product analysis of parts of the investments was perof the utmost importance that consumers offering providing a major advantage. formed in the life-assurance portfolio. are protected. In the insurance Customers want niche Climate issues are ­industry, I believe that savings products that ­central. It is important personal health will be decisive are best-in-class in sustain­ to not only work on making – both for us employees and ability. They want to see meascontinuous improvements for our customers. urable goals for how their but also to adjust investments Employee investments make a positive to achieve the two-degree difference. ­climate target. Broker Civil society organisation Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Our business environment 9 How we create value How we create value With a clear focus on giving our owners — the 23 regional insurance companies — the best c­ onditions for developing locally, Länsförsäkringar AB creates value for both its own operations and for our s­ takeholders. For our stakeholders …we create value ess environment factor Busin s Customers Profits are returned to our Strengthens the regional owners, the regional insurance insurance companies’ cuscompanies, and thus to Länstomer offerings, particularly by försäkringar’s customers. leveraging economies of scale. Owners Create opportuSpecialist knowlnity for a broad edge, business customer offering development and in banking, non-life insurance and Vision innovation. p ­ ensions. Values Targets Employees Joint, large-scale ­solutions Investments in a create greater efficiency learning, diverse and and lower expenses. healthy workplace. Claims-prevention activities strengthen customers’ health and security, reduce claims costs and promote a sustainable society. Community Busin rs ess e nvironment facto 10 How we create value Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 …socially, environmentally …and financially Bonuses and discounts for customers Customers •• High service level and competence. •• Comprehensive offerings create security. •• Competitive prices and strong total return. •• Claims-prevention activities reduce incidents. SEK M Claims payments to customers Owners SEK bn •• Create opportunity for regional insurance companies to offer a broad, comprehensive customer offering in banking, insurance, Salaries and pensions for employees pensions and real-estate brokerage. •• Shared business solutions. •• High dividend for owners. SEK bn Payments to suppliers Employees •• Attractive workplace. •• Healthy work environment. •• Strong opportunities for skills development. •• Strong career opportunities. SEK bn Contributions to research Community •• Core business that creates social benefit and SEK M strengthens customers’ long-term financial security. •• Claims-prevention activities – a gain for the environment. •• Preventive efforts reduce illness and costs to society and employers. •• Support research into social challenges, ­mental illness and animal health. Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 How we create value 11 Vision, values and targets Vision, values and targets Länsförsäkringar AB´s activities are guided by a vision and value-based planning of ­operations. This serves as a ­guiding principle for all operations in the Group in order to achieve set targets. ­Länsförsäkringar AB helps to fulfil the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s shared brand promise of simplifying everyday life for customers and contributing to a secure future. Vision Together we create security and This vision must always be our key objective. The aim of all opportunities ­general and long-term work is that together we create security and opportunities for our customers and society in general. Core values Commitment Trust These values form the basis of our corporate culture and describe how Openness we are to treat each other, our customers and our stakeholders. They Professionalism inspire us in our work and help us to enhance customer value every day. Targets Länsförsäkringar AB’s targets are always based on its mission of The market’s most satisfied customers helping our owners, the 23 regional insurance companies, create the best value for customers. These targets are based on LänsLänsförsäkringar will be customers’ first choice försäkringar’s joint strategies and important changes in our busifor financial services. ness environment. To achieve the targets, Länsförsäkringar AB must remain the best partner for the regional insurance companies To meet customer expectations and needs, Länsförsäkringar must and support them in delivering the best customer experience. offer its customers a secure, total financial solution for banking, Länsförsäkringar AB must also continue to be a strong, fast and insurance, pensions and real-estate brokerage. agile implementer. Outcome 2018 •• According to the Swedish Quality Index’s 2018 customer satisfaction surveys, Länsförsäkringar has Sweden’s most satisfied The market’s most satisfied customers in banking, non-life insurance, private pensions and customers. Long-term profitable real-estate brokerage. •• Kantar Sifo’s 2018 reputation survey showed that Länsförsäk­ growth in joint business. ringar has the highest reputation in the finance industry. ­Sustainability throughout •• Länsförsäkringar’s satisfied customers and high reputation have the operations. led to a clear market-leading position in non-life insurance in Sweden for more than 20 years and a continued strong customer inflow to the banking business and real-estate brokerage. Länsförsäkringar’s market shares % 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Non-life insurance Real-estate brokerage (single-family homes) Individual occupational pensions Retail mortgages 12 Vision, values and targets Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Long-term profitable growth Sustainability in the operations Satisfied customers are the foundation of Sustainability involves generating greater long-term profitable growth. value for customers and contributing to the sustainable development of ­society. Long-term profitable growth in the customer-owned regional insurance companies is important for meeting future chalLänsförsäkringar can reduce its sustainability risks and also lenges, assuming social responsibility and supporting sustain­ contribute to the positive development of society and create able development. business value by incorporating sustainability throughout the operations. Outcome 2018 •• Länsförsäkringar’s solid growth continued for all business Outcome 2018 lines in 2018. •• Investments in green bonds increased during the year to •• Based on the healthy 2018 earnings, the regional insurance SEK 3.1 billion at year-end. The investments are earmarked companies will pay back a total of SEK 825 M in bonuses and for climate-smart projects. discounts to their owners – the customers. •• Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning launched a Nordic •• The regional insurance companies, the Länsförsäkringar AB ­Ecolabelled Sweden fund and a fossil-smart fund. Group and each subsidiary remained well-capitalised in 2018. •• The sustainability requirements for external fund managers were tightened. •• Länsförsäkringar contributed to research financing into such Solvency ratio on 31 December 2018 subjects as mental illness and unprotected road-users. % •• Agria’s research fund turned 80 years and donated slightly 350 more than SEK 9.5 M to research into animal health in 2018. 300 250 200 Read more about Länsförsäk150 ringar AB’s sustainability work 100 on pages 14–32 and 129–139. 50 0 Länsförsäkringar Liv 23 regional insurance companies Länsförsäkringar Fondliv Länsförsäkringar Sak Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Vision, values and targets 13 Sustainable business Sustainability is about generating greater value for customers and, at the same time, contributing to the sustainable development of society. Länsförsäkringar AB’s sustainability work is based on the vision of “Together we create security and opportunities.” By integrating sustainability into the business, Länsförsäkringar AB can increase ­business value and contribute to a sustainable society. Länsförsäkringar AB can reduce its sustainNew materiality analysis performed ability risks, increase customer value and A new materiality analysis was performed UN Sustainable Development Goals also contribute to the positive development in autumn 2018 and aimed to prioritise the Länsförsäkringar AB worked together with of society and create business value by takmost important sustainability topics for the 23 regional insurance companies in 2018 ing economic, social and environmental Länsförsäkringar based on the business’s to identify which of the UN Sustainable aspects into consideration in business impact on the environment and society. Development Goals (SDGs) Länsförsäkrindevelopment and business decisions. LänsAs part of the analysis, various stakeholder gar AB can positively contribute to and that försäkringar is a signatory to the principles groups were engaged to enhance underLänsförsäkringar can work towards to of the UN Global Compact. standing of key stakeholders’ expectations reduce its negative impact. This process was of Länsförsäkringar AB’s sustainability based on Länsförsäkringar AB’s material Key sustainability topics activities. The update of the key sustainabilsustainability topics, level of engagement, Länsförsäkringar AB carries out regular ity topics will govern the sustainability conidentified risks and opportunities. analyses of risks and opportunities as well as tent of reporting in 2019. the company’s direct and indirect impact on As owners and recipient of deliveries More information about Länsthe value chain. Material sustainability risks from Länsförsäkringar AB, the regional försäkringar’s work on the UN SDGs and opportunities are identified and prioriinsurance companies hold a unique position can be found on pages 130-131. tised in cooperation with key stakeholders: among stakeholders. Customer meetings customers, owners, employees, suppliers, are managed locally by the regional insurpartners, trade organisations, civil society ance companies. Länsförsäkringar AB’s task försäkringar. Climate change – the result of organisations, authorities and investors. is to conduct joint banking and insurance higher carbon emissions – causes global Länsförsäkringar AB has identified eight operations, pursue strategic development warming. A warmer climate will have major priority sustainability topics based on stakeactivities and provide service in areas that socio-economic consequences, and lead to holder dialogue and with guidance of the generate economies of scale and enhance extreme weather conditions such as hurriGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI). The eight efficiency. canes, torrential rain and drought. The sustainability topics are grouped into three adverse effects for insurance companies focus areas: responsible offering, responsiClimate risk – the greatest challenge and banks are obvious. ble business conduct and long-term enviClimate risk is the area of sustainability that As stated in the sustainability policy, the ronmental and social commitment. presents the greatest challenge for LänsBoard of Länsförsäkringar AB has identified climate risk as the top priority. Länsförsäkringar AB strives to limit and reduce the risk of climate impact through its activities in The local, customer­several of the priority sustainability topics: dialogues to influence companies and owned business model investments in the area of responsible creates a solid basis investments, claims-prevention activities and sustainability requirements on damage for long-term social repair in the insurance offering, sustainability requirements on purchases, donations to ­responsibility. financing research into climate impact, engagement and claims-prevention activities in long-term environmental efforts and During the year, we were named the most sustainable brand in banking social commitment. by Swedish Sustainability Ranking and in insurance by Sustainable Brand Index. With our local presence across Sweden we contribute to research into the challenges faced by society and local social initiatives. Christina Kusoffsky Hillesöy, Head of Sustainability at Länsförsäkringar AB 14 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Materiality analysis and priority sustainability topics Re sp g o in Responsible Business ns offer insurance ethics offering ible Responsible Respon employer bu s sibl conduct Responsible iness banking e Sustainability requirements on suppliers Responsible investments Direct environ­ mental impact Long-term environmental and social commitment En it l y vir i onm o nsib enta p l and social res Responsible offering Responsible business conduct Environmental and social Responsible investments Business ethics responsibility Investments that incorporate sustainaA corporate culture with a high level of Long-term environmental and social bility and generate high returns. ambition regarding business ethics. commitment Research into society’s security chalResponsible banking Responsible employer lenges and engagement to reduce risks of Lending and payments that incorporate Working on diversity and equality, skills natural catastrophes due to climate sustainability. development, health and work environchange in society. Engagement to reduce ment with the aim of attracting and mental illness in society. Responsible insurance offering retaining skilled employees. Insurance services focusing on claims prevention and health promotion efforts. Sustainability requirements on suppliers Sustainability requirements in the supply chain. Direct environmental impact Actions to reduce the operation’s direct environmental impact. Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Sustainability 15 Responsible offering Responsible investments Länsförsäkringar AB invests customers’ savings and offers both its own and external funds. Active corporate ­governance, international conventions, partnerships and integration of sustainability topics into asset management form the basis of responsible investments. The basis of the investment philosophy is Investments are managed by Länsförsäkringar companies. The analysis process compiles a conviction that the best investments over Fondförvaltning (the fund company), which reporting from various sources, including time are those made in well-managed com­ manages Länsförsäkringar’s own funds and such non-governmental organisations. panies that apply a systematic and intethe Asset Management unit manages investCompanies are engaged in preventive grated approach to sustainability. These ments for the life-assurance and non-life dialogues to ensure that they are managing are also the companies that will best be able insurance portfolios (“institutional portfolios”). their sustainability risks, which can be idento manage risks in and identify solutions to tified by analysing portfolio holdings. local and global social challenges. Active corporate governance Länsförsäkringar AB is actively involved Corporate governance includes company in several investor initiatives on various Risks and opportunities dialogues on sustainability topics, active ­sustainability topics and industries. EngageLänsförsäkringar AB’s investments have an participation in nomination committees to ment is given greater impetus and efficiency indirect impact on people, society and the influence board compositions and voting at through partnerships with other investors. environment through the operations of the general meetings. The aim is to increase the individual companies. Länsförsäkringar diversity of boards. The fund company Manager selection procedures with endeavours to reduce its indirect impact mainly votes at general meetings of the sustainability requirements through a systematic process for manager companies included in its own funds, and in The fund company’s Swedish assets are selection procedures, investment analyses, which it has a substantial holding or where it managed by internal managers. Other choice of investments, company analysis is important to vote for other reasons. investments are managed by external manand dialogue. agers through funds and discretionary manBy encouraging companies to follow the Engagement dates. The investment philosophy is based UN Global Compact’s principles on responEngagement on sustainability takes place to on using leading managers with different sible business, Länsförsäkringar helps encourage companies to act responsibly. investment styles. Sustainability requirereduce their negative impact on people, Engagement takes place reactively after an ments are included in the procurement of society and the surrounding environment. incident has occurred and proactively for new managers and their work is graded Länsförsäkringar sees financial risks preventive purposes. based on various criteria. The aim is to select inherent in global warming. Climate change Work related to responsible investments external managers that integrate sustainacan impact companies by altering market is based on the UN Global Compact’s princibility into their asset management and corconditions and through physical climate ples and international conventions on the porate governance. Managers are evaluated change. From a reverse perspective, there environment, human rights, labour, corrupevery year to ensure that they continuously are investment opportunities in companies tion and controversial weapons. A consulting improve their work on integrating sustainathat restrict climate change and apply firm is engaged to assess and analyse listed bility into asset management. climate­-adjustment solutions. company holdings based on these convenInvestment opportunities are identified tions. Starting from these analyses, LänsSustainable investments and savings by integrating sustainability topics into försäkringar AB strives to engage in dialogue The fund company’s Swedish equities and investment analyses and decisions. The aim is with companies that breach these convenfixed-income funds are managed internally to contribute to the sustainable development tions. The aim is that the analysed company and a sustainability analysis is an integrated of society within the framework of estabwill stop committing breaches and take part of the investment process. A challenge lished asset management targets. Länsmeasures to prevent similar incidents from is that many small companies have not made försäkringar can contribute to several SDGs being repeated. If the dialogue does not as much progress in sustainability as large through its investment and engagement. achieve the desired results, the holdings in the companies and external analysis is often not company may, as a last resort, be divested. found. Länsförsäkringar performs its own Sustainability integration strategy A challenge is that listed companies in sustainability analyses and collects informaThe strategy for integrating sustainability developed countries tend to be more transtion from companies using a standardised into investments comprises five focus areas: parent than companies in emerging markets, questionnaire supplemented with its own •• Active corporate governance meaning that suspicions of breaches of conanalysis of reporting, follow-up meetings •• Engagement vention are not always addressed. The same and external analysis where available. The •• Manager selection procedures with challenge exists for certain classes of assets, companies are assigned a sustainability s­ ustainability requirements such as certain credit bonds and unlisted ­rating. The aim is for all fund holdings to have •• Sustainable investments and savings assets. Non-governmental organisations a sustainability rating, with the majority of •• Reduce climate risks in investments and the media play a key role in monitoring holdings being in companies with the highest 16 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Responsible offering possible rating. Investments can be made in and new internal processes for increasing existing managers, were tightened during the companies with lower ratings provided that the integration of sustainability into asset year. A minimum level was introduced, meanthey make improvements. management was set. ing that managers rated below the minimum The sustainable investments in the instilevel are placed on a watch list for 12 months tutional portfolios include bonds that Active corporate governance and engaged in dialogue. Managers who do finance climate and environment-related In 2018, Länsförsäkringar voted at 60 general not make any improvements risk having their projects. Demand for green bonds outstrips meetings. The percentage of women on the contracts terminated. If the fund is recomsupply, thus limiting the possibility of boards of the companies in which Länsmended on Länsförsäkringar’s fund platform increasing the share of investments in green försäkringar is a member of the nomination and no improvement is made, the fund is bonds at the desired rate. committee was 38%. moved to the extended fund range. Nine funds were transferred from the recomReduce climate impact in investments Engagement mended range in 2018 and two managers Länsförsäkringar sees financial risks in Länsförsäkringar signed on to three new were put on the watch list due to shortcominvesting in companies that base their oper­climate-focused investor initiatives in 2018: ings in their sustainability activities. ations on fossil fuels and other companies a climate initiative targeting the largest global that have a major impact on the environemitters, one initiative focusing on oil and gas Sustainable investments and savings ment. Mining companies and energy compacompanies and one on deforestation. LänsIn 2018, Länsförsäkringar launched a fosnies that derive more than 20% of sales from försäkringar also joined an initiative focusing sil-smart fund and a Nordic Ecolabelled thermal coal are divested from own funds on sustainable food and antibiotics in the Sweden fund. In addition to these two funds, and discretionary mandates. At year-end meat industry. Furthermore, Länsförsäkrinthe external fund platform was expanded 2018, 134 coal companies had been divested. gar supports Access to Medicine, an organiwith two externally managed sustainability The carbon footprint of equities investments sation that seeks to improve access to medifunds: a green bond fund and a sustainable is measured and reported on the website. cine for people around the world. emerging markets fund. The share of investments in green bonds in the institutional Activities and targets in 2018 Manager selection procedures with portfolios in 2018 increased from SEK 1.5 bilIntegrating sustainability into investment sustainability requirements lion to SEK 3.1 billion, thereby achieving the operations was a focal point in 2018. The The requirements on external fund managers target for 2018 of SEK 3.0 billion. corporate governance policy was updated in procurements, and regular follow-up of Sustainability fund keeps green light The Länsförsäkringar Global Hållbar came top three of the most sustainable global ­equities funds in Söderberg & Partners’ 2018 survey of ­sustainability of Swedish funds. Nordic Ecolabelled fund The Länsförsäkringar Sverige Aktiv equities fund was awarded the “Swan” ­Nordic Ecolabel in 2018. It means that the fund meets the Nordic Ecolabel’s investment requirements, which include not investing in weapons, tobacco, fossil fuels or companies that violate conventions. At least 50% of the companies selected by the fund have the highest sustainability rating. The fund also fulfils the requirements of corporate Fossil-smart fund governance in the form of voting at general Länsförsäkringar FossilSmart was launched in 2018, a global equities meetings and engagement with companies on fund that excludes companies that produce fossil fuels and has their ­sustainability efforts. a majority of companies with low carbon emissions in each sector. Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Sustainability 17 Responsible offering Reduce climate risks in investments equities. The aim is also to increase the share 2018 investments A climate-scenario analysis of the instituof investments in green bonds and extend tional investment portfolios was performed the investment orientation to include other in 2018 supported by the “2 degrees initiasustainable bonds than merely green bonds. Investments in green bonds tive” think tank, focusing on the current secThe institutional portfolios will be subject to tor composition of the equities and credit a more extensive climate scenario analysis. portfolio. The weight of the sectors was compared with future scenarios and the tarIncreased regulation get of limiting global warming to 2 degrees. Requirements to integrate sustainability SEK bn For fossil fuels, the portfolio composition topics and transparency will increase. The was in line with or well below the 2 degree EU is currently working on proposals for an target. There were mixed results for the Action Plan on Sustainable Finance unveiled Sustainability dialogues held with power supply sector, with gas companies at the start of 2018. Länsförsäkringar welmeeting the target while renewable energy comes this development since it seeks to had a lower weight than is predicted to be harmonise standards and sustainability necessary for attaining the climate goal. assessment criteria. Climate risks in companies in two US From 2018, fund managers are now companies credit portfolios were analysed. Such analylegally required to report how they integrate ses are challenging due to a lack of data. Of sustainability into their funds. The fund comabout 300 companies analysed, carbon data pany reports sustainability activities for Number of divested companies due to climate was reported in the external analysis system Länsförsäkringar’s own funds following the risk or contraventions of Länsförsäkringar’s for one-third of the companies. Of this third, template prepared by the Swedish Invest­corporate governance policy ten companies accounted for slightly more ment Fund Association approved by the than 50% of the carbon footprint in the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. credit portfolios. In 2018, Länsförsäkringar signed on to the Climate Action 100+ initiaGovernance documents and governance tive to engage with the 100 largest imporThe sustainability policy and corporate govcompanies tant greenhouse gas emitters, a couple of ernance policy provide guidance in conductwhich are found in the credit portfolios. ing corporate governance and the principles to be followed in the management of investLänsförsäkringar voted at Activities and targets in 2019 ments. Policies, targets and activities are Integrating sustainability into asset manrevised every year. agement will continue, for example, by raisThe fund company and the Asset Manageing requirements on external managers of ment unit work together on corporate govlisted and unlisted assets as well as interernance engagement. This work is regularly general meetings nally managed interest­-bearing assets. reported in various forums to coordinate, The carbon footprint for investments will be develop and monitor targets and activities. expanded to include fixed income, as well as Activities related to responsible investments 2018 2017 2016 Analysis and carbon footprint 2018 Number of reactive1) company dialogues on sustainability % of total capital in institutional portp ­ ursued by the ethics consultant on Länsförsäkringar AB’s folio based on sustainability analysis 67% behalf2) 123 119 107 % of total capital in the fund compaOf which number of reactive company dialogues on ny’s funds based on sustainability ­sustainability in which Länsförsäkringar AB was involved 21 15 30 analysis 90% Number of preventive dialogues on sustainability 17 17 19 % of total capital in institutional portNumber of blacklisted companies regarding sustainability3) folio with a measured carbon footprint 16% excluding coal companies 40 33 27 % of total capital in the fund compaNumber of coal companies excluded4) 134 130 78 ny’s funds with a measured carbon footprint 46% Number of general meetings at which votes were cast5) 60 50 36 Participation in nomination committees 16 16 13 1) Reactive company dialogues refer to dialogues with companies in which a sustainability incident has occurred. 2) The consulting firm engaged conducts dialogues with companies that appear in the firm’s ethics filter on behalf of L­ änsförsäkringar AB and other companies. Several of Länsförsäkringar AB’s external fund managers also maintain ongoing dialogues with companies on sustainability topics. 3) Pertains to blacklisting direct ownership of shares and credit bonds. 4) Refers to energy and mining companies that derive more than 20% of their income from thermal coal. 5) Refers to annual and extraordinary general meetings. 18 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Responsible offering Responsible banking Länsförsäkringar Bank is an important part of the financial system. By pursuing responsible lending, the bank can increase customer value and financial stability. Greater availability of banking services is also a key element for the sustainable development of society. For Länsförsäkringar, responsible banking risks. Accordingly, the business model for nection with the loan application process, involves contributing to the financial stabillending has ­relatively low sustainability the repayment capacity of borrowers is ity of society by limiting credit risk and makcredit risks. tested using “left to live on” calculations. ing banking services available to society. The foundation of lending is the credit These calculations apply a significantly Sustainability risks are part of credit scorpolicy and the credit instructions that higher interest rate than the actual rate. ing. The bank offering includes lending, payinclude criteria for acceptable risk and idenBoth the loan portfolio and value of the ments and savings. tify high-risk areas in sustainability that ­collateral are continuously monitored and require special consideration. Strict requirequality assured. Risks and opportunities ments are imposed on customers’ repayMortgage repayments are a key tool in Most of Länsförsäkringar Bank’s lending ment capacity and the quality of collateral. ensuring that households have stable and takes place using property as collateral. Environmental risks and environmental secure finances. Länsförsäkringar encour­Climate change will probably affect the responsibility for agriculture and companies ages all customers to make repayments by value of certain properties. Through its lendare regulated by the extensive external rules presenting a recommended repayment plan, ing, the bank finances various operations of of a variety of supervisory authorities. Envias well as an alternative plan, at all customer small businesses and agriculture which may ronment-related risks are addressed in the meetings where mortgages are discussed. involve social and environmental risks, loan application process based on, for examEven customers that do not fall under the meaning that the bank has indirect exposure ple, licensable and non-licensable operarepayment requirements are encouraged to such risks. Opportunities also exist in tions and a comprehensive assessment of to pay off their mortgage. lending to finance properties and operations the company’s operations. Assessments of Stricter repayment requirements on new that meet future sustainability requireindustry, operations, employment forms for mortgages for customers with debt ratios of ments. The bank’s issuance of bonds prepersonnel and temporary employees, and more than 450% were implemented in March sents opportunities for using green and other relevant information gathering can 2018. social bonds towards steer capital to susform the basis of further checks in analyses tainability-related purposes. of human-rights risks, labour law, corruption Funding at low credit risk or other criminal activities. Länsförsäkringar Bank’s main financing Low sustainability risks in lending Länsförsäkringar Bank publishes a sussources are deposits and funding through Länsförsäkringar Bank’s loans are granted in tainability overview every year to clarify the covered bonds. These covered bonds have Sweden and in SEK. The geographic spread bank’s loans to companies. The sustainability the highest credit rating from Moody’s and of lending to retail and corporate customers overview is an industry initiative produced S&P Global Ratings, which indicates a low is well-diversified, with low average lending by Länsförsäkringar Bank, other Swedish credit risk. per customer. Lending to companies mainly banks and the Swedish Bankers’ Association. comprises small businesses that are deemed Local branches and digital services to have limited environmental and social Responsible lending With the 23 regional insurance companies, Länsförsäkringar Bank’s loans are based on Länsförsäkringar’s customers have access standardised, centrally established credit to branches throughout Sweden. LänsLoan portfolio 31 December 2018 regulations and most credit decisions are försäkringar also offers digital banking made locally. In the business model between ­services. As well as serving customers who Länsförsäkringar Bank and the regional actively choose digital meeting places, digiinsurance companies, there is a strong tal banking services are offered to customincentive to maintain high credit quality. ers who have not previously been able to The high credit quality of the loan portfolio is come to a branch due to long distance or the result of the low risk appetite and credit disability, or who require service outside ­regulations combined with loan application normal office hours. 63% (61) of bank cusprocess and advisors’ local customer and tomers use Länsförsäkringar’s mobile app market knowledge. or Internet bank. Such digitisation also Mortgages, 77% Small businesses, 1% The credit regulations impose strict reduces the impact on the environment Agriculture, 10% Other, 9% requirements on customers’ repayment since it reduces the volume of paper printMulti-family housing, 3% capacity and the quality of collateral. In conouts to customers. The percentage of digiLänsförsäkringar AB 2018 Sustainability 19 Responsible offering tally distributed customer documents scenarios for levels of greenhouse gases in working on proposals for a sustainable amounted to 72% (73) in 2018. the atmosphere were used. Increases in finance. Länsförsäkringar welcomes this temperature and sea levels were estimated development since it seeks to harmonise Activities and targets in 2018 based on the scenarios. These estimates are standards and sustainability assessment A sustainability coordinator was appointed based on the Swedish Meteorological and criteria. at the bank in autumn 2018 to ensure that Hydrological Institute’s (SMHI) forecasts and the bank’s sustainability activities are coorwere prepared together with LänsförsäkrinGovernance documents and governance dinated and developed. gar’s natural catastrophe specialists. The The sustainability policy, credit policy and An investigation into whether Länsför­ estimates in this model has some impact on credit instructions are the foundation of säkringar Bank can offer green loans was households’ disposable income and thus sustainability in lending. initiated. Green loans mean that customers their repayment capacity. Increases in sea The bank has a sustainability team can receive an interest-rate discount if they levels also affect the market value of pro­ responsible for establishing and monitoring finance their home in various forms of enviperties. The model can be used to estimate planned sustainability-related activities. ronmentally certified properties or finance expected credit losses in different scenarios This team comprises the President of Länsactivities that promote a change to a more and time horizons. försäkringar Bank, Sustainability Manager at environmentally friendly society. This will be Länsförsäkringar Bank, Head of Sustainabilcontinued in 2019. Activities and targets in 2019 ity at Länsförsäkringar AB and the PresiThe share of green bonds that the bank Work will start on producing guidelines to dents of Länsförsäkringar Bank’s subsidiarinvested in increased to slightly more than clarify and facilitate the management of ies: Länsförsäkringar Hypotek, SEK 900 M (600) at year-end. sustainability risks in lending. The possibility Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning and Wasa of offering green loans will be reviewed. Kredit. The team meets four times a year. Climate scenario analysis Its work is reported to the bank’s manA climate scenario analysis of the mortgage Increased regulation agement group and Länsförsäkringar AB’s portfolio was performed in 2018 based on Requirements to integrate sustainability Sustainability Committee. TCFD’s1) recommendations. The UN Intergovtopics, climate scenario analyses and trans1) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) parency will increase. The EU is currently Länsförsäkringar Bank Tops Swedish Sustainability has the most satisfied ­Ranking in Banking and bank customers Finance category For the fifth consecutive year, LänsförsäkLänsförsäkringar topped Sweden’s largest ringar Bank topped the Swedish Quality sustainability customer survey, the Swedish Index’s survey of most satisfied retail Sustainability Ranking, in the Banking and ­customers in the industry. Together with Finance category, as ranked by the Swedish independent savings banks, Länsförsäk­ Partnership with ECPAT public. The survey is c­ arried out by ringar also has the most satisfied corporate Länsförsäkringar Bank is a member of researchers at customers. the Swedish Financial Coalition Stockholm Busiagainst Sexual Exploitation of Chilness School. dren, which works together with ECPAT and the police. The aims of the Financial Coalition are to prevent the Swedish payment system from being utilised for the purchase of documented child sexual abuse and ultimately stopping child sexual abuse. 20 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Responsible offering Responsible insurance offering Responsible insurance centres on security for customers and society. Länsförsäkringar AB can contribute to a sustainable society through its broad insurance offering, claims-prevention activities and responsible damage repairs. Länsförsäkringar AB supplements the activities and exchange expertise to reduce dent itself and also for restoration and regional insurance companies’ offering with the risks of natural catastrophes in society. repairs. Natural catastrophes, water and fire specialist products to meet customer needs The regional insurance companies hold a damage claims, and motor insurance claims and by starting new business that can be large market share of forest insurance in have the greatest impact on the environchannelled out to these companies. By doing Sweden. Länsförsäkringar has access to a ment. Together with the regional insurance so, the regional insurance companies can comprehensive claims statistics database to companies, Länsförsäkringar AB produces offer customers a broad range of insurance continuously monitor and assess this risk. claims-prevention guidelines and guidelines for people, animals and property and ensure The reinsurance business – both the busion how to make sustainable repairs. Reuse effective reinsurance coverage. This work is ness of the regional insurance companies and recycling are key elements of this work. conducted by Länsförsäkringar Sak, which is and international business – expose the These claims-prevention activities also divided into three business areas: Reinsurcompany to extreme weather conditions and result in lower claims costs, lower insurance ance and Special Insurance, Health and climate change. premiums and higher security for customers. Agria Djurförsäkring (pet and crop insurLänsförsäkringar participates in a UN By providing information about common ance). The target groups are private individ­initiative with other insurance companies to types of claims and claims-prevention uals, animal owners, companies and agriculprepare tools for climate risk analysis. measures, Länsförsäkringar can help custural businesses. All insurance companies need to protect tomers to minimise risks themselves and The task of Business Area Reinsurance their operations from costs for large individtheir liability risk. Länsförsäkringar has and Special Insurance is to strike a balance ual claims and natural catastrophes. An in-depth know-how on industry-specific in the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s risks by insurance company often turns to specialist claims and how they can be prevented. managing reinsurance cover and taking out reinsurance companies in the international The product lines in Reinsurance and international reinsurance. This business area market to insure some of its risk. The com­Special Insurance have a plan for claims­also conducts corporate business in the panies in the Länsförsäkringar Alliance can prevention measures. A customised areas of liability, cargo, motor, property and naturally share risk among themselves. The claims-prevention programme aims to credit insurance. regional insurance companies pay an annual improve profitability for customers and help reinsurance premium to Länsförsäkringar prevent various claims risks in motor insurRisks and opportunities Sak based on, for example, exposure, claims ance. The programme provides claims staGlobal warming and the resulting extreme history and the level of retention chosen by tistics, analysis, driver presentations and weather events, such as storms, torrential the company. This retention can be comclaims-prevention material. Inspectors are rain, flooding and drought, have huge socio­pared with the deductible that private indicontinuously trained. economic consequences and can lead to viduals and companies pay for non-life Liability insurance claims lawyers write higher claims costs for insurance companies. insurance. Most of the reinsurance premium articles in industry publications on technical Urbanisation, digitisation, migration, an is retained within the Länsförsäkringar Alliconsultants’ liability for innovations and ageing population, a higher rate of mental ance through joint procurement and internal risk-exposed solutions. In terms of sustainillness and lifestyle diseases are challenging reinsurance, and the costs for external reinability, technical innovations always entail a the welfare system and creating new cussurers are thus lower and more stable, benecertain risk component since proven experitomer requirements that are fuelling fiting Länsförsäkringar’s customers. ence cannot be relied upon, and it is thus demand for new insurance products and important to minimise risk as far as possible services for private individuals, companies Claims prevention and clearly explain the risks to the client. and employers. Claims-prevention activities are central to Seller liability and real-estate broker Society, companies and individuals stand Länsförsäkringar. Länsförsäkringar can conclaims can be prevented by training real-­ to gain great economic and social benefits tribute to a sustainable society through its estate brokers. by taking preventive measures to protect claims-prevention activities, responsible their health and taking early action in the damage repairs and early health-promoting Health-promotion efforts for people event of injury or risk of long-term sick measures. Preventing a claim is a win for the Länsförsäkringar is one of the Sweden’s leave. environment, society and customers. leading players in health and health care Claims-prevention activities help reduce insurance and has the vision of creating a Climate risks and natural catastrophes impact on the environment through less healthier Sweden by contributing to a susLänsförsäkringar AB and the regional insurwaste, energy, new materials, transportation tainable lifestyle, sustainable working life ance companies conduct claims-prevention and other resources – for both the claim inciand a sustainable society. Mental illness is Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Sustainability 21 Responsible offering the most common cause of sick leave. PreAgria has access to unique, extensive claims digitisation leads to new risks. Business area ventive and early measures at the workplace statistics and through its Agria Breed Profile Reinsurance and Special Insurance created are keys to breaking this trend. Länsförsäkmakes this data on dog and cat breeds availa data ­protection policy in 2018 adapted to ringar actively participates in the public able to researchers, breeders and breed the needs of small and medium-sized debate on good health and a sustainable clubs that use the data to improve animal ­businesses. working life and provides supplementary health and in sustainable breeding. security solutions to promote health and Agria engages with vets on ethical posiHealth-promotion efforts for people reduce sick leave. tions in the treatment of sick and injured Communication initiatives were impleLänsförsäkringar is involved in several animals. Agria develops insurance products mented to spread awareness of mental pilot projects on prevention and personalthat create security for animals and animal illness in society and at work among young ised health care to increase know-how and owners in close collaboration with anipeople, for example, with the non-profit awareness of health drivers. mal-owner organisations. Special camorganisation Mind. Customers are offered preventive paigns targeted at young people increase Länsförsäkringar provided financing for health-promotion services and personal awareness of a­ nimals and the value of having a study into the effect of lifestyle changes counselling in their health care insurance. a pet. on health. Research projects were initiated Länsförsäkringar’s health care insurance into mental illness among young people and also includes treatment for addiction. Activities and targets in 2018 at work. Donations were made to the proClaims-prevention efforts and sustainable gram that helps children aged 7–12 and their Health-promotion efforts for animals repairs parents who have addiction problems. ChilAgria is the market leader in pet insurance in The new focus area “Security and crime dren who grow up in families with addiction Sweden, Norway and Denmark and con­prevention” was introduced during the year problems run a greater risk of developing ducts claims-prevention and health-promofor Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s entire mental illness as adults. tion activities for animals. Agria offers claims-prevention activities. Measures to prevent illness under the advice and information to animal owners via The name of Länsförsäkringar’s certificaframework of the health care insurance digital channels. Agria also offers free sertion of car workshops was changed from were implemented in the form of digital vices for digital vet consultations where Lupin to Länsförsäkringar’s quality and enviactivities that raise awareness of physical customers use a videolink to talk with a vet ronmental certification and requirements activity, a life balance and screen time. The when their animal is ill or has been injured. were tightened. use of the Health Portal and preventive serThe majority of horse injuries are due to vices in the health care insurance more than lameness. The research supported by Agria Data protection insurance doubled to 40,000 users (19,000) in 2018. increases expertise in preventing lameness Länsförsäkringar Sak develops products to The summer drought impacted many and the information is now being spread meet new insurance requirements resulting agricultural customers who were concerned through the #stoppahältan project. from an increasingly digitised world. Greater about their harvests, animals and finances. Länsförsäkringar industry leader at sustainability Länsförsäkringar was named Sweden’s most sustainable insurance company by Sustainable Brand Index, the largest consumer sustainability survey of both corporate and private customers in the Nordics. Agria’s research fund Agria has financed animal research for 80 years. The aim is for research to ­provide a solid basis for successful breeding, better animal health and animal keeping, and enhance knowledge about the importance of pets to humans. Slightly more than SEK 9.5 M was awarded in 2018. 22 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Responsible offering Länsförsäkringar offered these customers age, motor insurance and natural catastroGovernance documents and governance free counselling and advice on psychological phes as well as claims-prevention measures The sustainability policy and UN Principles and legal matters. for companies will continue. The focus on for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) provide Through trade organisations and on its health-promotion services for people and guidance on how to pursue and develop own initiative, Länsförsäkringar engaged animals will also continue. responsible insurance. closely with politicians and decision-makers Work on reviewing the sustainability Sustainability is monitored by the susin 2018 on the bill to introduce fringe-benefit aspects of the insurance terms and conditainability team led by the sustainability tax on health insurance. This tax was introtions in business areas Reinsurance and manager for the business unit, who is also duced in July 2018 and impacts many small Special Insurance, Health and Agria will a member of the management group. The businesses and their employees, which is start. three Business Areas R ­ einsurance and Speunfortunate. Preventive health-activities are Digital services remain a focus area. Digicial Insurance, Health and Agria have Susa benefit to society. tal preventive services help make life healthtainability managers, who are members of ier. Digital health care services make it easier the management groups of each business Health-promotion efforts for animals for customers who do not have to travel to area. Scorecards are used to monitor Agria achieved its target of half of the users see a doctor or vet. The target for 2019 is to ­sustainability activities and targets. Results of digital vet services not needing to physiretain the high number of visitors, 40,000, are reported to the Boards of the business cally visit a vet. 12,000 of 24,000 digital conto the Health Portal’s preventive services units and Länsförsäkringar’s Sustainability sultations were referred to physical visits. under health insurance. For Agria, the target Committee. The aim of Agria’s research is better is 30,000 digital consultations and half of ­animal health. Agria has a podcast to publish digital-service users not needing to visit the results of its research. Four episodes of a vet. the podcast were broadcast in 2018 with Contributions of input and expertise on 28,443 l­ isteners. climate risk scenarios under the UN projects that Länsförsäkringar is involved in will conActivities and targets in 2019 tinue in 2019. Länsförsäkringar used the Meps construction calculation programme in 2018 to calIncreased regulation culate the carbon footprint of property Work is in progress at the EU level to prorepairs and how it is affected by using new duce legislation on sustainability in the versus reused materials. Further studies and insurance industry. Proposals include knowledge acquisition will take place in 2019. demands for sustainability in advisory Claims prevention in the focus areas of ­services and information on the managesecurity and break-ins, fire and water damment of climate risks. UN Principles for Sustainable I­ nsurance (PSI) Länsförsäkringar Sak is a signatory of PSI’s four principles UN pilot project and strives to: on climate risks •• Integrate sustainability topics into decision-making. •• Work together with customers and business partners to In 2018, Länsförsäkringar was the only Swedish raise awareness of sustainability, manage risks and develop ­company to join an international UN project on climate solutions. risks in the insurance industry. The project will develop •• Work together with other stakeholders to promote action methods and models for using forward-looking climate on sustainability. scenarios to understand how climate change affects •• Be transparent and report on the integration of the the industry. The projects supports the recommendap ­ rinciples. tions of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial ­Disclosures (TCFD). Greater expertise is needed to prevent climate-related claims. Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Sustainability 23 Responsible business conduct Business ethics The banking and insurance industry is subject to strict rules and regulatory requirements aimed at ensuring ­financial stability and providing protection for customers. Full regulatory compliance is naturally inherent in all Länsförsäkringar’s operations. For Länsförsäkringar, a high level of business both mandatory training on the subject and A risk and vulnerability analysis was ­carried ethics and regulatory compliance are essenreceive additional training. out in 2018 and showed that Länsförsäkrintial for safeguarding customers in the best gar AB and its subsidiaries are at low risk of possible way. Anti-corruption being exposed to bribery. Länsförsäkringar AB takes a stand against all The annual mandatory e-course on the Risks and opportunities forms of corruption and improper benefits, Code of Conduct, sustainability and security Money laundering and terror financing are which is stated in the Code of Conduct and was updated during the year. 84% (82) of international problems that pose serious the policy on improper benefits. The Swedish employees completed the course in 2018. threats to the financial system and its instiAnti-corruption Institute’s (IMM) recomtutions, and ultimately the real economy and mendations on gifts, rewards and other benGovernance documents and governance national safety. Confidence in the financial efits in business are part of the policy on The guiding Group-wide governance docusystem is quickly tarnished if financial instiimproper benefits. The overall aim of Länsments are the Code of Conduct for Employtutions are associated with illegal assets and försäkringar AB’s anti-corruption work is to ees, policies and guidelines on anti-money money laundering or used to finance terrorguide employees in avoiding giving and laundering and terror financing, guidelines ists or terrorist organisations. The financial receiving gifts and representation that could for identifying and handling conflicts of industry is subject to regulations that seek arouse suspicions that the purpose is for interest, and policies on improper benefits. to prevent and counteract the financial sysprivate gain or promoting the interests of The Code of Conduct for Employees is a tem being utilised for money laundering and a third party. set of rules and guidelines on business ethterror financing. The Compliance function regularly perics that provides guidance for employees, The risk of corruption exists in all compaforms a risk and vulnerability analysis at managers and Board members in the nies regardless of industry and country. Länsförsäkringar AB and its subsidiaries to expected standards of conduct and behavevaluate the risk of bribery or other forms of iour in their day-to-day work according to Anti-money laundering and terror improper influence. The areas addressed are Länsförsäkringar AB’s vision, values, targets, financing the operations of each company, size and strategies and external requirements. The Systematic work is conducted to reduce the organisation of each company, market, cuspolicy on improper benefits provides more risk of the life-assurance and banking opertomers, distribution channels, partners, detailed guidance on external requirements. ations being used for money laundering, tersponsoring and purchasing. The annual e-course in the Code of Conror financing and fraud, such as building up duct for all employees contains teaching in-depth knowledge of customers and their Whistle-blowing function examples of business ethics to raise awarebusinesses and active transaction monitorTo counteract and prevent crime in the business and highlight the circumstances and ing. Suspicions of money laundering are ness or related to the business, employees the risks of corruption, and how employees reported to the Financial Intelligence Unit of can contact their immediate manager or are expected to act. the Swedish National Criminal Police. their manager’s manager if they suspect any Governance and monitoring are The banking and life-assurance operaimproprieties or wish to make a whisdescribed in more detail in the Corporate tions have a central function that monitors tle-blowing report. The informant has the Governance section of Länsförsäkringar and checks compliance with procedures and right to anonymity and will not suffer any AB’s Annual Report. guidelines. A new risk assessment is carried repercussions due to the report. The whisout when new products, services and distritle-blowing procedure is an alternative to bution channels are introduced and re-orother reporting channels. The Code of Conganisations are implemented. The Länsduct and intranet contain information about försäkringar Alliance has a shared system the whistle-blowing procedure. One case of for reporting deviations. whistle-blowing was reported in 2018. All employees and contractors working in the banking and life-assurance operations Activities and targets in 2018 must be familiar with the content of the govHandling of personal data (GDPR) was a parernance documents and the relevant proceticular focus area due to new regulations dures for anti-money laundering and terror coming into effect. Anti-money laundering financing. Employees in the banking and and terror financing was another focus area. life-assurance operations annually undergo Training was provided in both areas. 24 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Responsible business conduct Responsible employer Employees are Länsförsäkringar AB’s most important resource. Their various specialist and professional expertise is vital to carrying out and developing the operations. Being a responsible employer is important coaches women managers as part of strucHealth and work environment for Länsförsäkringar AB to attract new tured equality measures. Länsförsäkringar AB has applied a long-term employees and retain existing employees. There is a partnership with Novare Potenapproach to health and the organisational, Diversity and equality, skills development, tial, a recruitment and HR company that social and physical work environment for learning, health and work environment and helps new arrivals enter the Swedish labour many years. Proactive work is undertaken to an activity-based working are deemed the market. Other partnership programmes create the conditions to ensure well-being key components of a responsible and include Rapid Acceleration Management, and job satisfaction among employees in a attractive employer. Korta vägen and Welcome Talent. healthy work environment that allows everyLänsförsäkringar AB is involved in Diverone to contribute their commitment, good Risks and opportunities sity Charter that seeks to promote diversity performance and efficiency in order to Technological advances demand that comin the business world. attain business targets. panies work actively on identifying the key The equality and diversity plan includes Managers are responsible for addressing skills that will be needed and skills developtargets, action plans and follow-up methods employee and health issues according to the ment plans must be in place. Not being able for the application of the Equal Opportunity systematic work-environment process, as to recruit the right skills is a business risk. Act and Discrimination Act. well as equality, diversity and discrimination. Mental illness and stress-related Employers, managers, employees and health illnesses are on the rise in society. Digital Skills development and learning and safety representatives work together on technology and flexible working hours Länsförsäkringar AB endeavours to nurture work-environment issues. The organisaincrease the risk of never-ending work, the conditions for a culture focusing on a tional and social work environment is reguwhich presents major risks and costs for learning organisation and development. The larly monitored to prevent stress and individuals, employers and society. Taking annual process of analysing skills and staffunhealthy work loads in accordance with the preventive action and striking a work/life ing requirements aims to ensure future key Swedish Work Environment Authority’s probalance is important to reduce such risks. competencies. Adaptability, self organisavisions (AFS 2015:4). tion and professionalism are regarded as key All employees are offered health care Diversity and equality components. An e-coaching tool in the areas insurance that includes medical consultaLänsförsäkringar AB’s definition of diversity of self-management, motivation, unpredicttions, counselling, preventive health serand inclusion are the seven grounds for disability, health, efficiency and skills developvices and rehabilitation. Sickness absence is crimination and everything that makes peoment is used to enhance employees’ knowlmonitored. An agreement is in place with ple different and unique. The importance of edge of change management. occupational health care services for rehaan inclusive culture is considered to be critiA focus on self-management is an imporbilitation support and work-related ill health, cal for benefiting from diversity and weltant part of a learning organisation. Länsas well as ergonomic advice and regular coming different perspectives and försäkringar as an employer encourages its medical check-ups. One hour of health care approaches. Different ways of thinking is a employees to take the initiative to further activities during work hours is offered every key factor for success for learning and innotheir own skills development, for example, week. Länsförsäkringar AB’s premises, vation, adds value to the business and through coaching leadership. where the majority of employees work, have strengthens competitiveness and profitabilRapid technological advances in society a gym and the staff canteen has a focus on ity. Diversity initiatives also play an imporrequire a dynamic, flexible and innovative sustainability. Employees working at other tant role in being an attractive and responsiworkplace to meet competition. One of locations are offered fitness subsidies. ble employer and broadening the Länsförsäkringar AB’s focus area is to define recruitment pool. and design a suitable culture and implement Activities and targets in 2018 A salary survey is performed every year this culture based on the perspectives of IT, Diversity and equality to ensure that no gender discrimination workplace and people. Several internal information meetings were exists for equal positions. Employees have Managers continuously discuss perforarranged in 2018 to highlight the importance the option of receiving supplementary salmance, skills, work environment and health of diversity. Managerial courses, films and ary as a complement to the state parents’ with their employees. checklists on diversity were also produced. allowance. Länsförsäkringar AB’s internal training A three-person recruitment team was The aim of the recruitment process is to operations develop in-house courses in life employed in 2018. One of the team’s task is ensure a more even gender distribution in assurance, banking, non-life insurance and to ensure that diversity is an integral part of working groups and various managerial leadership. the recruitment processes. positions. The Qnet network develops and Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Sustainability 25 Responsible business conduct For the seventh consecutive year, students absence, occupational injuries and near-­ regarding the Employment Protection Act, were recruited to the Summer Graduates accidents, and the employee survey. Ten Discrimination Act, Work Environment Act internal programme based on diversity. near-accidents and five minor occupational and collective and co-determination agreeThe Equality and Diversity plan was injuries in the form of accidents to or from ments. Länsförsäkringar AB follows the revised at the end of 2018. the workplace were reported during the rules of collective agreements when In the 2018 employee survey, 94% of year. employees leave the company or resign. All employees said that they had not experiemployees, except for Group management, enced any cases of victimisation in the Activities and targets in 2019 have collective agreements. workplace over the past 12 months. LänsAll business units and departments have The Human Resources (HR) department försäkringar AB has a clear zero tolerance diversity-related activities in the 2019 busiowns the Group-wide governance docupolicy on victimisation. ness plan. A manager training course in ments of remuneration policy, personnel Less than 1% of employees were identirecruitment and diversity will be arranged. policy, pensions, guidelines for company fied as having incorrect salaries in the 2018 Efforts to increase the share of working cars and guidelines on suitability assesssalary survey. The deviations were adjusted groups with a 40/60 ratio between men and ments of certain decision-makers. Docuin consultation with trade union partners. women will continue. mented procedures and routines are also The share of working groups with a 40/60 An activity-based working centring on in place for the diversity and equality plan. ratio between men and women was 29%. people, IT and flexibility will start to be The HR Director is responsible for structure, implemented. Activity-based workplaces compliance and monitoring, while managers Skills development and learning are the first step in this change. are responsible for implementation. In 2018, 5,266 (4,399) in-house training The results of the employee survey are courses were organised for LänsförsäkrinGovernance documents and governance followed up through feedback and activities gar AB employees. Employees also received Länsförsäkringar AB’s core values, leader at Group and department levels. Risk and training in the form of skills transfers, exterand employee profiles, personnel policy, impact analyses are carried out ahead of nal courses and seminars. Code of Conduct for Employees and the organisation changes at the company and equality and diversity plan form the basis discussions are held with trade unions. Health and work environment of HR. Cooperation with trade unions takes The Work Environment and Equality Complace through regular meetings and diamittee performs overall monitoring of the logue. Länsförsäkringar AB follows laws and equality and diversity plan, sickness agreements that govern the operations Tangible results from long-term An attractive employer equality initiatives Länsförsäkringar AB’s internal attractiveness as an employer is measured using an Employee Net Promotor Score (eNPS), a proven customer Länsförsäkringar AB participates in the Nyckeltals­ experience metric. Länsförsäkringar AB’s eNPS for 2018 was 26, cominstitutet’s (Institute of Human Resource Indicapared with 21 in 2016 and 26 in 2017. Länsförsäkringar AB has decided to tors) annual Gender Equality Index JÄMIX to monibenchmark its result against the 10% of highest performing companies tor its equality efforts. Länsförsäkringar AB came participating in this benchmark. The highest performing companies 84th out of 240 companies. Nine different indicascored 32 and 26 is considered to be a good result. tors were measured, with Länsförsäkringar AB achieving a score of 124 points out of a maximum 180. Scores for financial companies ranged between 107 and 152. Systematic efforts in health and work environment Points Länsförsäkringar AB was awarded Nyckeltalinstitutet’s prize for best 135 health index in 2018 with 139 points out of 146. The index comprises nine 130 key indicators on health. Länsförsäkringar has low sickness absence. 125 The systematic work on leader120 ship and employeeship, monthly 115 talks between managers and 110 employees on health, health 105 100 care activities, rehabilitation 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 support and health care insurLänsförsäkringar AB Finance companies All ance were considered to be factors for success. 26 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Responsible business conduct Sustainability requirements on suppliers Länsförsäkringar AB primarily makes purchases from service providers in the categories of IT and tele­ communications, consultancy services, health and medical care, financial services, banking and investments, as well as marketing and communication. The task of the purchasing function is to make use of Länsförsäkringar’s entire purchasing power based on a total cost perspective. Services and products are purchased through procurements to find the suppliers that offer services and products of the right quality and the least environmental impact at a cost that is the most financially advantageous in the long term. Risks and opportunities Länsförsäkringar AB’s purchases mostly comprise services. Based on responsible procurement, Länsförsäkringar can positively influence the development of society in terms of work conditions, healthy competition and a better environment. By not conCode of Conduct part of purchasing Work conditions, business ethics and envisidering sustainability in procurement, Länsagreements ronmental impact were discussed with the försäkringar’s purchases could indirectly The Code of Conduct for Suppliers has been largest IT suppliers in 2018. contribute to improprieties in the supply included in purchasing agreements with all chain. The largest sustainability risk is new suppliers since 2016. The Code sets Activities and targets in 2019 deemed to be in the area of work conditions. requirements on human rights, labour, enviWork methods will be further developed in ronment and business ethics and is based on 2019 and beyond, as part of the continued Purchases mainly from service suppliers the Ten Principles of the UN Global Comwork on implementing the Code of Conduct Purchases are mainly made from suppliers pact. The policy also includes general and for Suppliers. It includes assessing whether in Sweden. IT purchases are made from supIT-specific security guidelines and guidesample checks and audits with suppliers are pliers operating in Sweden, but also other lines for managing conflicts of interest. required. Environmental and social risks countries, such as India. 100 suppliers The Code applies to both potential and related to country, line of business and comaccount for 80% of the total purchasing existing suppliers and their sub-suppliers. pany are assessed in procurement pro­volumes, which allows for efficient delivery, Suppliers are expected to comply with cesses and meetings with major suppliers. sustainability and business follow-ups the Code. of suppliers. On 31 December 2018, 73% (60) of the Governance documents and governance 100 largest suppliers had signed the Code The purchasing and procurement policy Purchases in 2018, % of Conduct. stipulates the rules and methods for purchasing and procurement. The Code of ConActivities and targets in 2018 duct for Suppliers is based on the principles Sustainability risks in the largest purchasing of the UN Global Compact and forms part of categories were analysed in 2018 and a the purchasing agreement. self-assessment form accompanied by a risk Each agreement manager in the operaassessment model was produced based on tions has the main responsibility for monithe results. This form serves as a fundamentoring existing suppliers. tal risk assessment of large suppliers. The A dedicated control group is responsible model was tested in the autumn of 2018. for monitoring, evaluating and managing the Three on-site inspections of suppliers largest IT suppliers. IT and telecommunications, 41% took place in 2018. More industries will be Consultancy services, 19% Finance, banking and i­nvestments, 10% included in such visits in 2019 and the visits T he Code of Conduct for Suppliers Health and medical care, 11% will be based on the results of extended use is available in English and Swedish Marketing and c­ ommunication, 7% of the self-assessment form. at lansforsakringar.se/ Claims-related services, 2% code-of-conduct-suppliers. Other, 10% Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Sustainability 27 Responsible business conduct Direct environmental impact The direct environmental impact of the operations is relatively limited and primarily comprises business travel, ­heating and electricity in office premises, and paper print-outs. The operations continuously enhance efficiency to reduce impact on the environment. Länsförsäkringar AB’s office properties are Activities and targets in 2018 impact. Examples include a higher percentenvironmentally classified as energy-­ The process of changing certification from age of digital communication, reduced travel efficient and renewable electricity and disthe Sweden Green Building Council’s standand setting environmental requirements for trict heating are used in these properties. ard to BREEAM for Länsförsäkringar AB’s purchases. Work methods are continuously reviewed to office property was initiated during the year. bring about more energy-efficient electricity LED lighting and energy controls were Governance documents and governance consumption and heating. Continuous efforts installed to reduce electricity consumption. The sustainability policy outlines the founare made to enhance efficiency in order to Activities were carried out to reduce cardation of Länsförsäkringar AB’s climate and reduce the negative environmental impact bon emissions and included rail travel rather environmental work. The Code of Conduct of the office operations in several areas as than car or air travel where possible and for Suppliers is based on the principles of regards materials, recycling and waste. holding online meetings, video and telethe UN Global Compact. Suppliers and their The guidelines for business travel recomphone conferences instead of travelling. sub-suppliers are expected to comply with mend that digital meetings be used in the Double climate compensation for Länsthese principles and the Code is part of purfirst instance. If travel is necessary, employförsäkringar AB’s 2017 emissions was paid in chasing agreements. Länsförsäkringar AB ees are to travel by rail rather than air if pos2018 via Vi Agroforestry. supports the precautionary principle, meansible. Business travel involving journeys of Carbon emissions in 2018 amounted to ing that the operations endeavour to avoid less than 3.25 hours must always be made by 989,675 kg of carbon dioxide. A specification materials and methods with an unknown rail and eco-friendly taxis are to be used. is provided on page 133. Air travel was the impact on the environment if tested alternaThe volume of paper-based communicalargest source of carbon emissions in 2018. tives are available. There are guidelines on tion to customers can be reduced by business travel. Follow-ups take place every increasing digital services, thus reducing Activities and targets in 2019 year and are reported to the Sustainability environmental impact while making inforAll departments perform activities to Committee. mation more accessible. reduce the company’s direct environmental KRAV-labelled food Reusing computers Länsförsäkringar AB’s staff canteen Länsrätten The Länsförsäkringar Alliance partserves KRAV-labelled food. 17 volume products, such ners with a company that recycles as milk, bananas and coffee, have the KRAV label. Fish the com­puters used in Länsförsäkis always environmentally certified or green listed, ringar. 100% of computers were and Swedish produce is prioritised ahead of goods reused in 2018 through resale. that need to be transported from further away. Red meat is not served on one day of the week. The restaurant has a defined strategy of reducing food waste and serving vegetarian alternatives. Food waste is put through a grinder and is used for biogas. Climate positive action planting trees Länsförsäkringar AB climate compensates via Vi Agroforestry to a project in Tanzania that combines planting trees and sustainable agriculture. The ­projects helps bind carbon dioxide and creates jobs by planting crops. 28 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Environmental and social responsibility Long-term environmental and social commitment Länsförsäkringar AB and the regional insurance companies have supported independent scientific research into security challenges for society for many years. By making this research available to all, Länsför­säkringar can help benefit society. Research as part of social commitment grants. These subsidies are awarded to proflooding. The research studied the occurLänsförsäkringar is driven by the concept of jects at a qualified scientific level that are rence and consequences of torrential rain creating security for customers and society relevant to the subject of security and Länsin Swedish counties between 2010 and 2017, at large. Länsförsäkringar has been financförsäkringar’s operations. Länsförsäkringar meaning that an overall picture of how the ing research into social, financial and physiuses research results in its own business various parts of Sweden have been affected cal security at Swedish colleges and univerdevelopment and in discussions with cusby the climate, such as higher frequency of sities since the 1970s. By making the tomers and various stakeholders in society. torrential rain, is now available for the first research results available in the public The Research Fund awarded SEK 40 M time. The results are relevant to munici­ domain, Länsförsäkringar contributes to in 2018. palities, county administrative boards and knowledge-based development of security companies. in society. Research projects completed in 2018 The following research projects presented Mutual companies Risks and opportunities their final reports during the year. The research project has now analysed how Urbanisation, digitisation, a sharing economy the government’s view of the mutual corpoand climate change give rise to risks and Consequences of property owners’ risk rate form has changed over time and how opportunities. Greater concentrations in behaviour for the insurance industry mutual insurance companies performed in society give rise to risks. Another important The topic of this research was property ownrelation to insurance companies in the limresearch area is climate change adaptation ers’ views of climate change risks based on ited liability form. The results were commuwhere new expertise is needed to both their age, gender, form of housing and geonicated to civil society organisations for understand the changes and manage them. graphic location, and their own and others’ customer and member-owned companies, Research into home security and road safety responsibility for managing such climate higher education institutions and the Swedare other priorities. A key future issue is road risks. The results are relevant to municipaliish Financial Supervisory Authority. safety to reduce the risk of accidents involvties, county administrative boards and the ing the higher number of cyclists in c­ ities. insurance industry. New focus area of digitisation Research projects into digitisation were Research focus areas Unprotected road-users commenced in 2018, focusing on the interThe focus of research is security for cusCities across Sweden are being restructured play between technology, society and the tomers and society. Länsförsäkringar AB from car cities to biking cities to reduce carinsurance industry in the digital conversion. and the regional insurance companies award bon emissions, promote health and reduce Insurance companies are dependent on their annual grants to Länsförsäkringar’s road congestion. The results of the final ability to make predictions. They must be Research Fund to identify and study current report will be used in, for example, the “Joint able to assess various dimensions of future and future security challenges for society. Strategy on Safe Use of Bikes and Mopeds risk based on previous events collated in staThe objective of the research is to generon the Road” – a joint initiative that includes tistical data and then used to make predicate new expertise to prevent and underthe National Society for Road Safety, Police, tions in various risk environments. stand claims. Research also contributes to Swedish Transport Administration, Swedish furthering understanding of how the develTransport Agency, Swedish National Road Governance documents and governance opment of society will affect the future. Five and Transport Research Institute, Swedish Research applications are studied by a comfocus areas are prioritised: Tomorrow’s sociAssociation of Local Authorities, Länsmittee comprising members with experience ety, road safety, climate change, mutual försäkringar and others. from the business sector and academia. The business models and secure homes. board of the research fund awards financing. Research focuses on the Research Fund’s Climate risks in construction and homes This board and the external auditors are calls for proposals, and scientists at SwedMany of Sweden’s municipalities, mainly in responsible for compliance with policy docish universities, colleges and independent southern and central Sweden, are subject uments and guidelines. Swedish research institutions can apply for to climate changes, such as a higher risk of Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Sustainability 29 Environmental and social responsibility Research field Ongoing research projects and tests Start-up: Tomorrow’s society: Digitisation, •• Regional growth against all odds: Driving forces for long-term growth in Nordic regions. 2017 ­urbanisation, sharing economy Lund University. •• Regional economic development and transformation in Sweden: Then, now and tomorrow. 2018 Lund University. •• The geography of trust: Trust in local society in a changing Sweden. Ersta Sköndal Bräcke 2017 University College. •• Continuous internal audit using artificial intelligence in insurance companies. University 2018 of Gävle. •• Blockchains for dynamic pricing of innovative insurance products. University of Gothenburg. 2018 •• Transparent algorithms in the insurance industry. RISE SICS. 2018 •• The insurance company in digital ecosystems. University of Gothenburg. 2018 Road safety •• Testing 10 winter tires for bicycles. Swedish National Road and Transport Research Institute 2018 (VTI) Linköping. Climate adaptation •• Testing the function of 20 sealing layers. RISE in Borås. 2018 •• Lower climate risk in the buildings and homes of the future lessons from past events 2015 and urban planning. Karlstad University. Secure homes •• Nudging my future self: Behavioural economics studies of the financial decisions of young 2016 people. Linköping University. •• Innovative electric systems in buildings – consequences for fire safety. RISE. 2018 Natural catastrophes Testing products and partnership to reduce water damage Global warming is a financial risk that is difficult to predict over time. The most common form of damage in the home is water A warmer ­climate, resulting in a greater risk of natural catastrophes in damage. Reducing water damage is a gain for the custhe form of extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes, torrential tomer and the environment. Tests by Länsförsäkringar’s rain and drought, will entail a risk of higher payments for weather-reResearch Fund showed that the 8 of 20 sealing layers in lated insurance claims, with considerable variations over years and wet rooms were approved in 2016 compared with 3 of 20 parts of the country. In many respects, adjustment problems associin 2014. A new test was performed together with RISE and ated with managing financial risk and reducing the consequences of Sweden’s Construction Ceramic Council in 2018. The climate change present a new situation. results will be presented in 2019. With this partnership, Länsförsäkringar takes preventive measures and exchanges knowthe results of the tests can be communicated more widely how to reduce the risk of being affected by natural catastrophes. All of throughout the construction industry in the choice of the 23 regional insurance companies have a plan for preventing natural materials, assembly and product development. catastrophes together with natural-catastrophe coordinators. Activities to prevent natural catastrophes include analysing the external environment and following scientific and technological developments. Länsförsäkringar provides information and trains employees, customers, authorities and decision-makers in society to steer developments towards a more robust society. Claims-prevention measures are a vital component in these efforts, which take the form of advice to raise preparedness for the extreme weather that occurs in Sweden. Advice is provided on how to best prepare property, forests, oneself and family to minimise the risk of damage. 30 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Governance Integrating sustainability into Länsförsäkringar AB’s operations is a priority. Länsförsäkringar AB’s sustainability work is based on the vision of “Together we create security and opportunities” and the long-term objective is that ­sustainability is to feature throughout the operations. Governance of sustainability activities This corporate governance system includes Sustainability Committee Länsförsäkringar AB’s Board assumes the the organisation, internal rules and systems (Group management and Head of Sustainability) overall responsibility for governing sustainafor internal control. Internal control is based bility activities and decides on the governon three lines of defence: Länsförsäkringar AB’s Head of Sustainability ance documents that form the basis of such •• The first line of defence is the operations, work. which are responsible for risk manageFocus areas The Head of Sustainability of Länsförsäkment and monitoring. A deviation reportringar AB is responsible for the function, ing system is in place. Responsible insurance governance and standard-setting of sus•• To support internal control, the second Responsible banking offering tainability topics in the company. line of defence exists whereby CompliA Sustainability Committee, comprising ance is responsible for independent moniResponsible Sustainability requirei­ nvestments ments on suppliers Group management and the Head of Sustoring and control to ensure that the opertainability, meets at least four times a year to ations are conducted in full regulatory discuss, decide on and follow up priority compliance. Risk Management is responsiUnit representatives/Sustainability Managers sustainability topics. ble for independent risk control and ensuring that the operations are conMonitoring and internal control ducted with a high level of risk control. Länsförsäkringar AB’s corporate governance •• The third line of defence comprises InterA more detailed description of system aims to ensure healthy and responsinal Audit, which is the Board’s support for ­corporate governance is provided in ble control, risk management and a high level quality assurance and evaluation of the the Corporate Governance Report of internal control in the operations. organisation’s risk management, governof Länsförsäkringar AB’s Annual ance and internal control. Report. Annual sustainability agenda Sustainability Committee •• Responsible investments •• Responsible banking Sustainability Committee •• Long-term environmental and social •• Responsible insurance offering commitment (­including direct environ•• Responsible employer mental impact) •• Reporting results of sustainability Q4 Q1 Other activities – Annual Report The Board of Directors resolves on the sustainability policy Standing agenda •• Regulatory compliance •• Other sustainability topics Q3 Q2 Sustainability Committee Sustainability Committee •• Responsible investments •• Responsible insurance offering •• Responsible banking •• Sustainability requirements on suppliers •• Social commitment Other Other The Board of Directors decides on the Business planning sustainability policy Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Sustainability 31 Enhanced monitoring of sustainability activities and goals regarding diversity and icy was updated in 2018 to clarify the link to activities lower environmental impact in their 2019 the UN initiatives signed by Länsförsäkringar The target for 2018 was to set clear goals for business plans. Goals and activities are also AB, the link to internal guidelines and govsustainability activities and to enhance established for a sustainable customer ernance documents and the responsibility monitoring. Four sustainability teams were offering. for sustainability in the operations. formed to coordinate this work: New employees are informed about the •• Responsible bank offering UN initiatives provide sustainability content of the sustainability policy and other •• Responsible insurance offering framework relevant guidelines in the induction pro•• Responsible investments Länsförsäkringar AB is a signatory of the UN gramme. All employees are also to complete •• Purchasing (sustainability requirements Global Compact’s Ten Principles on human a mandatory e-course that includes the on suppliers) rights, labour, business ethics and environCode of Conduct, security and sustainability ment and seeks to ensure that the operaevery year. In addition to the Head of Sustainability of tions comply with these principles. LänsAlongside the sustainability policy, LänsLänsförsäkringar AB, sustainability managförsäkringar AB has also signed the UN försäkringar AB also has other governance ers and managers from the bank, insurance, Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) documents and guidelines that describe fund management and asset management and the UN Principles for Sustainable Insursustainability governance and focus, diviare members of the teams. The sustainability ance (PSI), which, together with the UN sions of responsibilities, targets, activities teams aim to ensure that information is Global Compact, form the basis of the susand monitoring. exchanged and that activities and targets tainability ­policy. are monitored. Monitoring From autumn 2018, sustainability activiGovernance documents Self-assessments and operational proceties are reported to the Sustainability ComThe sustainability policy includes Länsdures are applied for the ongoing monitoring mittee following a annual sustainability försäkringar AB’s material sustainability of compliance with these governance docuagenda. topics and aims to provide managers and ments. Policies and guidelines are revised employees with guidance in their daily susannually. Sustainable goals in business plans tainability work. The policy also outlines A whistle-blowing function is available to In 2018, all business units and departments environmental considerations and the preprevent crime or suspected crime in the at Länsförsäkringar AB set sustainability cautionary principle. The sustainability polbusiness. Governance documents Responsible offering Owned by Sustainability policy Director of Corporate Communications More information about Länsförsäkringar’s sustainCorporate governance policy Head of Asset Management ability work is available on Credit policy and credit instructions Credit Manager pages 129-139. The GRI Policy on anti-money laundering and terror financing Head of Anti-Money Laundering Bank index, Annual Report index, UN Global Compact index, Responsible business conduct Owned by stakeholder dialogue, Länsförsäkringar’s work on the Sustainability policy Director of Corporate ­Communications UN SDGs, statistics and performance indicators Code of Conduct for Employees Head of Compliance are presented here. Personnel policy HR Director Equality and diversity plan HR Director Purchasing and procurement policy Head of Purchasing Code of Conduct for Suppliers Head of Compliance Guidelines on identifying and managing Head of Compliance conflicts of interest Policy on improper benefits Head of Compliance Long-term environmental and social responsibility Owned by Sustainability policy Director of Corporate Communications 32 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 About the Sustainability Report Länsförsäkringar AB’s sustainability report is prepared annually and is an integrated part of the company’s annual report. The 2018 report has been prepared in accordance with the Core level of the GRI S ­ tandards 2016. The Sustainability Report also contains the company’s reporting according to C ­ hapter 6, ­Section 11 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (ÅRL), as well as the company’s Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact. Accounting period and scope risks and how sustainability topics are an •• Employees Unless otherwise stated, the Sustainability integrated part of the business model. •• Customers (brokers and corporate Report pertains to Länsförsäkringar AB The sustainability topic of regulatory ­customers) and its subsidiaries, Länsförsäkringar Sak, compliance changed name in 2018 to busi•• Civil society organisations Agria, Länsförsäkringar Gruppliv, Länsness ethics but encompasses the same topic •• Asset managers försäkringar Liv, Länsförsäkringar Bank, content as in 2017. Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning, LänsIn 2018, a materiality analysis was carried The stakeholders’ expectations of Länsförsäkringar Hypotek, Wasa Kredit and out that will form the basis for continued försäkringar AB regarding sustainability Länsförsäkringar Fondliv. Information and work on sustainability topics. The results topics were taken into account when the data applies to the period from 1 January to from the new materiality analysis will be fully internal working group prioritised sustaina31 December 2018. The previous Sustainabilreported in the 2019 Sustainability Report. bility topics. Group management validated ity Report was published on 13 March 2018. An important part of the materiality analysis the results in December 2018. In 2019, govwas the stakeholder dialogue with Länsernance and measures will be prepared for Materiality analysis försäkringar’s most important stakeholders, these significant issues. The Sustainability Report describes how which took place in the autumn of 2018. Länsförsäkringar AB works with its most The following stakeholders responded to a Data and figures ­significant issues and the impact of its questionnaire and were interviewed in Information about how the data has been ­operations on society, humans and the depth: collated is provided in the GRI-index. environ­ment. It also describes how Läns•• Regional insurance companies (owners försäkringar AB works on sustainability and customer managers) Sustainability topic Material impact Responsible investments External Responsible banking External Responsible insurance offering External Business ethics Internal and external Responsible employer Internal Sustainability requirements on suppliers External Direct environmental impact External Long-term environmental and Internal and external social ­commitment Questions about the 2018 Sustainability Report Questions about Länsförsäkringar AB’s 2018 Sustainability Report can be directed to the company’s Head of Sustainability, Christina Kusoffsky Hillesöy, via e-mail: ­christina.hillesoy@lansforsakringar.se Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Appendix to Sustainability Report 129 Index Sustainability Report The sustainability report in accordance with Chapter 6, Section 11 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (ÅRL) encompasses Länsförsäkringar AB and its subsidiaries Länsförsäkringar Sak, Agria, Länsförsäkringar Gruppliv, Länsförsäkringar Bank, Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning, Länsförsäkringar Hypotek, Wasa Kredit and Länsförsäkringar Fondliv. Länsförsäkringar Liv submits its own sustainability report. The sustainability disclosures can be found by following the pages references below. Explanation Page reference Overall Business model 4-7, 10-11 Organisation and monitoring 31-32 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 9, 14 Social and personnel-related issues Policy on social and personnel-related issues 31-32 Social and personnel-related issues risks and risk management 21-27, 29-30 Social and personnel-related issues goals and outcomes 132-133 Climate and environmental issues Climate and environmental policy 32 Climate and environmental risks and risk management 14, 16-17, 19 Climate and environmental goals and outcomes 16-23, 133 Respect for human rights Human rights policy 18, 27 Human rights risks and risk management 16, 19, 27 Human rights goals and outcomes 17-18, 27 Combating corruption Anti-corruption policy 18, 24 Anti-corruption risks and risk management 16, 19, 24 Anti-corruption goals and outcomes 17-18, 24 UN Sustainable Development Goals Examples of how Länsförsäkringar AB works with the SDGs and where it believes it can make a difference and contribute to a sustainable development. Goal 3 Goal 5 Goal 8 Goal 9 Good health and ­ Gender equality Decent work and Industrial innovation well-being Promoting equality and economic growth and infrastructure Research into health and diversity (SDG 10) through Work conditions in LänsEngagement and investroad-traffic accidents, prethe work of the Nomination försäkringar’s own operaments in companies that ventive health services and Committee, in recruitment tions. Dialogue on work consupply sustainable innovarehabilitation, road safety processes and in dialogues ditions with companies in tions, ­product and services. claims-prevention measures. with companies and suppliers. investment operations and with suppliers. Digital offerings that make financial services more available. 130 Appendix to Sustainability Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Stakeholder dialogue Länsförsäkringar AB and regional insurance companies affect millions of people through their operations. More than 3.9 million customers in the Länsförsäkringar Alliance, more than 2,000 suppliers in Länsförsäkringar AB and 1,900 employees in Länsförsäkringar AB all have an idea of what Länsförsäkringar is. Stakeholder dialogue are a chance for Länsförsäkringar to discuss and ascertain stakeholders’ expectations. In 2018, a targeted sustainability dialogue was held with key stakeholders. Priority stakeholders Communication channels Issues Activities in 2018 Owners and Board Reporting, Board meetings, Mission of operations, product Ongoing dialogue on sustainability topics and various forums and consultdevelopment, policies and guideobjectives. Targeted dialogues. ing bodies and AGM. lines, risks and long-term objectives. Customers Customer surveys, cusAvailability, service and quality, Tools for selecting sustainable funds on the fund tomer meetings and quesresponsible investments, environplatform – sustainability globes, sustainability tionnaires. mental and social responsibility intescores, sustainability profile and carbon measgrated into offering, transparency urements. Expanded range of sustainable funds. and a tool to select sustainable Interviews with corporate customers and broproducts. kerage companies about Länsförsäkringar’s sustainability efforts. Employees Employee surveys, Work environment and health, skills Skills development in the form of training and lecemployee appraisals, meetdevelopment and diversity. tures. Employee survey. Monthly manager-emings, dialogue and training. ployee reviews. Flexible workplace projects. Suppliers Procurement, self-assessEnvironmental and social responsiDialogue meetings on sustainability topics, site ment questionnaires and bility, sustainability risks in the supvisits and risk surveys of the largest sustainability meetings. ply chain. risks. Developing a risk assessment model and self-assessment form. Partners, trade organiPartnerships, meetings, Industry-wide challenges within Greater transparency concerning responsible sations and civil society questionnaires and environmental and social responsiinvestments in the corporate governance report. organisations exchanging know-how. bility, responsible investments, Updated the sustainability overview for Länsresponsible lending, transparency, försäkringar Fondförvaltning and for lending in climate change. Länsförsäkringar Bank. Provided sustainability research results. Conducted dialogues with civil society organisations about their expectations for Länsförsäkringar AB’s sustainability efforts. Authorities Reporting and meetings. Responsible offering, transparency Dialogue on natural catastrophes and climate and climate risks. risks. Investors Reporting, meetings and Responsible offering, common Greater transparency on sustainability, stakeresponded to questionsocial challenges, environmental holder dialogue, responded to questionnaires. naires. and social risks, and transparency. Goal 11 Goal 12 Goal 13 Goal 16 Sustainable cities Responsible consumption Climate action Peace, justice and strong and communities and production Research into climate institutions Engaging policy makers on Setting demands for materiimpact, dialogue with cusDialogue with companies sustainable urban planning, als, recycling and reuse for tomers and policy-makers on regarding anti-corruption, investing in environmentally damage repairs, encouraging climate issues, divesting anti-money laundering and certified properties, supsuppliers and companies in investments in coal compapreventing terror financing porting research into susinvestment operations to nies, investing in green in banking and insurance tainable, safe communities. report on sustainability. bonds, dialogue with compaoperations. nies on climate issues. Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Appendix to Sustainability Report 131 Statistics and key figures Employee statistics Länsförsäkringar AB Group including Länsförsäkringar Liv Employee response to employee survey1) % 2018 2017 2016 Believe that diversity in working groups is valued 83 84 81 Believe that Länsförsäkringar AB is an equal opportunity workplace 87 87 85 Believe that they receive regular feedback from their manager 81 82 83 Believe that one’s own skills are developed in line with changing work requirements 78 79 77 Believe that they have a reasonable stress level in their work 70 70 64 Believe that they have a good work/life balance 81 81 80 1) The response rate for the employee survey was 96% in 2018, 95% in 2017. Employees New employees recruited during the year Number 2018 2017 2016 Number 2018 2017 2016 Permanent employees 1,910 1,847 1,759 Women Men Women Men Women Men of whom, men 816 777 730 0–30 years of age 27 19 35 32 23 17 of whom, women 1,094 1,070 1,029 31–40 years Permanent employees recruited during of age 32 39 31 45 27 35 the year 210 247 185 41–50 years Permanent employees who have left and now of age 31 28 41 35 41 22 work at another company in the Länsförsäk­ ringar Alliance 5 9 13 51–60 years of age 21 10 12 12 13 7 Permanent employees who left during the year 176 170 125 61– 0 3 3 1 – – Employee turnover Total 111 99 122 125 104 81 % 2018 2017 2016 All employees are full-time employees regardless of whether they work full Permanent employees 9.5 9.7 7.2 or part-time. Employees who have children under the age of 12 can work part-time according to the industry’s collective agreement. Employee age range Manager age range Number 2018 2017 2016 Number 2018 2017 2016 0–30 years of age 178 209 184 Women Men Women Men Women Men 31–40 years of age 464 460 454 0–30 years of age 2 0 3 2 1 4 41–50 years of age 602 634 594 31–40 years of 51–60 years of age 547 463 439 age 19 19 21 20 23 21 61– 122 81 88 41–50 years of age 61 57 56 56 46 55 Average age, women 44 44 44 51–60 years of Average age, men 44 44 44 age 47 40 35 27 33 29 61– 3 8 1 5 – 5 Total 132 124 116 110 103 14 Total 256 226 217 132 Appendix to Sustainability Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Average age of managers Sickness absence Year 2018 2017 2016 % 2018 2017 2016 Women 47 46 46 Total sickness absence as a percentage of ­ordinary working hours 3.0 3.0 3.1 Men 47 47 46 Gender distribution among managers Gender distribution among management and Board % 2018 2017 2016 Number 2018 2017 2016 Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Group management 62 38 57 43 50 50 Group management including President 8 5 5 5 4 6 Heads of d ­ epartment 47 53 53 47 48 52 Management teams 1) 31 35 33 36 25 37 Group managers Board members 2) 23 47 22 49 28 38 and team leaders 52 48 50 50 47 53 1) Includes union representatives. 2) Regular members including union representatives. Carbon emissions in the operations Sources of carbon emissions1) 2018 2017 2016 Consumption CO2 emissions, kg MWh CO2 emissions, kg Consumption MWh CO2 emissions, kg Consumption MWh District heating – properties and offices 2) 103,445 1,515 121,310 1,619 85,708 1,343 Electricity consumption – operations 38,369 3,762 36,003 3,530 33,436 3,278 Electricity consumption – properties 11,639 1,141 11,150 1,093 10,983 1,077 Paper print-outs 3,148 7,301 4,607 13,243 4,956 26,221 Total 156,601 13,719 191,122 6,255 107,692 5,138 Sources of carbon emissions3) 2018 2017 2016 CO2 emissions, kg Km travelled CO2 emissions, kg Km travelled CO2 emissions, kg Km travelled Flights 648,814 5,675,482 620,426 5,284,022 556,816 4,465,921 Company car journeys 152,599 1,315,508 153,685 1,399,053 177,198 1,510,907 Private car journeys 31,657 257,377 32,635 265,322 29,257 230,368 Rail journeys 3 1,059,863 2 978,943 3 941,507 Total 833,074 8,308,050 806,748 7,927,340 763,274 7,148,703 Total carbon emissions in operations 989,675 997,870 898,357 Total carbon emissions per employee 518 540 511 1) Scope 2 under the GHG Protocol. 2) Degree day adjusted figures used to calculated district-heating usage. 3) Scope 3 under the GHG Protocol. Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Appendix to Sustainability Report 133 Our partnerships Sustainability at Länsförsäkringar PSI Principles for Sustainable Insurance A ­ ssociation, which has existed for 40 years, has a global partnerA UN initiative of principles on integrating sustainability into insurship on ­economic, political and social issues in the insurance ance offerings. Länsförsäkringar Sak has been a member since the ­industry. Länsförsäkringar is a signatory. end of 2016. ICMIF – International Cooperative and Mutual Insurance AMICE – Association of Mutual Insurers and Insurance Federation Cooperatives in Europe A body of mutual insurance companies that exchanges information A body of European insurance companies that exchanges informaand experience among its members on topics including sustainability. tion and experience among its members on topics including sustainINI – International Network of Insurance ability. Länsförsäkringar is an active member. A network of more than 120 market-leading insurance companies all Eurapco over the world who work together to help each other’s corporate An alliance of eight insurance companies working in 18 countries with ­customers that have foreign operations but local insurance solutions. 40 million customers. The members exchange information and expeInsurance Sweden rience. Länsförsäkringar is an active member of several committees. An industry organisation working to promote good business con­ Kyoto Statement of the Geneva Association ditions for the insurance industry and to increase confidence in the An initiative that encourages the world’s insurance companies industry and knowledge of the importance of private insurance in to work together with customers, policy-makers and industry society. Länsförsäkringar is a member of the board and several ­colleagues to help reduce environmental impact. The Geneva ­committees. Investment partnerships PRI – Principles for Responsible Investments Swedish Investment Fund Association A UN initiative of six Principles for investors concerning the inte­ A trade organisation whose purpose is to look after the collective gration of sustainability in investment decisions, engagement and interests of fund management companies and fund savers alike. collaboration. Länsförsäkringar AB is a member and submits annual Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning is an active member. reports on the implementation of these principles to PRI. LänsSustainable Value Creation försäkringar participates in investor initiatives to influence other “Sustainable Value Creation” is a collaborative project comprising companies and stakeholders in sustainability topics. 17 of Sweden’s largest institutional investors. The project aims to Access to Medicine Foundation highlight the importance of working with sustainability topics in A foundation founded by the British and Netherlands governments a structured manner. Länsförsäkringar is an active member. together with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The foundation Institutional Owners Association seeks to improve access to medicine for people around the world. The Institutional Owners Association for Regulatory Issues in the Every other year it produces an index that shows the actions pharmaStock Market is a partnership between pension funds, AP national ceutical companies are taking to improve conditions for people withpension funds, insurance companies and fund companies. The assoout access to basic medicine. Länsförsäkringar supports this initiative. ciation develops best practice in corporate governance and the CDP Swedish Corporate Governance Code. Länsförsäkringar Fond­ A civil society organisation that collects global environmental inforförvaltning is an active member. mation from companies. The initiative is supported by over 800 instiMontreal Pledge tutional investors worldwide. Through dialogue with companies and Länsförsäkringar AB has signed the PRI Montreal Pledge, an initiative by supporting the CDP’s work, investors want to increase transparwhereby investors pledge to measure and publicly disclose the carency and promote environmental reporting, and encourage compabon footprint of their investment portfolios. The Montreal Pledge is nies to work actively to reduce their environmental impact. Länssupported by both PRI and the United Nations Environment Proförsäkringar supports the CDP. gramme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). GES – Global Engagement Service Swesif – Sweden forum for sustainable investments A common cooperative platform for active owners. Länsförsäkringar An independent network forum for organisations that work for or AB actively participates in this forum together with institutional with sustainable investments in Sweden. Swesif’s goal is to increase investors all over the world to influence companies to act responsiknowledge and interest surrounding sustainable investments. bly. Part of Sustainalytics from 2019. 134 Appendix to Sustainability Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Partnerships in banking Swedish Financial Coalition against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children A partnership between banks and Ecpat to prevent the Swedish payment system from being abused for the purchase of child pornography and trafficking of children for sexual purposes, and also to influence public opinion on such criminal activity. Länsförsäk­ringar is a member of the Financial Coalition. Swedish Bankers’ Association An association of banks in Sweden whose tasks include spreading knowledge about banks and their role for growth and welfare in society. Länsförsäkringar is a member of the board and the Sustainability Committee. Other partnerships Global Compact SNS – The Centre for Business and Policy Studies A UN initiative for responsible business conduct with ten principles An independent think tank that brings together the worlds of acaon human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Länsdemia, business and government for knowledge-sharing and dialogue försäkringar AB is a signatory. on key societal issues. Länsförsäkringar is a m ­ ember. Diversity Charter Sweden Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) A non-profit organisation that seeks to promote diversity in workTCFD was founded in 2015 by the Financial Stability Board. It is places. Its members are companies and organisations that actively intended to support companies’ efforts to provide qualitative work on diversity and apply an inclusive approach to their own busi­sustainability information to the finance sector’s stakeholders nesses. Länsförsäkringar is a member. and supervisory authorities. The framework consists of four areas: ­Governance, Strategy, Risk management and relevant data. NMC – The Swedish Association for Sustainable Business ­Länsförsäkringar supports TCFD. A professional association and cross-­industry platform for sharing of knowledge on running a sustainable business, contributing to sustainable development. Länsförsäkringar is a member. Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Appendix to Sustainability Report 135 Auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory report To the general meeting of the shareholders in Länsförsäkringar AB, corporate identity number 556549-7020 Engagement and responsibility It is the board of directors who is responsible for the sustainability report for the year 2018 as indicated on page 130 and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the examination My examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR:s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that my examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. I believe that the examination has provided me with sufficient basis for my opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm 27 March 2019 KPMG AB Mårten Asplund Authorized Public Accountant 136 Appendix to Sustainability Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Global Reporting Initiative The report is based on the 2016 GRI Standards, except for disclosures on Occupational Health and Safety which follow the updated version from 2018. UN Sustainable GRI Standard GRI Page reference GRI Comments ­Development Goals UN Global Compact General disclosures Organisation profile 1-10 102-1 Name of the organisation Inside cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Inside cover 102-3 Location of headquarters Stockholm 102-4 Location of operations Inside cover 102-5 Ownership and legal form Inside cover 102-6 Markets served Inside cover 102-7 Scale of the organisation Inside cover 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 132-133 102-9 Supply chain 27, 131 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation 14-15 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 32 102-12 External initiatives 134-135 102-13 Memberships of associations 134-135 Strategy 1-10 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2-3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 14, 16, 19, 21, 24-25, 27, 29, 129, Ethics and integrity/Business ethics and values 10 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 31-32 Governance 10 102-18 Governance structure 31-32 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 8-11, 131 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 26 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 8, 129, 131 102-43 Approach on stakeholder engagement 8-11, 131 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 8-11, 20, 131 Including SCI – customer satis­ faction and product responsibility Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 129 s­ tatements 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 129 102-47 List of material topics 129 102-48 Restatements of information 129 And comments in GRI table 102-49 Changes in reporting 129 102-50 Reporting period 129 102-51 Date of most recent report 129 102-52 Reporting cycle 129 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 129 Christina Hillesöy, Head of Sustainability 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 129 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 137-139 102-56 External assurance The GRI report has not been externally audited. See auditors opinion regarding sustainability report on page 136. Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Appendix to Sustainability Report 137 UN Sustainable GRI Page GRI Development UN Global GRI Standard ­reference Comments Goals ­Compact Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 14-15, 31-32 103-1–103-3 Management Approach 31-32 Responsible offering Responsible investments 5, 8-9, 11, 13, 16 1-6, 7, 10 103-1 103-3 Disclosures on Management Approach 16-18, 31-32 Engagement and dialogue Number of reactive company dialogues on sustainability 18 G4-FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s ­portfolio with which the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues Active corporate governance Number of preventive dialogues on sustainability 18 Active corporate governance Number of general meetings at which votes were cast 18 Active corporate governance Participation in Nomination Committees 18 Exclusions Number of blacklisted companies regarding sustainability, 18 e­ xcluding coal ­companies Responsible banking 8 7-9 103-1 103-3 Disclosures on Management Approach 19-20, 31-32 Climate risks in lending Initiative to measure the climate risk in the i­nsurance offering 20 Availability G4-FS 13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged 19-20 areas by type G4-FS 14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for 19-20 disadvantaged people Responsible insurance 3, 12-13 7-9 103-1 103-3 Disclosures on Management Approach 21-23, 31-32 Claims prevention Initiatives for claims-prevention methods 21-23, 30 Claims adjustment Initiative to reduce use of resources and negative climate impact 21-22, 30 via claims adjustment Climate risk in the insurance Identification of climate risk in the insurance portfolio and new 23 offering products as ­protection against climate risk Responsible business conduct 103-1 103-3 Disclosures on Management Approach Inside cover, 31-32 Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Inside cover 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and o­ pportunities due Inside cover, 20 to c­ limate change Indirect economic impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Inside cover Sustainability requirements on suppliers 8, 12, 16 1-10 103-1 103-3 Disclosures on Management Approach 16-17, 27, 31-32 Purchasing organisation Percentage of the 100 largest suppliers that account for 80% of 27 the purchasing volume have signed the Code of Conduct Business ethics 16 2, 10 103-1 103-3 Disclosures on Management Approach 24 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to c­ orruption 24 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 24 and procedures Direct environmental impact 12, 13 7-9 103-1 103-3 Disclosures on Management Approach 133 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 133 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 18, 133 138 Appendix to Sustainability Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 UN Sustainable GRI Page GRI Development UN Global GRI Standard ­reference Comments Goals ­Compact Responsible employer Labour practices and decent work 3,5,8,10 3-6 103-1 103-3 Disclosures on Management Approach 25-26, 31-32 Statistics refer to employees in Sweden 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 132 Statistics refer to employees in Sweden Occupational health and safety 103-1 103-3 Disclosures on Management Approach 25-26, 132-133 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 26, 133 GRI 2018. Refers absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities to employees in Sweden Training and education 103-1 103-3 Disclosures on Management Approach 25-26 404-2 Programmes upgrading employee skills and ­transition 25-26 assistance programmes Diversity and equal opportunity 103-1 103-3 Disclosures on Management Approach 25-26 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 132-133 Statistics refer to employees, Board and management in Sweden 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No cases reported in 2018 Environmental and social responsibility Research Number of research projects and total amount invested in research 29-30 3, 8, 11-13, 16 8-9 (SEK) UN Global Compacts 10 Principles Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-Corruption Principle 1: Businesses should supPrinciple 3: Businesses should Principle 7: Businesses should supPrinciple 10: Businesses should work port and respect the protection of uphold the freedom of association port a precautionary approach to against corruption in all its forms, ­internationally proclaimed human and the effective recognition of the ­environmental challenges; including extortion and bribery. rights. right to collective bargaining. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to Principle 2: Make sure that they are Principle 4: The elimination of all promote greater environmental not complicit in human rights forms of forced and compulsory ­responsibility. abuses. labour. Principle 9: Encourage the developPrinciple 5: The effective abolition of ment and diffusion of environmenchild labour. tally friendly technologies. Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Länsförsäkringar AB 2018 Appendix to Sustainability Report 139
