SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CONTENT CEO Statement 3 Who we are 4 Our Business Model 6 Our Sustainability Programme 6 Providing a healthy and safe workplace 7 Promoting equal opportunities and diversity 8 Measuring Employee Satisfaction and Engagement 9 Focusing on energy efficiency 10 Managing Human and labour rights in the Supply chain 11 Responsible Business Practice 11 Meeting Customers’ Sustainability requirements 12 The FOSS whistleblower system 12 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 13 2 CEO Statement At FOSS, our mission is to contribute to the sustainable use of the world’s agricultural resources and thus to the nutrition and health of the people of the world. As the leading provider of analytics, we are in a unique position to achieve this. Our technology enables customers to be more sustainable by securing quality and optimising food and agricultural production. About 85% of milk and 80% of grain traded in the world market is analysed using FOSS solutions, so on a global scale we make a significant impact. In addition to developing technological solutions that provide sustainable benefits, we also take action to integrate sustainability into our own operations. We are committed to supporting the UN Global Compact and embedding the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and business ethics into our business. At the end of this report is our Communication on Progress against the principles. This year´s sustainability report also provides information on our new whistleblower system, business ethics e-learning tool and our Values project. Kim Vejlby Hansen, CEO 3 Who we are • A 100% family-owned company – headquartered in Denmark • 99% of turnover comes from outside Denmark • A turnover of 2,244 million DKK in 2018 • AAA-rated by D&B • Approximately 1500 employees worldwide • Manufacturing, research and development facilities in Denmark, Hungary and China • FOSS sales and service companies in 32 countries and more than 75 distributors Our mission  We contribute to the sustainable use of our planet’s agricultural resources and thus to the nutrition and health of the people of the world  We provide analytics beyond measure to add value to our customers by improving quality and optimising food and agricultural production. 4 FIRST The FOSS values Because being first is motivating and rewarding Our three values are the compass we navigate by, and CUSTOMER the principles behind them have lead FOSS since the Because the customer is the company was founded in 1956. They provide value for our customers, meaning for employees, they guide focus of everything we do our business. A central element is doing right for our planet, our customers and our employees, and we PEOPLE & hold ourselves to consistently high ethical standards KNOWLEDGE on all three accounts. Because FOSS is a company Value sessions are taking place in our teams around based on knowledge and the globe, which serve as an opportunity to work employees working in more hands-on with our mission and values, and to shed light on topics such as ‘What do the values mean collaboration to your team?’ and ‘How can we do a better job of living the values in all we do?’. 5 Our Business model Our company was founded in 1956 by the innovative engineer Nils Foss. His ambition was to offer automated and cost-efficient alternatives to time-consuming analyses in the food and agriculture industry. Although much has changed over the years, our approach to business and development of innovative analytical solutions has not. FOSS creates end-to-end solutions that secure and improve food quality. From raw material to finished product. Our analysis instruments refine measurements into information management that enables businesses to run intelligent data-driven production with less waste and bigger yields. Controlling cost and quality across all sectors and value chains, we help food and agricultural producers limit the number of human errors, scale their business faster and reduce labour costs. We call this analytics beyond measure. We cover these food and agricultural industries: Dairy, Feed and Forage, Grain, Flour Milling & Oilseed Processing, Laboratories, Meat, Raw Milk Testing and Wine. Our Sustainability programme FOSS has been working with sustainability since the inception of the company. In addition to developing solutions that provide real sustainable benefits to our customers, we firmly believe in acting responsibly no matter where we do business. In 2012, we joined the UN Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. As an active participant, we are committed to aligning our sustainability principles and strategies with universal principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption, as well as taking action that advance societal goals. 6 Using the Global Compact’s framework as our starting point,  SDG 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved we have identified the following sustainability priority areas nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture as being of importance to our business and stakeholders:  SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all ages • Health and Safety of employees  SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable • Human and Labour Rights particularly in the supply economic growth, full and productive employment and chain decent work for all • The Environment with a focus on our energy usage and  SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production enabling customers to minimise waste/optimise yields patterns • Business Ethics in the Sales and Service areas This report fulfils our Danish legislative and UN Global Compact reporting requirements, and covers the 2018 financial year. We have policies addressing these key areas and report our progress against them in this report. Additional information on these policies, and our position against Modern Slavery can be found under downloads at: Providing a healthy and safe workplace https://www.fossanalytics.com/en/about-foss/sustainability Our most important asset is our staff and we are committed We refer to a number of sustainability initiatives when to safeguarding their welfare. Health, safety and employee developing this report. These include the GRI Sustainability welfare is a critical element of our Sustainability policy. Reporting Standards and the SEDEX/SMETA Ethical Although our risks are limited, as we do not have heavy Trade Audit criteria. We also support the UN Sustainable production taking place at our sites, we have dedicated Development goals, the most relevant for our business are: teams that limit and monitor potential risks in our operations. 7 In our Innovation Centre in Denmark, which has the largest number of employees, we have designated working committees responsible for health and welfare in production, our labs and our offices. Overall responsibility for this area lies with the Senior Vice President of Human Resources, with the various committees leading and coordinating the work. They investigate any health and safety incidents and implement measures to prevent their reoccurrence. In China, where we also have production facilities, we have an Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) team responsible for identifying and addressing risks in our operations. They produce bi-weekly finding reports and take preventive measures to address any potential risks. Health and Safety audits are conducted at both facilities by our internal audit teams and audited as part of our participation in the SEDEX initiative. We have taken a number of measures to promote our In 2018, three minor injuries took place at our production company as a diverse and inclusive employer. For example, facilities. Two of those resulted in less than one day’s we ensure that females and non-ethnic Danes are featured absence from work, and one resulted in more than one prominently throughout our website, including the day’s absence. One of those incidents required a hospital recruitment section. We stipulate in our job advertisements visit. that all applications for vacant positions are based on the merits of the applicants against the role profile for the position regardless of nationality, ethnic origin, gender, Promoting equal opportunities sexual orientation, marital status, disability, family status, and diversity age, or religion. In the recruitment stage, an HR advisor is present throughout critical stages of the process to ensure At FOSS, we value diversity and the benefits it brings to our policy is adhered to. In those rare instances where we use our business. As a company operating in an international, recruitment partners, we also ensure that they understand dynamic environment, a diverse staff from a variety of our positon on diversity. When filling vacant positions we do backgrounds provides us with different perspectives on our utmost to ensure there is at least one female candidate addressing challenges, and valuable insights into the among the final three, granted they have the necessary markets where we do business. qualifications for the position. In 2018, approximately 18 % of those employees hired at FOSS had a non-ethnic Danish The starting point of our work in the equal opportunities background and 33% were female, compared to roughly area is the FOSS sustainability policy, which is based on 12% and 41% respectively in the previous year. the UN Global Compact. This document clearly states our commitment to treating all employees and potential We monitor compliance with our equal opportunities candidates equally in regards to recruitment, advancement, policy in a number of ways. Our new whistleblower system job training and salary. provides an opportunity for employees to raise concerns 8 anonymously if they feel they are not able to do so through existing reporting channels. Exit interviews are also available to employees when they leave the organisation, which provides them with the possibility to raise any concerns they may have. There were no issues raised regarding our equal opportunities policy over the past year. Measuring Employee Satisfaction and Engagement It is critical for the success of our company that our staff are Satisfaction & Motivation engaged and motivated. That is why we regularly assess job FOSS satisfaction through employee surveys. The results provide GELx Denmark 2018 us with an indication of how happy our staff are in their GELx Denmark Manufacturing Industrial Products & Services 2018 work, and how well managed FOSS is as a company. They also provide us with a basis for identifying areas where there is room for improvement, so we can develop action plans to This years’ satisfaction and motivation results were very lift performance across our organisation. positive with a higher score than both the national level in Denmark, as well as the comparable industry group. All global employees were invited to participate in the 2018 Employee Engagement survey, which had a 94% Our Employee Engagement Survey assists us in our efforts to response rate. To ensure respondent confidentiality no continuously improve our workplace. Department-specific individual responses were handed out at any time, nor were reports are provided to all departments with a minimum any reports prepared from which any responses could be of five employees – or four employees if all employees deduced. As in previous years the Global Employee and have given permission. Managers share the reports with Leadership Index model (GELx) was used and looked at the employees and discuss the next steps and actions to satisfaction, motivation and loyalty of employees, as well improve performance. Our objective moving forward will as the driving indicators which influence employees´ overall be to continue to maintain high levels of satisfaction and assessment. motivation in our company. 9 Focusing on energy efficiency Our environmental impacts are significantly different from currently investigating the possibilities around LED lighting, many traditional, heavy manufacturing companies, as our shading devices, ventilation systems and solar energy in our production mainly consists of assembling, monitoring and ongoing construction project at our innovation centre. testing instruments. Nevertheless, we are committed to reducing our energy footprint as much as possible. It not Since 2015, our production site in Suzhou has been focusing only benefits the environment; it also enables us to reduce on reducing energy consumption through conversion from our operating costs. fluorescent to LED lighting. Transitioning to LED lighting typically results in energy savings of between 56-68%. At Climate conditions have a significant impact on our energy present, our site has achieved a level of 99% LED lighting consumption, as much of our usage is from our offices and and expects to reach 100% in 2019. buildings. We use more energy to heat our offices when we experience particularly cold winters, and more energy In 2018, Suzhou experienced an increase in electricity for cooling during hot summers. In 2017, we invested consumption. Some of this can be attributed to the increased 1.6 million DKK in outdoor shading devices in our Danish use of air-conditioning of our offices during the warmer headquarters, which reduce 80% of the sun’s heat from summer months. Electricity usage was virtually unchanged penetrating buildings, and reduce cooling for our offices. compared to the previous year in Denmark although we Denmark experienced its hottest summer in 2018, and the did see an increase in gas usage. Overall energy usage investment not only had a positive effect on energy usage, benchmarked against 2013 is showing a positive trend. but also the work environment for our employees. We are Total energy consumption at our production sites 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Electricity (kwh) 3,611,321 3,921,931 2,843,363 3,157,277 3,112,946 3,181,097 Ratio 1 11% -31% -28% -32% -31% Heating (kwh) 2,680,640 1,933,220 1,108,000 1,401,160 1,403,170 1,379,440 Ratio -26% -64% -57% -59% -60% Oil (liters) 19984 35487 26238 20479 25272 19098 Ratio 81% 15% -15% -1% -25% Gas (Nm3) 65556 34249 40946 50452 45897 56485 Ratio -47% -45% -36% -45% -33% Turnover 2 1,756 1,722 2,010 2,122 2,222 2,244 1 The ration calculation is based on energy source/turnover with a 2013 baseline. A positive figure indicates an increase compared to 2013, a negative figure indicates a decrease. 2 In million DKK 10 Managing human and labour Responsible Business Practice rights in the Supply chain At FOSS, it is imperative that we act in a uniform manner that is consistent with our values and principles. This is Our work with human and labour rights focuses primarily especially relevant when it comes to the area of business on our global supply chain, which poses the largest risk. The ethics. Our staff must act responsibly and professionally no FOSS Supplier Code of Conduct, which is available in both matter where in the world they operate. English and Mandarin, is based on our own Sustainability policy and addresses a number of labour and human rights All of our employees must follow our Sustainability policy, areas including forced labour, health and safety, child which prohibits engaging in bribery as well as corruption, labour, salaries, freedom of association, and working hours. and provides guidance on areas such as gift-giving, All suppliers must sign-off that they comply with our Code entertainment, conflict of interest, political and charitable of Conduct, or produce documentation that demonstrates donations. they have comparable policies and procedures in place. In 2018, we updated the FOSS Sustainability policy In 2018, we produced our first Anti-Slavery and Human clarifying our position against facilitation payments. These trafficking statement, which includes information on the payments, commonly referred to as “grease money”, are steps we are taking to prevent Modern Slavery and other small amounts of money requested by government officials forms of exploitation occurring in our supply chain. We to speed up the performance of routine, non-discretionary also include human and labour rights in our due diligence of services or actions, such as issuing a license or permit. What suppliers, which is undertaken by our sourcing and quality distinguishes these payments from governmental fees, teams. Non-compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct or taxes, is that the money goes directly into the pockets can result in termination of the business relationship. of unscrupulous officials. In line with our zero tolerance stance against bribery in all its forms, we do not permit In 2019 we will be reassessing our supplier audit process to these payments to be made. ensure we are targeting those areas in our supplier chain that pose the most risk of non-compliance with our Supplier code of conduct. 11 Specialised training is provided to those parts of the organisation that have customer interface, which is primarily the global Sales and Service teams. In the second quarter of 2019, we will begin rolling out our updated ethics e-learning program for those two functions. The course provides a deeper understanding of our Sustainability policy with a particular focus on business ethics. It also presents users with real-life ethical scenarios and tests their comprehension of the presented material. To reinforce the importance of acting ethically the course is introduced by Peter Foss, the chairman of our board of directors. Meeting Customers’ Sustainability requirements FOSS is a member of SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange), the world’s largest platform for sharing responsible sourcing data on supply chains, used by more than 50,000 members in over 150 countries. As a member we are audited once every 2-3 years by a 3rd party auditor against criteria in the We have also embedded systems that underpin this belief. areas of labour rights, health & safety, the environment In 2018, we established a whistleblower system, which and business ethics. The standard audit format enables us enables employees to raise concerns if they feel it is not to share the results with multiple customers to meet their possible to use normal reporting channels. The system supplier sustainability requirements. allows employees to raise concerns on suspected violations of our values, policies and legislation. As the SEDEX audit format is updated on a regular basis to meet legislation changes and best practice, it provides us As we are a multinational with employees across the with a valuable tool to gauge and improve our sustainability globe, the system has been tailored so it enables reporting performance. in over fifteen different languages. All reports are treated confidentially, and concerns can be raised anonymously if requested. Initially the system was only available for our employees, but in the latter part of the year, it was extended to external stakeholders, who are now able to report on suspected violations via our website. The FOSS whistleblower system Having a whistleblower system in place not only enables us to reduce risks to our company, it also shows our Acting responsibly with integrity is critical to who we are commitment to creating a transparent, open and positive as a company, and how we engage with stakeholders. work environment. 12 The UN Global Compact Communication on Progress FOSS is a signatory of the UN Global Compact, an initiative by which companies can join UN agencies, labour leaders and civil society in supporting 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. As a signatory, we are committed to advancing the Compact and reporting our progress against the ten principles. Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Included in our Sustainability policy which is availprotection of internationally proclaimed human rights; able on our website, and our support of sustainability and initiatives (pages 6-7) Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in See our work with suppliers (page 11) human rights abuses Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Part of our Sustainability policy and our work with association and the effective recognition of the right to suppliers (page 11) collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Part of our Sustainability policy and work with suppliers compulsory labour; (page 11) Part of our Sustainability policy and work with suppliers Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and (page 11) Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect Part of our Sustainability policy and work to create an of employment and occupation. inclusive workplace (page 8). Also part of our work with suppliers (page 11) Environment Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precauPart of our Sustainability policy and work with the tionary approach to environmental challenges; environment (page 10) Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater See page 10 environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion See pages 6 and 10 of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corrupPart of our Sustainability policy tion in all its forms, including extortion and bribery See page 12: Our Ethical E-learning programme 13
