5 April 2019 António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Sutherland supports the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. With this communication, we are reaffirming our commitment to these principles and sharing an update with you on how we are implementing them into our business practices. Sutherland is 100% committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our culture and day-to-day operations of our company. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. 1160 Pittsford-Victor Rd +1-800-388-4557 Pittsford, NY +1-585-784-2200 14534 Sutherland has four key social impact initiatives that are implemented into our everyday business practices worldwide. I will now briefly update you on the progress of each and in doing so demonstrate our sincere drive to implement and comply with the ten principles of the Global Compact. 1. Education Intervention Sutherland’s education intervention initiative is structured to expose as many individuals as possible to opportunities to learn from a diverse set of teachings to help them grow their own way and be the best that they can be. During this calendar year alone, we are on track to expose 50,000 individuals to Sutherland’s education intervention methodology. • UN Declaration of Human Rights 30 Articles Curriculum: As a member of the UN Global Compact, we proudly uphold the UN Declaration of Human Rights and have developed a course to teach its 30 articles to students worldwide. Covering each of the 30 articles, students learn about fundamental human rights and how the Declaration brings a common ideal and understanding to all peoples and nations. • Technical Skills Trainings: In partnership with Microsoft, Sutherland offers free digital training to disadvantaged and underserved individuals in communities throughout India, Jamaica, and the Philippines. Our goal is to empower individuals through this curriculum and expose them to a skillset that enables them to pursue new socioeconomic opportunities. To date Sutherland has certified more than 40,000 individuals globally. • Extreme Mentoring: We work with organizations like the Champion Academy in the United States and the Shanti Bhavan Residential School in India, to provide support, consistency, and accountability to youth living in economically depressed areas through pairing them with mentor volunteers from Sutherland. 2. Social Responsibility Standard (SRS) Certification The Verego SRS Certification was developed in harmony with other world renown standards such as the UN Global Compact, by industry standards experts, experienced procurement specialists, and corporate responsibility practitioners. It serves as the gold standard for full-scope certification in corporate social responsibility. Each year, Sutherland undergoes a multistep assessment to achieve SRS certification. As part of this assessment, we participate in extensive reporting in all areas and a thorough interview process with site leaders globally. We are fully certified in all five areas of the Standard: Ethics, Environment, Community, People, and Leadership. To certify in each area, Sutherland is required to: • Leadership: Show commitment to social responsibility which includes structured policies and procedures for corporate governance and for our customer base that are clearly defined and communicated to relevant stakeholders. In addition, this certification requires attestation to governmental and legal compliance. 1160 Pittsford-Victor Rd +1-800-388-4557 Pittsford, NY +1-585-784-2200 14534 • Ethics: Ensure that corporate policies and procedures thoroughly outline ethical conduct when it comes to anti-corruption, fair competition, a socially responsible supply chain and managing relationships with other organizations, including sub-contractors. • People: Exemplify that its human rights policies and procedures including topics such as use of voluntary labor, acceptable working hours, fair wages, humane treatment of works, harassment and discrimination, human rights monitoring and reporting and potential grievances. • Community: Illustrate engagement and investments in the communities where we are located. • Environment: Actively implements and adheres to policies and business practices that work to reduce pollution and resource use and improve climate and habitat. 3. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) CDP is an international, not-for-profit organization providing the only global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vital environmental information. CDP works with market forces to motivate companies to disclose their impacts on the environment and natural resources and act to reduce them. Sutherland has been reporting to the CDP since 2013. The result of each CDP report is a quantitative and qualitative disclosure on Sutherland’s global footprint from an emissions and environmental standpoint. With a baseline to review we are then able to focus on areas where emissions reductions are possible. Sutherland continues to produce a CDP report at the end of each fiscal year, with the next iteration due in July of 2019. 4. Impact Hiring As a founding member of the Global Impact Sourcing Coalition (GISC), Sutherland has played an active role in developing the Impact Sourcing Standard, adopted by the organization in 2018. We are committed to advocating for and incorporating inclusive hiring into our daily business practices and have scaled our impact hiring initiative to operations in India, the Philippines, Colombia, Bulgaria, Jamaica and the rest of the world. Through our unique hybrid of exposure through education interventions, technical skills and professional development trainings, and hiring through apprenticeship programs, we have hired more than 500 employees into our workforce from one or more of the following marginalized backgrounds worldwide: • Individuals from the ages of 17 to 25 who are from families who live below the poverty line • Single parents who have one or more children living in their home under the age of 17 • Individuals who are blind, deaf, or on the autism spectrum 1160 Pittsford-Victor Rd +1-800-388-4557 Pittsford, NY +1-585-784-2200 14534 Thank you for your time Mr. Secretary-General and once again I would like to stress Sutherland’s commitment to the Global Compact and the UN objectives at large. While we have been engaged in communities where we work and live for years, we are very excited as a corporation to step up our efforts and be a part of the solution on a global level in combating the many ills of the developed and undeveloped world. Sincerely yours, Mr. Dilip Vellodi CEO Sutherland 1160 Pittsford-Victor Rd +1-800-388-4557 Pittsford, NY +1-585-784-2200 14534
