UN Global Compact Annual Report for Orana A/S -----------------------------------------------------June 2019 UN COP Orana Group 2017-18 Page 1 of 6 21-06-19 02:52 Scanned with CamScanner 3 d) Anti-Corruption In the Orana Group, all staff is committed to following these principles. The Orana Group further requires its suppliers to explicitly acknowledge and adhere to the principles embodied in the Code of Conduct to ensure that their own suppliers also will comply with these principles. Commitment is also confirmed through supplier audits and questionnaires. 3. Human Rights Description of Actions All sites ensure that hiring, remuneration, advancement, training and termination decisions are based on objective factors and not connected to gender, age, nationality, ethnicity, race, colour, creed, caste, language, mental or physical disability, or any other discriminating factors. Instead, this is determined by skills, qualifications, and experience required for the position in question. All Orana sites do not tolerate workplace harassment, hereunder but not limited to words, signs, offensive jokes, e-mail statements, pranks, intimidation, sexual or physical harassment or violence. Policies are in place to protect all employees. The Orana Group has implemented health and safety prevention policies which comply with national, international and Orana company rules. These policies are made available to employees in a language, which is understood by the employees. All Orana sites documents accidents and adjusts its processes to prevent future accidents if any. At all sites, workers and managers are trained to respond to emergencies and emergency exits are free from obstruction. Fire extinguishers are available. Work environments are maintained and kept clean. All sites have sufficient and suitable ventilation, lighting, availability of potable water, washing facilities and sanitary facilities and suitable eating areas. All employees are provided with protective equipment and training necessary to safely perform the functions of their positions. Moreover, all sites have implemented rules in regard to hygiene, alcohol, and smoking. Measurement of Outcomes Employee Turnover is measured for all Orana Group companies. For all sites in total, employee turnover for 2017/18 was 16.9%. This is an increase compared to the year before but an improvement compared to 2 years earlier. See table below: 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Employee Turnover 14% 17% 14% 17% UN COP Orana Group 2017-18 Page 3 of 6 21-06-19 02:52 4 Orana is a harassment free and discrimination free organization. In the companies’ CSR code, the freedom of association and non-discrimination policy are addressed. There is no any such kind of harassment or discrimination incidences reported in any of the Orana Group companies in the period of communication. For all Orana Group Companies, the companies are required to keep track of accidents. During financial year 2017/18, 3 accidents were reported. All 3 accidents took place in at the site in Denmark and were reported to the Danish Safety and Labor Inspectorate’s electronic reporting system for occupational accidents. No further accidents were reported in any of the remaining Orana Group Companies in the financial year 2017/18. 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 No. of accidents 5 0 3 Hygiene audits are being conducted by QC online staff on daily basis as a routine practice at all production sites. The non-conformities found are mainly related to protective clothing, personal and plant hygiene. All non-conformities are closed with proper corrections, corrective and preventive actions. The Orana Group further offers all staff in the group medical insurance except in the cases where this is provided by the health service of the country in question. 4. Labour Description of Actions No Orana site will hire any form of forced labour or child labours. All sites recognize and encourage the freedom of association rights of its employees and ensure that trade unions are able to communicate openly with management regarding working conditions without the threat of reprisal, intimidation or harassment. All sites pay workers according to applicable wage laws, including minimum wages, overtime hours and mandated benefits. Measurement of Outcomes All staff in the Orana Group have the opportunity to be a member of a trade union if they so wish. Most staff are. Either in the form of external trade unions or in the form of trade unions formed by the Orana Group staff at individual sites. All Orana Group wages are as a minimum consistent with national law and prevailing industry standards. Moreover, wages are based on qualifications. Holiday, sick leave and maternity leave is also provided for in consistency with national law and UN COP Orana Group 2017-18 Page 4 of 6 21-06-19 02:52 5 prevailing industry standards. Working hours and overtime are also consistent with national law and prevailing industry standards. 5. Environment Description of Actions All sites shall comply with all applicable environmental regulations. Measurement of Outcomes The Orana Group has ensured that all required environmental permits and licenses are in place at all sites and that their reporting requirements are followed. The Orana Group has been set up a new calculator of carbon foot print measuring per ton produced for Scope 1 and Scope 2 and will start measuring in October Quarter 2018. Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from owned or controlled sources. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy. Scope 3 emissions are emissions from sources not owned or controlled by the company. It is under Scope 3 where the Orana Group is making a difference by having decentralized productions. By establishing carbon foot print measuring for Scope 1 and Scope 2, we will be able to begin assessing our impact in these areas and will be able to establish initiatives to address opportunities for improvement. A system for the safe handling, recycling, and management of waste and wastewater discharges is further implemented. 6. Anti-Corruption Description of Actions The Orana Group has a zero tolerance on corruption. All corruption, extortion, and embezzlement are prohibited. Employees are not allowed to pay or accept bribes in business or government relationships. All Orana sites shall conduct their business consistent with fair competition and in compliance with anti-trust laws. The Orana Group’s relationships with suppliers are based entirely on sound business decisions and fair dealing. Employees are not allowed to accept any gifts or entertainment. Employees are not allowed to accept or give kickbacks when obtaining or awarding contracts. Measurement of Outcomes All staff at Orana Group companies are instructed not to pay corruption or bribery in order to unjustly influence public officials or suppliers. When deemed necessary, Orana Group Management and local management teams encourage employees to go UN COP Orana Group 2017-18 Page 5 of 6 21-06-19 02:52 6 to government officials / other relevant meetings two persons at a time in order to discourage corruption and bribery. Additionally, the Orana Group has been working on the establishment of a whistleblower function on corruption across the entire Orana Group. It is expected that whistleblower function will be introduced during 2018/19 in Vietnam and then at a later stage be introduced at other Orana Group companies. -----------------------UN COP Orana Group 2017-18 Page 6 of 6 21-06-19 02:52
