TABLE OF CONTENT Message from the CEO Human Rights Labour Environment UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Anti-corruption ProData Consult fact-sheet COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com CEO STATEMENT We have been a proud member of the United Nation Global In 2018, we formulated and adopted a CSR policy, which is TABLE OF CONTENT Compact since 2014. When we joined the United Nation solely based on the ten principles. Global Compact, we incorporated the ten principles as an integrated part of our Code of Conduct. Therefore, the With this annual report, we are proud to reaffirm our Message from the CEO principles are a big part of our values and the way we run our commitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Human Rights organization. Global Compact Initiative covering Human rights, Labour, the Environment, and Anti-corruption, and we urge other Labour At ProData Consult, we acknowledge and accept the companies to do the same. responsibility that follows when you are a larger European Environment company. We take our role of contributing to our local July 17, 2019 Anti-corruption communities around Europe very seriously. Søren Rode, CEO ProData Consult fact-sheet We continuously work hard to uphold our existing initiatives taken the past years, but we also put an ongoing effort into taking new actions to abide by the ten principles. Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses internationally proclaimed human rights. Assessment, Policy, and Goals. TABLE OF CONTENT ACTIONS: Message from the CEO • The internationally proclaimed human rights are an • ProData Consult is financially supporting Amnesty Human Rights integral part of our Code of Conduct. It is a central part of International and Unicef with an annual donation. Thus, the values on which we build our company. we are directly contributing to organizations advocating Labour and working on protecting human rights. Environment • Our participation in the UN Global Compact, our Code of Conduct, and the full UN Human Rights Declaration have • Since 2016, the Code of Conduct has been a part of Anti-corruption a permanent page on our websites. our employee handbook, which is required for all new employees to read. ProData Consult fact-sheet • When you enter our office, the Code of Conduct is the first thing you see. This way we are reminded every day, which values our company is built upon. • ProData Consult has a publicly known policy of not delivering to any public administration or company abusing human rights. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME: • Our company has internal policies and processes where • No violations of human rights have any client or project potentially violating above human been detected. rights have to be approved by Management. • Thank you letters from receiving organizations, promoting and protecting human rights, were received acknowledging our donations. Expert Business & IT Consultants • More than 650 visits to our website www.prodataconsult.com page, describing the full UN Human Rights Declaration. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and The effective abolition of child labour. the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. TABLE OF CONTENT PRINCIPLE 4 PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Message from the CEO and occupation Assessment, Policy, and Goals. Human Rights Labour ACTIONS: MEASUREMENT OF Environment • ProData Consult fully supports tolerance policy on any cases of OUTCOME: Anti-corruption freedom of association, and discrimination discovered. • No instances of forced and all employees have the right to compulsory labour nor child ProData Consult fact-sheet collective bargaining. • ProData Consult welcomes a labour were detected. diverse labour force and sees • We support the elimination of all differences as strengths. We work • No cases of discrimination were forms of forced or compulsory towards having a diversified labour detected. labour. force. • Although we operate in a • ProData Consult financially • Once a year, all employees traditionally male dominated supports Unicef and thus an have an appraisal interview and business segment (IT), we have organization working on abolishing conversation with the line manager an administration with +50% child labour in all its forms. with the purpose of giving the women employed by 2019. employees the opportunity to • 35% of the management is • Non-discrimination and labour influence their own personal and female. rights are an integral part of our professional development in the Code of Conduct. company. • Two female board members (33%). • We do not discriminate due to • APV survey every second year • Declining sickness absence trend race, political or religious beliefs, or from 2015-2018. Expert Business & IT Consultants sexual observation and have a no www.prodataconsult.com • No work injuries were reported. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally environmental challenges. friendly technologies Assessment, Policy, and Goals. TABLE OF CONTENT PRINCIPLE 8 Message from the CEO Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Human Rights Labour ACTIONS: Environment • We are delivering and contributing to a large number • 100% of our purchased groceries are organic. Anti-corruption of IT projects focused around energy savings and eco-friendly technologies. This includes several large • We are encouraging reduced printing, and we consider ProData Consult fact-sheet Scandinavian energy providers and public power the environment in all outgoing mail from all employees, suppliers, thus directly contributing to and being an in all countries. instrumental partner in both the development and diffusion of new and innovative technologies directly benefitting our environment. • We have a digital contract system making our contract flow 100% paperless. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME: • Internally, we recycle all paper. • All paper is recycled. • All our major vendors are certified CO2 neutral. • An increased internal awareness about the environment and how we affect the environment in our everyday work has been created. Expert Business & IT Consultants • Two top management members are www.prodataconsult.com driving electrical cars. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. TABLE OF CONTENT Message from the CEO ACTIONS: Human Rights • Working against all forms of corruptions are an integral part of our Code of Conduct. It is a central part of the Labour values on which we build our company. Environment • We run an honest, open, and transparent company, and Anti-corruption these values are core values in our company. We only want to win business based on delivering the best quality ProData Consult fact-sheet service for the best possible price, nothing else. • All expenses related to building relations with clients and sub-contractors have to be approved by Management (CEO level). MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME: • We support Transparency International financially. • No incidents of corruption were • We advise and support our freelance business partners detected, and Management can within taxation and revision, in order to make sure they guarantee that no such incidents have abide by the tax regulation and rules. This year, we have occurred. also held an event addressing this topic. • Thank you letters from receiving organization were received acknowledging our donations. • An increased internal awareness about Expert Business & IT Consultants anti-corruption has been created. www.prodataconsult.com • An event about correct taxation and revision with more than 200 participants. PRODATA CONSULT BUSINESS AND IT CONSULTANTS ProData Consult is one of the largest independent have industry-relevant experience and possess the right skills consultancies in the Nordic region. The company is to do the job. TABLE OF CONTENT headquartered in Copenhagen, with subsidiaries in Denmark, Sweden and Norway as well as Germany, the Netherlands and ProData Consult is a consulting company characterized by Poland. competitive pricing, flexibility, quick delivery, security, and Message from the CEO stability as well as the highest standards of IT competencies. Human Rights Our extensive national and international network of business We believe cooperation and personalized service are and IT consultants enables us to identify and present the right paramount. Labour consultant for your business. We ensure that our consultants Environment Anti-corruption A GROWING CONSULTING COMPANY ProData Consult fact-sheet Founded in 1994 by IT consultants, ProData Consult is now owned by a leading group of employees and board members. The company has experienced steady growth over the years, and has continuously expanded a national and international network of consultants in Scandinavia and Europe. We deliver consistent, positive financial results. In 2018, ProData Group grossed €128 million. Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com
