Growing with purpose Sustainability Report 2018 Contents / 2 Contents 3 / Introduction 13 / Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy 47 / Materiality 4 / Message from our President and CEO 14 / 2018 Corporate Sustainability milestones 48 / Materiality process 5 / Q&A on our new Corporate Sustainability Strategy 16 / Corporate Sustainability policy 50 / Stakeholder engagement 6 / Our business: products and services 17 / Ethics and business conduct 51 / Stakeholder engagement matrix 7 / Mission, vision, and values 19 / Employees and people 8 / Global representation and value chain 24 / Diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity 54 / UN Global Compact Commitment 10 / By the numbers 29 / Nondiscrimination and compensation philosophy 57 / About this report 11 / Mergers, acquisitions, investments, and divestitures 30 / Engagement 12 / Recognition 33 / Occupational health & safety and environment 59 / GRI Index 41 / Supply chain and customer relations 43 / Supplier Code of Conduct 45 / Diverse supplier strategy Contents / 3 Message from our President and CEO Q&A on our new Corporate Sustainability Strategy Our business: products and services Mission, vision, and values Global representation and value chain By the numbers Mergers, acquisitions, investments, and divestitures Recognition Introduction Introduction / Message from our President and CEO Contents / 4 Message from our President and CEO Welcome to Growing with Purpose, transparent and competitive. To achieve these Sustainable Development Goals. While there is Kelly’s Corporate Sustainability Report goals, we have produced the Growing with much more to do in this area, Kelly’s new strategy Kelly Services® was built upon a heritage of strong Purpose sustainability report that follows, based puts us on the path to doing it. Kelly’s sustainability ethical standards and a commitment to excellence. on six strategic pillars: strategy has the potential to change business as Integrity, treating every person with respect, and • Ethics and Business Conduct usual, creating shared value for all our stakeholders. always doing the right thing have been the guiding • Employees and People We look forward to reporting to you regularly principles that have sustained our business for more • Engagement on the sustainable future we are creating as we than 70 years. It is these principles that have led continue to grow with purpose. to the success Kelly’s enjoyed for almost three• Occupational Health & Safety and Environment quarters of a century. • Supply Chain and Customer Relations In recent years, corporate sustainability strategies • Communications, Evaluation, and Reporting have continued to evolve and grow in their level of sophistication. Many strategies now include We believe our approach to sustainability will new focus areas and technology that our guiding enable us to do business in a socially responsible principles need to address. Businesses like ours manner as part of an ethical environment. For us, George Corona have come to realize that a formal corporate sustainability is a value that can be embedded President and CEO sustainability strategy will produce guidelines in our everyday work practices. As of 2019, we that create greater accountability, increase longKelly Services started supporting the UN Global Compact and term stakeholder value, as well as make us more we are committed to aligning our initiatives to its Introduction / Q&A on our new Corporate Sustainability Strategy Contents / 5 Q&A on our new Corporate Sustainability Strategy —Tim Dupree, Vice President and Managing Director, Global Service —Belen Benitez, Corporate Sustainability Lead Q1. Q2. Q3. Q4. Why did Kelly® decide to move from Corporate What were the Corporate Sustainability What are the biggest challenges you face when What outcomes are expected after Social Responsibility initiatives toward a achievements you were most proud of in 2018? implementing the Sustainability Strategy? the Corporate Sustainability Strategy Corporate Sustainability Strategy? What was the implementation, short and long term? case for change? I am most proud of the level of commitment that There are several challenges involved when we have been able to achieve across all levels implementing a Corporate Sustainability Strategy. We truly believe that connecting people to work in It was based on the need to ensure that the of the company in response to the Corporate Our industry has a huge opportunity to make a ways that enrich their lives is Kelly’s purpose. To do investments we are making as a company are Sustainability changes we introduced in 2018. social impact and that is our main focus, while so, we need to be coherent and socially responsible aligned to our long-term strategy. Sustainability is We have established a Sustainability Governance still addressing environmental improvement in all ways possible. Therefore, our short-term goals intended to create long-term value across multiple team who is actively engaged in aligning our opportunities. There is a learning curve involved in involve making sure Kelly is not only compliant, dimensions—social, economic, environmental, policies to our strategy, as well as making business this process: business units need to understand how but also a leader in good, sustainable practices and cultural. We want to ensure that the business decisions that integrate sustainability as a company their job connects to our sustainable performance internally. In the long term, we aim to be a reference decisions we make every day are proactively value. Our initiatives reflect our commitment and also the importance of collaborative work with point in our industry for sustainable performance— aligned to our noble purpose and business and are coherent with our sustainable proposal. other areas of the organization. We are part of the addressing environmental, social, and economic strategy. As a result of our more proactive and For example, we have introduced Engage—our supply chain of 20,000+ companies worldwide, so challenges in the most responsible manner, while disciplined approach, we will be able to clearly new volunteer program where our employees we need to create shared value for our customers creating a positive impact for society and the planet. focus on ensuring compliance to our sustainability can take paid personal time to volunteer in in ways that are also aligned to their own business commitments with transparency to our clients, their communities—which shares know-how in strategies. Therefore, we must be proactive shareholders, and employees. alignment with our company’s strategic pillars, while and demonstrate that Kelly is, by all means, a addressing community needs. sustainable business partner. Introduction / Our business: products and services Contents / 6 Our business: products and services As the founder of the staffing industry, Kelly workforce solutions leader—delivering expertise In addition, we provide comprehensive workforce has been connecting great people and great in a number of specialty services across education, management solutions globally to help many of companies for the past seven decades. Small engineering, IT, finance, science, and beyond. the world’s largest companies plan, attract, and and large businesses alike trust our expertise in These specialty services complement our expertise manage their workforce through our outsourcing providing solutions that span the entire spectrum of in staffing for administrative/office clerical, contact and consulting group KellyOCG®—including staffing, outsourcing, and consulting. We’re always center, and light industrial and electronic assembly. customized contingent, recruitment, and business thinking about and defining what’s next in the Kelly supports a wide spectrum of industries; process outsourcing solutions. Additional evolving world of work, and we help people ditch however, our main focus is on energy, life sciences, innovative solutions extend from talent advisory to the script on old ways of thinking and embrace the consumer brands, industrial/manufacturing, and career transition services. value of all workstyles in the workplace. financial services/insurance. We support both public and private companies; local, state, provincial, Over the past several decades, we have progressed territory, and federal government; school districts; from a United States-based company concentrating and organizations of all sizes—from Fortune 100 primarily on traditional office staffing into a companies to small, local businesses. Introduction / Mission, vision, and values Contents / 7 Mission, vision, and values Our business is focused on improving the lives Our vision Our values of our employees, our clients, our suppliers’ To provide the world’s best workforce solutions. Collectively and individually, we are judged by OUR REVITALIZED BRAND employees, their families, and the communities the return we provide to our shareholders and Late in 2018, Kelly introduced our revitalized where we live and work. After all, the future of work Our character stakeholders. We wish to include the following brand identity with the tagline: What’s Next. This is really about the future of humankind. We are the authentic founders of the industry. We values as part of that return: identity signals that we will boldly approach the believe in relationships, not transactions. We value future of work, while championing nontraditional/ • We are personally responsible for our actions, teamwork, realizing that we are stronger together independent workers and workstyles and their outcomes, and reputation. than as individuals. We take the promises we value in the modern workplace. make seriously. We are passionate, dedicated, • We build strong relationships and create Kelly and driven to excel. With us it has never been advocates for life. about being the biggest. It has always been • We own and resolve customer and candidate about being the best and doing the right thing. issues with urgency. At our core, we are a community. Each day we • We treat every customer, employee, and supplier welcome into our community the varied talents with respect and integrity. of all people who embrace our culture of service, teamwork, and integrity. We offer the opportunity • We continuously seek opportunities to innovate to work with the best companies in the world, and and improve the Kelly experience. to make a difference in the communities in which we live and work. Introduction / Global representation and value chain Contents / 8 Global representation investments, and value chain Our operations are divided into three principal Group segments into a single delivery organization, meet customer needs across the entire spectrum business segments: Americas Staffing, Global triggering a change in our operating structure. We of talent categories. Using talent supply chain Talent Solutions (GTS), and International Staffing. now provide staffing through our branch networks discipline, GTS helps customers design, execute, In July 2016, we expanded our joint venture with in our Americas and International operations, with and manage workforce programs that enable them Persol Holdings (formerly Temp Holdings) to form commercial and specialized professional/technical to connect with talent across all workstyles (fullPersolKelly Asia Pacific (the JV) and moved our staffing businesses in each region. time, contract, temporary, etc.), gaining access to a APAC staffing operations into the JV. vast network of service providers—achieving their We also provide a suite of innovative talent business goals on time and on budget. In early 2017, we restructured components of our fulfillment and outcome-based solutions through previous Americas Commercial, Americas Professional our Global Talent Solutions (GTS) segment, which and Technical, and Outsourcing and Consulting delivers integrated talent management solutions to Introduction / Global representation and value chain Contents / 9 Kelly global footprint AMERICAS EMEA APAC* Temporary Staffing Argentina Angola Libya Australia Business and Professional Services Brazil Armenia Luxembourg China Managed Service Provider Canada Austria Netherlands Hong Kong Recruitment Process Outsourcing Colombia Belgium Norway India Costa Rica Croatia Oman Indonesia * Temporary staffing serviced through PERSOLKELLY, Joint Venture with PERSOL Mexico Czech Republic Poland Japan Group, or strategic partners Puerto Rico Denmark Portugal Malaysia Trinidad and Tobago France Russia New Zealand United States Georgia Saudi Arabia Philippines Germany Spain Singapore Hungary Sweden South Korea Iraq Switzerland Taiwan Ireland Turkey Thailand Israel United Arab Emirates Vietnam Italy United Kingdom Kazakhstan Ukraine Introduction / By the numbers Contents / 10 By the numbers Kelly has approximately 1,200 employees at its We have a worldwide presence in 55 countries. We occupy a leading position in the K-12 Gross profit: 17.6% corporate headquarters in Troy, Michigan, and educational staffing market in the U.S. approximately 7,900 employees throughout our global network. Kelly provided employment to more than We rank as one of the world’s largest scientific 2018 revenue: $5.58 billion 500,000 in 2018. staffing providers in markets where we operate. Introduction / Mergers, acquisitions, investments, and divestitures Contents / 11 Mergers, acquisitions, investments, and divestitures Acquisitions 2017 Acquisitions 2018 Divestitures Teachers On Call NEXTGEN In April 2018, we sold Kelly Healthcare Resources A provider of substitute teacher staffing services A leading provider of telecommunications, to InGenesis®. In December 2018, Kelly Legal for K – 12 public, private, and charter schools, and wireless, and connected technology staffing Managed Services was sold to Trustpoint One. early child care centers. The acquisition further solutions to Fortune 500® companies, that would Resources from the sale supported investment in expands Kelly’s leadership position in the K – 12 support the meeting of challenges in the everother areas in which Kelly specializes. market, where Kelly Educational Staffing® (KES®) is changing tech landscape for our clients across the the largest provider of substitute staff across the U.S. and selected global markets. Investments U.S., filling more than 2.8 million classrooms in In June 2018, the Kelly Innovation Fund invested the last school year and servicing more than 7,000 GTA in Kenzie Academy, a tech apprenticeship program schools across 35 states. A leading provider of engineering, technology, that develops modern tech workers. In August business consulting, and software solutions and 2018, Kelly invested in Business Talent Group, services for the telecommunication industry. a U.S.-based marketplace that connects highly skilled independent talent to some of the world’s largest companies. Introduction / Recognition Contents / 12 Recognition • KellyOCG was recognized as best of the • Human Resources vendor of the year 2018. • Kelly is named among Forbes’ list of America’s best by IAOP®. IAOP’s The Best of The Global KellyOCG in Malaysia and in Singapore both best recruiting firms for 2018. Outsourcing 100® list recognizes the world’s received the Gold level award in the category of best outsourcing service providers, with this Best Recruitment Process Outsourcing Partner as • Intel® Supplier Continuous Quality year’s list a culmination of the very best from the a Human Resources Vendor of the Year for 2018. Improvement awards. KellyOCG received the last ten years. This is the third year in a row for KellyOCG in Intel SCQI award for Supplier Achievement. Malaysia to place at the Gold level, and the first • America’s top corporations for women’s • Women’s Business Enterprises National year for KellyOCG in Singapore. business enterprises (WBES) awards, Council (WBENC) named Kelly to its 18th annual recognizing corporations that have • Michigan Minority Supplier Diversity Council list of America’s top corporations for Women’s demonstrated a sustained commitment to the (MMSDC) Ace Awards. Kelly was recognized by Business Enterprises (WBES). inclusion of female-owned businesses in their the Michigan Minority Supplier Diversity Council supply chain. as a 2018 ACE Awards recipient in two categories: “Corporation of the Year” Professional Services, • Kelly was named to Flexjobs® 2018. For the the ninth time in 10 years; and our Principal for sixth year in a row, we have been named as a top Global Diversity Solutions, Brenda Marshall, was 100 company for remote work, earning the #8 awarded National “Corporate Advocate” of the spot on the list. Year for the second consecutive year. Contents / 13 2018 Corporate Sustainability milestones Corporate Sustainability policy Ethics and business conduct Employees and people Diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity Nondiscrimination and compensation philosophy Engagement Occupational health & safety and environment Supply chain and customer relations Supplier Code of Conduct Diverse supplier strategy Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / 2018 Corporate Sustainability milestones Contents / 14 2018 Corporate Sustainability milestones Transition from Corporate Social Materiality assessment with We hired 8,094 veterans. 700+ employees participating in our Responsibility responsive program participation of 238 internal and corporate volunteering program. toward a Corporate Sustainability external stakeholders across This represents 5,000+ hours of Strategy. 10+ countries where the service to their local community. company operates. KellyConnect® has engaged approximately 400 individuals with Corporate Sustainability disabilities for work opportunities. $142,000 contributed to Strategy aligned to the Global We conducted our first formal social causes. Sustainable Goals. stakeholder engagement to validate our material topics, understand their main concerns, and align our Our Leadership in Action program Corporate Sustainability initiatives 100 tons of material recycled. reached approximately 800 100% of suppliers committed to our to respond more effective to their participants—designed to develop Code of Business Conduct. issues and concerns. and build our internal talent community. Diverse supplier programs generated $1+ billion in investments that help them contribute to economic sustainability in minority communities. Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / 2018 Corporate Sustainability milestones Contents / 15 Kelly has always embodied the true spirit of corporate social responsibility, and we are for implementing internal actions toward these ends. These guidelines provide procedures and Transition from Corporate Social committed to the highest standards of corporate tools to ensure the applicability of the strategy on a Responsibility responsive programs toward citizenship. Our culture and values are rooted in service, integrity, and taking personal responsibility worldwide basis—guaranteeing the same standards, metrics, and objectives for all our operations. a Corporate Sustainability Strategy for our actions, outcomes, and reputation. This strategy has been developed with Since 2017, we embarked on a transformation consideration given to the perceptions of our January Feb. – May July January February from historically reactive Corporate Social stakeholders, as well as its impact on business 2018 2018 2018 2019 2019 Responsibility initiatives, toward a long-term operations. In early 2018, we conducted a Corporate Sustainability Strategy aligned to our material assessment that helped us define business core which contributes to the Sustainable the policies and guidelines of our Corporate Materiality Corporate Corporate Engage Kelly Services, Inc. Development Goals. Responsibility Strategy. This helped us identify assessment Sustainability Sustainability program joins the United the main concerns and actions on which we need Strategy design Strategy launch Nations Global This new sustainability approach, rather than being and planning implementation Compact to focus: namely, to support the Triple Bottom philanthropic, is strategic to our business values. Line* of our business model, and to respond more It is based on the concept of social investment, effectively to stakeholders. which, instead of aiding on isolated occasions, ensures the creation of future development Permanent monitoring of this strategy will be capacities. We aim to guide all our subsidiaries and conducted on an annual basis by means of an collaborators in the planning, management, and interdisciplinary perspective assessment involving implementation of sustainable strategic approaches cross-functional areas within the company. Progress in that create measured and impactful shared value to our Corporate Sustainability Strategy will be reported all our stakeholders. on an annual basis through the Global Reporting Initiative Standard (GRI), and Communications of Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy is defined Progress (following the UN Global Compact), which as an initial two-year, integrated decision-making was signed in February 2019. strategy that provides comprehensive guidelines *The Triple Bottom Line (TBL) is a concept that includes social and environmental considerations to the business model in addition to the financial ones. It measures a company’s degree of social responsibility, its economic value, and its environmental impact. Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Corporate Sustainability policy Contents / 16 Corporate Sustainability policy We consider sustainability to be a guiding principle in strengthening the relationship with our Corporate Sustainability Strategy global workforce, suppliers, and customers. As a Kelly’s corporate sustainability commitments are built around six pillars: leading provider of global workforce solutions, we connect people with employment opportunities and make a difference in the communities in Ethics and business which we live and work. Through our programs conduct and initiatives, we seek to contribute to improving Co the quality of life of our employees, their families, ev mmu an alu ni es ye le as well as the communities in which we operate. Given the worldwide span of our workers, clients, rep atio catio plo op or n, a n, Em pe suppliers, and partners, we recognize the global tin nd reach of both our business practices and our public accountability. g Corporate d Sustainability d an s Strategy nt ain ion me ch at ly rel ge pp er ga Su tom En s cu OH&S and environment Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Ethics and business conduct Contents / 17 Ethics and business conduct Kelly is committed to doing the right thing, monitoring and communicating environmentally Employees must comply with the Code and conducting ourselves in a legal, ethical, and and socially relevant topics, and for creating conduct themselves in a legal and ethical manner. trustworthy manner, strictly upholding our strategies to address them timely and appropriately. They are also responsible for ensuring that our regulatory obligations in every country in which suppliers, agents, and representatives are aware we operate, and complying with both the letter Kelly complies with the listing standards of the of their obligations to do the same. The Code of and spirit of our business policies and values. Nasdaq® Global Market pertaining to controlled Conduct is reviewed and benchmarked annually Our commitment is to remain accountable for our companies. Our Board of Directors, management, to adjust it against best-in-class performers and actions and to our goals. and the Kelly company are judged by the return business requirements. provided to shareholders. Governance We do not tolerate any form of unethical behavior. Our Board of Directors is responsible for leading Diversity and inclusion are important to us and we We have implemented a reporting system, allowing effective governance over the affairs of the company, expect to lead operations throughout our business employees at all levels, as well as suppliers, to for the benefit of all our stakeholders. They are based on these principles. Diverse representation in report any wrongdoing anonymously and conduct committed to acting in good faith, on an informed our board is important to ensure a better decisioninvestigations when required. This reporting system basis, maintaining an honest belief that their decisions making process. Kelly has nine directors: three is administered by an independent third party. are made in the best interest of the company. of which are female, and six are male. Two of our directors are ethnically diverse. Kelly places great value in our partnerships; we Our principles of corporate governance provide expect and require ethical behavior from our partners. a framework of responsibilities and procedures Code of Business Conduct and Ethics We have spent considerable effort developing a vast that guide the management of the Board. These The Board of Directors has adopted a Code of global network of partnering suppliers that work principles, which are reviewed regularly, relate to Business Conduct and Ethics, applicable to all on a daily basis to support their client programs the qualifications of our director, the criteria for employees at all levels, and at all locations of worldwide. This supplier network is one of our independent directors, the size of our board, tenure, employment. The Code is intended to help all company’s strongest competitive advantages as well planning for succession, compensation, and more. employees and collaborators identify and resolve as one of our greatest responsibilities. ethical issues, deter wrongdoing, and to provide The Sustainability Governance team is responsible mechanisms to report dishonest or unethical for structuring and overseeing the Corporate conduct, as well as fostering a culture of honesty Sustainability Strategy. This team is responsible for and accountability. Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Ethics and business conduct Contents / 18 Suppliers that work with us trust us to treat them • Anti-bribery/anti-corruption: All Kelly employees • Confidential and customer data privacy: fairly and help them grow their businesses, and in are subject to anti-bribery/anti-corruption policies With each form of new technology, there is an return we have developed a set of ethical conduct and have an obligation to comply with the U.S. increasing awareness of the need to ensure how and business standards that we encourage all our Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) as well as to confidentiality and personal data are managed and partners and suppliers around the globe to meet. all other country-specific anti-bribery and antiprotected. This is especially true for companies These standards are stated in our Supplier Code of corruption laws. Employees may not give, promise, such as Kelly, which have access to large volumes Conduct, covering topics related to ethical business or offer anything—no matter how small in value—to of personal data from our employees, customers, conduct, employees and people, human rights, and any customer, government employee, or other suppliers, and other stakeholders. In 2018, we environmental sustainability. It is mandatory that all person for the purpose of improperly influencing implemented a standardized procedure order to suppliers adhere to the Supplier Code of Conduct, a decision, securing an advantage, avoiding a comply with General Data Protection Regulation and to recommit to it prior to taking on a new disadvantage, or obtaining or retaining business. standards (GDPR). We communicated those assigned task. Each employee is required to annually certify procedures through obligatory trainings to all compliance with the principles outlined in the code our employees and have amended the Supplier Kelly Code of Business Conduct addresses areas as well as participate in FCPA and anti-bribery/antiCode of Conduct with a statement regarding the such as: corruption training each year. GDPR Data Privacy Agreement. This document is • Conflicts of interest: Occur when a Kelly mandatory to all our workforce solution suppliers. employee’s individual private interest interferes with, or appears to interfere in any way, with the interests of the company. Employees are responsible for avoiding such conflicts and to communicate any such situation in a timely manner. Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Employees and people Contents / 19 Employees and people We take seriously our responsibilities to protect, support, and prepare workers for successful careers their lives—whether it is building upon their existing expertise, learning new skills, or getting New employee hires in 2018 (U.S.) and to advocate on their behalf. Our efforts are a new opportunity with an admired company. Full-time internal employees / Total hires: 1,179 focused on providing career opportunities and Our commitment to people, in turn, drives our resources to the global workforce, and to lead obligation to social responsibility. BY AGE Under 30 30 – 50 Over 50 by example in areas such as workplace safety, Kelly maintains a number of initiatives that ensure 34% 53% 13% health, wellness, diversity, inclusion, and training and development. We believe in opportunity for our working conditions and promote our principles all and are steadfast in our commitment to equal of good corporate citizenship in all our operations employment opportunity, the protection of human worldwide. BY GENDER Male Female rights, and the prevention of human trafficking. 32% 68% Working/labor conditions At Kelly—by the very nature of what we do— Our workforce is the most important asset of talent is truly our business. No matter which our business. We have implemented worldwide industry or client we are serving, our business standards to guarantee fair business practices along hinges on delivering the best talent and skills. our supply chain, and we have the responsibility Since many companies allocate nearly 60 percent to provide our workers with benefits and resources Employee turnover rate in 2018 (U.S.) of their expense to talent, our partnerships with they need to grow. We are proudly ranked in the Total employees: 1,192 customers offer a critical resource through ongoing top five percent of the supplier’s assessment by consultation and real-time workforce strategies. EcoVadis regarding fair business practices. Under 30 30 – 50 Over 50 BY AGE Kelly provides employment opportunities to 20.5% 58% 21.5% more than 500,000 individuals around the globe. Our goal with these workers is to enrich BY GENDER Male Female 33% 67% Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Employees and people Contents / 20 Number of employees in 2018, globally Employment in 2018, in Americas Employed by contract, including permanent and temporary BY GENDER Male Female BY REGION Americas EMEA APAC 86% 70% 25% 75% 25% 14% 5% Permanent employees: 7,729 Temporary employees: 556,000 NOTE: Excludes employees of the PERSOLKELLY joint venture Full-time employees BY GENDER, in the U.S. Male Female Full-time internal employees Total 4,693 30% 70% Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Employees and people Contents / 21 Standard benefits Parental leave Return to work and retention rates We provide additional standard benefits for all our full-time employees, including: life insurance; In 2018, our employees benefited from our paid parental leave program in the U.S. BY GENDER Male Female retirement plans; paid holiday, time off and sick days; paid parental leave; disability income: basic BY GENDER Male Female and supplemental; group term life and accidental death and dismemberment; business travel 10% 90% accident plan; health savings account; health care spending; dependent care spending; transportation Participated in parental leave program: 60 employees 83% 93% spending; vacation purchase; voluntary legal plan; educational assistance; employee assistance program; bereavement; paid volunteer day; employee discount program; and group home and Returned to work after Returned to work after auto program. taking parental leave taking parental leave Kelly’s leadership ranks are 67% 63% 53% female. Retention rate Retention rate (still employed) (still employed) Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Employees and people Contents / 22 Human rights with our partners and suppliers to guarantee our compliance with all applicable child labor laws— bargaining and social dialogue. All employees Kelly has a global commitment to protect its labor practices and working standards which are including those relating to minimum age limits, shall be free to join, or to refrain from joining, employees and candidates against any type of attached to our Supplier Code of Conduct. limitations of working hours, and prohibition trade unions or similar external representative trafficking and will not partner with any organization against certain types of work—are mandatory. organizations. However, Kelly has not identified a Human trafficking and slavery Kelly understands that opportunities may arise unionist workers’ association within the company, that condones or has practiced any type of human trafficking. We have stated our commitment to Kelly does not and will not permit its employees, for the placement of minors under the age of 18 nor in the industry. addressing this issue through our Human Trafficking subcontractors, vendors, suppliers, or other entities and has therefore implemented a policy to ensure doing business with Kelly to engage in any form its compliance with federal labor law and OSHA Kelly respects the rights of all employees to engage Policy Statement, Code of Business Conduct and of human trafficking or modern slavery. We have regulations. This policy is extended to all countries in protected activities, including those of freedom Ethics, and the UK Modern Slavery Transparency communicated specific guidelines on actions that of operation and respects all internationally of association and collective bargaining. Employees Act statement. Kelly also conducts annual quality may be considered as human trafficking and slavery proclaimed human rights. may engage in activities without fear of intimidation audits to confirm and reinforce our regulatory and that we do not accept under any circumstance. or reprisal, in accordance with applicable law. corporate policy obligations related to compliance In the U.S., Kelly complies with laws in all 50 states, Kelly believes in its policies and procedures, which with the principles of human rights. Kelly prohibits retaliation against anyone who files including the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, encourage employees to work with their Kelly Forced or compulsory labor a complaint or reports a suspected violation of this as well as federal laws regarding the employment representative to problem-solve potential disputes. policy. Any employee or other party who violates of minors. Kelly thoroughly vets its placement of Kelly has a zero-tolerance policy against any form or this policy will be subject to appropriate discipline minors and does not permit them to be placed in human trafficking or related activities, including any by Kelly, including, but not limited to, disclosure of certain high-risk jobs, including manufacturing and form of unlawful employee harassment, retaliation, the violation to government officials, when required warehouse positions. forced or compulsory labor, sex trafficking, child by law or contract, and immediate termination. labor, or any type of debt peonage. Freedom of association and Child labor collective bargaining Kelly employs approximately 7,900 employees with whom it has an “at-will” employment relationship. Our Code of Business Conduct and the Supplier Kelly states that partners and suppliers should Our talent supply chain spans 55 countries across Code of Conduct state that in our business recognize the need to guarantee the right to six continents, in which we have worked together practices, as well as in our partners and suppliers, freedom of association and to promote collective Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Employees and people Contents / 23 Career development opportunities • Some of the available training opportunities in • Currently, KLC also offers a “My Career” program, and training KLC are: which provides management tools to help design As a global employer, we play a major role in SHRM Certification Program for selected business and career goals, as well as offering a building future talent and shaping a diverse Partnered Staffing employees framework for the exchange of feedback. The workforce that effectively responds to workforce program, as well as its objectives, is evaluated PMP Certification training in the learning annually by managers and their team members. trends and opportunities in all industries where we management system and a study session led However, for 2019, in conjunction with updated operate. We are committed to providing today’s by Kelly project management professionals competencies, we expect to improve our talent with the resources and support tools necessary to advance their careers and work opportunities. Six Sigma Certification training curricula platform and intend to track and measure regular (Yellow, Green, and Black Belt) performance and career development reviews The Kelly Learning Center (KLC) provides a using a more formal and homogeneous process. AGILE training is offered learning platform that offers employees the ability to enroll in virtual instructor-led courses, web-based Leadership Development program, offering training, and videos/seminars to enable employees training on how to become a leader and to learn and grow. This online learning community is enhance leadership skills, offers experiential available for free to all employees, which consists of training, and learning from the framework of a range of topics in which we constantly encourage others employees to participate. The participation of our Leadership Learning Circles, focusing on employees in the KLC is as follows: specific leader skills, such as inclusion • Approximately 19 hours of training per employee. For promoted employees and new hires in the first 90 days: new leader training program Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued employability as well as the management of career terminations due to retirement or other causes Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity Contents / 24 Diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity Our diversity and inclusion (D&I) approach is a multidimensional strategy across emerging and 2018 diverse impact summary mature markets to maximize business results and create opportunities in underrepresented $1+ billion 81% workforces. This strategy covers supplier diversity, workforce diversity, and workplace diversity. Diverse supplier programs generated $1+ billion in Diverse spend in STEM, operating in business investments that help them contribute to economic professional categories (science, technology, Today, we have a diverse workforce of more than sustainability in minority communities engineering, and mathematics), yields a greater ROI half a million employees globally. It is important to us that our workforce reflects the diverse regions, industries, and customers that we serve. 27,000+ hires from 500 diverse suppliers Kelly’s investment in D&I began in 1979 and diverse suppliers An inclusive sourcing strategy ensures business has evolved to become a key component of our The economic impact of diversity goes beyond opportunities where diverse suppliers can compete business strategy with the formation of the D&I spend and extends to job creation in the on a level playing field Executive Council in 2003 (formerly SDAC). community Left to Right: Duane M. Green, Director, Diversity & Inclusion; Hannah Lim-Johnson, Chief Legal Counsel; and Brenda Marshall, Principal, Global Diversity Solutions. Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity Contents / 25 We offer a variety of specialized programs to day, 600 per month, and 7,200 per year. In 2018, program, which matches those who have served in promote talent and address the unique needs and capabilities of the disabled, minority groups, Kelly hired 8,094 veterans. the National Guard and any of the Reserves to jobs and careers. In 2018, Kelly hired women entrepreneurs, military members and their families, young people, and the semi-retired. Kelly Veteran Employment and Transition Services (KVETS): our in-house recruiting program that aligns Kelly is committed to complying with the U.S. 8,094 veterans. the military experience and skills of veterans to Americans with Disabilities Act and similar Support for military veterans. While many learned customer-defined requirements. regulations around the world. We value having skills and tools for success are industry-specific, a diverse population of employees, which some highly valued traits are universally sought Government solutions team: made up primarily includes employing and accommodating those across a variety of industries and occupations. of veterans, this team seeks to match veterans with with disabilities and creating opportunities for Our clients seek universally accepted attributes open positions. Ninety-five percent of the team’s everyone to contribute their unique skills to our such as leadership, adaptability, problem-solving, time is dedicated to recruiting service members, company for the benefit of our customers. We also dependability, and persistence. These are often key veterans, and military spouses—both with and maintain relationships with vocational rehabilitation attributes of current and former members of the without security clearance. organizations, professional networking associations armed services. that support the disabilities community, as well as U.S. Military Pipeline: a cloud-based solution partnerships with government or publicly funded To match those traits with job opportunities, we enabling veterans to locate jobs after fulfilling their disability resource programs. have created multiple initiatives to engage with military duties, allowing them to create candidate U.S. veterans, current reservists, and military profiles that can be matched with employment spouses. On average, Kelly hires 20 veterans per opportunities within our customer base. The U.S. Military Pipeline also feeds into the Hero2Hired Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity Contents / 26 Women in Leadership: Kelly was founded in 1946, including recognition on the Michigan Women’s better equipped to deliver strong results. Through at a time when women were beginning to enter the Leadership Index (a biennial snapshot on the status all of our initiatives, LIA strives to execute Kelly’s LIA’S EVENTS, 2018: workforce in large numbers. The introduction of of women at the highest levels of governance in business strategy while exhibiting the company’s • June 22, 2018 the “Kelly Girl” was the first true recognition of the Michigan’s largest 100 publicly traded companies). vision, values, and character. Getting to Know InForum free-agent principle. Husbands and sons had left LIA: Our commitment to leadership development Currently, LIA has 798 participants (499 females and 247 participants to fight a war, leaving women to make ends meet financially. We recognized this trend, providing is further exemplified in our Leadership in Action 299 males). In 2018, LIA has initiated a relationship • June 27, 2018 opportunities for women to earn an income (LIA) business resource group. LIA was originally between Kelly and Best Buddies; solidified an Connecting People to Work in Ways that Enrich and balance their commitments outside of the formed over 10 years ago with a goal of helping already existing relationship between InForum® and their Lives workplace—a commitment that continues today. to support the advancement of women into higher Kelly; was one of strategic sponsors for the HAVEN 301 participants levels of leadership. In the last few years, LIA’s clothing drive; and initiated the internal Inclusive In 2016, more than 50 percent of our temporary purpose has evolved into fostering an environment Leader training, as well as Learning Circles, Mentor • October 9, 2018 employee base in North America was made up that is inclusive of all employees, where leaders programs, and intimate professional development Corporate Sustainability: how Kelly is creating of women, many of whom look to Kelly to help can thrive and achieve personal growth, while sessions for Council members; a book club shared value in a sustainable business model advance their careers. Our operations also reflect positively impacting Kelly’s business results. At session facilitated by highest-ranking Kelly female 296 participants the growing role of women in the workforce: LIA, we are committed to creating an environment executive, Teresa Carroll, “How Women Rise”; and women hold more than 40 percent of leadership where leaders can achieve success by following our a professional development session “Unconscious • Annual LIA planning session positions at the global senior vice president level purpose of Leaders Lifting Leaders. Bias,” facilitated by Naticia Montgomery, director of and above. Additionally, 30 percent of our board organizational effectiveness. • Quarterly LIA Steering Committee meetings of directors is female. In fact, our efforts to recruit, LIA’s mission: We are dedicated to helping prepare retain, and promote women leaders have resulted and develop Kelly’s current and future men and • Monthly LIA board meetings in being recognized with a variety of honors, women leaders, knowing that strong leaders are Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity Contents / 27 Diversity and inclusion affiliations COUNCIL OF SUPPLIER DIVERSITY PROFESSIONALS Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity Contents / 28 2018 diversity and inclusion awards and recognition • Nissan® – Supplier Diversity • Women’s Enterprise USA Top 100 Leaders in Supplier Diversity • Baxter – Supplier Diversity ® 2014 – 2018 • Michigan Minority Supplier Development Council • Minority Business News USA Best of – Corporation of the Year Professional Services the Decade 2000, 2003, 2009 – 2014, 2016, 2017, 2018 • “100%” Corporate Equality Index • Women Business Enterprise National Council – 2018 Top Corporation 2009 – 2018 • “Bronze” Military Friendly® Employer from GI Jobs • Great Lakes Women Business Council – 2017 – 2018 Excellence in Supplier Diversity • Intel Supplier Diversity Award 2018 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Nondiscrimination and compensation philosophy Contents / 29 Nondiscrimination and compensation philosophy Kelly has implemented formal internal policies to guarantee its commitment to nondiscriminatory compensation practices. It’s the foundation for all Kelly total rewards programs and it illustrates our Kelly’s total rewards framework practices and an equal employment opportunity ongoing commitment to pay equity and a Pay for Composed of five key components: workplace. Our business practices ensure equal Performance culture. employment in recruitment, selection, training, compensation, promotion, job transfer, and It is applied using internal guidelines based on assignments. factors such as: roles and responsibilities; employee performance, skills, experience, and qualifications; These opportunities, as well as other conditions, external benchmarking; internal equity; and Base salary are communicated in our affirmative action policy, geographical location. which states that all qualified applicants and employees enjoy the same right to employment Kelly’s total rewards framework is designed to and advancement opportunities, irrespective of attract and retain talent; provide differentiated Relational Skills Knowledge race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin, sexual rewards to recognize key talent; provide marketShort-term rewards and competitive and equitable compensation; align incentives orientation, disability, veteran status, or any other recognition category under applicable laws. with the budget and financial performance of the company and business segments; and apply fair Our Global Compensation Philosophy sets internal and equitable pay practices. policies to guarantee equitable compensation to all our employees. The philosophy formalizes This is an important step in our ongoing effort to and enhances the transparency of our current advocate for our employees and create programs and tools that reinforce our value as a destination for top talent. Benefits and Long-term Performance Experience employee incentives well-being equity/stock Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Engagement Contents / 30 Engagement Kelly understands that it takes all of us working • HAVEN: Kelly partnered with HAVEN to provide of people with developmental disabilities do together to truly make an impact in the career preparation support and mentoring to not have a paid job in the community. Having communities where we live and work. We partner HAVEN clients through our trained volunteers. a more robust inclusion program for those with with local organizations to improve lives and HAVEN is the only comprehensive program for disabilities will enable them to become financially society as a whole by engaging in activities such as victims of domestic violence and sexual assault independent through their own efforts and will community service, social investment, and support in Oakland County, Michigan. The organization remove the need for government reliance or for small or disadvantaged businesses, as well as provides shelter, counseling, advocacy, and parental support. minorities and women. educational programming to nearly 20,000 people each year. Kelly’s goal is to enable COMPASS will be launched in the Detroit We also seek to engage with workforce suppliers HAVEN’s survivors to boost their confidence and Territory and Troy, Michigan, as a pilot that aims who operate under socially responsible business achieve financial independence. We want them to benefit people with IDD in early 2019. Later in practices, adhering to the professional code to walk away with actionable skills they can use to 2019, this strategy will deploy a U.S. nationwide of conduct outlined by the World Employment conduct a job search, participate in an interview, outreach and share best practices to support our Confederation. etc., as these are important next steps in the efforts in delivering a more inclusive workforce journey to financial independence. and enable people with this condition to become Community outreach financially independent. To date, KellyConnect Our engagement pillar supports our stakeholders’ • COMPASS: This partnership between Kelly has approximately 400 individuals with disabilities main needs and interests in their community and and Best Buddies was established to create a working on their programs. Questions about the contributes to a stronger sense of commitment to sustainable employment model for individuals program can be sent to Jennifer Dollar: our core business values by our employees. Our with Intellectual Development Disabilities (IDD), dollaje@kellyservices.com. purpose is to create a significant shared value while fortifying Kelly’s commitment to social through sustainable investment in our communities inclusion and development. Through Kelly’s and our society. Kelly also supports several largeconstant evaluation and research processes, we scale, national organizations. have determined that approximately 80 percent Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Engagement Contents / 31 • Future Scientists Program and Scholarship: • March of Dimes: March of Dimes is a U.S. owner-occupied homes, and mobilizing 10,000 This program matches hundreds of college nonprofit organization that works to improve the volunteers to beautify 300 city blocks in six days. students each year with science internships in health of mothers and babies. Through several Every phase is about people transformation, companies within chemical, pharmaceutical, fundraising activities such as jeans days, VIP those served, and those who are serving. In 2018, and biotechnology industries. We awarded parking spots, 50/50 raffle tickets, auctions, and a more than 120 Kelly employees from HQ and the three scholarships in 2018 to the interns who walk, we raised approximately $52,000. Detroit Territory volunteered nearly 1,000 hours. wrote the strongest essays on contemporary science topics. Since the program’s inception • United Way: Kelly has a 40-year relationship with ENGAGE: our corporate volunteering program in 2000, we have awarded 81 scholarships and United Way, an organization engaged in nearly Our employees actively participate in multiple placed more than 7,200 interns on projects in 1,800 communities across more than 40 countries volunteer activities that support their commitment biomanufacturing, quality control field research and territories worldwide. They are focused on in initiatives, focusing on three main areas: studies, biology, and biochemistry. creating community-based and community-led • Diversity and inclusion solutions that strengthen the cornerstones for a • Future Engineers Program and Scholarship: good quality of life through education, financial • Talent, skills, and training for labor We support and reward the enthusiasm and stability, and health. • Vulnerable communities and workforce reinsertion dedication of thousands of engineering students in the U.S. and Canada by providing a $5,000 • LIFE REMODELED: Life Remodeled exists Kelly has implemented the philosophy of the scholarship annually to a secondor third-year to bridge people across divides in order to Engage program to provide guidelines and college engineering student. The award is help transform each other’s lives—investing responsibilities to employees who participate in provided based on a written essay, outstanding approximately $5 million in resources into one volunteer initiatives in their communities. We also academic performance, and demonstrated Detroit neighborhood each year. Projects are offer our employees up to eight paid hours for their potential for a career in engineering. determined by the community’s needs and participation in volunteer efforts to encourage all vision. Life Remodeled partners assist in three employees to give back to their local communities. areas: remodeling a community asset, repairing Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Engagement Contents / 32 Disaster recovery experiencing any type of disruption. Key We have also developed the Kelly Relief Fund—a Kelly has developed a risk management program components of the programs include: nonprofit 501(c)3 organization, established after in order to be prepared to respond as quickly • Global incident monitoring: Kelly invests in Hurricane Katrina—which provides short-term and effectively as possible to situations such as state-of-the-art technology solutions that enable financial assistance to Kelly’s regular staff and natural disasters, safety and security concerns, and us to globally track and monitor crisis events that temporary employees who have been severely changing business conditions. These situations may may affect our employees and assets. impacted by natural and manmade disasters such be critical to the health and safety of our employees as floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, • Communications: We use a variety of methods and fires. This Fund is sustained through generous and their families, the interests of our shareholders to maintain communications with employees, donations from Kelly employees. In 2018, our and customers, and the viability of our company. customers, and vendors/suppliers before, during, disaster recovery program: This program supports our operations and and after a crisis event. • Planned and prepared for Hurricane Olivia. None evaluates our readiness to respond to accidental • Emergency management team: We have a team of our employees were impacted. or natural disaster situations that may impact our approach to decision-making in response to critical customers, vendors, and employees. Advanced • Planned, prepared, and provided assistance from events that affect our employees and facilities. planning and quick action after the danger has our Kelly Relief Fund for employees affected by • Continuity of operations: Based on the reach Hurricanes Florence and Michael. passed have enabled Kelly to resume service to our of our branch network as well as our integrated customers and employees significantly faster than • Disaster recovery program contributed $34,500 information systems, Kelly has the ability to would be possible otherwise. through the Kelly Relief Fund. quickly re-establish business operations at an Kelly utilizes a variety of scalable solutions alternative site if necessary. and strategies to both ensure employee and • Emergency Operations Resource Plan: Our their families health and safety, and to enable Emergency Operations Resource (EOR) Plan is us to continue critical business functions after available to support field operations in the case of major events, whether natural or manmade, which significantly impact our ability to serve employees and customers. Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Occupational health & safety and environment Contents / 33 Occupational health & safety and environment Kelly recognizes a shared responsibility to protect employee, and solidifies our commitment to with customers to assess work conditions, identifying our people and planet. We strive to achieve zero zero accidents, zero injuries, and zero harm. The potential issues, and preparing employees to accidents and occupational hazards, and our program provides the processes, training, and complete their work while following safe and healthy intention is to create environments with safe and companywide commitment to ensure employee procedures. Safety training and an introduction to healthful working conditions. Although our facilities safety at all workplaces in which we operate. our safety handbook are critical elements of our and operations have a small ecological footprint, we orientation program for new employees. are committed to reducing the environmental impact We help employees to become familiar with of our business through education, preservation, customers’ work environments, safe work practices, We conduct a pre-assessment process with each conservation, and practicing waste reduction. emergency procedures, and protective equipment. of our customers prior to servicing to assess their We train our employees in understanding how to commitment to safety standards and to determine Occupational health & safety: recognize safety hazards and report them in a timely what conditions exist at the workplace, what employees fashion to on-site management. Our management, hazards may be encountered, and how to best Our commitment to employee safety is an employees, and customers have joint responsibility ensure protection for the temporary workers. integral part of our culture and a key to our for upholding our commitment to safety. This procedure analyzes safety at the workplace continued success. Our Absolute Zero program with respect to the Occupational Safety and ensures that we maintain the standards of Occupational health & safety: Health Administration’s (OSHA’s) regulations and worker safety protection to instill confidence customers recommendations and supports our commitment as well as a sense of safety and security in our We also help customers prepare the workplace to guarantee a safe and healthful work environment workplace. Beyond just compliance with health for our employees through our Global Safety and for employees at all of our locations. and safety legislation, Absolute Zero recognizes Health Program that includes pre-assignment risk the importance of each and every healthful assessments, worker training, and analysis of incident reports. Kelly managers are responsible for working Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Occupational health & safety and environment Contents / 34 Our safety commitment is analyzed in accordance with two measurements: total recordable incident Total recordable incidence rate Days away restricted and transferred rate rate, and Days Away Restricted and Transferred Incidence per 200,000 work hours Incidence per 200,000 work hours (DART) rate. This measurement is consistently only one-third to one-fourth of what the average is for the Kelly Services employees Staffing industry average* Kelly Services employees Staffing industry average* staffing industry as a whole. In 2018, we made significant strides toward our 2.5 1.2 goal of Absolute Zero with a 0.2 total recordable incident rate—the lowest in our history—and a 2 1 0.8 DART rate. Data rates were calculated using OSHA recordable injuries to full-time and directly 1.5 0.8 supervised U.S. employees only. 1 0.6 0.5 0.4 0 0.2 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 *2018 BLS staffing industry average not available at time of printing 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 *2018 BLS staffing industry average not available at time of printing Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Occupational health & safety and environment Contents / 35 Maintaining an industry leadership • Participation in the Occupational Safety policies and practices across different areas, role in safety and Health Administration’s (OSHA) promoting initiatives aligned with local needs, while Kelly has played a leadership role in driving safety Temporary Worker Initiative. We launched supporting our customers’ adoption of their own across the staffing industry. This includes working this initiative in 2013 to help staffing agencies sustainability goals. with industry peers and government agencies to and host employers understand and manage their OSHA compliance and safety program We understand that the risks associated with design best practices-based guidelines, and to obligations through specific enforcement and climate change continue to increase. Therefore, provide recommendations to help staffing firms and compliance tools. OSHA has stipulated that as of August 2018, we established a sustainability their customers establish a culture of safety in their “staffing agencies and host employers are strategy to mitigate climate-related issues and work environments. jointly responsible for maintaining a safe work risk identification processes aligned with our In 2018, Kelly achieved the mark of excellence environment for temporary workers—ensuring efforts to reduce our environmental impacts. The by the Safety Standard of Excellence Program, that OSHA’s training, hazard communication, and implementation of this strategy, which is set to be provided by the American Staffing Association and recordkeeping requirements are fulfilled.” executed in 2020 – 2021, involves risk identification, the National Safety Council, to encourage staffing assessment, and management procedures along firms to adopt workplace safety best practices Environment with disaster recovery, occupational health & safety, and standards to foster and measure continuous Kelly is committed to its responsibility to protect and HR practices. improvement across all industry sectors. and maintain our planet for future generations. Although our environmental impact is relatively Our environmental practices are formally disclosed Kelly is involved in the following initiatives: small, we are dedicated to implementing internal through environmental guidelines that involve • Development and implementation of Employee standards and business practices that keep external compliance standards, ensuring transparency Safety Best Practices (ESBP) by the American our ecological footprint at low levels and to and accountability. In the Carbon Disclosure Project Staffing Association’s Employee Safety Committee. promoting an operational culture of preservation, (CDP), we report our environmental impact regarding Since being introduced in 2011, the guidelines conservation, and waste reduction. measurements of water and energy usage in our have helped to improve the industry’s safety building operations, as well as CO2 emissions from records, and have been used to analyze impacts on Our environmental sustainability policy is based air travel by employees. productivity, turnover, and insurance costs. on establishing companywide environmental Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Occupational health & safety and environment Contents / 36 Facilities and materials are currently working remotely for business reasons. • Kelly Service Corporate Campus recycled 78.16 Our environmental initiatives have reduced The program allows employees to collaborate with tons of paper through Shred It in 2018. This is the carbon footprint and energy consumption coworkers and managers while working online. This the equivalent of saving 1,328,72 trees. of our corporate headquarters. During 2018, initiative is being considered as an opportunity to • We implemented standardized procedures for a we renovated the headquarters’ offices with balance personal life and work—responding to a proper separation and recycling of IT assets and consideration given to green building procedures need to adapt to new ways of working and reducing equipment, as well as toner cartridges from printers that use environmentally friendly materials. commutes, including the social and environmental and copiers in our office buildings. The creation impacts associated with transportation. Currently, of a recycling center at our corporate campus • In our corporate and branch offices, we switched Kelly has more than 400 employees participating in has guaranteed final environmental disposition of to LED lights—which will help us reduce our the Kelly Anywhere program. collected old phones, batteries, cables, and other energy usage long-term. electronic items. In 2018, we were able to recycle Waste management • Kelly’s lighting systems are integrated into an more than 35,000 electronic items. We have implemented recycling and waste energy management system. management practices in our operations to improve • We use permeable brick pavers to mitigate efficiency and reduce operating costs. storm water runoff. • Since 2016, Kelly has worked with a cleaning • All of the boilers and hot water systems in our service that has reduced energy usage corporate campus have night setback controls, by approximately 25 percent, purchased which were installed to take advantage of periods approximately 17,000 pounds (6.20 tons) of when the buildings are not occupied or are at recycled restroom paper products, and recycled reduced occupancy. more than 100.42 tons of asphalt and concrete Kelly Anywhere: Kelly has implemented technology from paving projects. to support the development of a remote work • Containers provided in the cafeteria are made program for our exempt employees working at the from 100% recycled content. Corporate Headquarters and eligible employees who Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Occupational health & safety and environment Contents / 37 Energy efficiency Energy Usage Index (EUI) Energy Consumption is measured by the Energy Usage Index (EUI) that analyzes the Our business operations are limited to office space, Per building by year in kBtus, or thousands of British thermal units energy efficiency per building, per year. with a significant amount of personnel working remotely (online-based). We measure energy EUI takes into account the different types Headquarters Annex Kirts Lindsey of energy used by a building for one year consumption in the organization based on the electricity and natural gas used for operations at and is calculated in units of energy (kBtus, the corporate campus, located in Michigan in the or thousands of British Thermal Units) per U.S. Our branches and leased offices outside of the 250,000 square foot. Measuring the energy actually headquarters location are expected to report on consumed, rather than its total dollar cost, 200,000 is important because the impact over time consolidated electricity expenses from 2019 onwards. remains constant, even while the price of that 150,000 unit changes over time. While factors affecting Energy consumption From 2007 to 2018, we reduced the energy price cannot be controlled, factors affecting 100,000 consumption in our headquarters office by 27.6 consumption can be. These include occupants’ percent. In the Kirts and Lindsey buildings, this habits, the building’s energy efficiency, and the 50,000 reduction was 41.75 percent and 2.79 percent, tightness of the building’s outer surface. EUI respectively. However, The Annex building in our 0 reflects these factors as well as the effect of corporate campus reported an increase in energy 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 weather. The lower the value, the more efficient consumption from 2017 to 2018 due to relocation the building. of employees during the remodeling process. The energy reduction is partly due to IT services’ transition to cloud technology, as well as the implementation of conservation and efficiency initiatives. Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Occupational health & safety and environment Contents / 38 Michigan corporate campus buildings EPA Energy Star 2018. We received 2018 National Air Filtration Association: has awarded recognized for environmental ENERGY STAR certification for three out of us the Clean Air Award for 2017 – 2019 at our performance the four corporate campus buildings. Earning Annex and Headquarter buildings. We are proud of the environmental performance these ENERGY STAR certifications validates our awards that several of our buildings received: commitment to reducing energy and conserving natural resources. The Outstanding Building of the Year (TOBY) Award. Presented by the Building Owners and Building Owners and Management Association Managers Association of Metro Detroit (BOMA), (BOMA) 360 Performance Program. Two of our the TOBY award recognizes quality in office corporate campus facilities received a BOMA 360 buildings, rewarding excellence in office building designation—further illustrating that these buildings management—taking energy consumption data, meet and exceed the industry’s highest standards as well as environmental, regulatory, sustainability, of operations, management, and service. Areas ENERGY STAR ® ratings, and waste programs into measured in the BOMA 360 Performance Program account. In 2018, we received the award for Lindsey include operations and management; tenant/ Center Building in the “Corporate Facility under occupant relations and community involvement; 100,000 Sq. Ft.” category. training/education; energy efficiency, environmental sustainability standards; as well as safety, security, and risk management. Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Occupational health & safety and environment Contents / 39 Addressing our facilities’ Because of the nature of our business and our flexCarbon footprint carbon footprint job model, estimating our energy intensity ratio represents a challenge. Our energy consumption Per building by year in metric tons of CO2 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions As a non-energy intensive industry, our goals is reflected in Scope 1 and Scope 2 reporting emissions. However, additional to the 1,200 Headquarters Annex Kirts Lindsey are mainly focused on measuring and reducing our footprint: focusing on Scope 1 for campus employees based in Troy, Michigan, a significant buildings, and Scope 2 for office-based locations. number of employees travel for office days to Kelly has made significant improvements in our HQ buildings, as well as a significant portion 7,000 reducing our corporate campus building’s carbon works remotely—modifying the daily influx of footprint and energy usage over the years and employees and user at our locations. Therefore, 6,000 continues to decrease the amount of energy used our energy intensity ratio is calculated estimating and emissions produced year-by-year. the average number of employees present in HQ 5,000 annually (1,900) against Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG Our carbon footprint (CO2) measurement is based emissions reporting. That gives us an estimate of 4,000 upon electrical (kWh) and natural gas (MMBtu) 3.7 tons of GHG emission for employees in the U.S. 3,000 consumption. For electricity, the value is based on related emissions (indirect emissions from power 2,000 plants); natural gas values are based on emissions from stationary combustion. 1,000 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Occupational health & safety and environment Contents / 40 Scope 1: direct GHG impact In 2018, we reported emissions of 690 metric tons this measurement. We do not have access to electricity supplier emission factors or residual CO2 emissions from air travel CO2 emissions from train travel of CO2. We set a target to not exceed the previous emissions factors which would allow us to report on In U.S. 2016 – 2018 / measured in CO2e Kg In U.S. 2016 – 2018 / measured in CO2e Kg year’s emissions and keep our organization within market-based figures. 700 CO2 tons on our Global Scope 1, considering 3,400,000 3,000 Scope 3 2,717 the baseline emissions from 2017. Our mediumWe assessed the air travel of our employees, 3,273,991 term goal is expected to reduce our emissions by 3,300,000 2,500 three percent over a two-year period until 2020. which was calculated based upon the locations of 2,028 airports, to calculate emissions based upon the 3,200,000 2,000 Our corporate campus is undergoing a remodeling actual distance traveled, based on the Carson 1,622 process in all of its offices which is expected to alter Wagonlit Travel (CWT AnalytlQs). During 2018, our 3,100,000 1,500 business as usual in terms of energy consumption. CO2 emissions from air travel generated in U.S. However, once the renovation process is completed operations were 2,828,876 kg CO2e. For rail travel, 3,000,000 1,000 2,924,829 in 2020, the operational baseline will be reviewed this value was 1,622 kg CO2e. to establish more assertive, measurable targets and 2,900,000 500 Water consumption 2,828,876 to enhance our performance in reducing emissions. 2,800,000 0 The remodeling process also seeks to implement We are not a water-intensive user, but we intend 2016 2017 2018 materials and technologies that can help us reduce to evaluate water-related issues and opportunities 2,700,000 the ecological footprint of our operations. to prevent resource depletion and reduce our ecological footprint. We have begun to consolidate 2,600,000 Scope 2 (location-based): indirect GHG impact the measurement of water usage within our building 2016 2017 2018 In 2018, we reported emissions of 6,475.00 metric facilities and have implemented awareness activities tons of CO2. This report was made in a locationwith our employees. With the coming renovation of based analysis from information obtained through the headquarters campus, we expect to minimize documentation of utility consumption in our own water consumption in our everyday operations. buildings. All leased locations are excluded from Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Supply chain and customer relations Contents / 41 Supply chain and customer relations By being part of the value chain of thousands Our workforce solutions enable the placement of of companies worldwide, Kelly recognizes the third-party labor to work for our customers in a importance of promoting and replicating our variety of assignments, from office/clerical, light corporate values in the supply chain. Therefore, industrial, contact center, education, creative, and we value our customer and supplier relationships marketing, to lines of specialty service which focus on and work toward building strong relationships and finance and accounting, engineering, IT, and science. lifelong advocacy. Our supply chain Workforce solution supplier Our supply chain has two defined categories consisting of our third-party vendors and suppliers as well as our talent supply chain, which makes up a part of our workforce solutions. From a workforce solution supplier perspective, 85% are made up of Managed Service Providers (MSP), 7% support our Staffing Solutions, 5% our Recruitment Process Outsourcing (RPO/Perm) solutions, and 2% are Business and Professional Services (BPS) solutions. Up to 1% of our supply chain enables all sorts of solutions—the majority once again are MSP. 85% Managed Service Provider 7% Staffing Solutions 5% Recruitment Process Outsourcing 2% Business and Professional Services 1% Other solutions Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Supply chain and customer relations Contents / 42 KellyOCG definitions • Managed Service Provider (MSP) Score and minimum requirements KellyOCG global MSP presence programs: Contingent workforce, Kelly screens its suppliers using two methods. On a integrating suppliers, and vendor basic level, we analyze contractual compliance with management system (VMS) technology consideration given to client-directed suppliers. KellyOCG MSP programs Talent supplier network to bring visibility and control to Additionally, we require proof of insurance contingent workforce. In addition to coverage, relevant tax documentation, and temporary staff, fully optimized solutions completed relevant supplier agreement to include include a spectrum of non-company them in our client program. On a broader scale, NORWAY DENMARK labor categories, such as Independent we use the Supplier Performance Management NETHERLANDS Contractors, Payroll Services, RFx/ process to initiate suppliers into a program, BELGIUM RUSSIA Statement of Work (SOW) Services, Talent measure their performance, analyze the results CANADA U.K. GERMANY Pools, and Identity Management (IDM). of supplier performance, take actions to improve IRELAND LUXEMBOURG POLAND CZECH REPUBLIC Recruitment Process Outsourcing offers supplier performance, and put in place measures FRANCE HUNGARY AUSTRIA GEORGIA preeminent talent acquisition solutions PORTUGAL CROATIA ARMENIA to control and sustain these improvements. UNITED STATES SPAIN ITALY TURKEY JAPAN that focus on the engagement and SWITZERLAND ISRAEL IRAQ CHINA (Incl. HK) LIBYA SAUDI ARABIA SOUTH KOREA acquisition of fullor part-time talent We have established an internal method that will PUERTO RICO INDIA TAIWAN through end-to-end, project-based, or MEXICO OMAN VIETNAM be set in place during the third quarter of 2019 in TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO UAE selective talent acquisition functions. COSTA RICA order to conduct a risk assessment for suppliers COLOMBIA MALAYSIA that are identified as high risk to KellyOCG or THAILAND SINGAPORE • Business and Professional Services to the client. The risk assessment is expected to BRAZIL ANGOLA offers full staffing and operational evaluate strategic importance to the client program management of business functions or AUSTRALIA and supplier business resiliency to drive risk departments, assuming full accountability mitigation plans where needed. and responsibility for outcomes that ARGENTINA allow our clients to focus on their core NEW ZEALAND business. Areas include contact centers/ help desk, lab management, engineering GLOBAL OPERATION HUBS services, manufacturing/supply chain, and APAC: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia professional/administrative solutions. AMER: Troy, Michigan EMEA: Telford, UK As reported to SIA Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Supplier Code of Conduct Contents / 43 Supplier Code of Conduct At KellyOCG, the Outsourcing and Consulting Employees and people The ethical business conduct of our partners and Group of Kelly, we work closely with our partners KellyOCG expects its partners and suppliers to suppliers forms an integral part of our purchasing and suppliers to ensure that they also meet our help protect, support, and prepare workers for and partnering decisions. Therefore, it is our high standards of ethics and business conduct. successful careers and to advocate on their behalf. aspiration that the standards of our partners and We established a Supplier Code of Conduct, This includes, but is not limited to, providing suppliers regarding business ethics will be as which prescribes general guidelines that must be career opportunities and resources to the global rigorous as our own. ensured in business operations of our partners workforce, and leading by example in areas such as and suppliers—regarding ethical and professional workplace health & safety, employment conditions, We expect our partners and suppliers to replicate conduct, employee and working conditions, diversity, and inclusion. these standards further down the supply chain human rights, and environmental sustainability. and encourage them to drive similar corporate This Code of Conduct is aligned to our values in Human rights citizenship commitments from organizations service, integrity, and taking personal responsibility KellyOCG, in all contexts, seeks ways to honor comprising their own respective supply chains. for actions, outcomes, and our global reputation. the principles of internationally recognized The Supplier Code of Conduct is therefore made It is mandatory that our suppliers adhere to this human rights, even when faced with conflicting available publicly to all stakeholder communities Code of Conduct, and recommit to it prior to requirements. We expect our partners and with the goal of strengthening our mutual taking on a new task, which assures 100 percent suppliers to respect all internationally proclaimed understanding of how ethics and sustainability acknowledgement from our workforce suppliers. human rights and strive to ensure that they are not should be practiced in day-to-day business. complicit in any human rights abuses. The Kelly Supplier Code of Conduct addresses the following areas: Environment sustainability Ethical and professional conduct KellyOCG expects its partners and suppliers KellyOCG expects its partners and suppliers to be to take due account of the need to protect committed to doing the right things, conducting the environment, public health & safety, and themselves in a legal, ethical, and trustworthy generally to conduct their business activities in manner, to uphold regulatory obligations, and a manner that contributes to the wider goal of to comply with both the letter and the spirit of sustainable development. applicable laws and business policies. Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Supplier Code of Conduct Contents / 44 Supply chain accountability and social assessment receipt of additional job requisition and can lead to and must be recommitted to prior to any new task We hold our suppliers to the same high level of accountability to which we hold ourselves. We seek termination from the Kelly client program. being assigned through a client. Currently, the supplier risk assessment does not include social In 2018, 100% of to engage with workforce suppliers that abide by socially responsible business practices enumerated Supplier performance is regularly monitored by the client program through the scorecards impact risks. However, we are in the project phase of evaluating the current state of good practices our active suppliers in the Supplier Code of Conduct, and that adhere to the professional code of conduct outlined by the process. The client program team identifies low-performing suppliers based upon analyzed so that we may integrate tools and processes that evaluate and test social impacts. committed to our World Employment Confederation (WEC). rankings and the benchmarking process. If a supplier is not meeting minimum performance Supplier recognition Supplier Code of The contractual compliance of suppliers is regularly audited by Kelly’s Supplier Chain Enablement expectations, an action-planning process is put in place to enhance its performance. However, if a Kelly recognizes performance and good practices. Every year, KellyOCG hosts the Supplier Conduct. Team. This team monitors and communicates supplier fails its performance plan, an off-boarding Excellence Award: a global event that recognizes notifications of pending noncompliance to client process is initiated. contingent labor suppliers who have met the program teams, following the internal supplier performance, program, spend, compliance, and breach report process. Worker compliance with Supplier Social Assessment is monitored based on qualitative program relationship criteria and have client requirements is audited and communicated standards fulfilled by our suppliers and partners to shown consistently excellent results throughout to the client program teams through the worker comply with all topics covered in the Supplier Code the year in helping Kelly meet and exceed the on-boarding process. Contractual noncompliance of Conduct. Adherence to this agreement by 100 needs of our clients. may result in the inactivation of a supplier from percent of our workforce suppliers is mandatory Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Diverse supplier strategy Contents / 45 Diverse supplier strategy Kelly has a long history of diversity, inclusion, Our Diversity Recruitment Strategy is built on the The Kelly Supplier Diversity Development enhance their business opportunities in servicing and engagement—beginning with our founding following foundational approaches: (SDD) Team helps customers create greater our supply chain. Our diversity and inclusion in 1946 and our employment of women. It is diversity in their workforce and in their corporate program promotes economic sustainability of a longstanding Kelly policy to provide equal • Knowledge: We use advanced labor intelligence sustainability strategies. We have implemented minority communities through investments in employment opportunity in recruitment, selection, tools to help us understand variations in the a multidimensional approach to ensure diversity training and engagement. The percentage of our training, compensation, promotion, job transfer, demographic makeup of the labor market. The and inclusion practices with our suppliers and diverse supplier engagement is as follows: and assignments. data, combined with trending and forecasting workforce in all markets where we operate. These intelligence, allows us to more strategically target programs drive business success for customers, and We understand that diversity and inclusion and attract a diverse pool of job seekers. also provide development, growth, and revenue don’t just happen; they must be an everyday opportunities for our strategic suppliers. consideration, and we demonstrate our • Reach: It is essential that our job opportunities commitment to diversity and inclusion through our reach a diverse audience of job seekers. In today’s We are dedicated to building, sustaining, and participation in, and support of, a wide variety of globalized and interconnected world, we make optimizing strong partnerships with a diverse initiatives and organizations. every effort to meet diverse candidates where supplier base—a reflection of our longstanding they are when they begin to search for jobs. commitment to equal opportunity for all Each of our initiatives helps us increase the businesses. We leverage hundreds of diverse diversity of our talent pool and understand the • Customized approaches: We have partnered staffing organizations around the globe as both factors to hire a wide range of differing employees. with our customers to create and execute partners and subcontractors in support of our These initiatives are one reason Kelly earned an diversity recruitment action plans. These plans customers’ various diversity initiatives. outstanding score of 100 in the 2018 Corporate include building relationships with specific Equality Index—a national benchmarking survey of area organizations that support diverse talent, In 2018, our global network reached more than corporate policies and practices relating to lesbian, promoting our job opportunities via postings 500 diverse suppliers. We have contributed nearly on niche job boards, or hosting specialized 74% minority-owned business enterprise gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) $4 billion toward the development of a sourcing recruitment events. 18% women-owned business enterprise workplace equality, administered by the Human strategy where diverse suppliers can compete and Rights Campaign Foundation. 7.9% small business administration 0.10% representation from LGBTQ community Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Diverse supplier strategy Contents / 46 Evaluation, communication, External communications greenhouse gas emissions. Kelly is proud that its Transparency and integrity line and reporting Following international standards, our external environmental performance ranks well above the We have established an integrity line for employees We recognize that communicating and reporting communication helps us monitor and inform industry average. and customers who may encounter what is believed a company’s strategy and performance helps to our external audiences, including customers to be a potential violation of our business code of and clients, about our performance. We also • GRI: Standard. The Global Reporting Initiative conduct or a violation of local laws or regulations. demonstrate openness and transparency. Our participate in external assessments such as the helps us to understand and communicate our Inquiries and reports on unethical behavior follow interest is to be accountable and responsible for EcoVadis and the Carbon Disclosure Project sustainability performance and strategy on critical a confidential process and can be reported to Kelly our actions and reputation. We are committed (CDP), which provide consistency in measuring sustainability issues such as climate change, Services’ Business Conduct and Ethics Reporting to having continual communications with our our internal performance as well as validating our human rights, governance, and social well-being. Program at 877.978.0049 or https://www. interest groups so that we can implement diverse communication channels to inform internal and success in strategy implementation. integrity-helpline.com/kellyservices.jsp. • UN Global Compact. Beginning in 2019, we external stakeholders about our performance. will communicate our Corporate Sustainability • EcoVadis and the Carbon Disclosure Project Kelly prohibits and will not tolerate any type of (CDP) have helped us to align our social strategy based on the ten principle-based retaliation against any individual who reports Internal communications responsibility initiatives to the expectations of our framework under the UN Global Compact report. concerns in good faith that may violate our values Internal communications to our employees are reported through two main channels: Kelly customers in order to report results accurately. and principles. We will conduct an investigation • NASDAQ 2018 annual report. As a public Intranet and the AVA system. Our company Our 2018 EcoVadis Score locates our company in promptly and fairly to ensure anonymity, and then Company, we are committed to full compliance Intranet facilitates the easy sharing of and access the “Silver” category of suppliers; we have been take appropriate action. with the U.S. Securities and Exchange to information, connecting different work teams recognized in the top five percent in Fair Business Commission’s Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure). to trending topics occurring in the company and Practices among 400 suppliers evaluated in our We file this information annually, which may the industry. Some of our internal communication industry worldwide. be accessed by the public at sec.gov. This portals are Kelly news; industry news; and report contains information and statements We participate in the CDP (formerly known as leadership message, to communicate information regarding public business financial reports and the Carbon Disclosure Project) questionnaire, from the top management level to all employees; operational strategy. which evaluates Fortune 500 companies on their and need-to-know messages, to inform them about the latest policies, best practices, and initiatives. Contents / 47 Materiality process Materiality Materiality / Materiality process Contents / 48 Materiality process Our approach We selected a group of representatives from Development Goals, UN Guiding principles of In January 2018, we conducted our first materiality both key internal and external stakeholders, Human Rights, UN Global Compact, and the World assessment to identify stakeholders’ expectations including workers, customers, consumers, Employment Confederation. and prioritize the most relevant topics related to our community members, and value chain vendors and suppliers. To ensure variety in this group, We identified 16 of the most relevant topics, which corporate sustainability strategy. This process was we invited administrative and non-administrative were evaluated against two dimensions: relevance analyzed with 238 internal and external stakeholders representatives from neighboring communities and for stakeholders, and their impact on the business from more than 10 countries where we operate. local businesses in areas where we operate. strategy. Each topic was analyzed through 61 The materiality assessment helped us validate our consultations—including interviews, focus groups, Corporate Sustainability policies and informed us Included were suppliers; industry unions; local and online surveys of the selected group of about the areas it prioritizes, following the Global authorities such as regulatory bodies and industrial stakeholders. The identification of the most material Reporting Initiative Standard. We plan to conduct this associations; NGOs with an interest in our line of topics and their boundaries followed a prioritization process every two years, or as deemed necessary. business; and customers. In this process, we worked process based on a risk assessment analysis. closely with as many stakeholders as possible Identification of selected stakeholders from differing backgrounds, especially those with Considering Kelly’s worldwide business outreach The stakeholders were identified considering: the strategic roles or in senior leadership positions. and the material topics identified through the number of social dialogues and interactions with a materiality assessment process, the boundary for specific group of interest; the level of influence on Identification of the most material topics and each of the identified topics is considered to be the type of business, industry, and business sector; their boundaries global. Therefore, the company has established and the direct beneficiaries and consumers of our The materiality assessment started by reviewing standardized global practices for partners and products or services. a list of the most material topics related to our suppliers worldwide to ensure compliance and business, considered in external standards such as address issues at a local level. the GRI, EcoVadis Assessment, CDP, Sustainable Materiality / Materiality process Contents / 49 Prioritization of the most material topics We scored each topic in regard to three factors: Materiality The materiality matrix was revised with our first, stakeholders’ perceptions regarding the stakeholders to define the six principles in frequency of issues raised, as well as their variety, Employees and Communication working conditions which we guide our Corporate Sustainability relevance, and level of power. Second, the severity and reporting strategy and this reporting content. The six of impact on stakeholders. Third, the level of risk Engagement: Market pillars are defined as follows: associated with our business operations. community outreach presence and social impact 1. Employees and people This analysis helped us identify how each topic was STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS rated, considering its level of associated risk and Customer relations 2. Ethics the level of management from the company. The and supply chain Environmental issues rated highest priority were prioritized both in impact 3. Engagement their significance to our stakeholders and their level of impact on our business strategy. Human rights 4. Occupational health & safety, and environment Responses to each topic were descriptively analyzed, facilitating their interpretation considering 5. Supply chain and customer relations whether their level of associated risk was high, Ethics and business medium, or low, and whether the businesses would Grievance conduct 6. Communication, evaluation, be impacted in a positive or negative manner. mechanism Organizational and reporting Some of the most material topics are well-managed health and safety by the company, however it is necessary to continue to guarantee high standards regarding those topics as they may imply a higher risk if not well-managed. The materiality assessment prioritized the following ten most significant topics that help us remain “in accordance” with the Global Reporting Initiative BUSINESS IMPORTANCE GRI: Standard report. Contents / 50 Stakeholder engagement matrix Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement / Stakeholder engagement matrix Contents / 51 Stakeholder engagement matrix Our approach Prior to this process, Kelly had responded to We recognize the importance of engagement stakeholders through a variety of initiatives and with our stakeholders for a better understanding activities directed toward our customers, suppliers, of their concerns, helping us deliver an effective and communities where our offices are located. and valuable Corporate Sustainability Strategy. However, the materiality assessment allowed them Our latest materiality assessment provided a to participate in a two-way engagement process formal engagement process to identify the most where feedback on our relationship and influence material issues from both internal and external on material issues was provided. This is a valuable stakeholders. This process also helped us to process that we expect to conduct at least every leverage dialogue with our stakeholders, identify two years. their main concerns, and establish how we may The following matrix presents the most relevant respond to address those issues in the short, issues raised by our stakeholders and our responses medium, and long term, regarding the impact and in addressing them. influence of our business operations. Stakeholder engagement / Stakeholder engagement matrix Contents / 52 Stakeholder engagement matrix POSSIBLE IMPACT TO STAKEHOLDERS IF STAKEHOLDER VALUES STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGED HOW WE ADDRESS ISSUES AND CONCERNS VALUES ARE NOT ADDRESSED Employees and working Kelly leadership, Kelly Child and forced labor are themes of very high sensitivity. a. We have in place several procedures and guidelines to control any case related to child and forced labor as much as conditions employees, Suppliers, The company has established internal policies and possible. Customers procedures to minimize its occurrence and guarantee good b. We have implemented internal policies and procedures to guarantee transparency regarding salaries throughout our working conditions for all employees. However, if there is compensation system. a single issue related to child or forced labor, the company may be affected in terms of business, exposing it to an immediate closure of operational activity. Customer relations and Kelly leadership, Kelly Suppliers may be affected in case of not meeting the a. We have implemented internal policies and practices to promote and replicate our corporate values and standards with all supply chain employees, Suppliers, requirements to operate. Likewise, employees and our employees, customers, and collaborators. We comply with the Slavery Act UK to prevent and address cases of forced Customers customers may be highly affected if the company does not labor in our supply chain. have internal effective procedures to address possible cases b. We have implemented internal guidelines to ensure and expand our diversity and inclusion practices along the supply of discrimination within its operations. This may not only chain. affect its reputation but may expose the company to noncompliance with laws and regulations. c. We work closely with our customers and partners to ensure compliance with our business Code of Conduct, work towards a stronger relationship with our customers worldwide, and guarantee all internal guidelines in our value chain. Human rights Kelly leadership, Kelly Employees rights may be violated if there is a limitation to We have stated a human rights policy in our employee handbook and our Code of Conduct that recognizes, among other employees, Suppliers, associate. topics, our employees’ right of freedom of association. However, we have not identified a unionist employee association in Customers our U.S. operations, nor in the industry. Engagement: Kelly leadership, Kelly Social impact initiatives have been historically reactive and Since 2017, we have implemented a transformative approach of our Social Responsibility programs towards a Corporate community outreach and employees, Suppliers, not aligned to the company’s core strategy. Sustainability Strategy. This strategy considers a more strategic engagement of our social impact and community social impact Customers, NGOs engagement, focused on three specific areas: i) diversity and inclusion; ii) Talent, skills, and training for labor; iii) vulnerable communities and reinsertion to the workforce. It is also aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Market presence Kelly leadership, Kelly Challenges in adaptability of stakeholders to respond to We have implemented a strategy to constantly analyze and respond to new market trends: i) Embracing the future of work, employees, Suppliers, new labor requirements. ii) Being the destination for top talent, iii) Investing in technology for innovation and efficiency, iv) Leading in our chosen Customers markets via scale or specialty. Stakeholder engagement / Stakeholder engagement matrix Contents / 53 Stakeholder engagement matrix POSSIBLE IMPACT TO STAKEHOLDERS IF STAKEHOLDER VALUES STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGED HOW WE ADDRESS ISSUES AND CONCERNS VALUES ARE NOT ADDRESSED Communication and Kelly leadership, Kelly Inadequate information may lead to mistakes and Since 2018, the company has reported its sustainability strategy following the international standardized reporting Global reporting employees, Suppliers, increase risks. Reporting Initiative-GRI: Standard. Additionally, in February 2019, the company signed the UN Global Compact to disclose Customers, NGOs reporting based on the Communication of Progress. Ethics and business Kelly leadership, Kelly A bribery or corruption practice may not only affect the We are committed to abiding by all applicable laws in the countries where we operate. We comply with the U.S. Foreign conduct employees, Suppliers, corporate reputation and license to operate but expose the Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the UK Bribery Act, as well as all other country specific anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. Customers, NGOs company to civil and/or criminal liability, and undermine the We have implemented a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to help us to recognize and address ethical issues, deter trust from our customers, shareholders, and community. wrongdoing, and provide mechanisms to report any concern, fostering a culture of honesty and accountability. Organizational Kelly leadership, Kelly The perception that OH&S conditions are only ensured We have set standardized internal guidelines with our customers, partners, and suppliers regarding OH&S, to guarantee health & safety employees, Suppliers, for temporary employees can create a negative working proper working conditions for all temporary and full-time employees. Customers environment for full-time employees and can increase the risk of accidents in the workplace. Environmental impact Kelly leadership, Kelly There is a disconnect regarding environmental practices We have set internal procedures to measure our ecological footprint, and to reduce the environmental impact of our employees, Suppliers, from the majority of employees. It may affect the business through education in preservation, conservation, and waste reduction practices. Customers, NGOs implementation of those initiatives in the long term. Grievance mechanism Kelly leadership, Kelly Retaliation may lead to hostile work environments, affecting We have established a formal complaint process that can be used by any internal or external stakeholder respecting employees, Suppliers, not only the corporate reputation but also its relationship anonymous and safe procedures, to report any inappropriate behavior or situation in the workplace that involves violence, Customers with customers, employees, and the community. threats, bullying, intimidation, or harassment. Contact Kelly Services’ Business Conduct and Ethics Reporting Program at 877.978.0049 or https://www.integrity-helpline.com/kellyservices.jsp. For Europe: https://kellyserviceseu.alertline.com/gcs/welcome Contents / 54 UN Global Compact Commitment UN Global Compact Commitment Contents / 55 Ethics and business Our approach conduct Kelly recognizes the importance of actively Co working towards the achievement of UN ev mmu an Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) alu ni es ye le and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable rep atio catio plo op Development. Our Corporate Sustainability or n, a n, tin nd Em pe policy is based on six pillars that are aligned g Corporate d with these Sustainable Development Goals. This policy sets out guidelines and Sustainability strategies to ensure universal principles of human rights, labor, environment, and d an s Strategy nt governance to advance societal goals. We ain ion me are signatories, since February 2019, to the ch at UN Global Compact and expect to report ly rel ag pp er e our progress based on its ten principles. Su tom En g s cu OH&S and environment UN Global Compact Commitment Contents / 56 Sustainable Development Goals Promote sustained, inclusive, and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for all. We ensure fair working conditions for all our workers Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. We End poverty in all its forms everywhere. We are committed to across our operations and value chain. We partner with our have implemented a Supplier Code of Conduct to guarantee securing dignity and equality for all our workers. customers and suppliers to guarantee that our corporate compliance with business best practices across our supply strategies ensure nondiscrimination, inclusion, diversity, equal chain in all countries where we operate. opportunities, healthful workplaces, freedom of association, and the right to collectively bargain. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industries, and foster innovation. Our value chain spans many Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. different business sectors worldwide. We have expertise from more Take urgent action to combat climate change and contribute Beyond the basic compliance for ensuring occupational health than seven decades supporting companies of all sizes and from to reducing its impacts. We have set our greenhouse gas and safety, we invest in positive advances toward guaranteeing different industries in their staffing and talent consultant services. emission reduction targets and we participate in formal health and well-being at workplaces We are proud of this legacy and will share best practices with our disclosure commitments to communicate our progress. collaborators to innovate and promote sustainable practices that respond to trends and challenges in the industry. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all, and build Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education, and Reduce inequality with and among countries. We are committed effective, accountable, and inclusive institutions at all promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. We Invest to guaranteeing good working conditions for workers, levels. We have implemented a Business Code of Conduct in education to develop a more skilled workforce, increase customers, and suppliers worldwide, and to increase working and Ethics to guide our actions and help us to deter any productivity, and drive business growth. and business opportunities for a more inclusive value chain. wrongdoing and to ensure good governance, transparency, accountability, anti-corruption, and anti-bribery practices. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the girls. Gender equality is a fundamental human right. We global partnership for sustainable development. We believe Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, have the responsibility to ensure a workplace that ensures that our combined efforts can lead to a more sustainable and sustainable. Through our engagement practices we nondiscrimination and observes sexual harassment policies. world. We engage with local communities where we operate promote community development to achieve this goal. We also support inclusive business models that invest and to support in addressing their most important societal issues. promote women’s economic empowerment. Working in partnership with them can lead to a greater impact. Contents / 57 About this report About this report Contents / 58 Scope estimations clearly denominated. Any assumptions Report structure Any concerns or feedback? This report conveys our corporate sustainability in the description have been specified in the This report is based on the six pillars of our If you have any questions or would like further performance for the 2018 fiscal year, in accordance content or index section. The report presents both corporate sustainability strategy. Each pillar information about our latest work in sustainability, with our alignment with the UN and following the positive results of our sustainability strategy, describes internal policies, procedures, initiatives, please contact: sustainability@kellyservices.com. international reporting standards on sustainability as well as the main challenges and drawbacks we and main achievements in communicating how we and Sustainable Development Goals. Previous must overcome in order to ensure the quality of respond to our performance. communications were transmitted through the information presented. • Employee and people Corporate Social Responsibility publications, both We continue to work on improving our data • Ethics in 2015 – 2016 and in 2016 – 2017. gathering, especially from business partners and customers worldwide. • Engagement For 2018, we implemented a strategy of Corporate Sustainability aligned with the topics most relevant • Organizational health & safety and environment Reporting standard to our stakeholders’ expectations as well as to the • Supply chain and customer relations core of our business. This report announces a new This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. It is presented • Communication, evaluation, and reporting strategy toward a reporting standard that is more international in nature, which will help us monitor as the first Kelly Services sustainability report that enumerates our actions in addressing the most In January 2018, we conducted a materiality our sustainability performance against the industry, assessment and embarked on a formal stakeholder on a global scale. Therefore, the report’s scope relevant economic, environmental, and social impacts of our business performance in accordance engagement process, which helped us to frame the focuses on our internal operations, extending report and communicate about the performance to our supply chain and business partners, who with the expectations of our stakeholders. In February 2019, we became signatories to the of our corporate core, based on our stakeholder support our operations worldwide. needs. Since we are a company of global reach, UN Global Compact. Our annual sustainability report will comprise part of the Communication of the topics covered here are global in scope, unless All data has been collected by the sustainability Progress (COP) for the UN Global Compact. specified otherwise. team in collaboration with other operational areas of the organization. The data has been revised, with Contents / 59 GRI Index GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 60 GRI matrix GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number GRI-Foundation GRI-Foundation 101 Reporting principles and standards Reporting principles, standards, and content are described here: About this report Organizational Profile Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Kelly Services, Inc. KELYA 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Kelly is a workforce solutions leader delivering staffing solutions and talent management for a variety of industries and companies worldwide. Our services span outsourcing, consulting, recruitment, talent advisory, career transition, and vendor management services. We do not provide services that are banned in certain markets. 102-3 Location of Headquarters Global and U.S. headquarters: 999 West Big Beaver Road, Troy, Michigan 48084 EMEA Headquarters: Av. Edouard-Dubois 20, CH-2006 Neuchatel, Switzerland APAC Headquarters: 36 Robinson Road, #20-01 City House, Singapore 068877 102-4 Location of operations Our global operations serve 55 countries worldwide in three regions: Americas; EMEA-Europe, Middle East, and Africa; APAC-Asia Pacific: Global MSP presence 102-5 Ownership and legal form Kelly Services is a public company traded on the Nasdaq stock exchange under stock ticker symbols KELYA and KELYB. Our legal business structure is designated as a C Corporation: Annual Report 2018 102-6 Markets served • Market presence: 9 countries in the Americas (AMER); 32 countries in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and 14 countries in the Asian Pacific (APAC). • Kelly supports any size and type of organizations, in all industries, mainly focused on energy, life sciences, consumer brands, industrial/manufacturing, and financial services/insurance. GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 61 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Organizational Profile (continued) 102-7 Scale of the organization Total number of employees: 7,900: By the numbers Main products/services and operations: Global MSP presence Net revenue in 2018 was $5.5 billion: Annual Report 2018 Financial statements specifying total capitalization, debt and equity, provided in the annual financial report: Annual Report 2018 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Total number of permanent and temporary employees by gender and region: Employees and people Number of temporary workers are variable based on client needs and are estimated based on the annual average. Total number of full-time and part-time employees by gender: Employees and people Kelly’s activities are performed by direct or temporary employees. 102-9 Supply chain Our supply chain has two defined categories. First: our third-party vendors and suppliers. Second: our talent supply chain, part of our workforce solutions. In our second category our main services are: 1.Workforce solution supplier; 2.Managed Service Provider (MSP), integrating our suppliers and vendor management system (VMS); 3. Recruitment Process Outsourcing (RPO); 4. Business and professional services; and 5. Temporary Staffing which includes a spectrum of non-company labor categories, such as Independent Contractors, Payroll Services, RFx/Statement of Work (SOW) Services, Talent Pools and Identity Management (IDM): Supply chain and customer relations Our worldwide operations required our customers and suppliers to follow our global business standards on working conditions, governance, OH&S and Environment: Supplier Code of Conduct 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Insignificant changes in organization structure during 2018. Recent acquisitions include: NEXTGEN and GTA. Sells: Kelly Healthcare Resources to InGenesis. Kelly Legal Managed Services to Trustpoint One. Resources from the sale would support the investment in other areas in which Kelly specializes. Investments: Kelly Innovation Fund invested in Kenzie Academy. Kelly also invested in Business Talent Group.: By the numbers, Annual Report 2018, Mergers and Acquisitions 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Kelly has set internal policies and guidelines to minimize its environmental impacts. However, Kelly does not have a specific policy as it pertains to the precautionary principle. GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 62 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Organizational Profile (continued) 102-12 External initiatives 1. External institutions and principles: • The World Employment Confederation -WEC https://www.wecglobal.org/ • Corporate Equality Index https://www.hrc.org/campaigns/corporate-equality-index • EcoVadis https://www.ecovadis.com/ • Nasdaq Annual Report http://ir.kellyservices.com/financial-information • U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act. U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act https://www.justice.gov/criminal-fraud/ foreign-corrupt-practices-act • General Data Protection Regulation https://eugdpr.org/ • UK Modern Slavery Transparency Act Statement https://www.kellyservices.com/global/siteassets/3-kelly-globalservices/files/uk-modern-slavery-transparency-act-statement-revised.pdf • UN Global Compact https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ 2. External initiatives we endorse through our community outreach program: • Kenzie Academy https://www.kenzie.academy/ • HAVEN program; Compass; • Future Scientists Program and Scholarship; • Future Engineers Program and Scholarship; • March of Dimes; • United Way; Engagement 3. Environmental initiatives: The Outstanding Building of the year (TOBY) Award; EPA Energy Star; Building Owners and Management Association (BOMA) 360 Performance Program: Environment; Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): Environment 4. Supply chain initiatives and principles: Supplier Code of Conduct; Supplier Diversity Development Team: Supplier diversity 5. Diversity and Inclusion affiliations GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 63 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Organizational Profile (continued) 102-13 Memberships of associations Kelly works to advance the interests of the staffing industry and its customers through our involvement in local, state, national, and international organizations. We are a founding member of the American Staffing Association (ASA). Members of the World Employment Confederation (formerly CIETT). Since 2018, we are partners of IPSE-U.S. Since 2019, we are signatories to the UN Global Compact. Strategy Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Message from our President and CEO 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Message from our President and CEO, Q&A on our new Corporate Sustainability Strategy, Annual Report 2018 Ethics and integrity Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Our Vision, Values, Character Our Corporate Sustainability Policy Our norms of behavior: Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, regarding global practices in labor conditions, human rights, governance principles, transparency, accommodation policy, and anti-harassment policy: Supplier Code of Conduct. Equal employment opportunity policy and affirmative action: https://www.kellyservices.com/global/about-us/ company-information/eeo-policy/. 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, regarding conflict of interest; anti-bribery/anti-corruption; insider trading; confidential and customer data privacy. Supplier Code of Conduct, regarding ethical and professional conduct. GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 64 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Governance Governance 102-18 Governance structure Executive Leadership and Senior Leadership at: https://www.kellyservices.com/global/about-us/company-information/ Kelly-leadership/ Board of Directors: http://ir.kellyservices.com/corporate-governance/board-of-directors The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee: responsible for determining the competencies and personal attributes required of director nominees and for making recommendations to the Board. The Compensation Committee: shall annually oversee, evaluate, and present to the committee achievements of performance objectives for the Chief Executive Officer. Each Committee shall have a written charter of responsibilities, duties, and authorities, which shall be reviewed at least annually by the Board. Each Committee shall report to the full Board with respect to its activities, findings, and recommendations after each meeting held. The Board has the authority to form additional committees for such purposes as it deems necessary. Additionally, the Sustainability Governance Committee oversees the implementation of the Corporate Sustainability Strategy for social and environmental impacts. 102-19 Delegating authority The Board of Directors has delegated authority to the Sustainability Governance team for structuring and overseeing the Corporate Sustainability Strategy. This team is responsible for monitoring and communicating environmental and relevant social topics, creating strategies for addressing them in a timely and appropriate fashion. 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, The Sustainability Governance Team has delegated responsibility for analyzing and implementing economic, and social topics environmental, and social initiatives to Tim Dupree, Vice President & Managing Director Global Services and Belen Benitez, Corporate Sustainability Lead, Global Services: Q&A 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and In January 2018, we conducted our first formal stakeholder engagement process, helping us understand the most social topics relevant concerns from our stakeholders and how we can appropriately respond, considering our business core and approach to sustainability. This consultation process was delegated to our Sustainability Lead and reviewed by Management and Leader executives at Kelly Services, Inc.: Stakeholder engagement, Materiality GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 65 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Governance (continued) 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting The Corporate Sustainability Lead is responsible for managing information presented in this report and for overseeing the organization’s sustainability performance. The Sustainability Governance committee will review the final version of the sustainability report before its publication. 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Kelly has a global compensation philosophy that sets internal policies that guarantee transparency and equitable compensation to all employees: Global compensation philosophy Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups The engagement process was represented by a group of 238 internal and external stakeholders, including customers; engagement employees and staff; suppliers and labor Industry organizations; nonprofit organizations; local communities directly impacted by our business; government and regulatory agencies; shareholders and investors; and external assessment agencies: Stakeholder engagement, Materiality 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Kelly Services has not identified a labor unionist industry organization in any of our markets. No Kelly team members are currently covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders The stakeholders were identified considering the following criteria: 1. Number of social dialogues and interactions with the group of interest 2. Direct influence on the type of business, industry, business sector 3. Direct beneficiaries of our products or services 4. Areas of influence: i.e., neighboring communities, local businesses 5. Public organizations such as regulatory bodies, industrial associations, among others 6. Nonprofit organizations with an interest in our line of business 7. Our consumers 8. Our value chain Stakeholder engagement, Materiality GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 66 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Stakeholder engagement (continued) 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement We recognize the importance of engaging with our stakeholders for a better understanding of their concerns, which could help focus our sustainability strategy on high-priority issues. Our latest materiality assessment served as a formal engagement process for identifying the most material issues covered in this report. This process is expected to be done on a biannual basis. Previously to this process, Kelly had responded to stakeholders, formally and informally, through differing approaches toward customers, suppliers, and communities where our offices are located: Stakeholder engagement, Materiality 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised The Stakeholder Engagement Matrix presents the top ten issues raised, main concerns from specific stakeholders, impact on stakeholders, and how the organization has responded to those key topics: Stakeholder engagement, Materiality Reporting Practice Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements A list of wholly owned subsidiaries and entities are included in the organization’s financial statements: Annual Report 2018 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries The report’s content is presented based on our materiality assessment, which prioritized the ten most relevant topics considering our business core and relevance for stakeholders. The rating process scored a variety of topics based on how frequently they were raised by certain stakeholder groups. The relevance criteria helped to identify the level of authority that the stakeholder has over each topic. Considering our worldwide operational outreach, the boundaries for each topic are considered to be global: Materiality 102-47 List of material topics The following topics presented in the materiality matrix are identified as the most material: 1. employees and working conditions; 2. market presence; 3. customer relations and supply chain; 4. human rights; 5. engagement: community outreach and social impact; 6. communication and reporting; 7. ethics and business conduct; 8. organizational health & safety, 9. grievance mechanism; and, 10. environmental impact: Materiality 102-48 Restatements of information This document is presented as the first Kelly Services sustainability report in accordance in International reporting standards -GRI. This is not a restatement of information from previous reports following the same methodology. GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 67 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Reporting Practice (continued) 102-49 Changes in reporting Prior to this report, the company has communicated its commitment and activities aligned with its Corporate Social Responsibility strategy in previous annual reports: 2014 – 2015 and 2016 – 2017. The main change in reporting is that this sustainability report is aligned following international standard for sustainability GRI Standards, and responds more strategically to the organization’s economic, environmental, and social impacts. The report content is based on a materiality assessment conducted through a stakeholder engagement process in January 2018. This report also presents how our Corporate Sustainability Strategy is aligned to respond to the most pressing issues of our world, in consideration of UN Sustainable Development Goals: About this report 102-50 Reporting period This report represents Kelly Services’ global operations and performance for fiscal year 2018 (January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018): About this report 102-51 Date of most recent report Our latest Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 – 2017 was published in June 2017. Previous reports were not prepared following GRI principles and did not use an integrated reporting format: About this report 102-52 Reporting cycle Reporting cycle is on an annual basis, from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018: About this report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report sustainability@kellyservices.com: About this report Kelly Services HQ 999 W Big Beaver Road Troy, MI 48084 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards The report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option: About this report 102-55 GRI Context Index GRI Index 102-56 External Assurance The general content of this report does not seek external assurance or validation. However, some of our social and environmental data is assured by external standards such as the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and EcoVadis. GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 68 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Management approach Management 103-1 Explanation of material topics and their boundaries The materiality assessment followed a process of risk assessment for identifying how the material topics were managed approach by the company and how the level of risk was perceived by stakeholders. Our economic impacts are related to the following material topics: employees and working conditions; market presence; customer relations and supply chain; human rights; ethics and business conduct; communication and reporting. Our social impacts are related to: employee and working conditions; customer relations and supply chain; human rights; engagement: community and social impact; organizational health & safety; grievance mechanisms; communication, and reporting. Finally, our environmental impacts are related to environmental concerns, namely, how to guarantee a low impact from our operations in the environment, as well as how to properly communicate and report this performance. Considering Kelly’s worldwide business outreach and the topics identified through the materiality assessment, the boundary for this topic is considered as global, with certain exceptions explained throughout this report. Therefore, the company has established standardized global practices for partners and suppliers worldwide to ensure compliance and address issues at a local level. GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 69 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Management approach (continued) 103-2 Management approach and its components All material topics are analyzed and evaluated following internal principles, standards, and goals to ensure implementation in all areas and countries of operation. This analysis follows: • Current status and policy gap analysis for each material topic • Sustainability roadmap for each pillar (including an action plan for the period time of 2019 to 2021, to ensure implementation of initiatives per business unit, related to each topic) • Evaluation of main goals, by the end of 2019, for analyzing performance implementation as well as high-level overview throughout the organization Specific goals and targets relevant to material topics are: • Employee working conditions: not identified yet, roadmap to be developed. • Market presence: increase market presence. • Customer relations and supply chain management: Sustainable procurement initiatives and directive designed and implemented by December 2019. 100% of workforce suppliers have signed and agreed to the Supplier Code of Conduct. • Human rights: will be included in the sustainable procurement directive for supply chain management. In the case of Kelly full-time employees, we will keep working on the policy gap analysis to guarantee all human rights are understood and minimize any case of violations. • Ethics and business conduct: zero events of bribery and corruption identified in the reporting period. • Organizational health & safety: zero working-related fatalities along our operations. • Grievance mechanism: N/A • Communication and reporting: GRI sustainability report for 2018. • Environmental Impact: do not exceed our operational carbon footprint during the remodeling process in comparison to 2017 baseline. • Engagement: community outreach and social impact: corporate volunteer program philosophy and guidelines. Program guidelines were launched on February 2019. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach We have implemented the Corporate Sustainability Questionnaire, which assesses and evaluates our sustainable performance on a yearly basis. The tool evaluates our sustainability performance based on our strategic pillars and provides inputs on our goal achievements. This tool is also the main source of information for this report, as it includes verification sources and report on progress. GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 70 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Economic standards Economic standards 201 Direct economic values generated and distributed Kelly’s economic value as well as financial implications and risk/opportunities disclosure can be found in our financial report. Economic Performance We do not have a risk and opportunity assessment specifically related to climate change: Annual Report 2018 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement Kelly offers two optional 401(k) plans for all employees in the U.S. to help save for their retirement. First, a 401(k) plans savings plan, where interested employees contribute a percent of their pay on a pre-tax basis, with Kelly offering to match those contributions. Second, a Retirement Plus (KRP) Plan, where interested employees enroll and manage their 401(k) plan, and may receive return rates for the fund associated with the Kelly retirement plans. Information about the organization’s general resources and the Plan’s liabilities are available in the financial report: Annual Report 2018 202 202-1 Ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender Kelly does not track the total number of employees compensated based on minimum wage rules. However, we have Market compared to local minimum wage established internal policies for our customers and supplier worldwide regarding adherence to local standards and Presence rules on minimum pay, and to guarantee that employees are compensated accordingly. Within the U.S., our lowest hourly rate for non-exempt (hourly) employees is $10.47. 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the A senior management position is referred to SVP and above upper-level positions. Kelly does not manage a local community percentage of employees in senior management positions at significant locations of operation that have been hired from the local community. For this reason, we do not have a definition for “significant locations of operation,” nor a geographical definition of “local.” 203 Infrastructure investment and services supported Disaster recovery program contributed $34,500 through the Kelly relief fund. This fund can increase its amount to Indirect support disaster recovery programs when there is critical need: Disaster recovery economic impacts Significant indirect economic impacts Total number of volunteer hours in 2018: 5,632; with participation of 10% of our workforce. Total annual contributions to social causes in 2018: $142,000: Stakeholder engagement, UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 71 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Economic standards (continued) 204Proportion of spending on local suppliers In 2018, our multidimensional strategy reached over 480 diverse suppliers across our global network. We invested Procurement nearly $4 billion ($1 billion in the U.S. only) to develop a sourcing strategy where diverse suppliers can compete and practices enhance their business opportunities in servicing our supply chain. Considering the worldwide market presence of our supply chain, the organization’s definition of “local” is referred to each country of operation: Diverse supplier strategy 205Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Kelly is committed to doing the right thing, conducting ourselves in a legal, ethical, and trustworthy manner. We have Antiimplemented a Supplier Code of Business Conduct (SCoC) which provides guidelines to our global suppliers and their corruption employees, regarding anti-corruption and anti-bribery practices. 100% of our suppliers have signed the SCoC and are expected to understand and follow these procedures: Supplier Code of Conduct Communication and training about anti-corruption policies We conduct annual training to all employees and communicate mechanisms to report any concerns or unethical and procedures conduct: Code of Conduct In 2018, 100% of our employees certified acknowledgement of understanding our “Code.” This code is intended to serve as a guide; employees are encouraged to present their questions/concerns to the vice president, internal audit, the general counsel, human resources, or to the Kelly anonymous hotlines. Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken We are not aware of any incidents of corruption. 206Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Notwithstanding our long history of effective compliance with laws and regulations, Kelly, as any other large corporation, Antimonopoly practices is involved in legal matters in the ordinary course of its business. These matters are generally resolved favorably, with no competitive behavior material financial effect on the continuing operations of the business or our ability to serve our clients. Environmental Standards Environmental 103 Management Approach As a workforce and talent services provider, our environmental impact mainly relates to our office operations. We have Standards a relatively small ecological footprint and we are committed to reducing our impact on the planet through education and implementation of internal practices that promotes preservation, conservation, and waste reduction: Environment GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 72 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Environmental Standards (continued) 301Materials used by weight or volume Kelly is renovating its headquarters offices with consideration given to green building procedures that use Materials environmentally friendly materials. This procedure follows procurement and purchasing standards on office supplies and building materials. However, we do not have measurements of composed materials in order to report on volume and weight: Facilities and materials Recycled input materials used Our recycled practices within our headquarters offices: Total weight recycled = 100.42 tons. Total weight of recycled content purchased = 6.20 tons, including toilet tissue and hand towels: Facilities and materials 302Energy consumption within the organization Our business operations are limited to office space, with a significant amount of personnel working remotely (onlineEnergy based). We are proud to have several of our buildings recognized for outstanding environmental performance: Facilities and materials We measure energy consumption within the organization based on the electricity and natural gas used in our headquarters offices, located in Michigan, United States. The Energy Consumption within our organization is measured by the Energy Usage Index (EUI) that analyzes the energy efficiency per building by year: Energy Usage Index Direct energy consumption at the Corporate campus for 2018: 440.428 kBtus per square foot (note: source of verification and methodology for calculation based on utility bill data for Scope 2 and internal fuel consumption for Scope 1). Kelly participates in the annual CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) which evaluates companies on their greenhouse gas emissions. Energy consumption outside the organization Although we operate in branches and lease offices outside of our headquarters, we are just able to report on consolidated electricity expenses for those offices. We expect to start consolidating measures on energy consumption outside the organization, in our lease and branch offices, in the next two years. GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 73 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Environmental Standards (continued) 302Energy intensity Because of the nature of our business and our flex job model, estimating our energy intensity ratio represents a Energy challenge. Our energy consumption is reflected in Scope 1 and Scope 2 reporting emissions. However, additional (cont.) to the 1,200 employees based in Troy, Michigan, a significant number of employees travel for office days to our HQ buildings, as well as a significant portion works remotely modifying the daily influx of employees and users at our locations. Therefore, our energy intensity ratio is calculated estimating the average number of employees present in HQ (1,900) against Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions reporting. That gives us an estimate of 3.7 tons of GHG emission for employees in the U.S. The numbers obtained come from the following calculation: ((Scope1 +Scope2 emissions)/ average number of employees in HQ)) or (7,165/1,900). Reduction on energy consumption From 2007 to 2018, we reduced the energy consumption in our headquarters by 27.6%. In the Kirts and Lindsey buildings, this reduction was 41.75% and 2.79% respectively. However, The Annex building in our corporate campus reported an increase in energy consumption from 2017 to 2018 due to relocation of employees during the remodeling process: Energy Usage Index 303Water withdrawals by source The water supply in our building is provided via municipal systems and is limited to water consumption of sanitary and Water domestic use at building facilities. Kelly at this time does not track water use by withdrawals: Water consumption Water recycled and reused Kelly Services have no facilities that track recycled and reused water. 305Direct Scope 1 GHG emissions Direct (scope1) GHGe 2018: 690 emissions in metric tons of CO2e.: Emissions (NOTES) * Base year for calculation: GHG 2017. Emissions in the base year: 700 CO2. *Carbon Footprint (CO2) measurement is based upon electrical (kWh) and emissions natural gas (MMBtu) consumption. For electricity, the values are based on related emissions (indirect emissions from power plants); for natural gas, values are based on emissions from stationary combustion. * Standards, methodologies, and measures used: the data of usage was compiled from monthly utility consumption bills from the company owned facilities located in Troy, Michigan. *All other leased/branch locations are excluded. The standards followed the USEPAUS Environmental Protection Agency Methodology. * We do not categorize gases in our measurement. GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 74 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Environmental Standards (continued) 305Indirect Scope 2 GHG emissions Indirect Scope 2 (location-based) GHGe 2018: 6.475 emissions in metric tons of CO2e: Emissions (NOTES) * We GHG report Scope 2 (location-based) emissions from information obtained and documented by utility consumption in emissions (cont.) our own commercial office buildings located in Troy, Michigan. * All leased/branch locations are excluded from this measurement. We do not have access to electricity supplier emission factors or residual emissions factors, to report on Scope 2 market-based figures. * The standards followed the USEPA-U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Methodology. * We do not categorized gases in measurement. * Scope 2 new baseline would be determined in 2019. Other indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions Scope 3GHG emissions 2018: AIR TRAVEL: 2,828,876 kg CO2, RAIL TRAVEL: 1,622 kg CO2.: Emissions (NOTES) * We report Scope 3 GHGe from air and rail travels from employees in our headquarters operations. * The standards followed the Carson Wagonlit Travel methodology (CWT AnalytlQs-CO2 calculation), based on the guidelines produced by DEFRA’s GHG Conversion Factors. *Gases included in calculation: CO2, CH4, N2O. * The criteria to determine calculations, included: Total distance of flight based on origin and destination airports; class type (economy, premium economy, business, first). *Factors used do not include an “uplift” for Radiative Forcing (RF-measure of additional environmental impacts of aviation emitted at high altitude, including emissions of nitrous oxides, water vapor). * Scope 3 new baseline would be determined in 2019. 306Waste by type and disposal method In our office-based operations, waste is mainly generated from paper use and other office-related activities. We have Effluents and created internal programs for proper recycling of materials, and reduce as much as we can, the final disposition of water reuse waste in landfills. In future reports we expect to report the amount of generated waste and its final destination, as well as to have more specific data on its diversion. Total weight of materials recycled 2018: 100.42 tons. Specific environmental data: We do not have access to associated data regarding waste management in some branches and lease offices. ENVIRONMENTAL EFFORTS RECYCLED PAPER 78.16 tons SAVED TREES 1,328,72 OIL SAVED 8,687 gallons WATER SAVED 547,120 gallons CUBIC YARD LANDFILL SAVED 234,48 GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 75 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Environmental Standards (continued) 307Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations We have not identified any non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations. Environmental compliance Social standards Social standards 103 Management approach Kelly is committed to providing to all our employees with fair and safe working conditions, and opportunities they need for growth. Our most important assets are our employees; we have created internal practices to ensure labor conditions and benefits to all our employees in all countries of operation. All our working and labor practices and standards are aligned with global initiatives such as the ILO Convention or the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: ILO Convention 401New employees hires and turnover New employees hired in 2018: 4,600: Employees and people. We do not have sufficient information to track new Employment employees hires by regions. Employee turnover for 2018: 1,192: Employees and people. We do not have sufficient information to track employee turnover by regions. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Benefits provided to all full-time employees: Standard benefits. All full-time employees are eligible for unpaid 12 provided to temporary or part-time employees weeks of leave in the FMLA job protection program to take care of their own disability, take care of a family member, or baby bonding (in the U.S. and Puerto Rico). Eligible employees must have been employed at least one year with the company and have worked at least 1,250 hours. This program is administered by Prudential. All other regions and countries abide by their respective legislation on the topic. Parental leave Kelly offers paid parental leave to eligible full-time employees, including birthing mothers, partners/spouses of birthing mothers, and employees who adopt a child minor of 18 years old in U.S. and Puerto Rico. Employees benefiting from parental leave in the U.S. in 2018: 60 in our headquarters location: Parental leave. All other regions and countries abide by their own respective legislation on the topic. GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 76 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Social standards (continued) 402Labor management relations Kelly has implemented a disclosure and communication policy to formally communicate changes in policies and Labor procedures within the organization to all employees and suppliers. However, this policy does not provide a guideline management relations regarding a minimum number of weeks for noting changes that may affect employees and suppliers. Kelly has not identified a collective bargaining agreement with an industry association. 403Workers’ representation in formal joint managementKelly is committed to ensuring healthful and safe working conditions for all our employees. We provide regular Occupational worked health & safety committee training on safety guidelines in order to help them to become familiar with customers’ work environments, safe work Health & Safety practices, emergency procedures, and protective equipment. We also assist our customers and suppliers in preparing the workplace for our employees, through our Global Safety and Health Program, which includes a pre-assignment risk assessment, worker training, and analysis of incident report. Kelly has implemented a Health & Safety program based on a detailed risk assessment that sets the basis for the occupational health and safety management system. We also have developed a Health & Safety Risks and Good Practices policy that is communicated to all employees and presents procedures for recording injuries by both direct and temporary employees. We have a Safety & Health and Environmental department that oversees execution of the safety management system and policy: Occupational health & safety Kelly participates in the Safety Committee of the staffing industry association. Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, (NOTE) * Data of incident report was calculated using PSHA recordable injuries to only full-time and directly supervised lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related employees in the U.S. fatalities 2018 Total number of employee hours worked 9,896,775 Lost work day incidence rate (LTOR) 0.06 Average number of employees 4,713 Restricted Case Incidence Rate (RCIR) 0.02 Total number of work-related employee fatalities 0 Days away/restricted and transferred incidence rate (DART) 0.08 Total number of recordable injuries/illness 13 Temporary Help Services (561320) BLS average TRIR TBD Total number of cases with days away from work 3 Percent above/below BLS industry average TRIR TBD Total number of restricted/transferred cases 1 Experience Modification Rate (Interstate) 0.78 Total Case Incidence Rate (TRIR) 0.26 GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 77 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Social standards (continued) 403Workers with high incidence or high-risk diseases related Kelly does not have any direct employees involved in an activity that may be exposed to a high risk of specific disease Occupational to their occupation at any of its sites. When placing talent into our customers’ sites we conduct a risk assessment to ensure health & safety Health & Safety standards for every employee. Responsibilities and liabilities are shared between Kelly and its customers. (cont.) Health & safety topics covered in formal agreements with We do not have an agreement with trade unions and have no record of workers’ representation in formal joint trade unions management-worker health & safety committees. 404Average hours of training per year per employee Kelly continuously offers training and educational opportunities for all employees. We have an online learning platform Training and with more than 3,000 courses to provide instructor-led trainings to advance employees in their careers and career Education opportunities. We also have partnered with leading educational institutions in the U.S. to offer employees benefits that access and endorse their educational skills with formal and informal programs: Career development Average hours of training per year per employee for 2018: approximately 19 hours. (NOTE) * We do not have sufficient information to track data of average hours of training by gender nor employee category. Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition The following are programs offered to employees for upgrading their skills: assistance programs • SHRM Certification Program for selected Partnered Staffing employees • PMP Certification training in the learning management system and study session led by Kelly project management professionals • Six Sigma Certification training curricula (Yellow, Green, and Black Belt) • AGILE training offered • Leadership Development program: offering training on how to become a leader and enhance leadership skills; offering training, experiential and learning from the framework of others. • Leadership Learning Circles focused on specific leader skills such as inclusion • The First 90 Days: new leader training program The transition assistance programs provided to employees facilitate employability and the management of their careers: AYERS GROUP Additionally KLC offers 3,000+ training course to learn new skills. GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 78 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Social standards (continued) 404Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Currently KLC also offers My Career program, which provides career management tools to design business goals, Training and and career management programs career development plan, and giving and getting feedback. This program is reviewed annually: Career development Education (cont.) Kelly is updating its Performance and Career Development Program. This program is expected to be launched in conjunction with our latest version of competencies in April 2019. We expect to have sufficient data to report on the percentage of total employees who participate in this program in our next report. 405Diversity of governance bodies and employees Kelly has a diverse workforce of more than a million employees globally. It is important to guarantee that our workforce Diversity reflect diversity in age groups, gender, and ethnicity. and equal opportunity 2018 Diversity and Inclusion awards and recognitions Diverse representation on our board is important for ensuring a better decision-making process. Kelly has 9 directors: 3 female and 6 male. Two of our directors represent ethnic diversity: Governance Kelly has had a Diversity and Inclusion Council since 2003: Diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity 406Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken In 2018, we did not have incidents related to discrimination. Nondiscrimination Discriminatory incidents refer to legal actions taken towards the organization regarding discriminatory issues related to employee race, color, religion, gender identity/expression, sexual orientation, national origin, age, genetic information, disability, veteran and military status, and/or other protected categories under applicable laws. Incidents and actions related to discrimination are received through our integrity line and addressed internally by our legal and HR team. 407Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of Kelly has not identified a unionist workers’ association within the company nor the industry. However, in our Supplier Freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Code of Conduct, we state that all partners and suppliers must respect the right of all employees to engage in association and collective protected activities, including those of freedom of association and collective bargaining: Working/labor conditions bargaining GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 79 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Social standards (continued) 408Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of In the U.S., Kelly complies with state and federal law regarding the employment of minors in all 50 states, the District Child labor child labor of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. Additionally, we have stated in agreements with partners and suppliers, as well as in our Supplier Code of Conduct, that in our global operations, it is mandatory to comply with all applicable child labor laws, including those relating to minimum age limits, limitations of working hours, and prohibition against certain types of work. Kelly thoroughly vets its placement of minors and does not permit the placement of minors in certain high-risk jobs, including manufacturing and warehouse positions: Working/labor conditions 409Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of Kelly has a zero-tolerance policy against any form or human trafficking and related activities, including any form of Forced or forced or compulsory labor unlawful employee harassment, retaliation, forced or compulsory labor, sex trafficking, child labor, or any type of compulsory labor peonage: Working/labor conditions. All Kelly employees have an “at-will” employment relationship. In our operations worldwide, we have implemented global practices to guarantee labor working standards through the Supplier Code of Conduct. UK Modern Slavery Transparency Act statement 412Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews We have not implemented a human rights assessment. However, we have stated global policies on human rights, Human Rights or impact assessment including a human trafficking and slavery statement, to ensure compliance with our suppliers and partners. assessment We are developing a supplier risk assessment platform that would deliver current human rights status in our operations worldwide. This information would help us define risk areas and address plans: Human rights Employee training on human rights policies or procedures We conduct annual trainings to all employees on human rights and issues related to human trafficking. Trainings also are conducted on annual basis to hiring managers and human resources staff to protect employees and candidates against any type of trafficking. 413Operations with local community engagement, impact We have implemented our third pillar “Engagement” to improve our local community engagement through Local assessment, and development programs volunteering, social investment, and support for small, minority, and disadvantaged businesses: Engagement Communities We have structured our corporate volunteer program to channel all volunteering activities: Engagement Kelly has developed a disaster recovery program to be ready for and respond to situations such as natural disasters as well as safety and security concerns, which may be critical to our employees and their families, as well as to the viability of the company: Disaster recovery GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 80 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Social standards (continued) 414New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Our global suppliers commit to conducting business with the same high level of accountability to which we hold our Supplier operations, by signing the Supplier Code of Conduct. We conduct due diligence to all our suppliers through our social assessment Supplier Chain Enablement Team, which analyzes supplier risk assessments as well as the planning process for the enhancement of their performance. The team monitors all new and current suppliers against pending non-compliance requirements: Supply chain accountability Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken The supplier risk assessment program does not include a social impact risk assessment. However, we are planning to implement a new supplier risk assessment platform in the next two years to monitor and identify negative social impacts within the supply chain and to address actions that enhance performance and overcome difficulties in regions of risk. 415Political contributions The company Code of Business Conduct and Ethics prohibits the use of company property, equipment funds, or other Public Policy resources to make direct or indirect political contributions, unless certified approval by the Company’s general counsel is given: Code of Conduct 416Assessment of the health & safety impacts of product and We assist our customers in preparing the workplace for our employees through our Global Safety and Health Program. Customer service categories The program includes a pre-assignment risk assessment, worker training, and analysis of incident report, which analyzes health & safety safety at workplaces with respect to OSHA’s regulations and recommendations: Occupational health & safety. Health & safety liabilities and responsibilities are shared with our customers. Our products and services do not represent health & safety impact as we manage talent. We don’t have any record of non-compliance for the reporting period resulting in fines or warnings: Supply chain accountability 418Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Kelly has not received any notice or complaint from outside parties or regulators regarding breaches of its customers’ Customer customer privacy and losses of customer data privacy during the reporting period. Privacy In 2018, we implemented a standardized procedure that complies with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This process was communicated through mandatory trainings to all employees and suppliers. We also implemented a GDPR Data Privacy agreement in the Supplier Code of Conduct: Code of Conduct GRI Index / GRI matrix Contents / 81 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number 101Reasons for omission This report has been made according to the GRI Standards CORE option. This option indicates that a report contains Clause 3.2 the minimum information needed to understand the nature of the organization, its material topics and related impacts, and how these are managed. Therefore, the following disclosures are not applicable for reporting. (102-22) Composition of the highest governance body and its committees (102-23) Chair of the highest governance body (102-24) Nominating and selecting the highest governance body (102-25) Conflicts of interest (102-26) Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy (102-27) Collective knowledge of highest governance body (102-28) Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance (102-29) Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts from the highest governance body (102-30) Effectiveness of risk management process (102-31) Review of economic, environmental, and social topics (102-33) Communicating critical concerns (102-34) Nature and total number of critical concerns (102-35) Remuneration policies for highest governance (102-37) Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration (102-38) Annual total compensation ratio (102-39) Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio (304) Biodiversity (308) Supplier environmental assessment (410) Security practices (411) Rights of indigenous people (417) Marketing and labeling (419) Socioeconomic compliance 101GRI notification of use of standards GRI This report has been registered to GRI at its website: www.globalreporting.org/standards Clause 3.4 All trademarks are property of their respective owners An Equal Opportunity Employer © 2019 Kelly Services, Inc. All rights reserved 18-0778A kellyservices.com
