UNGC 2019 Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact January 2019 Changing the perspective on risk maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Contents Verisk Maplecroft contributes to the following through the implementation of the four pillars 4 6 8Community Principle 1: 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Environment Principle 7: 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Statement of Support Our approach to UNGC Principles & People sustainability Verisk Maplecroft Principle 1: 1 Businesses should support and respect 9 11 16 the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 3: 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 5: 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 10: 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Products Sustainable Development Goals Community & Verisk Maplecroft Engagement Environment Principle 1: 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 21 27 344 human rights Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 6: 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 9: 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies VM Support for Women’s Our People Our Products and Sevices Empowerment Principle 2 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress About Verisk Maplecroft “ For over 10 years, we have pioneered the quantification of risk. Our journey has seen us become part of the world’s leading data analytics organisation and progress from a team of talented academics based in the west of England to a global research house at the forefront of data modelling, risk analysis and forecasting. We have a unique portfolio of global risk analytics, expert insight and user-centric platforms. These resources enable us to deliver a holistic evaluation of the key strategic, operational and reputational risks facing multinational organisations, their suppliers and the raw materials they source for any location worldwide. Our interconnected approach to risk provides businesses with unparalleled insight into country, sector, corporate and supplier-level exposure to the full spectrum of political, economic, human rights and environmental issues. We help businesses make better, risk-adjusted decisions that improve effectiveness and the commercial performance, resilience and sustainability of a business. Global issues need a global perspective. That’s why we’ve expanded our presence across the world. Bath remains a key hub of operations for us, but we now have offices in New York, London, Singapore, Calgary, Mexico City, Buenos Aires and beyond. Company name Email Number of employees Verisk Maplecroft info@maplecroft.com 120 employees Address Web address Sector 1 Henry Street www.maplecroft.com Professional, scientific and technical Bath services BA1 1JS UK Submission date Contact name 25 January 2019 Gus MacFarlane Telephone Membership date Contact position +44 (0) 1225 420 000 11 February 2005 Director © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | maplecroft.com 3 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Statement of Support “ Verisk Maplecroft has a strong commitment to sustainability and corporate citizenship and this report highlights our efforts. Our investments in 2018 were significant and reflect company-wide accountability for our goals. Below are some of the key highlights of what we accomplished: ■■ Direct Community Engagement: Throughout the year our employees across the globe participated in community engagement using their time and skills. We set aside a day for these activities and encouraged everyone to participate. Sondra Scott, ■■ Giving Program: With support from our parent company, Verisk President, Verisk Maplecroft Analytics, we donated to Julian House – an organisation that provides direct support for the homeless, and the Baytree Centre a social inclusion charity for women and girls. ■■ Increasing and Celebrating Diversity: In 2018, we set specific diversity goals including ensuring a hiring pool with equal numbers of men and woman, more woman in our technology team and the promotion of female employees in line with the percentage of woman in the company. We are pleased to say that we achieved the goals we set out. We also instituted an Ethnicity Working Group, which has carried out various activities during the year to celebrate the cultural heritage of our team members. ■■ New ESG Indices: In 2018, we introduced six new country indices Coastal Flood Hazard Index, Landslide Hazard Index, Wave Hazard Index, Water Pollution Index, Waste Generation Index, and Financial Openness Index. In 2018, we were committed to providing a broad range of content to external stakeholders through the public domain, including our well-read political, environmental and human rights outlooks. These reports help to raise awareness of the key social, environmental and governance risks found across the world. We do this via our significant and growing presence in international media, through free thought leadership pieces on our public website and the attendance of conferences and public speaking engagements. 4 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress There are a variety of other ways in which we support the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, including our collaboration with UNICEF on the development of the Children’s Rights and Business Atlas, the updating and expansion of the publicly available Girl Stats platform, with generous funding from our parent organisation Verisk Analytics. Beyond our external activities we support the principles through an adherence to our own corporate values which reflect Verisk Analytics’ comprehensive nine-point value framework. The first two values, Respect for the Individual and Integrity; both speak directly to the compact principles. We are pleased to submit this report which details our 2018 activities in support of the aims and interests of the United Nations Global Compact. Our mission is to not only actively adhere to the principles, but to innovate so that our employees, clients and communities can benefit from our expertise and efforts. We are privileged to have the backing of our parent company Verisk Analytics which supports us in this effort. Sondra Scott © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com 5 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Our Approach to Sustainability “Hannah Broscombe, CSR Coordinator and Senior Analyst, Human Rights, London. We are committed to being a sustainable, ethical and responsible business. The work we undertake for our clients is, by its very nature, aimed at enhancing their ability to manage risk and act more responsibly. We are committed to conducting business in an ethical and responsible manner. We have strong beliefs on ethical working practices for our employees, including gender and racial equality, flexible working for families, and giving back to local communities. These beliefs are backed up by company policies to ensure that we not only promote ethical business, but that we also practise it. In 2018, we continued to develop and strengthen our policies, commitments and actions to ensure we live up to not only our own values, but also the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We incorporate the Ten UNGC Principles into our business strategies, policies, and procedures. We adopt Verisk’s corporate values. These values represent the standard to which we hold ourselves both in our dealings internally, and when working externally with clients and in our local communities. The Verisk Way—to serve, add value, and innovate is our road map to achieve this vision. 6 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Our approach to sustainability Figure 1: Verisk corporate values Respect for the Individual Integrity Passion Persistence Confidence / Humility Excellence Teamwork Source: Verisk Analytics Our employee handbook defines our commitments and expectations in relation to sustainability and corporate citizenship. This handbook was revised in 2017 to include more robust and comprehensive policies for staff. These commitments and expectations are organised around four pillars: ■■ Human rights ■■ Environment ■■ Labour standards ■■ Transparency and disclosure Our commitment to CSR Our CSR strategy incorporates four key pillars: Community, Environment, People and Products. Within each of these four pillars we outline the actions we take to support local community initiatives, reduce our impact on the environment, support the development and wellbeing of our staff and deliver products that support responsible business practices. Much of this is done through close engagement with the various working groups and steering committees across the Verisk family. This Communications on Progress report will further demonstrate our commitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact through each of our four CSR pillars. Figure 2: The 4 pillars of Maplecroft CSR Community Environment Our People Our Products Source: Verisk Analytics 2019 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com 7 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Our approach to sustainability UNGC Principles & Verisk Maplecroft Verisk Maplecroft contributes to the following United Nations Global Compact Principles through the implementation of the four pillars of our CSR strategy. Community Principle 1: Principle 8: 1 Businesses should support and respect 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater the protection of internationally proclaimed environmental responsibility human rights Environment Principle 7: Principle 8: 7 Businesses should support a precautionary 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater approach to environmental challenges environmental responsibility People Principle 1: Principle 2: 1 Businesses should support and respect 2 Make sure that they are not the protection of internationally proclaimed complicit in human rights abuses. human rights Principle 3: Principle 4: 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and association and the effective recognition of compulsory labour the right to collective bargaining Principle 5: Principle 6: 5 The effective abolition of child labour 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 10: 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Products Principle 1: Principle 2: 1 Businesses should support and respect 2 Make sure that they are not the protection of internationally proclaimed complicit in human rights abuses human rights Principle 4: Principle 5: 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and 5 The effective abolition of child labour compulsory labour Principle 6: Principle 7: 6 The elimination of discrimination in 7 Businesses should support a precautionary respect of employment and occupation approach to environmental challenges Principle 9: Principle 10: 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of 10 Businesses should work against corruption in environmentally friendly technologies all its forms, including extortion and bribery 8 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Our approach to sustainability Sustainable Development Goals & Verisk Maplecroft Verisk Maplecroft contributes to the following Sustainable Development Goals through the implementation of the four pillars of our CSR strategy. Community Environment People Products © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com 9 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Our approach to sustainability Community Engagement 10 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress 1 Community engagement Photo: Holy Apostles Soup Kitchen, Manhattan “ Lyn Prentice Office Manager and Wellness Champion, Bath. We are passionate about making a difference in the communities within which we work, and we endeavour to create a culture of integrity and sincerity to help those who are less fortunate than ourselves. Our commitment to the community supports the following: supports the following UNGC Principles supports the following SDGs Principle 1 Principle 8 Goal 2 Goal 5 Goal 10 Goal 15 Our commitment We are committed to being a community-friendly business, playing an active and supportive role in the areas in which we operate. We encourage our staff members to engage with local organisations and institutions, through volunteer work, fundraising and knowledge sharing. This commitment is embedded in our CSR strategy which is made up of four pillars, including Community, Environment, Our People and Our Products. Community engagement is also embedded in our corporate culture through our parent company, Verisk Analytics, which strongly encourages all business units to take an active role in local communities. Verisk Analytics runs an annual Community Engagement Week; a week-long event promoting local volunteer opportunities for all employees. During Community Engagement Week, each member of staff is entitled to a paid day off to donate their time to a local cause. © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com 11 1 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Community Engagement As part of an overarching commitment to supporting local communities, our parent company Verisk Analytics continues to support thousands of causes through its Matching Gifts Programme. By matching the donations made by both active and retired employees and directors, as well as their spouses, Verisk enables staff to double their contributions to charitable organisations. This is subject to a limit of £3,500 per employee and spouse, and £1,750 per retired employee and spouse. Our sister company, Wood Mackenzie, also demonstrates its commitment to communities through its donation ‘top ups’ programme, which Verisk Maplecroft employees can take part in. Top ups differ from Verisk Gift Matching in that they can be applied to all donations or funds raised, not those Photo: Verisk Maplecroft employees, Bath office, clearing scrubs at Crookes Peak for the National trust. just directly contributed by staff or their spouse. They can also be used to contribute towards the costs ■■ National Trust: This initiative also enabled staff with associated with volunteer activities. All top ups are an interest in environmental issues to take part in a subject to approval by the Verisk Maplecroft / Wood project that was conservation-focused. Staff helped Mackenzie Community Engagement to clear shrubs and restore calcareous grassland Steering Committee. habitat to maintain a variety of rare plant species. Our actions in 2018 ■■ Bath Cats & Dogs Home: Bath Cats & Dogs Home took in over 1,300 animals last year, reunited 211 Volunteering in the local community stray animals with their owners, and found homes In 2018, 29 Verisk Maplecroft staff took part in Verisk for over 1,000 pets. Verisk Maplecroft volunteers Community Engagement Week at various locations worked to transform a summer house and seating in Bath, London, Calgary and New York. Employees area and learnt about the valuable work that goes gave back to their local communities by volunteering on at Bath Cats & Dogs Home. in activities and projects for a variety of charitable London: Seven employees from our London office organisations and initiatives. volunteered at The Baytree Centre – an organisation Here are some 2018 highlights: that works to empower women and girls through Bath (United Kingdom): 14 members of staff education and skills development. Volunteers painted participated in a number of events including various rooms throughout the centre and supported conservation wkpork with the National Trust and lessons during educational afternoon classes for girls. gardening work for Julian House a local shelter for women and children. These projects were selected for a number of reasons: 12 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Community Engagement 1 Photo: Holy Apostles Soup Kitchen, Manhattan Photo: Holy Apostles Soup Kitchen, Manhattan Calgary (Canada): Maplecroft staff from our Calgary office, along with colleagues from Wood Mackenzie, took part in a volunteer initiative at Ronald McDonald House. The organisation provides a home away from home for families that must travel to a different city to receive medical care for an ill child. Our team cooked brunch at one of the sites, providing families with a meal ahead of a busy day at hospitals and clinics. New York (United States): This year the New York office went to the Holy Apostles Soup Kitchen in downtown Manhattan. They served 753 meals and 225 bagged lunches to the homeless. Employee voluntary contribution: Maids of Athena “ Tatiana Tsaprailis Research Associate, Calgary, Canada “The Maids of Athena (MOA) is an international non-profit organization with a focus on philanthropy, education, and civic responsibility. Each year, the MOA chooses various organisations to fundraise and raise awareness for, while also providing three scholarships. This year, we are fundraising for Hamogelo tou Paidiou, the Friedreich’s Ataxia Research Alliance (FARA), Penelope’s Place, and the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI). As Grand President I preside over all national and executive board meetings, appoint standing committees, and oversee our membership and chapters.” © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com 13 1 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Community Engagement Community giving In 2018, Verisk Corporate provided Verisk Maplecroft with a corporate giving donation allocation. These allocations are intended to support organisations serving the communities where we live and work, as well as organisations addressing issues of importance to our employees. Verisk Maplecroft donated USD3,750 to Julian House – an organisation that provides direct support to some of the most marginalised people in society – the homeless. The organisation not only provides food and shelter, but also addresses the symptoms of homelessness and the underlying reasons why men and women are forced onto the streets. We also donated USD3,750 to the Baytree Centre a Photo: Donation to Julian house, Bath social inclusion charity for women and girls based Future goals in Brixton, London. Those who access the Centre face multiple barriers to inclusion, such as a lack of In 2019, we will work closely with line managers English language skills; a lack of opportunities to and our marketing team to help increase employee learn in culturally appropriate settings; an inability volunteering during our Community Engagement to access employment opportunities; poverty; poor Week. We will continue to seek feedback from all housing; isolation; mental health issues our charity partners in the future to support and discrimination. continuous improvement. We would like to increase the proportion of employees taking part in voluntary work during the 2019 Verisk Community Engagement week to 50%. In 2019, we will also continue to support Julian House in Bath and the Baytree Centre in London, either through voluntary work at their premises or by providing monetary donations. Photo: The Baytree Centre, London 14 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Community Engagement 1 Environment © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com 15 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress 2 Environment Photo: istock Our commitment “ We are committed to taking a precautionary approach with respect to managing our environmental footprint and to undertaking environmental initiatives that promote environmental Rory Clisby protection and responsibility. This commitment is Analyst, Environment and Climate Change, detailed in both our employee handbook and our Singapore. CSR strategy, and requires us to work towards Given the nature of our business, we are improving our environmental performance, delighted that Verisk is now a carbon neutral preventing pollution wherever possible and enterprise. We aim to continue using renewable complying with all applicable laws, regulations and energy certificates and carbon offsets to further industry standards. balance our parent company’s carbon emission. Our parent company, Verisk Analytics, has also committed to reducing energy and resource Our actions in 2018 consumption in their products and operations, optimising its environmental footprint and improving Maintaining a sustainable procurement policy waste management and energy efficiency in We continue to implement a sustainable procurement business operations. As a part of the wider Verisk policy for food, catering and cleaning products used family, Verisk Maplecroft also commits to this. in our Bath office. We aim to purchase products In addition, in the environmental pillar of Verisk with the highest ethical and environment standards Maplecroft’s CSR Strategy we commit to: possible, such as those of organic origin (as defined under UK and EU law). ■■ Disclosing and reducing our greenhouse emissions ■■ Recycling wherever possible ■■ Procuring energy efficient and sustainable equipment, food and drink and cleaning products 16 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Environment 2 Food and drink items purchased for staff carry at The Verisk Maplecroft Cambridge House office in least one of the following certifications: Bath is classified as having a Category D Energy Performance Asset Rating; with a score of 97/150 ■■ Organic; certified by the Soil Association, EcoCert (lower scores indicate better energy efficiency). While or the Organic Food Federation the score is above what would be expected if the ■■ Fairtrade Foundation; compliant with fair trade building was new, the score is below the benchmark standards relating to supply-chain transparency for existing building stock of this type (109). The and equitable pricing for producers annual building emission rate is 99.02kg of CO2 per ■■ Rainforest Alliance; compliant with Sustainable square meter. Agriculture Network standards for conservation, In 2017, we replaced all our fluorescent-tube lighting social wellbeing and sustainable farm management at our Bath office with 40-watt LED panels. The replacement panels are around 50% more energy efficient than the previous light fittings and are more durable, typically having a life span of 50,000 hours. 2018 was the first complete calendar year in which these lights were used. In 2018, the Verisk Maplecroft Bath office used 80,321 kilowatt hours of electricity. Based on the UK As a part of our precautionary approach, we energy generation mix, this is estimated to represent exclusively source everyday products for our Bath 28.2 tonnes CO2e (carbon dioxide equivalent) of office that do not contain palm oil due to the high greenhouse gas emissions. This represents a 44.0% risks of environmental degradation and human rights reduction in electricity usage compared to the same violations associated with the commodity. We also period in 2015, when we occupied two floors at source cleaning products with a low environmental Cambridge House, and a 6.5% reduction compared impact, as well as recycled paper cleaning products. to the same period in 2017. This indicates continued Furthering our efforts to recycle waste efficiency savings (see Figure 4: Annual electricity consumption). Throughout 2018, we continued to provide recycling facilities for our staff for domestic plastic, cardboard Discounting seasonal fluctuations in energy demand, and metal packaging. the long-term trend for reducing energy consumption indicates a continued fall in kWh energy consumption Improving our energy and resource efficiency per quarter in the period January 2015 to December Following a decrease in 2016 and 2017, the staff 2018 (see Figure 3: Quarterly number at our Bath office is stable at around 40 electricity consumption). people. In September, staff from Validus IVC, a recent addition to the Verisk group of companies, moved into our Bath office. A move towards greater flexibility has seen a rise in home and remote working. Given this situation, we continued to see a fall in energy and resource consumption at our Bath office over the past twelve months. We can use the following metrics to measure future performance. © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com 17 2 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Environment Figure 3: Quarterly electricity consumption 45000 40000 35000 Kilowatt Hours (kWh) 30000 25000 20000 15000 10000 5000 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2015 2016 2017 2018 Source: Verisk Maplecroft 2019 Verisk Analytics: Our carbon-neutral commitment In 2018, Verisk Analytics, completed its third inventory of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across all business units for the year 2017. Verisk Analytics is reporting to CDP (formally the Carbon Disclosure Project), an international not-for-profit organisation that administers a global disclosure system representing the most comprehensive collection of self-reported environmental data in existence. Emissions from the Verisk family of companies totalled 24,536 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) in 2017. As part of this process, Verisk Maplecroft submitted the emissions associated with energy purchased for Cambridge House and emissions from air travel. The figure is an 2.1% increase on emissions in 2015, our baseline year reflecting growth of the Verisk family of businesses. Verisk’s 2017 emissions have been balanced 100% by our purchase of renewable energy certificates (REC) and carbon offsets. RECs are tradable, nontangible energy commodities evidencing that 1 megawatt of electricity has been generated and delivered to the electricity grid from a renewable source. Verisk purchased RECs representing more than 28,000 megawatts of electricity during 2017, supporting renewable energy projects—wind, hydro, or biomass—in almost every country or region where we have offices. We also expect to continue using renewable energy certificates and carbon offsets to help balance Verisk’s carbon emissions when we conduct our 2018 inventory. 18 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Environment 2 Figure 4: Annual electricity consumption Reducing travel to cut carbon emissions (kWh) Due to the nature of our business, international travel for sales and consulting staff is unavoidable. However, the use of teleconferencing facilities is encouraged wherever possible to avoid unnecessary travel. In addition, we have expanded our presence in region in 2018 80,321 our New York, Singapore and Mexico City offices. This 2017 will reduce the need for long-haul air travel. 85,866 2015 In line with our commitment to monitor emissions 143,545 from air travel, in 2018, Verisk Maplecroft employees 2016 flew a total of 1,212,833 miles, representing 217.6 128,368 tonnes CO2e of greenhouse gas emissions.1 This represents a 250% increase from the same period in 2016. We will continue to use teleconferencing and remote presentation technologies as our primary means for internal and external meetings. During the past year we have continued to offer the cycle-to-work scheme to our UK-based employees. This is a government initiative that provides users with a financial incentive to purchase a bicycle and use it to cycle to and from work. Through this scheme, the government hopes to reduce pollution Source: Verisk Maplecroft 2019 and improve health by encouraging cycling as a means of commuting. Future goals In 2019, we intend to purchase 100% renewable energy for our Bath Office and we are currently considering two suppliers. We also aim to reduce air travel by staff where possible and we will continue to monitor and reduce our electricity consumption. © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com 19 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Our people 20 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress 3 Our People Photo: CNBC, Daragh McDowell Our people strategy and activities support the following : UNGC Principles Sustainable Development Goals Principle 1 Principle 2 Goal 3 Goal 5 Principle 3 Principle 4 Goal 8 Goal 10 Principle 5 Principle 6 Principle 10 Our commitment We have developed a culture that seeks to support, respect and draw attention to human rights among our employees and customers. When our people thrive, our business thrives. We are committed to treating all individuals fairly and with respect. This includes promoting equality and diversity, as well an inclusive and supportive environment for our staff. Here is a sample of statistics on Verisk Maplecroft workforce and culture. Figure 5: Employees by band 60 50 Number of employees 40 30 20 10 0 Senior (Exec C) Mid Level (D-E) Professional (F-H) Source: Verisk Maplecroft © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com 21 3 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Our People Figure 6: Breakdown by band and gender Senior Mid Level Professional (Exec, A & B bands) (C, D & E bands) (F & G bands) 27% 38% 56% 73% 62% 44% = Female = Male Source: Verisk Maplecroft 2019 Our employee handbook confirms our commitments to the United Nations Global Compact principles of human rights, labour rights and anti-corruption, as well as to our corporate values of integrity and respect for the individual. Our handbook reaffirms this through our commitment to: ■■ Respecting human rights and helping our customers do the same through the provision of relevant human rights products and services ■■ Ensuring that all our employees have the right to freely join associations of their own choice (for the purposes of rule formation, administration and the election of representatives) ■■ Ensuring that all our employees have the right to undertake collective bargaining through an established trade union ■■ Fighting all forms of forced and compulsory labour and to the effective and responsible abolition of child labour ■■ Ensuring that no individual suffers discrimination, directly or indirectly, on the grounds of sex, (including pregnancy), marital status, religion or belief, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, age, disability or otherwise; and to providing a working environment free from harassment and intimidation ■■ Enforcing a zero-tolerance policy for corruption in all our operations, within our field of influence and through our work with our customers. This is outlined in our anti-bribery and corruption policy. 22 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Our People 3 Supporting employee wellbeing through our In 2018, we continued to work hard to ensure we CSR strategy provide equal opportunities to all our employees regardless of their sex, marital status, religion or The People pillar of our CSR strategy builds on belief, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, our commitments to human rights and labour sexual orientation, gender reassignment, age, rights and aims to realise these through targeted disability or otherwise. In particular, we focused on actions. The People pillar is closely aligned with (amongst other things): the Thrive programme run by our sister company, Wood Mackenzie, and is owned and driven by our ■■ Increasing the reach of the Ethical Working Group employees. This is a comprehensive programme (EWG) to address the ethnic and racial gap which incorporates gender and ethnic diversity, between our workforce and the regions in which we wellness and community engagement. Like Thrive, work and conduct business our People pillar includes a range of programmes ■■ Increasing opportunities for female employees, and actions, which can be divided into two main particularly in mid-level bands (C, D & E) categories: Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging ■■ Increasing the number of female employees in the and Wellness. Software and IT division ■■ Providing line manager support, training and Figure 7: Our People pillar structure materials on mental health and flexible working In 2018, we successfully managed to increase the number of female employees in bands D and E from Wellness 16 in 2017 to 20 in 2018. In band C, the number of female employees increased from 2 in 2017 to 5 in 2018. We also managed to increase the percentage of female employees in our Software and IT team Inclusion, Diversity from 8% in January 2018 to 21% by December and Belonging 2018. As a result, our current gender ratio is 43:57 (Female: Male) compared to 40:60 in January 2018. “ Source: Verisk Maplecroft 2019 Our actions Inclusion, Diversity and Belonging Through our parent company Verisk Analytics, we Donna Westerman continually strive to develop a diverse workforce and Chair, Ethnicity Working Group, New York involve and empower employees. Our goal through those efforts is to promote and sustain a true sense of The Ethnicity Working Group is a strategic forum that encourages and promotes progressive belonging. We pride ourselves on being an inclusive inclusion through positive action and is a company that values and respects the talents, beliefs, celebration of individuality. During 2018, several and ways of living of all our colleagues. The goals of of our offices offered mentoring partnerships, the Inclusion, Diversity, and Belonging initiative is fully educational forums and projects that help employees embrace their aligned with the core of The Verisk Way: Serve. Add own individuality. Value. Innovate. © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com 23 3 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Our People The Ethnicity Working Group (EWG) plays a critical role in our work to promote greater diversity at Wood Mackenzie and Verisk Maplecroft, by driving and supporting initiatives that increase the diversity of our talent pipeline and creating opportunities for people from minority ethnic and cultural backgrounds to develop and progress. In 2018, our Ethnicity Working Group undertook a number of actions that support Principle 10 of the United Nations Global Compact, including the following: ■■ The EWG held a Cultural Food Celebration day in December in both the London and Bath offices – with food, drinks and music from around the world. A total of 12 different food cultures were represented through dishes such as Argentinian locro (beef stew) to Syrian muhammara (red pepper dip). Alongside this, participants shared stories and folklore. In Photos: Cultural food celebration day, Londn office 2019, these events will be rolled out across the other Verisk Maplecroft locations ■■ EWG Champions were confirmed at each US Wood Mackenzie and/or Verisk Maplecroft location In 2017, Verisk launched Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), employee-led networking groups with shared characteristics, traditions, or demographic factors that contribute to a diverse, inclusive workplace. Some of the ERGs that Verisk Maplecroft had the opportunity to work with in 2018 are listed below, and these ERGs will be used as a The Verisk Pride Network – This group celebrates launching pad for Verisk Maplecroft in 2019: the diversity of all Verisk citizens regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression. Its mission is to cultivate an environment of support, acceptance, and belonging through education, outreach, inclusion, and respect for individuality. These efforts reinforce Verisk’s commitment to provide equal opportunities in terms of professional development and career advancement, and to foster The Verisk Women’s Network – This group offers diversity, inclusion, and belonging. This will help women networking and learning opportunities, build a stronger company that better serves all its professional development, and participation in activities stakeholders. Throughout 2019, Verisk Maplecroft and special events. It also addresses issues important will increasingly be involved in the ERGs through our to women everywhere—fair pay, leadership and parent company. development, advancement, and succession planning. 24 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Our People 3 Prioritising employee wellbeing Verisk Maplecroft promotes the wellbeing of employees and supports a healthy lifestyle – in terms of both physical and mental health. In 2018, the Wellness Group implemented a variety of initiatives and activities in this regard, including: ■■ The provision of free organic fruit to staff in all our offices ■■ The delivery of massage therapy to staff in our Bath office and provision of a chiropractor to staff in our London office once every 6 weeks ■■ Wellness activities such as hiking and social outings ■■ The delivery of mindfulness workshops to reduce stress levels ■■ The Verisk Global Walking Challenge, where employees aim to walk 10,000 steps per day for the six weeks Future goals In 2019, the EWG will continue to develop an actionable plan to positively impact the role that ethnicity and diversity play at Maplecroft. The Inclusion, Diversity and Belonging group will hold Heritage Month celebrations throughout 2019. The goal of the Heritage Month celebrations is to provide a format that intentionally promotes an inclusive environment, increases cultural awareness and highlights diversity across all cultures and perspectives. A Heritage Month calendar of events has been launched along with an Inclusion and Diversity Employee Network Fair which will take place at the end of January 2019. The goal of the Network Fair is to increase awareness of global Employee Network grassroots efforts, mission and accomplishments, to provide support to diversity-related programs and events and promote an inclusive community across Verisk. In 2019, we will continue to increase the number of female employees in our technology and software team. In addition, our wellness programme will focus on continuing to provide line manager support, training and materials on mental health and flexible working, provide massage and/or reflexology sessions every 6 weeks and provide mindfulness courses. We will also continue to include comprehensive health checks and a £200 wellness allowance per person per year in our health plan for 2019. © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com 25 4 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Our Products Our products and Services 26 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Our Products 4 4 Our Products and Services Photo: www.maplecroft.com Our products and services support the following: UNGC Principles Sustainable Development Goals Principle 1 Principle 2 Goal 5 Goal 12 Principle 3 Principle 4 Goal 13 Goal 16 Principle 5 Principle 6 Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Principle 10 Our commitment Instigating positive change The work we undertake for our clients is, by its very nature, aimed at enhancing their ability to manage risk and act more responsibly. We believe data has the power to make a fundamental difference to the way in which companies can respect the rights of people around the world and how they interact with the environment. As populations rise, supply chains spread, and the effects of climate change become more pronounced, we know that our research can, and does, instigate positive action by our clients to address issues such as modern slavery, deforestation, child labour, and climate change vulnerability. The promotion of international human rights is a key area for us. We work alongside major multilateral organisations, charitable foundations and NGOs to help them raise international awareness of these issues through our data and research. We are committed to developing and delivering products and services that help our clients manage a range of risks and implement responsible and sustainable business solutions. Our suite of human rights, environment, political and economic indices enables companies to carry out robust due diligence and risk assessments, identify potential and actual impacts across 198 countries and to implement measures to improve their sustainability performance. Our research team produces in-depth country risk reports covering governance, political, human rights, environmental and security issues, as well as providing daily updates through our online portal on key events and trends within focus countries. © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com 27 4 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Our Products Our actions Country Monitoring Service Through our Country Monitoring service, we analyse the specific risks affecting companies operating in or sourcing from a particular country. Our expert analysts monitor 198 countries, such as Brazil, China and South Africa, to identify long-term emerging risks and rapidly unfolding events that affect our clients and their workers/supply chains. Our analysts produce regular written briefings via our online portal on a number of issues including governance, human rights, environmental issues and security. Our in-depth Country Risk Profiles also contain specific sections on these themes, allowing clients to gain deep understanding of the key issues within a particular country. Risk datasets Verisk Maplecroft Dataset or Risk Index UNGC Principles Human Rights Dataset Human Rights Principle 1 Civil and Political Rights, Human Security, Labour Rights and Protection, Access to Remedy Risk Principle 2 Labour Rights and Protection Indices Labour Principle 3 Child Labour, Decent Wages, Decent Working Time, Discrimination, Forced labour, Freedom of Principle 4 Association and Collective Bargaining, Migrant workers, Occupational Health and Safety, Trafficking in Persons, Young Workers Principle 5 Principle 6 Environmental Risk Dataset Environment Principle 7 Climate Change and Environment, Natural Hazards Principle 8 Principle 9 Rule of Law Dataset Anti-Corruption Corruption Risk Index Principle 10 As highlighted in the table above, our risk datasets cover all 10 UNGC Principles. The data offering enables our clients to assess a range of human rights, economic, environmental and political risks in 198 countries, for 150+ commodities and 74 sectors. This enables our clients to assess their exposure to risk on a more granular level. In 2018, we introduced six new indices Coastal Flood Hazard Index, Landslide Hazard Index, Wave Hazard Index, Water Pollution Index, Waste Generation Index, and Financial Openness Index. We have also started to incorporate forward looking analysis into our offering through the development of a predictive dataset which assesses the likelihood of issues such as civil disorder, interstate tension, and government instability occurring in the future. 28 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Our Products 4 “ International Post Corporation’s (IPC) Postal Sector Sustainability Report Throughout 2018, we continued to work with the International Post Corporation (IPC) to develop the Environmental Measurement and Monitoring System Sam Haynes (EMMS) programme, a sector-wide initiative to Head of Indices, Bath. improve carbon management and achieve relative carbon emissions reductions across the postal Our 150+ indices help companies screen their supplier base or their own assets for sector. The EMMS programme is a global initiative, risks related to responsible sourcing and consisting of 20 national postal companies from five business disruption. The breadth and depth continents, and provides a common measurement of our datasets enable businesses to assess and reporting structure that enables participants to risks at the country, subnational, industry, and commodity level. By better understanding their share their carbon and environmental management risk profile, they can make informed decisions strategies, performance and achievements. and prioritise their response. In 2018, we also updated our industry dataset by adding five new issues: Deforestation, Natural Hazards – Vulnerability, Climate Change Vulnerability, Migrant Labour and Political Instability. In addition to assessing the impact that industries have on the surrounding communities and environment across 18 ESG issues, we can now quantify the effect of the external operating environment on these same industries. This new dataset allows you to pinpoint which, of the 74 industries that we assess globally, are most vulnerable to disruption as a result of political instability, natural hazards and the effects of Photo: Risk data sets, www.veriskmaplecroft.com climate change. As of 2017, the group of participants has achieved Using our new industry-adjusted Climate Change just under 30% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 carbon Vulnerability Index, we have identified that the five emissions, against a 2008 baseline. This equates industries most vulnerable to the effects of climate to aggregated savings of more than 15.3m tonnes change – such as declining water resources, sea of carbon emissions since 2008. Verisk Maplecroft level rise and increasing heat stress and disease will continue its partnership with IPC in 2019 to outbreaks – are water utilities, agricultural products, further improve carbon management and achieve electric utilities, metals and mining, and meat, poultry associated carbon emissions reductions across the and dairy. There is a common link between all of postal sector up to and beyond 2025 and will also these: their heavy reliance on water. support IPC in evolving it’s its EMMS programme in alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com 29 4 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Our Products Human Rights, Environment and Political Ongoing participation in the Children’s Risk Outlook Rights Index Throughout 2018, we continued to update our suite As part of a five-year agreement with UNICEF and of research and consulting services covering human the Global Child Forum, we are continuing to manage rights, environmental, economic and political risk, the Children’s Rights and Business Atlas. This online, using enhanced methodologies and our rigorous interactive tool enables businesses to systematically review process. and objectively compare children’s rights associated with their operations, business partners or In 2018, we produced the third iterations of our Human investments. The Atlas is constructed around the 10 Rights, Environment and Political Risk Outlooks; Children’s Rights and Business Principles – a charter three publicly available reports highlighting the most that sets out the actions companies can take to pertinent human rights, environmental and political respect and support children’s rights. trends for business for the forthcoming year. Both Outlooks were well received by clients and the media. The Atlas provides businesses with data for 198 To engage clients on more in-depth trends highlighted countries across three indices: The Children’s in the reports, we ran webinars which were each Rights in the Workplace Index, Children’s Rights attended by between 30-100 clients. We are currently in the Marketplace Index and Children’s Rights in working to produce third editions for 2019. the Community and Environment Index. Business users can also refer to industry guidance to better As part of growing public awareness on the issue of understand their exposure and consider the actions modern slavery, in 2018 we released the third edition they need to take to strengthen internal due diligence of our Modern Slavery Index. This index is specifically procedures in the workplace, marketplace and designed for companies seeking to assess the extent community and environment. to which they are exposed to modern slavery through their business operations and supply chains. By using the International Labour Organization (ILO) definition of modern slavery, we have aligned the index with the UK Modern Slavery Act definition to help clients meet the requirements of the legislation. In 2018, we worked closely with a number of clients to produce bespoke reports and training sessions on the drivers of modern slavery, including the risks to business operations and workers in supply chains. We also worked with the Corporate Social Responsibility team at our parent company, Verisk Analytics, to develop Modern Slavery training which was rolled out to all Verisk employees globally in 2018. 30 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Our Products 4 Supporting investment decision-making through our Institutional Investor Service Our Institutional Investor Service (IIS), which provides environmental, social, governance (ESG), climate change and political risk data on countries, industries and commodities to investors, continued to expand through 2018. We continued to service the sovereign debt workflows of a number of clients and bolster our position as the leading data provider in this space. We continued to develop our corporate exposure tool (CET), complementing traditional corporate performance-focused datasets with a new perspective on extractive companies’ exposure to ESG and climate risks. We deepened our engagement with real assets and particularly real estate and launched a strategic collaboration with the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB), the leading provider of data analytics on the ESG and climate performance of real assets. In addition, we are working with GRESB to deliver powerful new insights by combining geographical ESG and climate data with asset-level and portfoliolevel performance metrics across the GRESB universe. Future goals In 2019, Verisk Maplecroft’s Value Chains team will be setting out a framework for regular updates to the Commodity and Industry data-sets, to support our clients in identifying and understanding the key risk trends associated with their raw materials and operations. Photo: The Verisk Malecroft portal © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com 31 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Verisk Maplecroft takes the following actions to support the Women’s Empowerment Principles “ Achieving and maintaining gender equality in middle management positions We apply the principle of equality throughout the organisation, promoting a gender-balanced leadership at all levels. Our middle bands, C, D and E, are Kasia Myatt comprised of a total of 67 members, 25 of whom Human Rights Research, London. are female. As a female employee of Verisk Maplecroft, I feel supported and empowered. What is even Equal pay for work of equal value more amazing is that through my work I help We use market indicators to inform our pay banding other companies embrace gender equality. process and to ensure equal pay for men and women at equivalent levels of seniority, experience and Policies and practices related to capability. Furthermore, our policies state that all supporting women’s empowerment employees must receive equal pay for work of equal and advancing gender equality in the value. See the People section for more details. workplace Flexible work options Achieving and maintaining gender equality in We operate a flexible working system, whereby senior management and board positions work start and end times are not fixed. This flexibility gives employees the scope to manage family and We are fully committed to having a representative other non-work commitments alongside their work and balanced leadership team. Mentoring and career responsibilities. Some of the flexible arrangements progression is open to all employees, regardless of that all our employees benefit from include working gender, with support and opportunities for all. from home, telecommuting and sabbatical leave. Our President, Sondra Scott, is female and dedicated Access to child and dependent care to providing equal opportunities for all staff and potential candidates. We are constantly looking to While we currently do not provide employees with improve the ratio of females in management and access to child and dependent care on a corporate leadership positions. basis, UK employees may participate in the Childcare Voucher Scheme, which allows them to give up a Following our acquirement by Verisk Analytics in portion of their salaries in exchange for childcare December 2014, the structure of our management credit of the same value. Each month, participants team and its composition has significantly changed. are eligible for tax relief and lower National Insurance Our organisation does not have a board of contributions on vouchers purchased (up to the value management, however, our operational leadership of £243). team is comprised of six members, one of whom is female; there are also two women in our strategic leadership team (out of the total of seven). Overall, in 2018, women held 25% of the senior positions in the company and by 2021 we aim to increase this number to 40%. 32 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Support for pregnant women and those returning from maternity leave We provide full support to pregnant women in terms of access to ante-natal care and enhanced health and safety arrangements. Employees in several locations, including the UK, are offered Keep In Touch (KIT) days to support their eventual return to work after taking maternity leave. Prior to returning, discussions are held to assist a smooth reintegration into the workplace, including through the provision of flexible working hours. Following the introduction of a new maternity leave policy in October 2015, which includes improved benefits for new mothers, we now ‘top-up’ statutory maternity pay of our UK employees to full pay for the first 18 weeks of maternity leave. Our UK paternity leave policy has also been updated to provide the same benefits for up to two consecutive weeks of leave following the birth. Our ‘Parental Leave Playbook’ provides guidance for employees (both male and female) and line managers in planning for parental leave. This includes sample timelines and meeting agendas to ensure that employees and managers communicate effectively, and preparations are made for cover, handovers and return to work. Recruitment and retention, including training and development, of female employees We are an equal opportunities employer, committed to promoting equality and diversity as well as an inclusive and supportive environment for all of our employees. We do not discriminate on the grounds of gender, and men and women are treated equally during the recruitment process and throughout their employment. All employees receive training and have the opportunity for professional development after they join the company. During 2018, we hired 34 new employees and interns. Of these new employees, 53% were female, and 47% were male. Gender specific health and safety issues We take every precaution to ensure we provide and maintain working conditions that are safe, healthy and comply with all statutory requirements and relevant codes of practice. The commitment applies to all employees, regardless of gender. Gender-based violence and harassment We deplore all forms of sexual harassment and seek to ensure the maintenance of an inclusive, supportive and safe environment for all employees. Our commitment to this is outlined in our employee handbook, along with relevant grievance and disciplinary procedures. Education and training opportunities for women workers We are committed to the professional development of all our employees. We provide all of our employees, regardless of gender, with the in-depth workplace training necessary to successfully fulfil their job responsibilities. In addition, all staff can attend external events and conferences as part of their professional development. © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com 33 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Creating and maintaining workplace awareness of Supplier diversity programme & Support for gender equality, inclusion and non-discrimination women business owners and entrepreneurs for all workers Our parent company, Verisk Analytics, is advancing We are an equal opportunities employer, committed efforts to ensure that minority, women and to promoting equality, diversity and an inclusive and veteran-owned businesses, as well as small and supportive environment for all of our employees. disadvantaged businesses, are given the opportunity to participate in the procurement process in the Our parent company, Verisk Analytics, runs Verisk United States. Verisk has also joined the Women’s Women Network which offers women networking and Business Enterprise National Council as a first step learning opportunities, professional development, and towards expanding procurement opportunities for participation in activities and special events. It also women-owned businesses. Verisk also collects data addresses issues important to women everywhere— on the number of female-owned businesses in the fair pay, leadership and development, advancement, supplier base in the United States. and succession planning. The network ran numerous events in 2018 on gender equality and issues faced During 2017, Verisk implemented a Supplier Code by women in the workplace and outside of it. of Conduct applicable to all suppliers worldwide. By accepting a contract from Verisk, a supplier agrees Furthermore, all employees are required to read and to abide by the principles outlined in the Code of abide by our equal opportunities policy, as well as our Conduct, including those prohibiting discrimination on discrimination, bullying and harassment policy. Our the basis of sex. The Code of Conduct also outlines employee handbook contains information on these Verisk’s zero tolerance approach to all forms of policies and their application. harassment, including sexual harassment. Mentoring and sponsorship opportunities for Gender-sensitive product and women workers service development Our sister company, Wood McKenzie, runs a Verisk Maplecroft has developed a range of products mentoring programme which is available to all and services aimed at helping clients understand and Maplecroft employees at any stage in their career. respect the rights of women and girls. This includes Work mentors guide our employees through the our Women and Girls’ Rights Index, which assess the company’s systems and work methods, and also risks to business from the possible association with provides regular feedback on performance. This practices that discriminate against, or infringe on, the scheme helps our female employees take full rights of women and girls. advantage of the career opportunities offered by our company and develop professionally. Moreover, in June 2016, we launched the Girl Stats platform, which helps companies understand the issues Policies and practices related to supporting women’s that girls face, and how their operations can either empowerment and advancing gender equality in positively or negatively affect their lives. In March 2018, the marketplace. Girl Stats became an independent UK charity. 34 © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2019 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Other established or emerging best practices We have an unparalleled range of innovative products and services that help clients respect the rights of women and girls. Many of these have been designed to incorporate best practice guidance. For example, the methodology behind our suite of human rights indices incorporates the United Nations ‘Protect, Respect, Remedy’ Framework as a basis for assessing risk in 198 countries. In addition, the human rights due diligence services that we provide to our clients are fully informed and aligned with the ‘Protect, Respect, Remedy’ Framework and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The COP describes policies and practices related to supporting women’s empowerment and advancing gender equality in the community Designing community stakeholder engagements that are free of gender discrimination /stereotyping and are sensitive to gender issues For the past 13 years, we have been helping organisations manage stakeholder relationships, often in highly sensitive environments. This has included the design and implementation of numerous community stakeholder engagements for clients. These projects are carefully planned to ensure that they are free from discrimination and mindful of gender issues. In many cases, the stakeholder engagement projects require gender equality to be directly addressed, necessitating a fair and non-discriminatory approach to be taken to data collection as well. Gender impact assessments or consideration of gender-related impacts as part of its social and/or human rights impact assessments We provide human rights impact assessments as part of a range of human rights due diligence services we offer. These assessments focus on assessing clients’ actual and potential human rights impacts. Assessments include gender-related impacts and are carried out in line with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Community initiatives specifically targeted at the empowerment of women and girls We support the empowerment of women through our community engagement initiatives. In 2018, we collaborated with the Baytree Centre, a London-based, women-only, non-profit organisation that works to empower women and girls through education and skills development. During this project, we renovated their offices and assisted with extracurricular classes in Maths and Arts. We also donated USD3,750 to the Baytree Centre to help them to continue their work within the community. Strategies to ensure that community investment projects and programmes (including economic, social and environmental) positively impact women and girls Our main impact in this respect is through the provision of a range of human rights products and services. These help clients to make a positive contribution to the rights of those affected by their actions, both direct and indirect, including women and girls. We endeavour to provide access to these products and services to as many organisations as possible. Indeed, we make some of this content publicly available (for example, through the publication of thought leadership pieces). We also consider providing our products and services to NGOS and international organisations at a discount on a case-by-case basis, where this is practical. Endnotes 1 National Energy Foundation, 2017, Simple Carbon Calculator, Available at http://www.carbon-calculator.org.uk/ © Verisk Maplecroft 2019 | maplecroft.com 35 maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft is a Verisk business.
