I am the 2019 COP report. I am created to communicate our support and commitment to the UN GLOBAL COMPACT and to be a valuable tool for our stakeholders. I am an online version which makes me REUSABLE. If printed, please make sure to read me again and again and again. Together we can all help REDUCE waste and save natural resources. metz.dk CONTENTS INTRODUCTION – CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 04 05 PLASTIC MATERIALS 26 29 OUR FOCUS ON PLASTIC MATERIALS OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY 06 07 PLASTIC IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM PLASTIC GREENWASHING TRAPS ABOUT METZ 08 09 OUR COMPANY PROJECTS FOCUCING ON REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE 30 31 MEMBERS OF IGC GLOBAL PROMOTIONS RECYCLEX BAG COLLECTION TRADE UNION AGRREEMENT SILK DUVET COLLECTION OUR EMPLOYEES JUST IN TIME CONCEPT WORKING ENVIRONMENT REDUCTION OF SINGLE USE PLASTIC BAG PRODUCTIOS ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE FSC® CERTIFIED PAPER FROM CHINA SOCIAL COMMITTEE METZ APPROVED AS DISTRIBUTOR OF FSC® CERTIFIED PRODUCTS OUR APPROACH TO CSR 10 1 1 COMPANY CHRISTMAS GIFTS 32 33 WORKING WITH THE 10 PRINCIPLES AND SDG´S CHRISTMAS GIFT AREA WHAT ARE THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS DESELECTED PLASTIC GIFT CARDS THE PURPOSE OF OUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS DONATION GIFT WHAT IS UN GLOBAL COMPACT METZ STAKEHOLDER CSR ACTIVITY 2019 34 35 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 12 19 CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BEHAVIOUR CERTIFIED CUSTOMER SUSTAINABLE PROGRAM RISK SEGMENTATION OF SUPPLIERS LOW-RISK /HIGH-RISK SUPPLY CHAIN METZ COMPLIANCE LEVELS INTRODUCTION HIGH-RISK BUYING COUNTRIES APPENDIX 1 36 HIGH-RISK SUPPLIER PROCEDURE METZ CSR POLICY WELL-DOCUMENTED CSR PERFORMANCE HIGH-RISK FACTORIES USED IN PRODUCTIONS APPENDIX 2 36 37 ASSESSMENT AND REVIEW OF SOCIAL AUDITS 2019 METZ SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT METZ LEVEL DESCRIPTION METZ LEVELS HIGH-RISK SUPPLIER COMPLIANCE PRODUCT COMPLIANCE 20 21 OUR APPROACH TO “ENVIRONMENT FRIENDLY” PRODUCTS PRODUCT COMPLIANCE ASSESSMENT OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 22 25 ENTERING INTO SPONSORSHIP WITH PLASTIC CHANGE WHO IS PLASTIC CHANGE The honest and pragmatic approach is the essence of my daily work. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT PRIMARY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL Camilla Feldschau Petersen SECONDARY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS csr@metz.dk OUR ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT Employed at Metz since 2005 2019 PROGRESS ON OUR ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT CSR Manager since 2014 Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 04 05 INTRODUCTION STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Metz was established in 1993, back then comOur biggest impact is in the production and pany gifts were typically a thin nylon bag with consumption area which sets out in SDG 12. a company logo. We were convinced that we We want to provide high quality products which could do better. We found other fabrics, strongare durable. Reusable so the product can be er materials, changed the logo to embroidery used again and again and again. If possible instead of print and reinforced the straps. recyclable so the material can have new life. The result was a far more exclusive and durable And moving away from single use product. bag. This is now history. But still ongoing and expresses the philosophy which has always been To support our production and consumption the corner stone at Metz, and which forms the strategy and to minimize our single use plastics. basis of everything we do. We are critical of all We have entered into a new collaboration with products and continuously try to change small “Plastic Change”, where through various proor large details, thus making the product better, jects we support their work. more functional and higher quality. 2020, Next year we will continue to have a Always aiming to do better, we have continuhigh focus on materials. We will keep working ously been growing. Since 2011 we have been on finding new long-term solutions to support the leading and largest supplier of promotional the circular economy. And focus on developing products and Christmas gifts in Denmark. This products that will not contribute to the “use has only been possible because we embrace and throw away culture”. new challenges and constantly try to improve. I take great pride in the journey Metz is on, a We started working with CSR and our supply new chapter in our history and I strongly believe chain back in 2009. We wanted to adopt an that this is the future. In the following pages we internationally recognized framework for strucpresent our approach to CSR, as well as the CSR turing and reporting on our Corporate Social activities and projects that we have conducted Responsibility (CSR) efforts. For that reason, or initiated during 2019. we signed up to the UN Global Compact in November 2013. Since then our sustainable It is and will always be the companies of the journey has moved quickly, each year we have world that drives globalization. And it will only new exciting projects and initiatives. be through a global fellowship and collaboration that we can ensure progress for the benefit of 2019, Has been the year where climate issues, the world’s economies and societies. sustainable materials, greenwashing and plastic was seriously put on our agenda. Both internally This report is our sixth Communication on among our employees and externally in relation Progress and it is still my pleasure to inform you to our customers. Because we also work as that Metz reaffirms our support to the United consultants for our customers it´s crucial that Nations Global Compact, its 10 principles as well we provide the right information and we have as the sustainable development goals. therefore used extra manpower on making systems and procedures to spot the greenwashing traps. Yours sincerely, Claus Hedegaard CEO Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 06 07 OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY IMPROVING OUR PERFORMANCE 2009 201 1 201 3 2015 2017 We began the first approaches to We developed systems to identiWe signed up to the UN Global We developed our first “just in time” All our web shops were moved CSR. Focusing on working condifying our subcontractors and their Compact in November 2013, as concept. A system that focuses on together with our internal waretions and the environmental imactivities. And became members we wanted to adopt an internaminimizing production waste by house. In order to minimize the pacts in productions. We tried to of BSCI (Business Social tionally recognized framework for 15-20%. transportation between the two influence our suppliers to make a Compliance Initiative). structuring and reporting on our locations. This lowered the CO2 difference. Corporate Social Responsibility emission in transportation with (CSR) efforts. around 72 tons per year between the two locations. We obtained membership and part We gained our FSC® logo license We got our Responsible supply We further developed on our To support our responsible ownership of the world’s largest (this was renewed in 2018). chain management system in place, responsible supplier compliance supply chain management and procurement organisation, IGC making procedures and defining system. Adding CSR levels to our to demonstrate our responsible Global Promotions as the only our high-risk purchase areas. Our supply chain. This gave both the business behaviour, we got a Danish company. IGC was founded CSR policy was also updated at the sales and purchase departments certification from “Achilles”. in 1956 and is a global network same time. The framework for, and quick access to the supplier’s They are a global supply chain represented in 52 countries. backbone of, our CSR strategy and present compliance level. risk management provider. IGC gave us a strong CSR network activities were set out by the ten We were approved in September and great opportunities to develop. principles of the UN Global 2018 and again in 2019. Compact. It gave us a structured approach to our supply chain. 2 01 0 201 2 2014 2016 2018 Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 08 09 ABOUT METZ WORKING ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE A good working environment is not only about In 2019 we founded our environment commithe way we talk to each other, it´s about giving tee which consists of one representative from Metz is a Danish company that supplies promotional products the employees the right tasks, challenge their each department (administration, promotionand gifts to companies and organizations. Metz was established in expertise, and about supporting a good team al sales, Christmas sale, purchase, graphic, 1993 and employed at that time 3 employees. Today 52 dedicated spirit. It´s important that the employees get communication and our warehouse) and does people work in our headquarters North of Copenhagen, Denmark. proper answers and guidance to their quesnot include members from the management tions and feel that they are heard to when they team. The purpose of the committee is to jointly present their suggestions and ideas. In other organize and disseminate new initiatives and words, each employee should feel important communicate these to their departments. and valued. Metz acts as a trend spotter and purchaser As the only Danish company, we obtained We support this philosophy by having annual SOCIAL on behalf of our customers. As a supplier of membership and part ownership of the world’s one-on-one development interviews and “walk COMMITTEE promotional products and corporate gifts to largest procurement organisation, IGC Global and talks”. By offering access to a private health Denmark’s largest companies, we must be a Promotions. IGC was founded in 1956 and is a As Metz grows and more new colleagues arrives. insurance for our employees and their children. responsible and trustworthy partner in all areas. global network represented in 52 countries. We founded a social steering group in 2018 By fostering a good team spirit (e.g. by freMost of the products are produced, according called;” Metz social committee”. The purpose quently organizing social events). And by giving to our customers’ wishes and needs. is to build relationships across the different the employees access to fitness, spinning, yoga, TRADE UNION departments by frequently organizing social healthy lunch programs, free fruit etc. events (like; social walks, running arrangements, OUR Our payoff: “A difference to be remembered WORKERS AGREEMENT by” reflects not only on the promotional items dinners, theatres etc.) We are members of the Danish HK and have a that we sell to our clients. But it also reflects trade union agreement for our employees within the culture within Metz and is the centre of our our business area for trade and service. This daily work in the organization in relation to the provides the best agreement within working service we provide to our customers. EMPLOYEES hours, child’s first sick day, pension and wages for our employees. OUR EMPLOYEES At Metz, we are 52 dedicated people across different departments and each of our employee plays a vital role in the success of our company. In 2019 the steering group arranged to participate in e.g. the DHL running event in Copenhagen. 38 of our employees signed up for the event and was divided on cheering, running and walking teams (the latter collected garbage on the 5 km route while walking). Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 10 11 OUR APPROACH TO CSR The backbone of our CSR strategy is shaped by We want to support the long-term solutions The UN Global Compact is an initiative of the late the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. and the circular economy. And reduce waste THE PURPOSE OF Together with our suppliers and building on the through; prevention, reduction, recycling and OUR COMMUNICATION UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan. Founded in 2000. UN Global Compact principles, we wish to work reuse. We want to do this while also influencing ON PROGRESS towards a more responsible supply chain for and strengthen the compliance with internationour customers and our other stakeholders. One ally proclaimed principles for Human Rights and The purpose of this Communication on Progress The Global Compact encompasses ten principles which at of the ways to do this is to create a transparent Labour Standards, in our supply chain. By this report (COP) is to document and communicate a minimum, meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas and responsible value chain. So that our customambition we are committed working with SDG 8. to our stakeholders how we work with the ten ers and other stakeholders can have confidence principles of the UN Global Compact and how of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. in us as a company and as a reliable business As we are a sales and purchase organisation, we address the SDG´s. But just as important is partner. we can make a real impact in the product that to communicate how we work with sustainability through products (e.g. production and conThe 10 principles are integrated in Metz CSR strategy and works we sell, with a direct impact on productions and Our approach builds on our ambition to make consumption patterns which are outlined in sumption) in our business area of promotional as the foundation for our cooperation with our suppliers. a positive difference, to establish responsible SDG 12. products and gifts. processes for the products we sell while systematizing and strengthen our supplier risk manThe UN Sustainable Development agement. We do this by assessing the products Goals are a framework of international we sell and by collaborating proactively with our suppliers in order to strengthen their compliance priority areas as part of the 2030 Suswith internationally proclaimed principles for tainable Development agenda. The 17 Human Rights and Labour Standards, EnvironSustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ment and Anti-corruption. including 169 targets are the world’s plan to build a better world for people and our planet by 2030. Businesses are not WORKING WITH THE 10 PRINCIPLES required to work with all 17 goals. But OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT AND to address the goals that make sense in THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT your business area, as this is where they GOALS (SDG´S) IN OUR SUPPLY can make a real difference. CHAIN Metz don’t have an impact on all 17 Our mission is to provide high-quality products. goals and their underlying targets. While also influencing and strengthen the comBut we focus on the targets that are pliance with internationally proclaimed princirelated to our business area, which are ples for Human Rights and Labour Standards, purchase and production. Environment and Anti-corruption in our supply chain. Our efforts are driven by the following ambitions; • We strive to monitor and manage the CSR • We want to proactively expand our portfolio risks associated with our business, as well of sustainable products in a balanced way that as communicate our performance to our reflects the changing customer demands that customers, so that we can support the we are experiencing. success of their own businesses. • Addressing and working with the Sustainable • We know that responsible business conduct Development Goals (SDG´s) gives our compaprovides sustainable, long-term business ny an important voice. results, and that responsibility is a prerequisite for retaining our customers’ trust and confi• Joining forces with supplier, industries and dence. NGO´s create great business opportunities. Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 12 13 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Our organization has a global network of RISK SEGMENTATION suppliers. Our business model is based upon OF SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS sourcing either directly from the supplier or METZ COMPLIANCE LEVELS indirectly through an intermediary. We distinBEHAVIOUR CERTIFIED guish between direct suppliers, companies We distinguish between suppliers based in lowrisk or high-risk countries and have different INTRODUCTION selling branded goods, recognized agents or processes for these. As we are committed to the sustainaother intermediaries. The latter group often To provide a quick overview of our bility performance of the businesses manages an independent network of suppliers The CSR team is responsible for the risk segcompliant high-risk suppliers to our sales that we work with as well as our own. and will often represent higher supply chain mentation of suppliers. The risk segmentation and purchase department. We added To support our responsible supply related risks than a single supplier, that is why helps to determine how we will work with the levels in our database back in 2016. chain management and to demonstrate we also look at product country of origin. supplier, the level of documentation we will Not only does it show the suppliers our responsible business behaviour. require, and the level of follow-up with the present compliance stage, but it also The backbone of our RSCM system is shaped supplier on CSR performance. works as a guiding tool to improve the We have been through an assessment by the ten principles of the UN Global ComThe risk profile is assigned to the supplier by pact for Human Rights and Labour Standards, supplier’s performance. from Achilles (1) . The assessment following the risk segmentation used by the reviews our business activities both Environment and Anti-corruption. This approach Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) is also defined in our company’s CSR policy (see This database contains all suppliers. internally and externally and includes building on six so-called Worldwide Governance appendix 1) that structures and motivates our Indicators (WGI) in sourcing countries develNot all are used for productions and the areas shown in the figure. The assessment is made once a year. efforts within CSR. oped by the World Bank. are therefore not categorized as our We were approved first time in primary suppliers. However, as the marSeptember 2018. The purpose of our RSCM system is to have We consider the indicators described below ked is changing every year it´s important a systematic management system to monitor as credible basis for segmenting our suppliers to have compliant suppliers within all compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct from high or low risk countries: product groups. (see appendix 2) and international standards within our supply chain. 1. Voice and Accountability Political 2. Stability and absence of Violence/Terrorism 3. Government Effectiveness 4. Regulatory Quality THE FOLLOWING AREAS IS 5. Rule of Law 6. Control of Corruption ASSESSED BY THE ACHILLES TEAM Corporate Social Insurances; public Health & Safety Responsibility; liability, workers Responsible Supply Chain Management Management; assessment of our LOW-RISK SUPPLIER HIGH-RISK SUPPLIER compensation, verification on product liability assessment manual and factory Corporate Social Responsibility ASSESSMENT ASSESSMENT certifications Management The category of low-risk comprises of supThe category of high risk comprises of suppliers, Financials, review Quality Management; Environmental pliers who operate in countries that generally who operate in countries with a generally low Management; and statement of verification on verification on manual Management team uphold a comprehensive level of legislation level of national regulation within the four areas records for manual and factory identification the latest 3 years. certifications and factory and strong implementation of international of the UNGC and / or a low level of implemencertifications standards. As such the need for documentation tation of international standards. In order to is not considered as material as for the highlive up to our criteria for well-documented CSR risk suppliers. However, we recognize performance, it is essential that high risk supCompany information Data Protection that even though the distinction between pliers can document that they work systema(1) Global supply chain risk manageand profile low and high production country risk is made, tically to manage CSR risks, specifically those ment provider working with industry low risk suppliers can sometimes still pose related to Health & Safety, Labour Rights, specific processes to assure compliance. high-risks for other reasons e.g. country of Human Rights, Anti-corruption and EnvironAchilles was founded in 1990 with the origin. As such, it is possible for the evaluation ment. Buying from high-risk countries will purpose to drive procurement with less team to assess and move a supplier from the demand well-documented CSR performance. risk while improving working conditions low risk to high-risk group, if necessary. Documents should be assessed by the supplier and increase sustainability in the evaluation team following our high-risk procesupply chain. dure. The team consists of a member from our purchase department and the CSR manager. Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 14 15 HIGH-RISK WELL-DOCUMENTED SUPPLIER PROCEDURE CSR PERFORMANCE Once a supplier based in a high-risk area regisThe evaluation team assess received documents ters with us, we request the supplier to sign from the below: our Supplier Code of Conduct and to complete a self-declaration with several questions related Social audit reports and e.g. ISO certifications to the suppliers’ performance on Human Rights, should together cover the areas set out in Labour Standards, Environment and AntiMetz Code of Conduct. Corruption (step 1). Received documents, responses and supporting documents is assessed • Social audit reports should be certified by for compliance with our Code of Conduct and third-party (e.g. SGS, DNV, Bureau VERITAS the supplier will be added a Metz level of comand/or other BSCI or SEDEX auditors) pliance (step 2). Actions based on added levels (step 3). Reporting (step 4) • The overall results of the audit should be approved by the third-party certifying auditor and only include minor non-compliances findings. BULGARIA TURKEY CHINA PAKISTAN BANGLADESH HONG KONG TAIWAN INDIA HIGH-RISK BUYING COUNTRIES IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN 2019: TURKEY, BULGARIA, CHINA, PAKISTAN, INDIA, BANGLADESH, HONG KONG & TAIWAN* *Hong Kong and Taiwan are based in the low-risk countries category, but as these are normally only office addresses with production in China, suppliers are rated as high-risk in our system unless they can document country of origin in the stated country. Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 16 17 HIGH RISK FACTORIES 2019 are from level 1 factories, against last USED IN OUR PRODUCTIONS year’s 89%. If we only look at our purchased standard items like; notebooks, pens, Our target for year 2020 is that 95% of our We know that the last percentages to reach key hangers, drinking bottles, mugs, primary factories in high-risk areas is be placed our goal can be hard to gain but we will work umbrellas and bags. in Metz level 1. extensively the next year to reach this. We will keep focusing on phasing out the factories We have used 100% level 1 factories A primary factory is defined by the number where it has not been possible to improve of orders placed and produced in a two years their CSR performance, and trying to move in our 2019 productions. period. The reason it is only in a two-year period our primary factories up to our level. But we is because of the marked and trends why some will also keep searching for factories that primary factories can change to secondary. demonstrate high commitment to the work with CSR. In the 2019 review we can see that 91% of the factories that have been used for production in ASSESSMENT AND REVIEW OF SOCIAL AUDIT REPORTS IN 2019 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT STEP 2 From our review of the audit reports this year. We can see that it is still the areas “working conditions” and “health and safety” that are noted with findings in the audit reports. In these two areas it is mostly working hours and lack of PPE protective equipment that are reported. But also, a small percentage is reported on the “environmental management” area. All findings are noted in our database and will be part of our communication with the factories to strengthen their compliance. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR Discrimination: Zero Reports Forced Labour: Zero Reports Freedom of Association and Right to Organize: Zero Reports Child Labour: Zero Reports Working Conditions (reports on working hours): 22% Health and Safety (reports on missing PPE): 71 % ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Risk identification and management: 7 % ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES Corruption: Zero Reports Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 18 19 METZ LEVEL DESCRIPTION METZ LEVELS HIGH-RISK SUPPLIER COMPLIANCE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT STEP 3 & 4 LEVEL 1 WELL-DOCUMENTED CSR PERFORMANCE LEVEL 1 LEVEL 3 Compliant no supporting documents are needed; however minor improvements may be necessary. If documents have expired, the supplier will be moved down to level 2 or 3 until Shows improvements in level 1 suppliers. The percentage in this level has increased. Level 1 suppliers consist both of earlier level As we had to move some level 1 and 2 new documents are received and evaluated. 2 and 3 suppliers but also consist of new suppliers to level 3 until we receive and suppliers that we have entered collaboration review the new audit reports. with. LEVEL 2 Partial compliance supporting documents and/or major improvement needed. If a supplier LEVEL 4 does not manage to close their major non-compliance findings, if documents have expired LEVEL 2 The 2018 level 4 suppliers have been phased or if there has been changes in their organization that affected their compliance, they will be We had to move some suppliers to level out since we wasn´t able to establish new moved a level down until they regain the needed documentation. Similarly, they will be moved 3 due to expired documentations. Once we collaboration and they have therefore been to level 1 if they manage to close their caps, get new documentation etc. have received new documents the supplier blocked out of our supplier database. This could receive a new level. year the number has therefore decreased. LEVEL 3 Not in compliance – Compliance documents are needed. When we evaluate if a supplier should be moved to the phasing out level or if they should be moved to level 1 or 2, we look at the overall picture; social compliance, quality of the productions and business cooperation. If all these areas are below what we could expect from our business partners, we will move them to the phasing out level and focus our effort on finding a supplier who can fulfil our requirements. 2019 2018 68% LEVEL 1 61% LEVEL 1 13% LEVEL 2 15% LEVEL 2 LEVEL 4 18% LEVEL 3 17% LEVEL 3 Phasing out 1% LEVEL 4 7% LEVEL 4 The phased-out suppliers´ contact details will be blocked in our system once we find a Total assessed suppliers 100% Total assessed suppliers 100% replacement, this ensures that there could not be sent inquiries or new orders to the blocked supplier. 2017 2016 56% LEVEL 1 52% LEVEL 1 21% LEVEL 2 17% LEVEL 2 22% LEVEL 3 31% LEVEL 3 1% LEVEL 4 0% LEVEL 4 Total assessed suppliers 100% Total assessed suppliers 100% DATABASE CONTAINING ALL SUPPLIERS NOT ALL ARE USED FOR PRODUCTIONS. Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 20 21 PRODUCT COMPLIANCE PRODUCT COMPLIANCE ASSESSMENT: 1. Product compliance is about ensuring that the product meets the Product compliance means that the product essential requirements in the form of directives, regulations and standards. meets the essential requirements in the form The product compliance assessment is based on 3 steps. Some of these requirements, like the REACH chemical regulation, apply of directives and regulations. Not all products to all articles whereas other requirements are product specific such as e.g. Whereas some products need to go through a total of 7 require product compliance documents but EN-, which applies to specific products. specific product areas e.g. electronic, prosteps as shown in the figure. ducts for food, toys, safety, personal protective 2. 3rd Party verification: We collaborate with a 3rd party company. equipment’s etc do. These product groups often With working anthropologists specialised in product compliance across require special product marks e.g. CE mark. countries. That verify the specific documentation. We do not make a purchase unless we have received product compliance documents (1) and verified the documents by 3rd party (2). This works as part our product compliance management along with product marks e.g. CE marks or material marks. THE HONEST AND PRAGMATIC APPROACH TO “ENVIRONMENT FRIENDLY” PRODUCTS We feel it as an obligation to share our knowledge with our customers to support their business. And to provide accurate information on recycled content, organic certifications, and other relevant data for the specific product. Beside the normal product compliance, we have extra focus on “environment friendly” products. Different “environment friendly” materials have different claim standards to follow, and it´s important that the material used in our production have the correct verified certifications to ensure the authenticity of the product. As a company dealing in promotional products and gifts, we need to stay in front of the marked so we can give the best advices to our clients. This also means that it is crucial that we assess the good products from the bad and sustainable from the greenwashing. Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 22 23 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY For Metz, our environmental responsibility means that we are committed in taking responsibility for the environment in our daily activities. We attach great importance to produce and deliver quality products. Products in a design and quality that our customers want to use and not at least keep, so the products will not contribute to the “use and throw away culture” that has characterized the market for many years. ENTERING INTO NEW SPONSORSHIPS Plastic is everywhere – on land and in oceans, in animals and it is the topic on every news channel. We can all agree that there is a problem with plastics entering the environment and that we need to find solutions for this. We actively want to help stop plastic pollution and prevent plastic from ending up in the nature and not at least the oceans. That is why we in June 2019 entered into a sponsor partnership with “Plastic Change”. Wherethrough various projects we support their organization and their work on dissemination and raising awareness of plastic pollution. We communicate through our channels about our support and the different projects we have started to create awareness. To support the sustainable development of our employees and give them the right knowledge to handle the different cases. Plastic Change held a 90 minutes lecture on materials, sustainable purchase, production and consumption patterns. Our employees got to ask relevant questions and the event was a great success with useful knowledge and important guidelines. WHO IS PLASTIC CHANGE? Plastic Change is a Danish environmental organization working locally, nationally and globally on a mission fighting plastic pollution. They work hard to break the exponential growth of plastic pollution in the oceans and on land. But also work with the populations growing consumption patterns. They do this through documentation, education, communication and workable solutions. Plastic Change work as organisation and specially addresses SDG 14 “life below water”. To meet that goal, they actively work with SDG 9 “industry, innovation & infrastructure”, SDG 11 “sustainable cities and communities”, and SDG12 responsible consumption and production. To reach their goals and activate the other world societies they work with SDG17 partnerships for action. WHY DO PLASTIC CHANGE NOT FOCUS ON CLEANING UP THE OCEANS? An estimate of 80-90% of the plastic that ends up in the oceans comes from land-based activities. Cleaning up the oceans would be an impossible job. Only a small percentage of all the plastic in the oceans are on the surface. Often in form of microplastic and impossible to clean up. If we don’t stop the plastic pollution on land the plastic will keep floating into the oceans. That’s why the focus should be on stopping the pollution on land. Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 24 25 Description of the SDG Our environmental commitment PROGRESS 2019 SDG target and indicators EMPLOYEE REDUCE We will think sustainability into our eating habits, 1) We receive our lunch from a subsupplier. We are not that 12.3 By 2030, halve per capita global food waste ENGAGEMENT through seasonal food, meat-free days and local ingredients, and reduce our food waste. big a company why they can not offer us specially meat free days. As this is a big wish from our employees we will look for a lunch provider who can fulfill our wish without at the retail and consumer levels and reduce food losses along production and supply chains, including post-harvest losses (12.3.1 Global food increasing the cost. loss index. Every year we have a teambuilding event for all SECONDARY employees. Each year we have different topics. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS We want to take care of the world’s forests 1) We have developed a system so that received invoices through less printed paper and promote the use on order purchases no longer needs to be printed. 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation This year it was decided that we should address of FSC® certified paper or equivalent that ensures Rughly this will save around 20-25000 pcs A4 papers in through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse the things where we could change our behavOur efforts in the principles “Reduce, Reuse, sustainable forest management or other respona year. (since 2007 all our going invoices, order confirmasible origin. tions, and purchase orders has also been sent on PDF files). iour in order to reduce our negative impact on Recycle” also extends to three secondary 2) When we need to print we only use FSC paper. 15.2.1 (works as a secondary) the environment. targets; 3) In our Chinese production we only use FSC certified Progress towards sustainable forest management). paper or similar. Read more on page 29. All employees were divided into groups and had We want to reduce our internal electricity to come with suggestions on how we can make consumption and therefore our environmental We will work to reduce the sold plastic bags and 1) We have reduced the production of plastic bags further 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation a difference for the environment both as a priresponsibility extend to SDG 7. It is part of our single packaging products in our promotional since last year, and will work harder to have this number through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse product range. reduces or ideally ended during next year. Both to reduce vate person and as a company. All suggestions internal policy and our employees are committhe single-use consumption. But also to prevent that the were talked about in open forum and we found ted to fulfil it, but we don’t measure it why we product we produce ends up in the nature and oceans. have it is a secondary. Read more on page 28. 14.1 (works as a secondary) and agreed on our focus areas. The focus areas By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine have formed the framework for and backbone pollution of all kinds, in particular from land-based of “Our Environmental commitment”. We want to reduce single use productions of activities, including marine debris and nutrient pollution. plastic bags and other single use products and Doing it as a company assignment has created therewith also limit the risk of our productions We will continuously expand the “Just in time” 1) The range is review every year. range offered in our web shop solutions to reduce Read more on page 28. a joined interest and responsibility across the ending up in oceans and nature. Our ambition pre-produced products with logo. organisation and different departments and sets addresses SDG 14 “reduce marine pollution of out in how we act in our daily operations. But it all kinds, in particular from land-based activiWe will reduce our single-use plastic 1) We have changed our milk purchases from the model with also had the effect that our employees were inties”. It only works as a secondary as we cannot comsumption. bioplastic screw lid to a model without. Rughly this will 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable managesave 3000 pcs Bioplastic lids in a year. ment and efficient use of natural resources spired by each other in their own daily activities. prove that it will have a direct impact and only 2) We have also started a campain to lower the use of single 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation sets out in our ambition. But we want to conuse plastic giftcards. Read more on page 30. through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. tribute keeping the nature clean from single PRIMARY use garbage. We will reduce the product packaging where 1) During the year we have updated our webshops further possible without having any impact on the so that products are sold in inner units of xxx. When the SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL condition of the product. products are produced they will pack in sold inner units, We want to reduce our internal paper conso that individual packing are saved. Our primary environmental commitment sets sumption and promote the use of FSC paper out in the SDG 12, “reduce waste through prein productions. Our ambition addresses SDG 15 We want to reduce our electricity consumption. 1) All lights in our basement has been changed to energy7.3 (works as a secondary) vention, reduction, recycling and reuse”. This “Progress towards sustainable forest manageComputers, monitors, lights and air conditioning saving models. As the need arises we will do the same By 2030, double the global rate of improvement must be switched off when not in use and we will with the other lights in the office. in energy efficiency. is related to our core business area which are ment”. It works as a secondary, as we do not switch to use energy-saving lamps where possible. purchase and production, but it also reflects work directly with sustainable forest manageon the things we can change in our daily operment through partnerships, but through our REUSE ation internally. As we are a sales and purchase principle “only to use FSC certified paper in organisation, we can make a real impact in the our productions from China”. We support the We will promote the sustainable durable 1) Different projects and cases to support our sales and alternatives through function, designs, materials, purchase so they can give the right advises to our products we sell and the advices we give to forests, wildlife and the people in it. And making and quality. customers has been initiated during this year. our customers. our impact on minimizing illegal harvested trees. Some of our focus areas are communicated in the following pages. We will reduce the use of new material in our 1) We have checked the posibility to change from plastic shipments by reusing received boxes, airbags airbags to other materials (Bio-plastics, paper fillers etc), and bags etc. for our own shipments. but the alternatives are not as good as we want yet. Therefore will continue to used the recyclable version we have now. 2) We have also checked the possibility to change to paper tape instead of our plastic tape, but do to quality this is at OUR ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT the moment not a suitable solution. 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable manageOur environmental commitment sets out in our ambition to make an RECYCLE ment and efficient use of natural resources 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste impact for the environment and is communicated through the principles We want to promote the use of materials suited 1) We have made a plastic material guide to identify the difgeneration through prevention, reduction, in the 3 R´s” REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE”. for recycling. ferent materials and descriptions. It also works as a resin recycling and reuse code guide for all materials so that productions can be marked for easy disposal. Read more on page 27. REDUCE – Invest in high quality materials so the products last longer. REUSE – Create reusable products. So, they can be used again and again and again. We will collect our discarded products and 1) Products are separated into material containers for easy samples for recycling and collect the company’s disposal. Also a container has been created for products RECYCLE – Make the product suitable for recycling. defective equipment for responsible disposal at that are still working so that these can be given to different the recycling stations. organisations. Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 26 27 The biodegradable tests that we have reviewed this year, do not show fully decomposition of the products (even in special land fields). Our conclusion is therefore that the OUR INTERNAL PLASTIC bio-based plastic products should not be sold for more than it is; a plastic material made IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM SETS from renewable resources. OUT IN THE BELOW MODEL The compostable products only make sense if there is the possibility to sort the waste according to applicable instructions for induPLASTIC MATERIALS BIO-BASED strial compost. Which are not always possible. 2019 FOCUS AREA PLASTICS MADE FROM RENEWABLE RESOURCES EXAMPLES (NOT LIMITED TO) 1 2 4 5 7 PET HDPE LDPE PP OTHER Plastic is in everything; clothes, bags, household To identify the different plastic types and diffeBIO-PE, BIO-PET, BIO-PP PHA often used in; single-use packaging items, pens etc. It is represented in many of our rent phrases. We developed a system this year Often used in; same type of PLA often used in; Bottles and food containers, product groups, so it is important that we know to prevent misleading or greenwashing products products like fossil-based plastics. plastic bags, woven-bags, shopping bags the different plastic types and can spot when to enter the marked through us. Typically I´M green products. things are not marked correct. Stonerock notebooks. The system includes (but not limited to); What During this year we can see that many are the material is made from. What products it´s struggling and mixing the different phrases like; typically used in. Which could be called com“bioplastic, biodegradable plastics, compostapostable. Which could be called “biodegradable”. Positive: If it is made from ble plastics, recycled and recyclable plastics”. How we can differentiate between them and Products are branded as “biodegradable” when which test and regulations the material should bio-waste and not new crops BIOGRADABLE/ in fact they are just “bioplastics”. And products comply to. RECYCLABLE COMPOSTABLE are branded “reusable” when the meaning is PLASTICS* PLASTICS* “recyclable”. The identification system also shows a guide on NOT BIODEGRADABLE how to mark all the different plastic types for EXAMPLES (NOT LIMITED TO) – NOT RECYCLABLE Also, a lot of the plastic products that are easy recycling disposal. 7 OTHER actually placed on the marked. Are missing the 1 1 5 7 plastic identification number or marked with a Making this system we have made a transparent wrong or misleading description. And it will not path for our employees so they can give the Most of the RPET PET PP OTHER PCL often used in thin grocery bags product we POLYESTER and RECYCLED POLYESTER often used in; or as a mix in biobased plastics be clear to the consumer what the product is right advices to our customers and design the textile, felt, microfiber, bottles bags, packaging made from, if it´s a better alternative or how the right product for the purpose as this is the area sell are made product should be disposed correctly. where we can make a difference. from these POLYPROPYLENE often used in; non-woven bags / pp-woven, sports clothes In Denmark it is voluntary to mark the product four plastic with e.g. the resin code. However, marking the products with the correct resin codes, can help types POLYACRYLONITRILE often used in; pens increase the products that are sent for recycling POLYETHYLEN often singleuse products, and will in the end contribute to the EU target shampoo bottles, plastic bags that 10-million-ton plastic should be recycled by 2025. 2 4 FOSSIL-BASED * Materials can be recycled if they are not a * IF the products are in fact biodegradable or HDPE LDPE mix of other materials – if the material have a PLASTICS compostable it should comply to specific ISO, coating it will not be possible to recycle. MADE FROM CRUDE OIL OECD and/or EU regulations. These standards are under controlled conditions in special land If recycled material is used in the production fields and NOT in nature. of new material it will save CO2. Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 28 29 PLASTIC SHOPPING BAG This is a clear example of a shopping bag with GREENWASHING a wrong and misleading branding. The material TRAPS PACKAGING is made from bonded RPET non-woven (made from reused bottles). However the bag Stating that it is recyclable. But in fact this has a coating which is not available in RPET, the packaging concist of 4 different materials coating is made from a different type of plastic. In 2019 there has been a high focus on plastic and are therefore not suited for recycling; So the statement of 100% would not be correct materials and the negative effects that it has on Paper on the outside, aluminum foil on in this case. Also when putting a coating on a the environment. One of the trends rising, is the switch from plastic to other materials. Leaving the inside, a small plastic window and with different material the product is no longer consumers and manufacturers confused and a plastic zipper to close the bag. suitable for recycle. The problem in Denmark is searching for alternatives there seems “green”. that there are no control units, verifying the In Denmark there are no real control unit and correct symbols so the factories are free to brand. this has created a big marked for dishonest At one point we got a reply from a factory that businesses all trying to get a piece of the cake. they mark with the symbols that the customer wants. Specially bioplastics (PLA), have emerged as With out deciding on the correct indication. potential alternatives. Many with material descriptions like;” green”,” biodegradable”, “I’m not plastic”,” Eco-friendly” etc. leading consumers to think this is the better alternative and that they are doing something good for the environment by purchasing this item. But in fact, many of the new alternatives are also plastics just in different forms. Looking at all the new alternatives the sustainaO% PLASTIC BPA FREE HEAT RESISTANT ble product will not only be in the changing the material on some occasions the original plastic material could still be the better choice due to long life time. MICROWAVE 100% DISHWASHER SAFE NATURAL MATRIAL TOP RACK We have shown four examples to some of the problems we are facing with wrong information branding. In fact, this is the case in many of the newsletters we receive every day for different -60% CARBON EMISSION BIODEGRADABLE COMPOSTABLE types of products. BIOPLASTIC AIRBAGS Printed on this airbag it says that the material is THIS IS NOT A PLASTIC MUG 100% biodegradable and made from HDPE. This is a clear example of how bio-plastics Bio-plastic made from BIO-PE (BIO-HDPE) can not are branded to mislead the consumer. be biodegradable, these kind of bio-plastics can The mug is printed with this is not a plastic mug be recycled. If the airbag was made from PLA/PHA and the marketing board shows 0% plastic, biodebio-plastic the products could in theory be gradable, compostable etc. The compostable icon bio-degradable in controlled conditions has a shovel direct into the ground and the biode(if correct test reports was submitted). But normally gradable icon shows a tree. Misleads consumers to this product would not be made from this type of think they can just throw the mug in the nature or material. So the correct description on this product their home compost and it will degrade. But this is would be made from bio-plastic and not not the case. The test documents shows only indubiodegradable plastic . strial compost. It should not be sold for more than it is, a plastic material made from renewable resources. Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 30 31 FSC CERTIFIED PAPER FROM CHINA To make sure that our paper productions are as responsible as possible, we have made a policy only to purchase paper from FSC certified Metz is approved (or similar) factories in China. as a distributor of PROJECTS FOCUSING ON; Buying FSC® approved products means that FSC® certified products REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE there will be taken care of the forests, wildlife and have a trademark AND THE ENVIRONMENTAL and the people in it. It assures that the harvested trees are replaced or allowed to regenerlicense: FSC-N001788. IMPACTS ate naturally. But also ensures that the workers in the forest receive education, safety equipment and proper wages. RECYCLEX BAG COLLECTION cing pre-branded products. Only when we have received the order through the web shop, the To make our impact on the principles “reduce product will be branded with company logo and recycle” we have made our top three selling and still sent within 3 business days. The conbags in new material, using certified recycled cept and products are developed every year and polyester (RPET) instead of virgin material consist today of more than 80 different stanwhere possible on the bag. dard textiles and bags. By making this change in our new production we have reduced the used virgin material by REDUCTION OF 2150 KG. SINGLE USE PLASTIC BAG PRODUCTIONS The new collection “RECYCLEX” will be launched in the beginning of 2020. Plastic bags is a huge environmental problem both since it is a single use item. But also, because it is often thrown in the nature impacSILK DUVET COLLECTION ting the oceans and marine life and the nature. Since 2008 one of our top selling products As we want to make our contribution to keep has been the silk duvet and pillow. Since we first the oceans and nature safe and clean and launched the product the packaging has been reduce the number of single use plastic bags. in same design only changing the colours. We promote the purchase of reusable shopping A non-woven bag with a transparent plastic bags instead of single use plastic bags to our window, a mix of several materials. customers. 2019 made us focus on the materials and We don’t have exact numbers on how many construction in our own productions. It was costumers that has chosen the reusable bags. therefore clear that the packing should change But we can see that e.g. both the single use when the item was re-ordered. On the new bag plastic bag and paper bags has decreased since the transparent window is replaced with same 2016. So, our earlier plastic bag production has non-woven material as the rest of the bag. Crenot switched to paper instead (paper bags that ating a bag with reusable and recycling purpose. would have other environmental concerns as a single use product). WEBSHOP PRODUCT RANGE WITH Plastic bag production: FOCUS ON WASTE From 2016-2019 the plastic bag production has OUR JUST-IN-TIME CONCEPT decreased by 73% SAVES 15-20% WASTE Paper bag production: We handle web shop solutions for 48 of our From 2016-2019 the paper bag production has biggest clients. And have the opportunity on decreased by 81% making their purchases responsible, by reducing their pre-branded products. To minimize our Our target for next year is that the total customers risk of ending up with a stock that decreased plastic bag production should will not be used, we developed our “Just in time” reach 85% concept back in 2015 with the focus on reduCommunication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 32 33 COMPANY CHRISTMAS GIFTS We develop and produce Christmas gifts to DONATION GIFT ON the largest companies in Denmark. OUR PREDEFINED WEB SHOP For each Our customers rely on us to find the right products; it is a responsibility we are committed As a standard one of the 25 gifts are a deselected plastic gift card, to as one of the leading suppliers in the marked. donation gift. a donating of kr. 5,00 per card The Christmas gifts area are Last year we entered into a collaboration with will be made to divided in to three groups. “Save the Children” organization in Denmark. By choosing this gift a donation will be made Plastic Change Customer defined Christmas web shops (with their own gift choice). to” Save the Children” and will among other by Metz. projects be used for special Christmas events Customer defined gift for all employees. for vulnerable families around in Denmark. Predefined Christmas web shop (Firmajulegaver.metz.dk) with a minimum The organization of 25 different gifts within each budget. Normally the company receives plastic gift “Save the Children”, cards with unique codes to hand out to provides experiences to their employees. children from the poorest families in Denmark and DESELECTED PLASTIC GIFT helps them become part of CARDS ON OUR PREDEFINED a community. CHRISTMAS WEB SHOP As part of our environmental commitment, we actively want to reduce single use plastic. SUSTAINABLE CHRISTMAS GIFTS This year we have made it possible to deselect the gift card and receive electronic gift codes ON OUR PREDEFINED WEB SHOP instead. For each deselected plastic gift card, We want to be our customers sustainable a donating of kr. 5,00 per card will be made to partner and make it easy for them to offer the Plastic Change by Metz. sustainable choice to their employees. So we have included a range of sustainable products Our ambition is to reduce the gift cards by in the gift election. 50% in 2019. If we reach our ambition the following will be saved in 2019. THIS YEARS SUSTAINABLE 15000 pcs plastic gift cards CHRISTMAS GIFT 15000 pcs cardboard packing sleeves BOSKANI KITCHEN COMPOST BUCKET 550 shipments Bokashi is a Japanese word for fermented As the Christmas Gift season is running now, organic material. There is another way of we will report on the result in next year’s COP. transforming food waste into organic nutrients. It is designed to ferment all food waste Our target for 2020: in your home to reduce your household waste. From the fermented 70% reduction of waste you get 3 useful products: solid fertilizer, liquid fertilizer and physical gift cards. drainage cleaner. The bucket is made of recycled plastic and is also recyclable. PICTURE: METZ PHOTO SESSION CHRISTMAS 2019 Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 34 35 METZ STAKEHOLDER CSR ACTIVITY 2019 We believe the customer-supplier CUSTOMERS SUPPLY CHAIN and supplier-customer relationship Over the last three years there has been a It is important that our supply chain has a is built on mutual respect, trust and significant change, in the requirement from our customers. Most of our clients now have proceresponsibility towards CSR and towards us, and we believe that building bridges between our close collaboration. dures to ensure that there are no breaches companies will result in better products and in their supply chain. better business relationships. Collaborating is therefore an important factor in our supplier This year we have meet a high number of strategy and have in 2019 among others resulrequests from our customers regarding sustainted in the following. able products and material choice. Our clients want to do the right thing when purchasing 1. We have been I dialogue with a supplier to product but searching on which to choose. change their product descriptions as it was stating that the product was biodegradable without having the test to back this up. CUSTOMER SUSTAINABLE PROGRAM We feel it as an obligation to share our know2. We were asked if we would write a customer ledge with our customers. To support their busisection in Georg Jensen´s COP report. Where ness, we have made a program offering them we also stated the importance of a suppliera meeting to talk about sustainable purchasing customer and customer-supplier relationship. and what path would be the right for their company. The agenda of the meeting could include; 3. We have helped suppliers updating their greenwashing, consumption patterns, materials, Code of Conduct upon their request. Their supply chain management etc. The meeting Code of Conduct was outdated and wanted would include our CSR manager but could our guidance what to include. also include Plastic Change. The program was launched in September 2019 and will continue 4. We have visited 2 of our primary factories in throughout 2020. China. We got the idea for the program when one of our customers asked for a meeting to spare on sustainability and sustainable purchases. From the evaluation we got very good feedback. We therefore saw this as an opportunity to make same support our other customers. This is what our customer says about the sparing and counselling: “The advice we received from Metz was very professional and helped us achieve good insights, into how we as a company can run a more sustainable and green business. It was both good advice, because the Metz consultants had deep knowledge and could give us answers to relatively technical questions. But at the same time, they had a nice pragmatic approach that makes us as a customer feel that the road to more sustainability, is a journey that we can realistically take part in. Finally, it was reassuring that the environmental focus seemed so genuine, and that in some cases the environmental considerations were above sales.” Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S Communication on progress 2019 METZ A/S 36 37 APPENDIX 1 Political contributions, charitable REDUCE REUSE RECYCLE Declaration on Human Rights and the CHILD LABOUR: You must not use 3. Ethical Business Practices donations and sponsorships in WE ARE COMMITTED TO; ILO conventions. child labor. You must adhere to local METZ CSR POLICY expectation of undue advantages. Where conflicts arise between appliregulations when employing young INTEGRITY: You must act in an Permitting or participating in Collaborate with our suppliers, cable laws and regu-lations, this Code workers. Workers under 18 years of ethical, fair and professional manner money laundering. customers and other partners to of Responsible Business Conduct, or age must not engage in hazardous in all contact with Metz. You must Metz wishes to be a responsible make a difference in our business requirements contained in our agreework, and workers employed must have honest and accurate recording and trustworthy business partner as OUR RESPONSIBILITY TOWARD area. ment with you, you must follow the be at least 15 years of age or older and reporting of information. a supplier of promotional products HUMAN RIGHTS IN OUR BUSINESS Continuously focusing on ministrictest requirements. than the compulsory school age. CORRUPTION: You must comply and corporate gifts to Denmark´s ACTIVITIES: mizing our products environmental with applicable laws and regulations largest companies. Metz does not impacts in the manufacturing, use SCOPE OF THE CODE WORKING CONDITIONS: You must concerning bribery, corruption, fraud have any in-house production, but We will work to ensure basic human and disposal process. This Code of Responsible Business ensure that working conditions, and any other prohibited business act as trend spotter and purchaser rights in our business activities by enConstant focusing on reducing our Conduct applies to all Metz’ suppliers hours and voluntary overtime are in practices. You must not offer or give for our customers. By delivering the sure that internationally principles are internal consumption, included but and your employees; this means any accordance with local regulation and an undue advantage or favor to any right products, by providing high followed, including but not limited to; not limited to energy, paper and firm or individual that provide a industry practice, and that wages and public official or other third party, quality service and by creating a plastics. product or service to Metz. benefits meet legally mandated minneither directly or through an intertransparent value chain, we want to Work against discrimination in imums without unauthorized deducmediary. Nor must you demand or support a successful business for our You must enforce the requirements all its forms. tions. Work hours shall not exceed 60 accept bribes or other improper customers. Metz was founded upon in this Code with your own suppliers Work against forced labour. hours per week, including overtime, payment for yourself to act or these values and principles. and inform them of the requirements We created our CSR policy with the Work against child labour. Work to respect workers right All in this Code, as they must also meet except in extraordinary circumstances. You must allow all workers to have refrain from doing your duties. goal of making a positive difference. to establish trade unions. Work to ensure good working employees the demands outlined in this Code. adequate rest periods, with at least one uninterrupted day off per seven INSPECTION AND TERMS You must meet the requirements of should We are committed to monitor and DOING BUSINESS WITH METZ conditions, including working hours, day week. this Code in order to do business manage our supply chain in compliWe want to do business with suppliwages, rest periods, overtime. with Metz. It is your responsibility to ance with internationally recognized principles for Human Rights, Labour know and ers who share our commitment to responsible conduct. To be a supplier HEALTH AND SAFETY: You must provide a safe and healthy work place for achieve and maintain the minimum standards required in the Code and to Standards, Environment and AntiCorruption. OUR RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS HEALTH AND SAFETY understand to Metz, you must meet the following requirements: all workers. This includes, as a minitrain your workers on their rights and our policy mum, providing all workers with clean obligations. We proactively commuIN OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES: toilet facilities, access to clean water, nicate the requirements of our Code The framework for, and backbone of, 1. Human Rights and adequate personal protective and to suppliers, and we expect you to do our CSR strategy and activities are We will work to ensure a safe and Labour Standards safety equipment, adequate health the same. based on the ten principles of the UN healthy work place for workers & safety training, adequate heat and Global Compact that we joined in involved in our business activities by DISCRIMINATION: You must treat all ventilation, adequate emergency As part of our agreement, we reserve November 2013 as well as our enviensure that internationally princiworkers fairly. You must not discritraining and emergency exits. You the right to follow up on compliance ronmental commitment. ples are followed, including but not minate against or harass any group must never use any type of physical with this Code, as well as pay visits limited to; or individual in your employment APPENDIX 2 or psychological abuse. to partners and factories at any time Our commitment is integrated in our Good working conditions. practices on the grounds of (but not in order to ensure compliance with business values and communicated Access to clean water at the work limited to) gender, age, race, sexual where we have business activities and place. METZ SUPPLIER orientation, nationality or ethnic 2. Environmental Management this Code. The follow-up may range follow as a minimum the law. Personal protective and safety CODE OF CONDUCT origin, disability, political affiliation, from a request for documentation RISK IDENTIFICATION AND to an announced on-site audit. We equipment for the workers. union membership or religious beliefs. MANAGEMENT: Where your require your full collaboration with OUR RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS Conducted health & safety training As a business, Metz wants to take activities involve an environmental such audits. ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES IN at the work place. responsibility for our impact on FORCED LABOUR: You must not use risk, e.g. relating to your energy OUR ACTIVITIES: Conducted emergency training at society and the environment. We forced labour, and no worker must be consumption, emissions to air and By a deliberate violation or a material the work place. want our suppliers to do the same. required to lodge a money deposit land and water, as well as managebreach to this Code of Conduct, Metz Employees at Metz are expected to or original identity papers to be emment of hazardous materials and is entitled to terminate any effective show good judgment and, if in doubt, OUR RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS This Code sets out our requirements ployed or to keep their employment. waste, you must implement an effecagreement with the supplier or if they should contact their nearest THE ENVIRONMENT: to you as a supplier in terms of restive system to identify and minimize applicable any purchase orders. manager or the CSR responsible. ponsible business conduct. You are FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND potential hazards to the environment. We will work against bribery, corrupWe will work to fulfil the environobliged in all your activities to comply RIGHT TO ORGANIZE: You must The system must be appropriate to tion, fraud and any other prohibited mental responsibilities in our with all applicable laws and regularespect the right of your workers to the size, nature and risks of your For more information please contact business practices in our business business activities and our tions in the countries where you operestablish, join or not join trade unions operations and work towards continuyour Metz representative directly. activities. manufacturing processes by ensure ate, including for product safety and and any other association of their ous improvement in managing these that internationally environmental environmental issues, and meet the choice. You must support the right risks. The system should be based Included by not limited to; principles are followed, including requirements based on international of representative unions and staff to on internationally recognized environPublic officials or private-to-private but not limited to; standards listed in the following. bargain collectively. Where national mental management principles and corruption. Energy consumption. In return, you can expect us to do the law restricts the right to freedom of applicable laws. Payment of bribes or trading in inEmissions to air and land and water. same. association and collective bargaining, fluence in relation in relation to Management of hazardous materials you should allow workers to freely business partners, government and waste. The requirements in this Code build elect their own representatives to officials or employees. Minimizing potential hazards to the on international guidelines, includengage in dialogue with their Use of facilitation payments. environment. ing the UN Global Compact, the UN management. METZ A/S · SKELSTEDET 9 · DK-2950 V E DB Æ K · T E L + 45 44 8 2 72 00 · I NFO@ ME TZ.DK · ME TZ.DK
