Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 Table of Contents • Bisnode at a Glance ................................................................. 3 • Our CEO’s Message................................................................. 7 • Bisnode’s Sustainability Journey ............................................. 10 • Sustainability Governance ..................................................... 14 • Digital Sustainability .............................................................. 23 • Diversity and Inclusion ........................................................... 27 • We Take Climate Change Seriously ....................................... 35 • Sustainable Value Chain .. ....................................................... 39 • Community Engagement ....................................................... 43 • About the Report . . ..................................................................46 • GRI Index ................................................................................48 2 ﻿ Sustainability Report 2018 Bisnode at a Glance Bisnode is one of Europe’s largest integrated and quality assured providers of smart data and analytdata, as well as decision-­making ics. We are servicing our customers platforms to help businesses globally from our operations in ­automate their processes and 19 ­European Markets. We deliver make data-driven decisions. 3 Sustainability Report 2018 Bisnode in Numbers Our headquarters Stockholm 19 Operations in Bisnode Business Information Group AB Sweden is a Swedish public limited liability company. The company’s governance is 2 097 based on The Swedish Companies Act and The Swedish Corporate Governance Code. 45% Women Since Bisnode is not a listed company, there are no requirements to comply with The Swedish Corporate Governance Code but our corporate governance countries Bisnode Employees 55% Men is aligned where appropriate. 30% Bonnier Holding AB 515 Employees Sweden Bisnode 1 103 Employees Financial summary International Revenue SEK 3 696 m Ownership ­Region Denmark, Norway, Belgium, Finland, Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, EBITA SEK 471 m Slovenia, Serbia, Croatia, Latvia, Estonia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia Adjusted EBITA SEK 520 m Equity SEK 3 133 m Total Assets SEK 6 296 m 70% Ratos AB *Bisnode’s CEO Magnus Silfverberg is also owner of a small shareholding. 479 Employees DACH Germany, Austria, Switzerland 4 Bisnode at a Glance Sustainability Report 2018 Smart Data Customer Lifecycle is Relevant Data 1 Identify, target and reach new customers Bisnode applies predictive analytics and advanced data 2 Monitor the risk associated with a potential new customer Bisnode provides real time credit decision making and compliance science to help in identifying checks through modern APIs. potential prospects and supporting targeted omni-channel communication to reach the potential prospects. In addition to hundreds of our own suppliers, our strategic partnership with Dun and Bradstreet gives us access to the world’s most 3 Grow the business 4 Improve customer comprehensive business directory in short, we have access to Big with existing customers satisfaction Data. Our goal at Bisnode is to transform big data into smart data – providing accurate, timely and insightful data to enable c­ ompanies Bisnode provides integrated data Bisnode helps identify potento grasp business opportunities based on smart decisions. For management services enriched tial churn candidates allowing ­example, companies, government agencies, municipalities and with predictive variables and ­proactive engagement with organizations can develop marketing strategies in line with current signals that enable us to engage at-risk customers. trends and targeting relevant groups based on quality-assured data the right customer with the right from Bisnode. Smart data enabling smart decisions. message at the right time. 5 Bisnode at a Glance Sustainability Report 2018 Bisnode Enables Enrich Data and Secure Accuracy Smart data is used to fully understand a company’s customer base, operational risks and opportunities. Our Customers Ensuring data quality in systems and processes is the foundation of all other developments aimed at data-­ driven decisions. Our expertise lies in synthesizing diverse and large datasets and deriving insights from them. These data and analytics are used to examto Make Smart ine the accuracy, validity and completeness of our customers’ data. In order to secure accuracy over time, the data is encrypted and programmed to be updated automatically. The data is finally enriched by adding Decisions information that our customers lack. In addition, we can also help our customers to comply with rules and regulations related to the refinement and safeguarding of data. Maximize Your Return on Relations Smart data is used to target new customers, drive sales, optimize risk and build long-lasting customer relationships. Given our objective of helping customers to increase revenue, Bisnode supports them in their customer relationships throughout the customer lifecycle. As a result of the rapid expansion of global markets, companies are struggling to retain their existing customers and find new opportunities . In the hunt for growth, the use of the science of data and anaAutomate Your Day-to-Day Business Decisions lytics in making informed decisions is becoming essential. A diverse Smart data can be used for more effective decision-­ range of industries is supported by Bisnode’s services – from banking, making by applying Bisnode’s automated services in telecoms, utilities, media, retail and the professional services to the relation to monitoring markets, risks and credits. Effecpublic sector. In a world of continuous change, Bisnode is continuoustive decision-making can further be achieved by intely adapting constantly developing and renewing our products, our grating the customers’ business processes with quality services and ourselves. The specific application of an agile methoddata through our master data management services ology drives the development of risk and credit, business information and real-time integration of Bisnode interfaces. and data-driven marketing the essentials for companies in identifying and managing their clients throughout the customer lifecycle. 6 Bisnode at a Glance Sustainability Report 2018 Our CEO’s Message Alongside the upsurge in digital Digital Sustainability, including transformation and an increased the implementation of new roufocus on data protection, we have tines and training in data proteccontinued to improve, refine and tion, security, privacy and integrity. enhance our data and analytics in 2018. Our focus has been on 7 Sustainability Report 2018 Today, Bisnode operates in 19 markets and is one of to list all the companies importing and/or exporting Europe's leading providers of business intelligence. goods worldwide with the aim of listing them not only We know that the decisions we make in our day-to-day according to their activity code or location, but also business influence the environment, people and sociby the precise type of goods they trade. (e.g. bananas, ety at large. This awareness permeates our decisions clay, etc.) and their sustainability. Within this framethroughout the organization. It is also an awareness work, Bisnode is providing the business identification that we can utilize by turning challenges into opportudata to feed ITC’s trade map and new important nities. For instance, by connecting mega­trends such as dimensions like sustainability and time! This is based digital automation, digital compliance and digitalizaon the existing Structured Data from Bisnode and its tion we can foster a sustainable business and contrib­capabilities to add extra dimensions with Unstrucute to society at large. I am confident that smart data tured Data based on a selection of triggers or signals. contributes to a better world. As an example, smart This solution can provide this key information thanks data can be used to guide ambulance services to the to the usage of Unstructured Data and Artificial correct address by supplying geographical data of the Intelligence in combination with Structured Bisnode SOS caller, thereby cutting down on time and potendata. This is how Bisnode aims to create a Sustainable tially saving a life. Global Trade Map for the ITC that is as complete as possible. Sustainability as a competitive advantage It is our vision to become the most sought-after In the last year, our view of sustainability has evolved ­partner for data and analytics in Europe. To r­ ealize from something we have to do, to something that ofthis goal, we are constantly looking at ways to fers a competitive advantage. Today, almost every car ­improve, refine and enhance data and analytics. manufacturer has an electric option, sneaker manufacThis is how big data is transformed into smart data. turers make shoes from recycled plastic, and several leading fashion brands and retailers use sustainability as a means of attracting a younger customer audiUnleash the Power of Data ence that is looking for brands with a purpose. SusOur One-Bisnode strategy has guided us on our tainability makes perfect business sense. But where journey from being 70 companies to being one. The should you turn to find companies that have adopted strategy aims to consolidate the organization into a sustainable business model and can supply sustainOne Bisnode and reposition Bisnode by modernizable options or help build sustainable value chains? ing our product and solution portfolio as well as our During the year we have been asked by several large brand. Our modernized solution portfolio enables organizations to answer these questions and, using digital trends such as automation, innovation and advanced analytics we have met their requirements. digital transformation and is a perfect example of how In 2018, we held a workshop for the International Trade Bisnode can unleash the power of data. Center (ITC), which is a joint venture between United Nations (U.N.) and World Trade Organization (W.T.O.). Bisnode is determined to be a responsible and sustainOne of the main missions of the ITC is to support susable multinational company. Consequently, working tainable development across the world; with a focus in accordance with global principles and guidelines on emerging and developing countries. As part of this is an integral part of our business. As a participatory mission, the ITC has built up a “Trade map” which aims member of the UN Global Compact we adhere to and 8 Our CEO’s Message Sustainability Report 2018 “Digital sustainability is not only Bisnode’s primary material sustain­ ability aspect – it is our very core business.” continuously support its ten principles on the protecchange. For us to harness these qualities in our peotion of human rights, labor rights, environment as well ple, we need to inspire them to bring their drive and as the prevention of corruption. During 2018, we set commitment to the cause of digital sustainability. This out five key objectives to further align our operations means moving away from traditional power strucwith sustainability: Sustainability Governance, Digital tures, and creating open, transparent and connected Sustainability, Diversity and Inclusion, Environmental organizations with cultures that encourage innovation Footprint, Sustainable Value Chain. In the future, these and performance. This is how we build a business that objectives will be adopted by each market of operais fit for the digital economy and how we become truly tion along with market specific priorities. I am proud digitally sustainable. to have a sustainability team not only at group level, but also Sustainability Ambassadors that cooperate in coordinating the sustainability work at Bisnode. Our Journey Going Forward During 2018 we have focused on existing sustainability actions, with the aim of developing detailed measure­ Embracing Digital Sustainability ment and follow-up functions to stay aligned with Digital sustainability is not only the primary sustaininternationally recognized sustainability standards, ability focus for Bisnode – it is the very core of our as well as requirements from our stakeholders and the business. Being expert at smart data, we also need to public sphere. We want to continue our efforts towards be expert at safe and secure handling of all forms of putting back more into the global system than we take personal data and customer information. To align with out. I am confident that Bisnode has the prerequisites the EU General Data Protection Regulation, we have and opportunities to contribute to sustainable develexecuted a company-wide GDPR project to ensure our opment. In the future we will also continue to drive own compliance, as well as to help customers to be our strategy towards One Bisnode with modernized compliant through our new products and offerings. solution offerings and a repositioned brand. That is how we build our sustainable structure. During 2018, we have further expanded our digital people system, a platform for data and analytics related to workforce hiring, retention, goal setting and Magnus Silfverberg career development. We believe that people bring the CEO, Bisnode Group creativity and discipline needed to understand how to use technology and bring about transformational 9 Our CEO’s Message Sustainability Report 2018 Bisnode’s Sustainability Journey Over the last few years Bisnode Bisnode’s success is dependent has been working to create a solid on a healthy business environment foundation on which to build our and that stable sytems across sustainability work. We have a the world are a substantial pre­ clear understanding of the ways in requisite for ­continued growth. which our business has an impact on society. We also know that 10 Sustainability Report 2018 Determining Our Stakeholder Groups Material Sustainability and Priority Areas Topics It is essential for Bisnode to work with sustainability Board of Directors Employees topics that reflect our stakeholder’s expectations. In Digital sustainability Digital sustainability order to provide a transparent presentation of the impact Bisnode has on our value chain, a materiality Responsible consumption Responsible consumption analysis was conducted in 2016 to understand which in our own operations in own our operations sustainability topics reflect Bisnode’s impact. This report has been Listening to our stakeholders has always been prepared in accordance with important to us as it is imperative for our continthe Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards core ued success and development. Consequently, option, providing us with a a central part of the materiality analysis was to structured approach to work conduct dialogues with key stakeholder groups. with sustainability as an In order to identify these groups, Bisnode mapped integrated part of our daily operations. people and organizations that may affect, or be affected, by our business based on the parameters of impact and interest. The stakeholders with the highest impact and interest Customers Owners for Bisnode were included in the dialogues which were Responsible consumption Increased conducted via an online survey. The respondents were in their own operations transparency asked to prioritize the sustainability topics in relation to Bisnode’s operations. These topics had a value-­ Increased transparency Community involvement chain perspective derived from Bisnode’s activities, products and services. 11 Bisnode’s Sustainability Journey Sustainability Report 2018 Setting Boundaries Materiality pyramid for Bisnode’s Sustainability Work Area of Excellence Digital Sustainability Focus and Business Critical Areas Increased transparency, Minimising energy use, Customer satis­faction, Retention and recruitment of employees, Responsible consumption in our own operations. The results from the stakeholder dialogues were presented to the Group Management team who defined the materiality boundaries Hygiene Level in a workshop based on three levels: area of excellence, focus areas Responsible handling of electronic waste, Reduced emissions of greenhouse gases, and base level. The results formed a baseline for our sustainability Efficient and sustainable transportation work and defined the content of our reports. This year’s report and of goods and people, Active work against corruption, Sustainable supply chain, Safe our on-going sustainability work is an extension of last year’s work. and healthy work environment, Diversity The report is based upon the most significant sustainability areas and equal opportunity for employees, Training and education of employees, identified in the materiality analysis. Community involvement The five objectives from last year have been approved by the Board. Progress made on the objectives is reviewed and reported to the Board periodically. The objectives have also been spread to the ­Regional HR teams as well as to the Ambassadors. Future Work Area of excellence: The area in which Bisnode shall be a leading actor During the coming year our markets will continue working towards the s­ ustainability objectives. Our sustainability work is a journey that is shaped by stakeholder demands, risk assessments and group strategy based on the rapidly changing market Focus and business critical areas: Top focus areas for the year which will be in which we operate. Bisnode’s journey will continue in 2019 with us holding ourselves ­highlighted in the sustainability report accountable for meeting our sustainability goals. Hygiene level: Sustainability issues that are considered to be hygiene factors 12 Bisnode’s Sustainability Journey Sustainability Report 2018 UN Global Compact Targeted Commitments and Sustainable Development Goals Digital Diversity And Sustainability Inclusion Provide sustainable Ensure more women business offerings to in managerial our clients positions Since 2015, Bisnode has been a signatory We have identified four goals which corremember to the UN Global Compact, the spond with our internal sustainability work world’s largest sustainability initiative. Our and where we believe we can make a positive sustainability work is based on its ten guidcontribution: SDG 5 Gender Equality, SDG 8 ing principles concerning human rights, labor Decent Work, SDG 9 Industry, Innovation and rights, environmental care and anti-corruption. Infrastructure and SDG 13 Climate Action. By being a signatory member to the UN Global Read more about the respective SDGs in the ­Compact, Bisnode also supports the Sustainable following chapters. Development Goals (SDG). Environmental Sustainable Footprint Value Chain Reduce air travel Ensure Supplier Code of Conduct compliance Reduce energy consumption Reduce CO2 emissions 13 Bisnode’s Sustainability Journey Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Governance With guidance from the Board of Directors and support from ­functions, Bisnode’s CEO is the strategic leader on sustainability issues. Together, we provide dedicated sustainability leadership. 14 Sustainability Report 2018 Governance Sustainability Governance Structure Bisnode has made meaningful progress on sustainability since we embarked on this journey. Sustainability is, and will Board of Directors remain, an integral part of our formal governance structure. While Bisnode’s CEO provides direction to our sustainability efforts, it is our Chief Human Resources Officer who has the overall operational responsibility for sustainability at Bisnode. Bisnode’s Group Sustainability Manager oversees the day-to-day sustainability work includCEO ing setting targets and conducting performance reviews to continously improve our sustainability performance. To assist the sustainability team in Chief implementing sustainability activities Group functions Human Resources Officer throughout the organization, Sustainability Ambassadors have been appointed in each market of operations. AlongGroup side the ambassadors, Group Marketing Sustainability Manager and the Group Management Team are involved in the overall sustainability strategy and communication. All employees are also part of our Corporate Region Region Region Governance as everyone is expected to take responsibility for sustainable business practices in their daily work. 15 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Report 2018 Our Group HR Lead Our CHRO to and Sustainability Drive the Bisnode Manager HR Agenda Rahat Joshi is our Group HR Lead Cecilia Westerholm Beer is our and Sustainability Manager. As Chief Human Resources Officer a forerunner in sustainability (CHRO). Cecilia has over 20 questions, she coordinates years experience in leading HR and supports the operational teams, shaping an inspirational markets in their efforts as work culture and transforming well as working with susa strategic people agenda into tainability communication day-to-day HR activities. Her goal and strategic sustainability is to deliver a top-end employee at Group level. experience and to have the best For questions regarding this report or self-leaders take Bisnode to the Bisnode’s sustainability work, please contact: Rahat Joshi next level. rahat.joshi@bisnode.com 16 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Report 2018 Our Austria Elke Spehar I’ve been working in the Bisnode Sustainability Team since March 2017 and I’m really pleased that our emAmbassadors ployer Bisnode is looking at this important issue. So we are able to make a contribution to reach our common sustainability goals. Together we achieve more! Germany Ulrike Pohl I have been supporting the sustainability topic for Germany since 2016. I hope that something positive can be done for the environment step by step if we become aware of what we consume year by year and look for improvement. Switzerland Loredana Russo I am very happy to be able to contribute to this very important topic within Bisnode, especially in terms of ecological sustainability. At home, I have been doing this for many years, finding ways to reduce my ecological footprint. Together with Christin Schmidt, I am keen to provide a lot of solution-oriented ideas, also to persuade more Bisnodians in Switzerland to be engaged in this matter. As Ambassadors we can contribute to a certain extent – I would appreciate to see more ambitious targets from the management in order to reduce our CO2 impact Within Bisnode, we have Sustainability Ambassadors helping to spread the sustainability agenda across all markets. Our AmbassaSwitzerland dors play a key role in raising awareness of sustainability throughChristin Schmidt out the operations as well as gathering data and information to be It is our social responsibility as an individual as well as a company to manage our business in such included in the sustainability report. During virtual monthly meetings a way that future generations can also meet their the Ambassadors discuss sustainability issues with the Sustainaneeds and develop their potential. Bisnode is one of bility Manager. By close cooperation, our Ambassadors provide a the leading Data & Analytics Company with great prism through which to monitor Bisnode’s sustainability performance Solutions for its customers. As Ambassador for Sustainability I will contribute to transfer this great which is a necessary step in reaching our goals and continuously fine ambition to also become the most Sustainable Data tuning our future roadmap. & Analytics Company in Europe. 17 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Report 2018 Belgium Denmark Poland Sarah Zago Marianne Langhorn Agata Kapler Talking was not enough anymore, I needed I am the Head of HR and Sustainability for I believe that Sustainability makes to act. Through Sustainability AmbassaBisnode Denmark and I have been working a real difference and can help every ­ dors, I hope my acts will raise awareness with sustainability for the last two years business continuously change for and generate even more acts. in Bisnode concentrating on the data better in every aspect. collection for the Sustainability Report and to identify areas where we in Denmark can work with sustainability. Slovenia Belgium Manuela Bevcic Amin Khallouf Estonia I believe that we must first start with Bisnode is an innovative company with ourselves – recycling our minds, thoughts many more years to come. I’m happy to Hanna Riiberg and energy – to simply be better – and be a part of that equation although I know It’s a great honour to be a part of susthen continuing with our acts – at home the world needs companies like ours to tainability organization. I have 2 children and at our offices – to end with our society strive for real sustainable decisions. In and for me it is so important to protect and our planet. Because small steps and a few years time we’ll have come from our environment. In everyday life I reduce acts matter – to be a better person in a far and we’ll already see a real differthe use of plastic bags and also I sort the better world. ence. That’s my personal sustainable ­garbage and buy things and clothes from ­development goal! flea market and thrift shops. Sweden Finland Maria Madison I think sustainability is important and Croatia, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Hanna Maunu would like to contribute to a more susMacedonia, Serbia As Sustainability Ambassador the awaretainable society and environment. As Valentina Kuharic ness of climate issues has guided me and Sustainability Ambassador it gives me the my actions in everyday life, which means opportunity to work on these issues. From my point of view working with that I buy less and recycle more. I also sustainability is very important, while it encourage people to charity in private life is in our cultural DNA. As an Ambassador and at work, by participating in different I would like to promote sustainability even more in my markets by training and charity happenings. Sweden ­monthly information letters. Isabelle Wassberger I think sustainability is important and I want to contribute to making Bisnode more aware of our footprints we leave in the environment. Czech Republic & Slovakia Patrik Kompus Being engaged in the sustainability of Norway Hungary Bisnode is the best way how to motivate others to become more interested in how Ann-Sofie Carlsen Fanny Palicz our company behaves. It also shows that I am proud to be a part of this OrganizaI think the sustainability project is a great environmental impact is everyone’s part tion, and to already have seen that the possibility to contribute to a greener world of the job choices we have made shows results. and I wanted to be a determinate part of it. 18 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Report 2018 We Live Our Values The success of Bisnode’s business is built on our values of collaboration, curiosity, trust and customer focus. Trust Collaboration We ensure quality We create value by and integrity, at being a part of the all times and in ecosystems. The everything we do closer we interact, the better we become Customer Focus Curiosity We love being part of the transforming world of data, and make sure to stay on top of it 19 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Report 2018 Our Sustainability Framework Improved Policy Framework Policies Sustainability at Bisnode is regulated through our overarching Code of Conduct which is based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. The Code of Policies are of a general nature ­Conduct was updated during 2018 and has been implemented across all regions and state overall goals and and functions. It summarizes the content of Bisnode Group’s policies and guidelines ­strategies within Bisnode. and comprises rules to uphold integrity, guarantee safety and ensure sustainable business practices. The Chief Human Resources Officer is responsible for m ­ aintaining and updating the Code of Conduct, while the Regional Director is responsible for implementing it in each Bisnode market. All new and existing employees are ­required to read and confirm that they have understood the Code of Conduct and will adhere to the requirements, principles and values stated therein. Guidelines An ongoing process of updating our policy framework has been in place during the most recent years to create an even more solid, consistent and robust framework Rules outlining how something for sustainability awareness and training for our employees. In addition to the Code should be done and to which of Conduct, the following policies have been updated or created in 2018: • • entity, department or process it is addressed. Anti-Corruption Policy Approval Authority Policy • Data Ethics Policy • Data Privacy Policy • Corporate Governance Policy • Anti-Sexual Harassment Policy (new • policy 2018) Whistleblowing Policy Instructions All new and updated policies have been made available to all employees through Detailed steps or work p ­ rocedures Bisnode’s new HR-system. All our employees are expected to read and confirm that describing how something they have understood the policies. During 2019 we aim to follow up and motivate could be done. our employees to complete various training programs which will be provided to expand the understanding and implementation of our policies. 20 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Report 2018 Risk Assessment Some of Bisnode’s identified sustainability risks include the following operational and and Management external risks: At Bisnode, we understand that our operations are associated with sustainability risks. By understanding sustainability risks we can provide the conditions for making informed decisions that can mitigate negative impacts and contribute to creating opportunities. In terms of risk tendency, certain risks pose a threat as a result of external factors of which Bisnode has less control, while others pose a risk due to operational factors where Bisnode has greater control. Both types of risk affect Bisnode’s operations and long-term financial stability. Bisnode’s sustainability risk assessment and management are managed on both Group and Market level. At Group level, we adopt and implement overarching policies related to sustainability and a ­ pplicable to all our operations in order to provide a solid govOperational Risks External Risks In the rapidly changing Information TechClimate change poses a risk to Bisnode’s ernance framework and pro-actively prevent risks from appearing nology industry, it is essential to conoperations in terms of financial shocks throughout our organization. The responsibility to assess sustainability sider cyber risks. The core of Bisnode’s related to unresolved climate effects of risks, as well as handling and mitigating market specific risks, lies offering is the ability to guarantee the the fossil fuel industry and higher matesafe and secure handling of data. Were rial costs due to degradation of natural with each operating market. data to be lost, corrupted or made availresources. Climate change is also likely able to unauthorized people as a result to result in less stable institutions due of poor data management, this could to increased polarization and acute lead to both financial damage and loss massive global migration. To mitigate of confidence from Bisnode’s customers. adverse consequences, Bisnode has set a As a result, Bisnode works continuously 15 % reduction target for CO2 emissions to maintain secure IT environments. by 2021 and is aiming to move towards renewable energy sources where the Employee turnover is dependent on the option is available. total experience we offer our people. Bisnode’s ability to retain and attract skilled employees is closely linked to our power of innovation and our capacity to embrace a wider responsibility in terms of sustainability. We take pride in constantly stretching ourselves to find new ways of attracting and retaining talent. 21 Sustainability Governance 0 Sustainability Report 2018 Countering Corruption Bisnode adheres to the highest standards of business ethics. We are very conscious of the culture we want to protect and nurture at our company. We use ethical methods when we do business with clients, suppliers and other partners and we make sure that our employees are familiar with national legislation and Bisnode’s standpoints against corruption regulated in the Bisnode Anti-Corruption Policy which we updated during 2018. This policy clearly states our zero ­tolerance of corruption, bribes and other forms of abuse of p ­ ower. The Group Counsel is the owner of the Anti-Corruption Policy. ­However, the Regional Director of each Bisnode Region is r­ esponsible for ensuring that this policy is fully implemented, managed and ­controlled within their Region. Employees are encouraged to report any potential breaches of or Cases of Corruption deviations from the Anti-Corruption Policy. Such concerns may be reported to the local management or through the anonymous Bisnode During 2018 Group Whistleblowing Service. Our whistleblowing service is an early warning system to reduce risk. Employees can make a report safe in the knowledge that Bisnode will investigate claims without risk of negative repercussions. The Legal, HR and Security departments at Bisnode are responsible for the handling of malpractice that is raised. During the year, Bisnode had 0 confirmed cases of corruption. 22 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Report 2018 Digital Sustainability Bisnode is constantly improving, to ensure data security, protecrefining and enhancing our data tion, privacy and integrity. Digital and analytics. This is how big data ­sustainability is not only Bisnode’s is transformed into smart data. primary material sustainability Since 90 percent of the world’s aspect – it is at the very core of our data has been generated in the business in which all our units work last few years, managing this together to be the leaders in our ­rapidly growing volume of informaindustry. tion comes with a responsibility 23 Sustainability Report 2018 What’s What in Protecting Data? 16 Tn Every day, 16 trillion Access to information is integral to democracy. However, privacy as a human right can sometimes be a point of conflict in the digital-age society. Comprehensive data protection is essential for regulating ­megabytes of data are ­ the handling of information and customer privacy, as well as for protecting basic human rights, including inter alia the freedom of information, right to privacy and many related freedoms that depend generated across on our ability to make choices about how and with whom we share information. the globe. The 16 000 trillion megabytes of data generated across the globe every day offers both enormous potential and great challenges. Big data not only provides opportunities for individual companies, it also brings stakeholders together to define specific capabilities and i­ nnovations and is therefore highly relevant to SDG 9, Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure. For Bisnode, access to information comes with a responsibility to ensure that customers’ and individuals’ right to privacy is protected and that data is not misused or corrupted. Since data and analytics are Bisnode’s main resources, data p ­ rotection, privacy, security and integrity are vital for Bisnode’s market survival. To maintain digital sustainability Bisnode has four main goals which guide our work; 24 Digital Sustainability Sustainability Report 2018 Data Security Data Privacy Data security is the protection of data from unauData privacy is the appropriate and authorized thorized access. For Bisnode, this means that data use of data to protect customers’ and individuals’ shall not be misused or have a negative impact on right to privacy. For Bisnode this means only using individuals, customers or society at large. The main personal data that has been collected ethically responsibility of Bisnode Group Security is to safeand in accordance with relevant data protection guard company assets and maintain a high level of regulations. We know that access to information personal and customer privacy and integrity. Our increases efficiency within society. Therefore, we Security Handbook and Code of Conduct constipromote a transparent information society in which tute our framework for data security, and provide companies have the best possible conditions for important guidelines to our employees on how to doing business, while at the same time protecting ensure optimal information security. Methods inindividuals’ right to privacy. As Bisnode handles clude, inter alia, conducting our own security tests vast amounts of information, it is our responsibility on existing products. We also use third parties for to ensure data privacy, including personal integrity stress testing of new and existing products. During through our implementation of Privacy by Design 2018, our focus has been on scanning external & Default and by Risk Assessing all Processing by facing infrastructure as part of our resilience proData Protection Impact Assessments. The collecgram. Bisnode has introduced a new standard for tion, use, retention, safeguarding and disclosure of IT security in the controls set called “CIS 20”. The personal data is regulated in our Data Ethics Policy full set of IT security requirements will be rolled out and Data Privacy Policy, which have been distribgradually by the Technology department providing uted through the GDPR implementation program a more harmonized IT security posture. to the Project Managers of each market with the instruction to make sure employees are aware of and follow the policy. Data Protection Data protection is the legal protection and safeguarding of stored data. For Bisnode, this means Data Integrity that our data and systems are adequately safeData integrity is the opposite of data corruption guarded and are not used to commit, for example, and relates to maintaining data accuracy and qualfinancial fraud. All the Bisnode data are encrypted ity throughout its lifecycle. Bisnode’s goal is to have when needed and protected with anti-malware an infrastructure that is resilient against spreading software. The systems are constantly monitored cyber risks to our partners, customers and society and we have effective policies and procedures at large. It is our firm belief that our society will in place for access authorization to the different get better and stronger, more equal, democratic ­systems and information. and successful when there is secure access to high quality information. We use IT security measures to ensure that all Bisnode’s data is protected from corruption throughout their life cycle. Bisnode’s information classification framework ensures that the need for confidentiality, integrity and availability controls for data are defined. Controls are applied to fulfil the needs throughout the lifecycle. 25 Digital Sustainability Sustainability Report 2018 Aligning with the General Data Protection Regulations Rapid technological advancement has led to program has finished. Furthermore, the network the establishment of the new EU General Data is a platform for continuous knowledge sharing Protection Regulation (GDPR) 2016/679, which and ensures that we work in a consistent came into force on May 25, 2018. GDPR offers manner. It also serves as a reference group and an established, modern and harmonised data reports back to the Group DPO. protection framework. During 2018, Bisnode continued our GDPR implementation program by investing 60 000 hours. This has entailed inIncidents creasing our efforts regarding the Information During the year, Bisnode had 12 incident cases Obligation in Article 14, updating policies and regarding customer privacy and data protecguidelines, working with legitimate interest, tion that were deemed to be significant by continuing measures for information classificaBisnode. For us, significant incidents are those tion defining the need for confidentiality, data where Bisnode has filed a report with a Data integrity and availability (C.I.A classifications) Protection Authority. Nine of the incidents conand continued work with retentions; all to cerned complaints received from outside parensure compliance. We have over 750 Assessties (data subjects). Three of the complaints ments divided into both Article 30 documentawere received from regulatory bodies. For In the Future tion and Data Protection Impact Assessments. comparison, we had 34 incidents the preOur efforts to increase protecvious year, so this is a major improvement tion and privacy will continue with Bisnode appointed a Group Data Protection which is due to our implementation of the appointment of Data Protection Officer (Group DPO) in 2017, with the core new routines and training held for our Guardians in our markets charged with duty of ensuring that Bisnode handles data employees during the year. continuous improvement of our digiin a secure and compliant way. The Group tal sustainability goals. We will also DPO is also responsible for a network of DPOs When incidents occur, we have incident strengthen our internal audits with throughout Bisnode’s markets. Local DPOs response plans in place and our updated a more conservative examination range from in-house legal representatives to Incident Process to support us in creating of Bisnode’s internal controls designated operators within our local data or necessary action plans. related to GDPR. product departments. The network’s primary responsibility is to uphold and continue to secure privacy after the GDPR implementation 26 Digital Sustainability Sustainability Report 2018 Diversity and Inclusion Bisnode’s ability to attract and and to develop continuously to retain skilled people is closely their full potential. Behind the proassociated with our power to invision of data and analytics at novate and our capacity to offer Bisnode there are many invaluable exciting projects that mean somepeople designing, analyzing, thing to the wider society. Our packaging, selling and delivering goal is to provide all employees our products and services. This with opportunities to stretch themchapter is dedicated to them. selves through our common goals 27 Sustainability Report 2018 Bisnode – Powered by Our People 45.1 We are passionate about building a culture of inclusion and respect, where differences are not only recognized, but actively encouraged. A diverse and inclusive workforce is crucial to the encouragement of different perspectives and ideas that drive innovation. At Bisnode, we benefit from operating in 19 countries with people from diverse backgrounds that speak multiple languages and contribute with different perspectives. By working together, we believe that we can spark the transition to a sustainable future powered by data, but also powered by people. In a highly competitive market, we are making Bisnode a place where everyone can share their ideas and % apply their abilities and skills to solve our customers’ challenges. We are glad that our successful efforts towards our ambitions are showing in our employee net promoter score (eNPS), where we had an overall score of 16. eNPS is a way for organizations to measure employee loyalty. This is considered to be a good score, compared with a benchmark of 9, indicating that our employees are engaged in their work and would recommend us as a place to work. Furthermore, the provision of a diverse and inclusive workplace is important to our potential employees and provides Bisnode with an edge when competing for talented people. Diversity and inclusion are key components in of Bisnode’s employees our talent strategy, and are intrinsically tied to remaining successful and competitive in today’s evolving marketplace. Focusing on creating a diverse are women workplace with equal opportunities regardless of ethnicity, religion, g ­ ender, sexual orientation, disability, age or similar, is vital for us in attracting top ­talent. That is why meritocracy rules at Bisnode – we hire employees who love their jobs and work to the best of their ability. We want to offer a ­stimulating and engaging work environment with equal career opportunities for all. We strive for gender balance at all levels and in all the markets in which we operate. Our endorsement of diversity and equality is outlined in our Code of Conduct. Cecilia Westerholm Beer CHRO, Bisnode Group 28 Diversity and Inclusion Sustainability Report 2018 Female leaders @ Bisnode In support of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 5, Gender Equality, Bisnode has set a goal of increasing the number of women in managerial positions by 2 %. At the moment, there are 30 % women in managerial positions, which we want to increase. Since meritocracy rules at Bisnode, we see an opportunity to increase the number of female managers by working more actively to promote female leaders in the coming years. In 2019 and beyond, we need to work even harder to attain our goals. By focusing on internal recruitment focussed on the best talents, we hope to reach – or surpass – our stated equality goals. During 2018, we have also significantly improved our measuring methods through our new People Platform. Zero tolerance of harassment Bisnode doesn’t tolerate harassment of any kind, as clearly stated in our Code of Conduct and in our policy against workplace harassment. This ­includes all forms of verbal, digital or physical harassment. We expect everyone to follow our zero tolerance of harassment and report any misconduct or breaches to their manager, local HR representative, Compliance Officer or submit a report into our Whistle Blowing system. We want to stress that we investigate all reports of harassment, discrimination or workplace violence and take any corrective action that is required. During the year, Bisnode Group had 1 reported case of discrimination. In a company of our size there will always be harassment of different kinds. While we obviously strive for zero reported cases, no actual case should go unreported. This way we can take action and correct as needed. We need our organization to be aware that we do not accept discrimination – but we do want to know when it happens. 29 Diversity and Inclusion Sustainability Report 2018 Smart, Empowered and Healthy People Our People Create Our Culture A couple of years back we involved our people in defining a new way of describing our culture – we wanted to know what mattered to them and how to best describe ourselves as a company. At about the same time we involved our As a digitally sustainable organizaregular basis. Therefore, we offer runemployment terminations. Five (5) of leaders in describing our desired leadertion, we rapidly adapt to changing ning clubs, yoga and mindfulness coursthese grievances were resolved durship style. The result is described in our market conditions. We strive to make es, massage services as well as a health ing the year and 3 cases are still open Core Values and our Leadership Prinfast decisions, implement fast, learn allowance, which enables employees to but under negotiation. No grievances ciples. Together they set us apart from fast, and iterate fast. We invest in our maintain their health proactively. These regarding environmental breaches, our competitors and lead us towards workforce by developing our learning employee initiatives vary from office to violations of human rights or corruption how we should act and be perceived. agility so that our people continuously office, depending on the local customs cases were reported. acquire new skills, learn from experiand rules of the markets in which ence, face new challenges, and perform we operate. in a constantly developing culture – a Bisnode’s Leadership Summit Leadership Principles culture that encourages collaboration, It is important for us to make sure that During 2017-2018 all of our leaders innovation and risk taking. We also our people feel safe. Our health and participated in a four-month training promote a safe workplace with desafety policies set the routines for this. program under the umbrella Leaders@ Courageous Acting with confidence cent working conditions and inclusive We continuously ensure that all our Bisnode. The training program was business practices, in support of the UN offices are in line with market specific guided by our Leadership Principles Global Compact principles and SDG 8, health and safety regulations. 1978 which clearly set the baseline for our Empowering Decent Work. (94%) of Bisnode’s Group employees expectations of leadership, where Leading with trust are covered by a health and safety managers are transformed into leadmanagement system. During 2018, 985 ers. To further illustrate our approach One Empowered, Balanced and Healthy (47%) were internally audited and 287 to leadership, more than 80 leaders in Employees (14%) were externally audited accord19 markets in Europe participated in Bisnode We are proud to have a working ening to such a system. The group-wide Bisnode’s Leadership Summit in 2018. Inspirational vironment that engages exceptional Whistle-blower function is also a tool While the theme of the summit was Inspiring change people with the right cultural fit making for us to further facilitate the health Growth, we used the summit to reinit possible to create great teams delivand safety of our people. force our Leadership Principles crafted ering on our high ambitions. Performing in 2016. One of the key note speakers Accountable Getting things done at the highest level is however not posIn 2018, Bisnode received eight (8) spoke about the correlation between sible without unwinding, re-balancing complaints regarding labor rights sustainability and growth. and re-calibrating our employees on a issues mainly related to litigation after 30 Diversity and Inclusion Sustainability Report 2018 Training and Continuous Development 78 80 Team Efficiency Index: Indicates cooperation within and between working groups, and the conditions for working efficiently and profitably. 84 Smart people create Smart Data, and Smart aligned in all Bisnode’s markets strengthens 81 Data creates smart decisions. We are proud our culture. of our smart employees and how their d ­ aily contributions, innovation and creativity, inFor the third consecutive year we conducted fluence the world of technology and create a our annual employee engagement survey smarter society. It is our constant ambition to Bisnode People Voice. The survey has been an Leadership index: Leaders ability to articulate and attract and retain the very best talent on the important tool for us to get an u­ nderstanding recognize employees and to work with confidence in the market. This ambition is executed through our of our employees’ experience of our team organization. ­employer branding strategy which includes ­efficiency, leadership principles and their a clear company culture, solid sustainable engagement with Bisnode. We are pleased 80 platform and continuous efforts to simplify, to note that this year’s survey showed an modernize and clarify our digital competence. ­improved result compared to last year in all 79 We believe this is the way to make our people three indices, placing us above benchmark. our competitive advantage. We want to continue to improve our work with development and engagement. We have A Platform for Smarter Connections therefore decided to change the methods of To facilitate our ambition to attract and retain measuring employee engagement and well-­ Engagement index: Indicates the energy and clarity in talent Bisnode has launched a cloud-based being. Starting in January 2019 we will measure the organization. People Platform during the year. The platthe eNPS each month and we will monitor our form collects and visualizes data on how our employees wellbeing and engagement through 16 employees perceive leadership, engagement monthly pulse-surveys. and satisfaction in their everyday work. The -6 platform has a specific value in terms of improved processes, reduced costs, better insight through workforce analytics, GDPR compliance and ultimately in a better people experience. Additionally, having all our people processes Net promoter score: Indicates the company’s employer brand. Benchmark: 9. 31 Diversity and Inclusion Sustainability Report 2018 Performance @ Bisnode ”We have left the annual To take the People Platform a step further, we are in the process of integrating our performance and goal-setting program into the platform. We take goal-setting seriously and consider it to be the backbone of our strategy. The program is built around setting priorities and continuous feedback performance ­according to the OKR (Objective and Key Results) method. The basis of OKR is to connect Bisnode’s strategy all the way to our people where we use OKR’s to stretch ourselves towards our common goals and measure our ­progress against our defined key results. During 2018, 92 % of Bisnode’s ­employees registered their OKR’s. We strive for 95 % coverage in 2019. appraisal Today’s employees want frequent feedback, open communication, and ­collaboration with their peers. To develop high performers, our leaders must be equipped to coach and empower our people. That is why Bisnode is moving away from the annual performance appraisal and is instead focussing on training our managers to coach our people with individual development and behind” ensuring performance is in line with the needs of our company in the future. These coaching and feedback sessions are called Touch Points, they are held at least quarterly or more, as required. At Bisnode, the responsibility for initiating these touch points lies with each individual. 32 Diversity and Inclusion Sustainability Report 2018 Breakdown of Employees by Region and Employment Contract New Employee Hires Total Number of Employees: 2097 2018: Total Employees: 314 (15%) 29 >50 503 12 185 Women 100 <30 117 Sweden Sweden Sweden Gender Age Region 163 166 129 30-50 International 3 Men 31 2 023 74 DACH DACH Permanent Temporary 2017: Total Employees: 321 (15%) Contract Contract 23 59 1044 >50 International 142 International 476 Women 138 <30 112 Sweden DACH Gender Age Region 160 172 180 30-50 International Men 37 DACH * New employee that joined Bisnode for the first time. The rate of new employee hire is the Total Numbers of Employees amount of new hires out of the total number of employees working at Bisnode at the year end. Performance Reviews by Employment Contract and Type 2018 Men Women Employees Who Left Bisnode 2017 2018 1 135 employees total 962 employees total Men 90.6% 100.0% 2018: Total Employees: 295 (14%) 1 120 permanent employees* 904 permanent employees* 15 temporary employees 58 temporary employees Women 87.1% 95.0% 51 >50 Group Management Team 100.0% 100.0% 137 62 91 * Full time: 1 103 * Full time: 816 Women <30 Sweden Part time: 17 Part time: 88 Country Executive Management 97.2% 74.0% Gender Age Region 179 143 Managers 87.6% 100.0% 158 30-50 2017 Men International Men Women 61 Employees 88.7% 99.0% DACH 1 102 employees total 967 employees total Total 89.0% 98.0% 2017: Total Employees: 423 (20,4%) 1 080 permanent employees* 929 permanent employees* 89 22 temporary employees 38 temporary employees >50 195 98 175 * Full time: 1 031 * Full time: 819 Women Sweden <30 Part time: 51 Part time: 112 Gender Age Region 235 186 228 30-50 International Men ** Total number of employees excludes contracted workers. Full time and part time data * The total rate shows the percentage of Bisnode total employees that received a 62 is based on permanent employees. All data is provided in FTE. Apart from e ­ mployees, performance career development review during 2018. DACH Bisnode also had 155 workers performing work mainly in sales, IT and marketing ­during the year. * The employee turnover rate is the number of employees who left Bisnode out of the total number of employees working at Bisnode at the year end. 33 Diversity and Inclusion Sustainability Report 2018 Composition of Governance Bodies and Breakdown Composition of Governance Bodies and Breakdown of Employees By Age Group of Employees By Gender Board of Group Board of Group 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Directors Management Team Directors Management Team <30 0% 0% <30 0% 0% Men 73% 87% Men 70% 67% 30-50 64% 63% 30-50 40% 44% Women 27% 13% Women 30% 33% >50 36% 37% >50 60% 56% Total 11 8 Total 10 9 Total 11 8 Total 10 9 Country Executive Country Executive 2017 2018 Managers 2017 2018 2017 2018 Managers 2017 2018 Management Management <30 2% 1% <30 3% 3% Men 58% 64% Men 67% 72% 30-50 72% 72% 30-50 77% 75% Women 42% 36% Women 33% 28% >50 26% 27% >50 20% 22% Total 72 81 Total 250.4 245 Total 72 81 Total 250.4 245 Employees 2017 2018 Employees 2017 2018 <30 18% 18% Men 55% 52% 61.2% 30-50 60% 59% Women 48% 48% >50 22% 23% Total 1743 1762 Total 1738 1762 of our employees have collective bargaining agreements 34 Diversity and Inclusion Sustainability Report 2018 We Take Climate Change Seriously During the last couple of years, company, moves towards renewBisnode has become increasingly able energy where the option is conscious of environmental available, reducing greenhouse issues. Since the mitigation of gas emissions and handling climate change is urgent it is vital ­resources responsibly within our that Bisnode, as a multi­national operations. 35 Sustainability Report 2018 Efforts Towards Precautionary Energy Reduction Principle As a signatory member of the UN Global Compact we ­apply the Precautionary Principle, meaning that if there is Digital transformation has the potential to decouple emissions from ­uncertainty about the probability of the risk and the degree economic growth. However, a few challenges need to be addressed if of harm to human health and the environment, precautionary the full potential is to be realized. One issue is the high energy use of measures should be taken. data centers required to provide the servers with electricity and cooling systems. To address this environmental impact, Bisnode’s goal is to actively move towards renewable energy in our offices and for our servers where the option is available. Transitioning to renewable energy sources along with reducing emissions is essential in order to achieve SDG 13, Climate Action. We have actively pushed from using physical letters to digital letters. This has significantly brought down our usage of paper. Bisnode urges all markets to procure energy from renewable sources, provided that it is accessible in their local market. As of 2018, Sweden, Belgium, Austria and Switzerland had a certification of 100% renewable energy. All our markets of operation are further encouraged to oversee their routines and implement initiatives to reduce their Bisnode Sweden Bisnode Belgium ­environmental impact. Bisnode Sweden now has environBisnode Belgium consumes mental certification for the office the highest amount electricity building, and is actively taking a within the Group. By switching lead by implementing a policy of to 100% renewable energy in Stricter Travel Policy In terms of climate change, one of Bisnode’s most substantial climate related restricted CO2 levels for c­ ompany their office they are actively impacts is emissions from business travel. Bisnode’s climate target is to reduce CO2 owned cars. contributing to Bisnode Group’s emissions by 15% by 2021. In order to meet this target, we took active measures ­environmental target. to reduce our emissions related to business travel by air and cars by updating our Business Travel Policy in 2017. The policy, which was implemented during 2018, outlines how all employees should consider the environment when planning a business trip. Employees are further encouraged to conduct online meetings if possible. Compliance with Bisnode’s Business Travel Policy will help us streamline our processes, which will further reduce our environmental impact. By implementing a central system for all business travel we will, in the future , have greater control of our emissions data and will be able to pinpoint areas for action. 36 We Take Climate Change Seriously Sustainability Report 2018 Scope 1 Energy Consumption Total CO2e (tonnes) for company owned cars: 1 614 Total Consumption (MWh) 2017 2018 1 570 16 144 13 939 Total Total * No reported data on the use of renewable fuels. Scope 1 is only company owned cars. Data on cars are delivered as km driven with a certain type of car, L of fuel used or total CO2e emissions calculated by leasing company with specific mileage and car performance data. Results: Belgium is 722 ton CO2e, Germany 374 ton CO2e, the rest 474 ton CO2e. 8 740 Fuel for company owned cars* 6 128 Fuel for company owned cars* Scope 2 Scope 3 4 612 Electricity 4 377 Electricity Total CO2e (tonnes) Total CO2e (tonnes) 1 580 Total 2 218 Total 2 758 Heating 3 394 Heating 34 Cooling 40 Cooling 1 174 Electricity 1 969 Business travel 2017 481 Heating 2017 484 Upstream Emissions * No reported data on the use of renewable fuels. Data on cars are delivered as km driven with a certain type of car, L of fuel used or total CO2e emissions calculated by leasing com0 Cooling pany with specific mileage and car performance data. Data on electricity, heating and cooling is from invoices and from contact with landlord. No renewable fuel was reported The addition of a certain share renewable fuel by law in some countries (like “kvotplikt” in Sweden) is not taken into account. 961 Electricity 1 581 Business travel 2018 619 Heating 2018 637 Upstream Emissions Total CO2e emissions Total energy consumption Emission intensity 0 Cooling (market based) 13 939 5 412 2.58 * Market based Scope 2 emissions 1 591 tonnes CO2e , location based scope 2 emissions 1 607 tonnes CO2e. * Other upstream emissions include energy transmission & distribution lossess in electricity grid and upstream emissions MWh tonnes CO2e tonnes CO2e/FTE from electricity, heating and fuel production. Business travel includes emisisons from flights, train, taxi, employee owned cars and hotel nights. 37 We Take Climate Change Seriously Sustainability Report 2018 Handling Environmentally friendly initiatives Our E-waste are encouraged at Bisnode. In several of Bisnode’s markets initiatives include reducing plastic use in our offices, using eco-friendly taxis, Responsibly switching to electronic invoicing and increased focus on recycling of paper, plastic and IT hardware. As an IT provider, the waste category with the greatest impact is our electronic waste. The global issue of e-waste is critical as compoBisnode Estonia nents from electronic devices contain hazardous materials, which Bisnode Estonia’s team took part in World Cleanup Day in September are harmful to human health and the environment if not disposed of 2018, together with millions of people in 150 countries uniting to clean properly. Furthermore, as the supply of metals is becoming uncertain up our world. During the World Cleanup Day volunteers and partners due to resource peaks, waste is becoming redefined as a resource worldwide came together to rid our planet of trash – cleaning up litter with imminent opportunities. During 2018 e-waste within Bisnode and mismanaged waste from our beaches, rivers, forests, and streets. Group amounted to 7.5 tons In the majority of our markets of operThe movement was born 10 years ago in Estonia, when 4 % of the ation we have a system in place for handling e-waste. We further ­population came out to clean the entire country of illegally dumped encourage our employees to implement environmentally friendly waste, in a matter of hours. routines in their daily work, such as printing double-sided to reduce paper consumption, and avoiding printing as far as possible by using digital signatures for signing contracts. 38 We Take Climate Change Seriously Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainable Value Chain Modern supply chains are ­highly core operations exposing them to complex as they span several ­uncontrollable risks. Consequently, countries and often include multiBisnode is promoting sustainable ple tiers, offshoring and outsourcsupply chains since they allow us ing. Supply chains are nevertheless to use our influence to promote essential for Bisnode’s value creaand drive effective, long-term sustion. While technology can facilitainable business behavior among tate improved control along comour suppliers. panies’ value chains, many supply chains fall out of a company’s 39 Sustainability Report 2018 Responsible Value Chain 35 Management Bisnode works with a wide range of suppliers and we expect them to support and apply the same principles on sustainable business as us. Sustainable supply chain management for Bisnode relates specifically to SDG 8, Decent Work, in terms of human rights and labor rights issues, as well as SDG 13, Climate Action. Bisnode’s primary % suppliers are those who deliver data for our products. Secondary suppliers include consultants, premises, IT-equipment, travel and other supplies related to our operations. Bisnode’s customers range from government agencies to small and medium-sized companies and global corporate groups. They operate in a variety of industries and sectors such as public authorities, real estate, insurance, retail, manufacturing, banking and finance. Their common denominator is their of Bisnode’s customers gave a score of 9 or 10 in determination to use data as a driving force to make substantiated decisions based on Smart Data. ­loyalty score. Customer Loyalty Bisnode’s Customer Loyalty Survey Net Promoter Score (NPS) is an important tool for reviewing and managing customer relations with the purpose of defining best practices. Our surveys consist of a frequent transactional survey (tNPS) sent out to users and an annual relational survey (rNPS) sent out to decision makers or influencing parties. Our rNPS in 2018 was sent out to 17 markets and reached 71 000 customers with a response rate of 9.3%. On a scale of 1 to 10, 35% of Bisnode’s customers gave a score of 9 or 10. Since Bisnode works with continuous improvement, action plans have been created for all markets to improve loyalty. 40 Sustainable Value Chain Sustainability Report 2018 Bisnode’s value chain Consolidating Raw Data Data is collected from a variety of sources Sustainability in Procurement Internal Databases External Databases Data is imported into databasData is collected from external es in order to make it possible databases, including both Responsible sourcing is a persistent issue for technology c ­ ompanies, to structure and search the other companies and Bisnode’s particularly in terms of material sourcing for hardware since 8 ­ 0-90% data in an efficient way customers’ own databases of the sustainability impact for tech companies lies in supply chains1. Bisnode has, over the years, acquired many companies in different regions to gain market share and increase product offering. These acquisitions also inherited several suppliers in each Bisnode entity, which has created a varied supplier landscape. Controlling these suppliers in terms of sustainability, as well as other areas, is of ­crucial concern for us. During 2018 the new governance structure for procurement was Enrichment of Data The data is refined and analysed consolidated. Bisnode has, inter alia, formulated a Procurement Guidance aiming to include sustainability in all aspects of the ­procurement process. Since procurement is conducted in many ­places within the organization, overview and control are challenging. This will be mitigated by orderliness in systems, processes and ways of working. An e-learning course about Procurement has been formulated with this in mind. The content of the learning program aims to equip managers with the right knowledge to make better decisions Customers regarding suppliers, with a constant focus on sustainability risks. We The results are delivered to our customers to use in their business believe that this training will be an important step in evaluating and managing risks in the supply chain. 1. UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) https://www.unpri.org/download?ac=1894 41 Sustainable Value Chain Sustainability Report 2018 Collaboration and follow up in virtual forums has been prioritized. How to Identify Sustainable For instance, the sustainability manager is now part of the procurement forum and the procurement function is being involved in numerous tenders pushing the sustainability agenda in Request for ­Proposals (RFP). Correspondingly, main part of our new suppliers, and existing suppliers as well, when we renegotiate contracts, are asked to accept the content of our Supplier Code of Conduct, most Suppliers recently updated in 2017, which is applicable for all partners delivering goods and services to Bisnode, including their sub-contractors. The Supplier Code of Conduct outlines what we expect from During 2018, we held a workshop for the International Trade our suppliers; respecting human rights, offering a safe and healthy Center (ITC), which is a joint venture between the United Nations workplace with good working conditions, preserving the environment (UN) and the World Trade Organization (WTO) One of the main and ensuring ethical business practice. These values align with the missions of the ITC is to support sustainable development across standards outlined in Bisnode’s Code of Conduct for employees. the world; with a focus on emerging and developing countries. As part of this mission, the ITC has built up a “Trade map” which aims In addition, documentation on environmental impact and social to list all the companies importing and/or exporting goods world­conditions, including action plans and improvement targets must wide with the aim of listing them not only according to their acalso be presented to Bisnode. Our Head of Procurement is the owner tivity code or location, but also by the precise type of goods they of the Supplier Code of Conduct and responsible for updating and trade. (e.g. bananas, clay, etc.) and their sustainability. Within this following-up on the requirements stated therein. framework, Bisnode is providing the business identification data to feed ITC’s trade map and new important dimensions like sustainability and time. This is based on the existing Structured Data from Managing Sustainability Risks In the Supply Chain Bisnode and its capabilities to add extra dimensions with UnstrucBisnode have been looking holistically at our operations to find tured Data. This solution can provide this key information thanks ­efficiencies. We drive our sustainability strategies through our supply to the usage of Unstructured Data and Artificial Intelligence in chain. Operations that consume large amounts of energy are increascombination with Structured Bisnode data. This is how Bisnode ingly being pushed to pursue greener operations. The procurement aims to create a Sustainable Global Trade Map for the ITC that is forum focuses on mitigation of sustainability risks in all aspects of as complete as possible. We believe that this will make our world the procurement process. As data and analytics are Bisnode’s main and economy more sustainable, since importers/exporters will be resources, data protection, privacy, security and integrity are vital for able to choose to work with sustainable producers in developing Bisnode’s market survival. Our digital sustainability strategy guides countries and all of this based on our data & science backed up by our work towards selling sustainable solutions to our customers. the ITC, WTO and the United Nations. 42 Sustainable Value Chain Sustainability Report 2018 Community Engagement Bisnode wants to be a catalyst market has its own initiative for for digital interest, innovation and promoting sustainable developtransformation in all parts of sociment in local communities. ety. Our community engagement These include supporting local includes “Sprinnovations”, “Design organizations and programs for Jams” and “Hackathons”. These the purpose of collectively working initiatives aim to trigger engagetowards societal development in ment and inspiration for IT, data the communities in which Bisnode and technical solutions. Besides operates. these commitments, each Bisnode 43 Sustainability Report 2018 Sprinnovations An annual Bisnode feature is our Sprinnovations, where employees get to develop new products and solutions for Bisnode. In 2018, 2 Sprinnovations were held. The initiatives open up for innovation, ­creativity and multidisciplinary collaboration among colleagues from different business functions. The Sprinnovations result in great ideas, know­ledge exchange and many great laughs! Design Jams At Bisnode we operate in a “VUCA” world. This refers to the Volatility, Uncertainty, Complexity and Ambiguity in general conditions that shape Bisnode’s business, since our products and services must constantly adapt and be agile. Based on such reflection, Bisnode has for the first time developed a design thinking approach together with clients for the purpose of generating creative solutions. During 2018, Bisnode opened two “Creative Lab Rooms”, developing over 20 ideas for testing and prototyping. Health Promoting Activities for Social Causes In many of our markets of operation, Bisnode’s employees participate in activities such as cycling, walking, running and marathons for ­societal benefit. By participating we support organizations and a ­ ctivities such as medical research and health services that empower people with disabilities. Further donations are made to organizations related to hospitalized children, animal shelters and cancer research. 44 Community Engagement Sustainability Report 2018 Local Initiatives Bisnode Poland During the last three years Bisnode Poland has been supporting ­ Noble Gift, an organization that provides material support to ­families facing a difficult situation. Aid is given by donors according to the specific needs of the recipients. Bisnode Switzerland During 2018, Bisnode Switzerland sponsored the Paralympics, the Olympics for para-athletes which is contributing to inclusivity by helping change the perceptions of people with disabilities. The Pink Ribbon Campaign was also sponsored aiming to promote breast cancer awareness and research. Bisnode Slovenia Data Drives Future Innovation With the purpose of gathering sports accessories for outdoor activities and school equipment for children and young people from socially disadvantaged families, Bisnode’s employees, clients and In 2017 Bisnode arranged a hackathon together with the incubator partners joined forces and cycled from Ljubljana to the Slovenian VentureLab at Lund University in Sweden. During one weekend, more sea. 35 cyclists cycled 120 km and delivered over 200 pieces of sports than 150 students gathered together to develop concepts for creative equipment to Youth Health Camp in Slovenia. and data-driven ideas based on Bisnode’s data and other data sources. During 2018 the winning team cashed in their grand prize which was a visit to Bisnode to pitch their idea “Polestar Project” to our Bisnode Germany CEO Magnus Silfverberg together with other senior members. The To promote employee health and environmentally friendly transporPolestar Project is a solution which enables construction companies tation, Bisnode Germany offers their employees a couple of company to discover attractive areas for the construction of larger residential bikes to borrow for lunch breaks or journeys close to the office. areas, industrial areas and department stores. The event was very inspiring for both the students and the team from Bisnode that supported the event. The project is a good example of how events can provide opportunities and knowledge sharing across generations. 45 Community Engagement Sustainability Report 2018 About the Report This report summarizes Bisnode’s Bisnode’s Communication on sustainability performance during Progress report (COP) to the 2018. It has been prepared in acUN Global Compact. cordance with the GRI Standards: Core option and also constitutes 46 Sustainability Report 2018 Scope and Boundaries This is Bisnode’s third annual sustainability report. The Full Time Equivalent (FTE). Environmental data has 2017 Sustainability Report was published on April 20, been collected via Bisnode’s travel management 2018. Unless otherwise stated, the information dissystem, mileage reimbursement system and dialogues closed in this report refers to activities under­taken with suppliers (mainly landlords and energy compafrom January 1 to December 31, 2018. Information nies) and calculated based on the latest version of the presented in the report describes how we manage our Green House Gas (GHG) Protocol. Electricity is calcumost prioritized sustainability topics across our value lated with the scope 2 amendment on market-based chain. Data and information presented in the report reporting which is the latest methodology for calcurefer to our operations in all our markets where we lating electricity consumption. The base year for the are present, except for our new operation in Latvia. environmental data is 2016 and all greenhouse gases Bisnode Group entered Latvia in 2018 with the acquiare included in the emissions figures. The emission sition of SIA Datu Serviss. Unless otherwise stated, intensity figure disclosed includes all three scopes. To there have not been any other significant changes in focus resources on data quality for the more material Bisnode operations during the year. aspects, Bisnode is this year no longer reporting on office supplies (Scope 3). In cases where data for 2018 Social and governance data has been extracted was not available such as e-waste, estimates based through Bisnode’s group-wide HR-system. Data that on previous years have been made. Due to changes in was not available through the system has been colsupply chain management, indicators for GRI 308 and lected via templates provided by the Group sustainGRI 414 no longer contain specific KPI’s for evaluation. ability team to appointed representatives (SustainThe information and data presented in this report has ability Ambassadors) in each market of operation. not been externally assured. Human resources data has been compiled by using 47 About the Report Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Index GRI 102 – General Disclosures GRI 102 – General Disclosures Page Ful­COP Principle Comment Page Ful­COP Principle Comment number fillment number fillment Organizational profile Reporting practice 102-1 Name of the organization 1 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 47 financial statements 102-2 Activities, brands, products, 6 and services 102-46 Defining report content and topic 11, 12 Boundaries 102-3 Location of headquarters 4 102-47 List of material topics 12 102-4 Location of operations 4 102-48 Restatements of information 47 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4 102-49 Changes in reporting 47 102-6 Markets served 4 102-50 Reporting period 47 102-7 Scale of the organization 4 102-51 Date of most recent report 47 102-8 Information on employees and 33 other workers 102-52 Reporting cycle 47 102-9 Supply chain 40 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding 16 the report 102-10 Significant changes to the organiza47 tion and its supply chain 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 11 with the GRI Standards 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 36 Principle 7 102-55 GRI content index 48 102-12 External initiatives 12 102-56 External assurance 47 102-13 Membership of associations 48 No membership Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-­maker 8, 9 GRI 200 – Economic Standards Bisnode’s Aspect: Active work against corruption Ethics and Integrity Page Ful­COP Principle Comment 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 19, 30 number fillment norms of behavior GRI 205: Anticorruption Governance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 22 Principle 10 102-18 Governance structure 15 its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 20, 22 Principle 10 Stakeholder engagement components 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 11 103-3 Evaluation of the management 22 Principle 10 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 34 Principle 3 approach 102-42 Identifying and selecting 11 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 22 Principle 10 stakeholders actions taken 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 11 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 11 48 GRI Index Sustainability Report 2018 Bisnode’s Aspect: Sustainable Supply Chain GRI 300 – Environmental Standards Bisnode’s Aspect: Minimising Energy Use Page Ful­COP Principle Comment number fillment Page Ful­COP Principle Comment number fillment GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 GRI 302: Energy 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 39, 40 Principle 2, 4, 5 its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 36 Principle 9 its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 41, 42 Principle 2, 4, 5 components 103-2 The management approach and its 36 Principle 9 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 40-42 Principle 2, 4, 5 approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management 36 Principle 9 approach 302-1 Energy consumption within the 37 Principle 8 Bisnode’s Aspect: Responsible Handling of Electronic Waste organization Page Ful­COP Principle Comment number fillment Bisnode’s Aspect: Emissions of Greenhouse Gases GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Page Ful­COP Principle Comment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 38 Principle 9 number fillment its Boundary GRI 205: Emissions 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 38 Principle 9 components 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 36 Principle 8 its Boundary 103-3 Evaluation of the management 38 Principle 9 approach 103-2 The management approach and its 36 Principle 8 components 306-2 Total amount of e-waste 38 103-3 Evaluation of the management 36 Principle 8 approach 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 37 Principle 8 GRI 400 – Social Standards Bisnode’s Aspect: Retention and Recruitment of Employees 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 37 Principle 8 GHG emissions Page Ful­COP Principle Comment number fillment 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 37 Principle 8 GRI 401: Employment 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 28-31 Principle 6 Bisnode’s Aspect: Efficient and Sustainable Transportation of Goods and Services its Boundary Page Ful­COP Principle Comment 103-2 The management approach and its 29-32 Principle 6 number fillment components GRI 205: Emissions 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management 31 Principle 6 approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 36 Principle 8 its Boundary 401-1 New employee hires and employee 33 turnover 103-2 The management approach and its 36 Principle 8 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 36 Principle 8 Bisnode's Aspect: Safe and Healthy Work Environment approach Page Ful­COP Principle Comment 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) 37 Principle 8 number fillment GHG emissions GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 30 its Boundary 49 GRI Index Sustainability Report 2018 Bisnode's Aspect: Safe and Healthy Work Environment Bisnode's Aspect: Non-discrimination Page Ful­COP Principle Comment Page Ful­COP Principle Comment number fillment number fillment 103-2 The management approach and its 30 103-3 Evaluation of the management 29 Principle 6 components approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management 30 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and 29 Principle 6 approach corrective actions taken 403-8 Workers covered by health and safety 30 management system Bisnode's Aspect: Community Involvement Page Ful­COP Principle Comment Bisnode's Aspect: Training and Education number fillment Page Ful­COP Principle Comment GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 number fillment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 43, 45 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 31 103-2 The management approach and its 43, 44 its Boundary components 103-2 The management approach and its 31, 32 103-3 Evaluation of the management 44, 45 components approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management 31, 32 approach Bisnode's Aspect: Sustainable Supply Chain 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 33 Principle 6 regular performance and career Page Ful­COP Principle Comment development reviews number fillment GRI 414: Supplier Social Assement 2016 Bisnode's Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity for Employees 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 39, 40 Principle 1, 2, 3, 4 its Boundary Page Ful­COP Principle Comment number fillment 103-2 The management approach and its 41, 42 Principle 1, 2, 3, 4 components GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management 40-42 Principle 1, 2, 3, 4 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 28 approach its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 28, 29 components Bisnode's Aspect: Digital Sustainability 103-3 Evaluation of the management 29 Page Ful­COP Principle Comment approach number fillment 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 34 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 and employees 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 24, 25 its Boundary Bisnode's Aspect: Non-discrimination 103-2 The management approach and its 25, 26 components Page Ful­COP Principle Comment number fillment 103-3 Evaluation of the management 25, 26 approach GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 26 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 29 Principle 6 breaches of customer privacy and its Boundary losses of customer data 103-2 The management approach and its 20, 29 Principle 6 components 50 GRI Index Data to drive you forward
