What if business were society’s greatest problem solver? As a proud participant in the United Nations Global Compact, EY is committed to helping solve society’s toughest challenges. Contents Read on to learn how we uphold the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Ten Principles by: Supporting our people and communities 06 Supporting our clients and profession Supporting environmental sustainability 16 20 For more information on EY’s involvement with the UNGC, please contact: Gillian Hinde EY Global Corporate Responsibility Leader +44 20 7951 7903 Matthew Harold EY Global Responsible Business Leader +41 58 286 8025 ey.com/ungc 2 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact A statement from our Global Chairman and CEO The world today is changing faster working with impact entrepreneurs, than it ever has. Rapidly advancing helping scale small and growing technology, shifting demographics businesses that are purposefully and increasing globalization bring driving progress toward the SDGs. with them many benefits — people everywhere are living longer, We also provide an update on the healthier lives and fewer live in Embankment Project for Inclusive poverty than ever before. But these Capitalism (EPIC), which sought to changes also exacerbate societal identify a market-driven standard of challenges, such as climate change what contributes to long-term value and inequality, which demand creation for all stakeholders and how innovative solutions. to measure it. The project brought together business leaders and At EY, we believe that business has companies, representing US$30t a responsibility to use its talents of assets under management and and vast resources to address these almost 2m employees worldwide, challenges. We feel a responsibility and focused on the contribution to demonstrate how, in this time of intangible assets — such as of rapid change, we are fulfilling talent, innovation, and corporate our purpose of building a better governance — and societal and working world for everyone. EY’s environmental impact, on a firm’s efforts are guided by the UNGC Ten long-term value. Principles and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We continue to be energized by our engagement with the UNGC and In this report, you will discover the are proud of what we have achieved ways in which EY is fulfilling our over the past year. We know we purpose and upholding the UNGC have more work to do, but we look principles. You will see how we’re forward to building on this with amplifying our social impact through our stakeholders, to build a more our new corporate responsibility sustainable, socially responsible platform, EY Ripples. This platform and inclusive future. is designed to engage all EY people in projects focused on two areas where we believe we can make the biggest difference: supporting the next generation, helping young people to develop the mindsets and Mark A. Weinberger transferable skills they need most to EY Global Chairman and CEO find and sustain meaningful work @Mark_Weinberger in this transformative age; and EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 3 Supporting the Ten Principles and the Sustainable Development Goals The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human rights • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor • Businesses should uphold the freedom of What if business association and the effective recognition of were society’s the right to collective bargaining • The elimination of all forms of forced and greatest problem compulsory labor solver? • The effective abolition of child labor As a proud participant in the United Nations • The elimination of discrimination in respect Global Compact, the EY organization is of employment and occupation committed to helping address society’s toughest challenges. Environment • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption • Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 4 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals Human and labor rights Supporting our people and our communities Inside EY In the EY supply chain • D ► eveloping purpose-driven leaders • E ► ncouraging suppliers to operate responsibly • Growing employment • Increasing supplier diversity • Strengthening diversity and inclusiveness In our communities • Being recognized as a great place to work • Investing in EY people • S► upporting the next generation • Supporting flexible working • Working with impact entrepreneurs • Listening to and recognizing EY people • Engaging EY people in creating social impact • Using our insights to drive social impact at scale • Working with others for positive change Anti-corruption Supporting our clients and profession Serving the public interest Operating responsibly • S ► trengthening trust and confidence in the capital markets • A ► nchoring our actions in our values and Global Code of • Building trust through more transparent corporate reporting Conduct • Helping business innovate with purpose • Managing risk and the quality of all EY services • Helping tackle corruption in all its forms • Engaging with external stakeholders Environment Supporting environmental sustainability • H ► elping EY clients become more sustainable • Positively influencing change • M► anaging EY’s own impacts EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 5 Supporting our people and communities Reducing social inequality is at the heart of driving sustainable inclusive growth. This captures the essence of our commitment to human rights and labor and to building a culture of respect and inclusion — not only inside our own organization, but also throughout our supply chain and across the communities where we live and work. PEOPLE Inside EY At EY, we believe high-performing teams, which utilize the power of diversity and inclusiveness including different opinions, perspectives and cultural backgrounds, will experience greater success in the global marketplace. That’s why we strive to create an environment where all EY people feel, and are, valued; where they can bring their differences to work each day; and where they contribute their personal best to each other, businesses, government 123 and communities around the world. Developing purposeGrowing employment Strengthening diversity driven leaders In FY18, employment at EY grew by almost and inclusiveness 6% to more than 260,000 people globally. Our promise to EY people remains: Reinforced by a new inclusion and antiNearly two million people applied for roles whenever you join, however long you discrimination global policy, the EY global with EY member firms and more than stay, the exceptional EY experience lasts organization continues to strengthen its 65,000 joined the EY organization. This a lifetime. Everything we do for EY people commitment to diversity and inclusiveness equates to one new hire every 8 minutes, is a vital part of building a better working (D&I), creating an environment where all 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Of all world — not only for them, but also for differences are valued and the richness of experienced new hires, 26% came to EY clients and communities. EY aims to EY talent is reflected in promotions and EY via referral and more than 15% of provide our people interesting, challenging leadership appointments. For example, all our hires were alumni, or previous work that enables them to continuously 32% of new partners in FY18 were from EY employees known as “boomerangs,” develop their skills and knowledge; and to emerging markets and nearly 30% were that returned to EY. do so in an ethical and safe environment women. Gender diversity on the Global that strongly supports their personal • Global review 2018 Executive, the highest governing body in integrity. EY, also increased to more than 26%. • EY Alumni Network • Global review 2018 • Global review 2018 • Our people and culture • Our global D&I Road map • FY18 partner promotions EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 7 Supporting flexible working 45 Being recognized as a great place to work EY continues to be the world’s most attractive professional services employer for business students in Universum’s annual “World’s Most Attractive Employer” ranking. We are fourth overall behind Apple, Google and Goldman Sachs. In the US, EY was recognized in Fortune’s “100 Best Companies to Work For®” annual list for a record 20-consecutive years. EY was also inducted into DiversityInc’s first-ever “Top 50 Hall of Fame” recognizing our corporate values, culture and longstanding commitment to D&I. Investing in EY people Recognizing our responsibility to equip EY people with the right tools and skills, and anticipating the skills they will need in the future to achieve their career aspirations, we invested US$500m in 13m hours of training in FY18 — up 1m hours from the previous year. We also introduced EY Badges — a program that allows our people to earn digital credentials and capabilities in future-focused skills such as artificial intelligence, blockchain, innovation, and analytics. • Global review 2018 6 Supporting flexible working Recognizing people’s desires for greater • FY18 results flexibility, we launched GigNow in • Global review 2018 FY17 — a new global talent marketplace • Accomplishments and accolades matching contract workers with relevant opportunities at EY member firms. In • Our global D&I Roadmap FY18, GigNow has expanded from the US, the UK, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand to Canada, China, India, the Netherlands and Singapore. At the end of FY18, 16,000 contractors had registered for short-term “gigs” and filled more than 1,300 positions for EY projects around the world. • Global review 2018 • FY18 results • GigNow 8 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact Whose tomorrow will you change today? At EY, we are using skills, knowledge and experience to help drive 7 sustainable inclusive growth in the communities where we live and work. Listening to and recognizing EY people “ We invest considerable time and effort in listening to EY people, for example through our Global People Survey. LEAD, our integrated approach to career, development and performance, provides EY people with ongoing feedback and enables them to At EY, we continue to accelerate have regular, future-focused conversations our commitment to gender diversity about their career aspirations. We also seek to build a culture of recognition, where across the global organization, with EY people actively recognize others who do extraordinary work every day. Our women representing nearly 30% of newly global award program, Better begins with promoted partners over the you, continues to recognize and celebrate EY people who have found inspiring and past three years. impactful ways to bring EY’s purpose — building a better working world — to life. • Global review 2018 • Our people and culture • Better begins with you EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 9 In the EY supply chain “ As well as setting a stretch target to double global procurement spend with diverse suppliers in FY18, EY has committed to sourcing US$100 million of services from women-owned businesses by 2020, the majority of which are based in lowand 12 middle-income countries. EY’s commitment to promoting Encouraging suppliers to Increasing supplier the principles of inclusiveness, sustainability and responsibility – operate responsibly diversity including in relation to human and Just as EY’s Global Code of Conduct sets Identifying, developing and doing business labor rights — extends beyond our out the standards of ethical behavior with diverse suppliers is a key component own organization. It also includes expected of every EY person, our Supplier of our strategic sourcing and procurement Code of Conduct does the same for EY activities. Through our D&I procurement our continued efforts to promote suppliers. We view their performance as initiative, we actively encourage small and high ethical standards within the an integral part of the EY value chain and minority-owned businesses to become EY supply chain, and to maintain expect all suppliers to meet high legal, registered suppliers and help them to and grow a diverse supplier base ethical, environmental and employmentachieve their full potential. that reflects the markets, clients related standards. • Procurement and communities we serve. • Procurement • Supplier diversity • Supplier Code of Conduct 10 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact Could changing metrics change the world? By advancing a new framework for assessing long-term value creation for all stakeholders, EY and the Coalition for Inclusive Capitalism aim to pave the way for more sustainable and inclusive growth. EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 11 In our communities We believe business can and must do more to foster the kind of economic growth to which 12 Supporting the next generation Working with impact entrepreneurs everyone can contribute, and Through EY Ripples, we are sharpening EY is also expanding our support for from which everyone can benefit. the focus of our support for the next impact entrepreneurs whose small and Through our new global corporate generation, helping young people to growing businesses are purposefully develop the mindset and transferable skills driving progress toward the SDGs. responsibility platform, EY Ripples, they will need most to find and sustain As well as scaling the number of we are bringing greater scale and meaningful work in a transformative age. longer-term projects EY has with these sharper focus to our efforts to In addition to continued collaboration life-changing businesses, we are piloting drive sustainable inclusive growth with organizations such as JA Worldwide business clinics that help them tackle in our communities. Above all, that (Junior Achievement) and the Network for common barriers to growth. In this way, means mobilizing the collective Teaching Entrepreneurship, “future skills” we not only hope to extend our support remain a key focus of member firms’ career to more impact entrepreneurs, but also skills, knowledge and experience advice; also of Future Work Now, a program to broaden the range of opportunities for of our people and wider networks developed to help individuals, teams, and EY people to work with and be inspired by to support the next generation organizations thrive in the digital age. some of the most purposeful enterprises and life-changing entrepreneurial on the planet. • Global review 2018 enterprises. • Global review 2018 • Future skills • Impact Entrepreneurship Yearbook 2018 • Future Work Now 12 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact “ With support from our Corporate Responsibility Governance Council, which includes nine members of the EY Global Executive, we are bringing greater scale, focus and cohesion to our efforts to drive sustainable inclusive growth in our communities. 345 Engaging EY people in creating social impact Using our insights to drive social impact at scale Working with others for positive change In FY18, there has been EY investment Beyond individual projects and initiatives, Inclusive growth requires long-term, of US$112m in projects dedicated to we are also joining forces with like-minded collective effort to drive systemic strengthening our communities and our organizations to influence development change. Examples of EY leading and people contributed over 739,000 hours of entire sectors. For example, building participating in such efforts include the of service — up nearly 6% on FY17. We on similar previous reports on containerglobal Women. Fast forward platform to help aim to significantly increase EY people’s based sanitation and last-mile distribution, accelerate gender parity in the workplace participation in social impact projects, we published a joint report with Unilever and the Embankment Project for Inclusive mobilizing at scale through EY Ripples. exploring the business model dynamics Capitalism (EPIC) to identify a market-driven As we expand the number and range of entrepreneurial Safe Water Enterprises standard of what contributes to long-term of opportunities to support the next (SWEs). Aiming to encourage heavier value creation and how to measure it. EY also generation and impact entrepreneurs, investment in SWEs, the insights in this actively participates in the World Economic a new global EY Ripples portal will make report may help accelerate access to Forum’s efforts to create a global dialogue it easier than ever for our people to find affordable safe drinking water for tens of and action agenda around more inclusive and and get involved in initiatives that suit their millions more people. sustainable growth in a transformative age. skills, knowledge, experience and passion. • How can a trickle become a torrent? • Embankment Project for Inclusive • Global review 2018 Capitalism (EPIC) • Women. Fast forward • EY at the World Economic Forum EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 13 Through our services, we help to build trust and “ confidence in the capital markets, guided by the belief that every audit, every tax return, every advisory opportunity, every interaction with a client or colleague can help make the working world better than it was before. Supporting our clients and profession As a global professional services organization, EY recognizes its pivotal role in serving the public interest and positively influencing business behavior, including working against corruption in all its forms. Through EY services, we help to build trust and confidence in the capital markets, guided by the belief that every audit, every tax return, every advisory opportunity, every interaction with a client or colleague can help make the working world better than it was before. PROFESSION Serving the public interest “ Through the Embankment Project for Inclusive Capitalism (EPIC), we aim to advance a new framework that helps businesses focus on the true sources of long-term value for all their stakeholders. 123 Strengthening trust and confidence in capital Building trust through more transparent Helping business innovate with purpose markets corporate reporting Working with academic leaders, such as the Oxford Saïd Business School and Harvard Our Sustainable Audit Quality (SAQ) Among other efforts, we have continued Business Review Analytic Services, our program represents EY’s commitment to our work on the Embankment Project for research examines how embedding purpose conducting globally consistent, high-quality Inclusive Capitalism, which aims to produce into the core of business models drives audits, sustained over time. To this end, a common framework for measuring innovation and sustainable growth, customer EY has invested more than US$500m in foundational elements of long-term value loyalty and talent retention, and the positive audit technology. We have also created creation for a full range of stakeholders. impact of business on society. Through the EY Audit Academy, which helps our Aiming to lead by example, we have the EY Beacon Institute, our Purpose-led auditors develop the deep critical thinking included a broader range of financial and TransformationTM service offering and our skills essential to conducting high-quality non-financial metrics on key business value EY-Sinek Performance Practice, we continue audits. We now have a global network of drivers in our own Global review with a to provide insights and advice to our global 500 Quality Enablement Leaders — senior three-year reporting time horizon to better clients to inspire and amplify the growing Assurance professionals who provide onshow trends. movement of purpose-led business. the-ground quality support and guidance to EY engagement teams. • Global review 2018 • EY Beacon Institute • Global review 2018 • Embankment Project for Inclusive • Purpose-Led Transformation Capitalism (EPIC) • Audit Quality: A Globally Sustainable Approach EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 17 Serving the public interest 4 Operating responsibly “ 1 EY professionals are harnessing the latest developments in machine Helping tackle corruption learning, natural language in all its forms processing and robotic EY’s steadfast commitment to tackling process automation to help corruption is not only enshrined in globally consistent policies and practices, including clients detect and investigate mandatory training on anti-bribery and instances of fraud, misuse, corruption; it is also embodied by our Forensics & Integrity Services. These corruption and other forms proactive and reactive services include of non-compliance. harnessing the latest developments in machine learning, natural language processing and robotic process automation Anchoring our actions in to help clients detect and investigate instances of fraud, misuse, corruption our values and Global Code and other forms of non-compliance. of Conduct Additionally, our ongoing EY Fraud Survey series continues to provide valued Every day, EY people make choices and perspectives and insights on key risks decisions that directly affect colleagues, relating to business ethics and how to EY clients, our communities and our other tackle them. stakeholders. EY’s values and Global Code of Conduct, which all EY people affirm • Forensic & Integrity Services annually, provide confidence that we are using common principles to help us make • EY Fraud Surveys 2018 the right decisions throughout our global organization. • Global review 2018 • Our values • EY Global Code of Conduct 18 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact Does growth have to cost the Earth? EY continues to play a leading role in developing standards and approaches that encourage companies to preserve and enhance natural resources, rather 23 than depleting them. Managing risk and the Engaging with external quality of all EY services stakeholders We continue to invest in strong Quality Believing that the best answers are found and Professional Practice functions that when many people contribute to the evaluate client service for quality as discussion, we continue our regular dialogue well as compliance with EY policies and with stakeholders. Our aim is to deepen professional standards. Additionally, our Risk understanding of the policy environment Management function teams with all parts and the evolving social contract between of our organization to provide coordinated business and society. This includes advice and assistance to client-serving teams increasing our engagement with investors to help identify and manage risk and support and regulators around the world to make responsible growth. sure we understand their perspectives on auditing, financial reporting, corporate • Global review 2018 governance and other capital market issues. • Global review 2018 • Public policy • Embankment Project for Inclusive Capitalism (EPIC) • EY Center for Board Matters EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 19 Supporting environmental sustainability Wherever they occur around the world, climate shocks hit the poorest in society hardest, putting inclusive growth at risk. EY remains committed to driving purposeful action that minimizes the negative impacts of businesses’ activities on the environment. We continue to make a valuable contribution as a leading provider of climate change and sustainability services, while challenging ourselves to work in a more environmentally sustainable manner. PLANET Supporting environmental sustainability “ Rollout of a new EY global environment statement — and resulting action plans, starting with more than 30 of our largest markets — will drive efforts to minimize environmental impacts right across our global organization. 123 Helping EY clients become more sustainable Positively influencing change Managing EY’s own impacts Our Climate Change and Sustainability We continue to contribute to the broader EY investment continues to be structured in Services (CCaSS) teams help organizations sustainability dialogue, sharing global ways that address our biggest environmental to assess and respond to, and measure viewpoints on some of the key issues our impacts of office energy use and business and report on, some of the world’s most clients are facing — such as addressing travel, and to improve the way we measure significant resource and environmental environmental, health and safety risks our progress. With a number of EY member challenges. In particular, CCaSS teams — and shining a light on the increasing firms already pursuing bold targets, including have innovated in areas, such as climate importance of environmental, social and becoming carbon and water neutral by 2020, resilience, the circular economy, renewable governance (ESG) analysis for institutional we have developed a new global environment energy, water accounting and alternative investors. statement to galvanize further efforts to waste treatment. minimize environmental impacts right across • Sustainable Impact Hub the EY global organization. • Climate Change and Sustainability Services • EY global environmental statement • EY global carbon footprint EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 21 EY | Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory About EY EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities. EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com. © 2019 EYGM Limited. All Rights Reserved. EYG no. 000517-19Gbl BMC Agency GA 1009955 ED None In line with EY’s commitment to minimize its impact on the environment, this document has been printed on paper with a high recycled content. This material has been prepared for general informational purposes only and is not intended to be relied upon as accounting, tax or other professional advice. Please refer to your advisors for specific advice. ey.com
