Our Future in Focus To Our Partners This year, Novelis further I am proud that our sustainability journey continues advanced our purpose of to produce excellent results. Last year, we recycled Shaping a Sustainable World more than 70 billion used beverage cans and increased Together, while achieving the total recycled inputs in our products from 57 to record financial results and 61 percent. Our plant operations around the globe upholding the core values we continue to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, limit hold dear. water consumption and lower electricity usage while continuing to produce year-over-year improvements As a purpose-driven company, in overall production. we are committed to protecting and preserving the I am excited about the growth of our business and environment and positively further enhancing our purpose-driven initiatives. impacting the people, customers and communities we In partnership with our many stakeholders, we are serve each and every day. Our investments in safety, shaping a sustainable world together, making better, infrastructure, global partnerships, innovation and our safer products, protecting precious natural resources people have advanced our purpose and positioned our and enhancing the quality of life in the communities company for long-term sustainable growth. where we live and work. We have become a leader in our industry by making our customers in the beverage can, automotive and specialty markets more successful. For example, in the automotive space, we are accelerating collaboration with our customers through our newly established global network of Customer Solution Centers, supporting Steve Fisher state-of-the-art, innovative designs that are shaping the President and Chief Executive Officer next generation of vehicles. More than just a material supplier, we are now a solution provider, working across industries to develop solutions like the electric vehicle battery enclosure. This work is enabling more rapid aluminum adoption in vehicle applications that did not exist before. At the same time, we are expanding our product portfolio to offer the highest-performing aluminum alloys to our customers. As part of a cutting-edge manufacturing sector, not only are we partnering with our customers and industry peers to drive technology and further innovation, we are also growing and developing our highly skilled workforce. By attracting and retaining the best talent and making the right investments in upskilling and reskilling, we are able to take full advantage of new technologies and processes. At Novelis, we remain committed to our employees for the long term; in some cases, employing multiple generations of families who have sustained our workforce for decades, while building a pipeline of new talent, as well. 2 Our Future in Focus At Novelis, everything we do is with our future in focus, knowing that we must adapt to an everchanging world through forward thinking and collaboration inside and outside of the company. Through investing in new facilities, technologies, processes and the best minds in the industry, we are better equipped to face today’s challenges and prepare for tomorrow’s opportunities as the global leader in aluminum innovation and solutions. 3 Record Financial and Operational Performance Novelis’ FY19 operational and financial results were outstanding due to the many contributions of our colleagues and the strong partnerships we enjoy with our customers, positioning our company for long-term sustainable growth. FRP Shipments: Net Income: Adjusted EBITDA: Revenues: Free Cash Flow: 3,274 $434 $1.368 $12.3 $408 Kilotonnes Million Billion Billion Million FRP Shipments (kts) Adjusted EBITDA ($Millions) 3,300 $1,400 $1,300 3,200 $1,200 R* C AG 3,100 1 1% $1,100 3,000 $1,000 $900 2,900 $800 2,800 $700 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 *Compound Annual Growth Rate 4 was an exciting year for Novelis, having made many significant strategic investments to diversify our product portfolio, increase manufacturing capacity and strengthen customer relationships. These actions ensure we have a clear focus on meeting customers’ needs while delivering on our purpose of Shaping a Sustainable World Together. In South America, Novelis invested The company is also investing Lastly, with an investment of $300 $175 million to expand its rolling approximately $180 million to million, Novelis’ newest greenfield and recycling capacity at its double its automotive finishing facility in Guthrie, Kentucky Pindamonhangaba (Pinda) plant. capacity at our Changzhou, China will serve the North American Expanding the company’s South facility. With the addition of a second automotive market. The plant will America flagship facility benefits continuous annealing solution heat include heat treatment and prebeverage can and specialty (CASH) treatment line, high-speed treatment lines and will have an customers in the region with an slitter and fully automated packing annual capacity of 200,000 metric additional 100 kilotonnes of rolling line, the investment will add 100 tons. The 400,000 square foot statecapacity and 60 kilotonnes of kilotonnes of capacity to the plant. of-the art, energy efficient facility is increased recycling capacity. The The Changzhou facility will continue scheduled to open in 2020 and will investment also includes a new to be a place where industry create approximately 125 new jobs. railway terminal that connects the partnership and collaboration with Pinda facility to the Modern Railways customers provides an unmatched System’s main ports reducing CO2 setting for the development and emissions by approximately 73 launch of high-performance, percent as a result of products being aluminum intensive vehicles. The transported by rail versus road. project is expected to be operational Scheduled for completion in 2021, in 2020, resulting in the addition of the project is expected to create approximately 160 new jobs. more than 50 new jobs. 5 Innovation to Propel Growth and Sustainablity While innovation serves as the engine driving Novelis’ business strategy, research, development and technology are the gears that are turning ideas into sustainable solutions for our customers. 6 Customer Solution Centers This year, Novelis announced The Novelis CSCs provide an the establishment of a global environment to demonstrate network of Customer Solution product concepts, simulate Centers (CSCs) to accelerate customer processes and collaborative innovation between performance in use. The centers Novelis and automakers for next also leverage data to educate generation vehicle designs. stakeholders throughout the The facilities are led by teams of supply chain about elements from industry-leading researchers, forming and joining to costing. designers and engineers located Each center includes high-tech in close proximity to automakers’ development machinery ranging manufacturing facilities across from computer-aided design (CAD) North America, Asia and Europe. software to virtual collaboration capabilities and visualization The CSC concept is transforming technologies. Novelis from a materials supplier to a solution provider by delivering a deeper level of insight to technology, production and innovation. Novelis works with automakers to determine how to maximize lightweight, high strength aluminum to design the best solutions for specific applications at the right cost and to better compete against steel and other materials. Novelis Develops Innovative EV Battery Enclosure Solution The company has developed the first aluminum sheet battery enclosure solution to address customers’ needs in the rapidly growing electric vehicle and battery markets. Available globally, this innovative design for next-generation automobiles provides a more sustainable mobility solution in battery electric vehicles, a global market that is expected to triple by 2025. Design – Built with Novelis Advanz™ aluminum Value – By utilizing Novelis’ highly-formable alloys, products and part of the Novelis Alumineering™ the battery enclosure provides automakers the ability Solution portfolio, a collection of design solutions for the to achieve deep drawn, complex shapes tailored to automotive industry, the enclosure is up to 40 percent specific vehicle design requirements. The lightweight, lighter than an equivalent steel design. As a result, it high-strength material can help extend range, matches the best energy density in the industry by allowing vehicles to travel 6-to-10 percent further enabling more than 160 watt-hours per kilogram, an on a single charge. extremely efficient design for automakers and Tier 1 battery pack manufacturers. It also can accommodate all Innovation – With safety as the top priority, Novelis battery cell types and is designed particularly for battery used extensive computer simulations to demonstrate electric vehicles with larger power packs such as its innovative, high-strength battery enclosures can pick-up trucks, sport utility vehicles and crossovers. provide protection from road debris and vehicle For mass production electric vehicles, Novelis’ crashes. The enclosure is built with Novelis Advanz™ aluminum sheet design is the most cost-effective high-performing alloys that are featured on more than solution when compared to aluminum extrusion and 225 vehicle models today. casting-intense designs. Many automakers are allocating more time and resources to electrification, connectivity and autonomous driving, and they are looking to suppliers to collaborate in the design and delivery of enhanced lightweighting solutions. As automakers continue investing in sustainable mobility, aluminum is increasingly the material of choice for improving performance, fuel economy and safety while reducing vehicle emissions. 8 Novelis Launches World Class Manufacturing Management Standardizing operating systems and practices is imperative to achieving our new three-year key performance indicators we call our “Focused 5 Goals.” To that end, Novelis’ Manufacturing Council, which oversees capital investments and the piloting of new practices at our operations worldwide, deployed World Class Manufacturing (WCM) to further advance the company’s operational efficiencies. WCM is a management system that encompasses Total Quality, Total Productive Maintenance and Lean/6 Sigma practices in a systematic approach to identify, measure and eradicate production losses. The WCM’s goal is to integrate previously isolated initiatives under one comprehensive program to be used consistently throughout the company. To date, Novelis has launched 34 improvement projects in four plants and identified approximately $2 million in savings. Novelis Global Research and Technology Center Achieves ISO Accreditation As part of its continuous commitment to providing the highest quality products and services, the Novelis Global Research and Technology Center (NGRTC) in Kennesaw, Georgia earned the highest internationally recognized accreditation for testing and calibration laboratories from the International Standards Organization. Developed for corporations that intend to implement Novelis’ Nachterstedt Site a quality system that further improves their ability to consistently produce valid results, Achieves Significant Milestone the accreditation achieves the benchmark requirements for designation in the category of Germany’s Nachterstedt Recycling Center achieved “General Requirements for the Competence of a significant milestone by completing its first-ever Testing and Calibration Laboratories.” successful six-strand casting process, enabling it to cast six ingots simultaneously versus the previous capacity of five. The six-strand process will provide 20,000 tons of additional recycling capacity beginning in FY20. 9 Year in Review Thanks to our dedicated and talented employees worldwide, our continued focus on customers, improving operational efficiencies, and enhancing product development across all of our value streams, Novelis earned new business and several industry awards and honors this year. Automotive This past year proved that Novelis Many of the world’s best brands call on us remains uniquely positioned to to help engineer the safest, strongest and provide the best solutions at the lightest cars and trucks ever imagined. To right cost for next-generation do that, we deliver innovative solutions vehicle designs. We consistently such as our Advanz™ and Fusion™ delivered innovative products suite of products and Alumineering™ that create value for customers solutions portfolio of high-performing, and partnered with engineers and lightweight aluminum that enable designers from around the world automakers to reduce emissions and to shape the future of mobility. improve safety, among other design improvements. 10 Porsche 911 The eighth generation of Porsche’s The all-new 911 has been 911 is the sum of its predecessors – a extensively re-engineered and now reflection of the past and a vision of features a new platform structure a sustainable future. built with more high-strength, lightweight aluminum than ever Novelis serves as a key supplier before. The new design improves for the new 911, delivering 90 weight distribution and rigidity, kilograms of aluminum for thereby reducing its overall weight body sides, fenders, doors and by 45 kilograms and enhancing hoods. Our innovative aluminum aerodynamics, performance products, such as Advanz™ 6HFcharacteristics, structural durability e200, were specifically developed and fuel economy. for automotive applications with demanding formability requirements. Novelis’ innovative, sustainable aluminum Novelis is supplying its premium Advanz™ products to the recently launched all-electric designs and products Jaguar Jaguar I-PACE. The carmaker’s first all-electric are earning widespread I-PACE vehicle features exceptionally strong, rigid accolades from the lightweight aluminum construction to reduce weight and increase battery range up to 480 automotive industry. In kilometers while delivering superior driving FY19, our collaborative dynamics and safety. work resulted in several prestigious awards for Toyota debuted its all-new 2019 RAV4, featuring the company and our Novelis aluminum in the SUV’s hood, fenders and lift customers. Toyota gate. With more than 20 years on the road, the RAV4 RAV4 is Toyota’s best-selling vehicle in the United States. Thanks in part to a lighter weight design, the new XSE Hybrid is expected to achieve class-leading fuel economy and further reduce emissions. Lingxuan Awards Novelis was awarded the New Material Annual Contribution Honor at the 2018 Lingxuan Award Ceremony and China Auto Parts Conference in Beijing. World Car Awards The World Car Awards, which, for seven consecutive years have been deemed by Prime Research as the world’s number one automotive honors program, named Novelis as one of the top award winners for vehicles featuring aluminum. Novelis was recognized at this Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) FCA’s year’s Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Motor took home the 2019 Motor Trend Annual (FCA) annual supplier awards Trend Car Award for two of its vehicles ceremony. FCA independently containing lightweight Novelis Supplier of the Year nominated Novelis for this honor, aluminum produced at our Awards recognizing its focus on cost, Award Oswego and Kingston plants. quality, delivery, design innovation and collaborative partnerships. › The redesigned, reengineered Jeep Wrangler won Motor Trend SUV of the Year. Novelis supplies this iconic vehicle with aluminum for fenders, door outers, windshield frames, swing gate outers, door and fender reinforcements. › Truck of the Year was awarded to the fifth-generation Ram 1500. The 2019 model features aluminum in all components of the hood and multiple tailgate components to further lightweight the truck. Despite its larger size, the Ram 1500 is 225 pounds lighter compared to previous designs, thanks in large part to its use of Novelis aluminum. › The Range Rover Velar, made with 475 kilograms of › Volvo’s midsize SUV, the XC60, which touts a design Novelis aluminum, was named the most beautifully built on 100 percent Novelis aluminum, was named designed vehicle, winning the World Car Design of World Car of the Year for its blend of best-in-class the Year. performance, safety and value. Beverage Can As one of the largest producers of aluminum beverage can sheet in the world, Novelis also recycles more than 70 billion used beverage cans each year. With state-of-the-art can sheet production lines and recycling centers on four continents, Novelis continues to serve the most recognizable brands in the industry, including Coca-Cola, Crown, Ball Corporation, Ardagh Group and ABInBev, among others. Novelis South America Celebrates 30 Years of the Aluminum Can Our South America team ended FY19 on a high note, as they celebrated 30 years of the aluminum can in Brazil. Known as a product that transformed the country’s beverage market, manufacturers continue to invest in new innovations that have helped solidify the aluminum can as the most sustainable beverage package of choice. In Brazil, the aluminum can has constantly evolved with many innovations throughout its history, including: New can shapes and sizes: Originally manufactured as a 355 milliliter can, additional shapes now include the smaller 220 milliliter and higher capacity 710 milliliter cans, among others. Innovative thermal packaging and printing solutions: Thermochromic inks applied to labels can change color when a beverage reaches a given temperature, as well as specially cut colored rings that match label art or highlight special promotions. Full Open Can Lid: This type of lid can be fully opened, transforming a can into a drinking cup to enhance beverage consumption. Less sheets in manufacturing: Continuous improvements in technology are resulting in cans that have progressively thinner bodies. This reduces the amount of aluminum needed to produce beverage cans and increases the overall yield of cans per ton of sheet. In Brazil, aluminum is also a driver of social, environmental and economic transformation. Much of the country is committed to recycling aluminum cans, an activity that begins at home with mindful waste disposal, and then passes through to recycling cooperatives and ultimately industrial recycling facilities. Aside from reducing the waste stream, this constant recycling process generates thousands of direct and indirect jobs in the region. 14 Aluminum is the sustainable solution for beverage packaging At a time when single-use plastics are overflowing our landfills and hundreds of millions of PET bottles are washing up on our shorelines, we have an obligation to promote aluminum as the model of sustainable packaging for bottled water and other beverages. The advantages of aluminum are clear, and Novelis is committed to leveraging the benefits of aluminum to help curb the plastics epidemic and shape a sustainable world together. More than Nearly 75% 70% 1 2 of aluminum ever of aluminum is produced is still in use today recycled globally $ Aluminum Valuable Commodity Infinitely Recyclable Less than 9% 19% 3 3 of plastic ever produced has been recycled Plastics of plastics are recycled globally Polluting oceans and Downcycled into overflowing landfills other products SOURCE: 1 Aluminum Association 2 World Aluminum 3 Improving Plastics Management Report, Organisation 15 for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), 2018 Specialties Novelis aluminum continues to drive product enhancements in consumer electronics, packaging, commercial transportation and much more. Our innovations help improve design, efficiency and sustainability for a wide range of specialized industries. In 1991, Nespresso took up the Nespresso owners throughout the to be cast into new ingots. They challenge of recycling its aluminum country are able to recycle their used are run through the hot and cold capsules, and a brand-specific aluminum capsules in a hasslerolling processes and shipped to collection and revaluation system free way via a home collection Novelis’ facility in Ohle, where they was established across Switzerland. program. The “Recycling at Home” receive further rolling and finishing As an infinitely recyclable material, service is offered in partnership treatments. The material is then aluminum can be melted and with Switzerland’s national postal shipped to Nespresso to be stamped shaped into any form and adapted service, Swiss Post. It boasts and processed into more coffee to any use while retaining its original several advantages including the capsules. physical properties. optimization of logistical resources whereby mail carriers collect used In Europe, Novelis developed a capsules from homes at the same “cap-to-cap” recycling program with time they deliver letters and parcels. Nespresso in which four ingots of aluminum used for coffee capsules Once the capsules are collected, were cast using end-consumer they are sent to Novelis’ joint coffee capsule scrap. manufacturing venture, Alunorf, 16 Samsung Electronics new In designing its next generation Notebook 9 Pen, Samsung wanted a material solution that would Notebook Pen S impresses enable a thinner, lighter and more sophisticated consumers with its innovative product design while ensuring premium surface quality and durability. This was the perfect fit for design, high performance and Novelis SQe70, a high-strength anodizing quality enhanced portability. One of the aluminum application developed specifically for key elements of the design is its high-end electronics. By applying SQe70 on the top cover of the new Notebook Pen S, Samsung was full aluminum body made from able to achieve down gauging by approximately 10 ingots produced at Novelis’ Ulsan percent compared to the previous model. The bottom Aluminum joint venture in Korea. cover also features Novelis 5252 alloy, which replaced magnesium used in the previous model. SQe70, developed by Novelis is the latest addition to Novelis’ AQ product portfolio, which also includes AQe52 and AQ5252. With this enhanced portfolio, Novelis is well-positioned to offer material solutions for outer cases of premium laptops and smartphones created by global electronics makers such as Samsung, HP, Dell, Asus, and others. 17 Infinitely Recyclable Aluminum Drives Our Sustainability Journey At Novelis, sustainability is core to our business – from how we operate to how we partner with our stakeholders across the aluminum value chain. This past year, Novelis continued delivering on its purpose of Shaping a Sustainable World Together by achieving significant increases in the amount of recycled content in our products and reducing CO2 emissions across the supply chain. We also maximized the advantages of sustainable, lightweight aluminum to benefit our customers, partners and the communities where we live and work. In FY19, Novelis: 70B 61 Recycled more % Achieved an 31 Reduced % 26 % Cut water intensity 25 % Lowered energy than 70 billion average of 61 greenhouse gas by 26 percent intensity by 25 used beverage percent recycled emissions by since our baseline percent since our cans aluminum inputs 31 percent since averages of fiscal baseline averages our baseline years 2007-2009 of fiscal years averages of fiscal 2007-2009 years 2007-2009 18 Our People Are Our Greatest Asset At Novelis, our more than 11,000 employees worldwide are the driving force behind our forward-thinking innovation, and it is their talent and dedication that sets us apart from the competition. Our global operations enable us to embrace diverse cultures and communities and push the boundaries of unique thinking and different perspectives. Diversity and Inclusion Novelis is committed to increasing diversity across its operations and leadership structure, and gender diversity is a first step on this important journey. Novelis is aiming to reach equal engagement and retention rates for men and women over the next five years. Novelis Named Novelis Wins Diversity Best Place to Work and Inclusion Honors The Kentucky Chamber of This past year, Novelis won two awards for its diversity and inclusion efforts Commerce and the Kentucky in South America. The first award was given by Great Place to Work, in Society for Human Resource partnership with ID_BR, a local institute focusing on diversity and inclusion, Management named Novelis one for the “Leading Position in the Market for Sustaining Ethnic-Racial Diversity.” of the 2019 Best Places to Work Novelis was selected out of 23 multi-national and local companies. in Kentucky in the large-sized employer category. Novelis also earned its second award from the leading business magazine in Brazil, EXAME, in partnership with the Ethos Institute, a non-profit organization with a focus on business and social responsibility. Novelis was selected as the “Leading Company in the Sector for Diversity and Inclusion Matters.” The company earned the award because of its successful threepillar approach to workplace diversity and inclusion. The three pillars are attraction; development, engagement and retention; and multiplication (assisting the development and professionalism of scrap pickers). 19 Together We Are Safe Everything we do at Novelis begins with our commitment to the health, safety and well-being of our colleagues, customers and communities. It is this commitment to protecting our people that motivates us to achieve the highest industry standards for safety performance. To underscore that commitment, we launched several new safety initiatives at our facilities worldwide to help ensure that safety remains our primary focus and is fulfilled every day. Greensboro Pilot Safety Program Earns High Approval Rating In an effort to reduce hand injuries and prevent more serious risks, our Asia teams implemented In FY19, Novelis implemented a yearlong pilot program at a hands-safety campaign throughout their the Greensboro, Georgia facility to instill a safety mindset facilities, including: that is applied at work, at home and in our communities. In promoting a culture of safety that “never clocks out,” the plant highlighted important safety topics with quick tips, tools and best practices to help keep our employees and their loved ones prepared for the unexpected. Created warning Developed action signs in potential On a bi-monthly basis, Novelis shared timely information risk areas plans through on topics such as fire safety, heart health, distracted risk assessment driving and more. To reinforce these important messages, helpful resources were placed on prominent display throughout the plant, discussed during team meetings and provided in take-home information packets for employees to share with their families. Listed pinch points, tools and Changed gloves to Earning an impressive 92 percent approval rating from jigs per task be higher visibility Greensboro employees, the success of the program and impact resistant has created an opportunity to implement the initiative throughout the company. By testing and modifying the initiative on a smaller scale, we are confident that a global rollout will create a positive impact far beyond our facilities. 20 Safety Statistics In FY19, many Novelis facilities achieved major safety milestones, as it relates to the number of days without a recordable injury. Novi 1,062 DAYS Terre Haute 991 DAYS Spokane 877 DAYS Santo Andre 763 DAYS Changzhou 649 DAYS Latchford 623 DAYS Warren 607 DAYS Nachterstedt 556 DAYS Recycling Center 1 YEAR 2 YEARS 3 YEARS 21 Uniting Globally, Impacting Locally Novelis’ employees are generous with their time and talents, volunteering thousands of hours annually to various programs that benefit the communities in which they live and work. In total, the company supports more than 300 service projects each year, gives approximately $4 million to our communities and dedicates more than 10,000 hours to a wide range of causes. A  cross North America and Asia, Novelis has a long history of raising funds and building homes for Habitat for Humanity. In the last nine years, Novelis has funded and built more than 10 single-family homes for deserving families. I n partnership with For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology (FIRST), Novelis is committed to inspiring students to become science and technology leaders. Novelis currently supports more than 45 FIRST teams around the world and sponsors the FIRST Robotics World Championship. 22 Novelis supports the Manufacturing Institute’s Heroes MAKE America program that offers education and training to more than 200,000 U.S. military service members each year who are transitioning to careers in the private sector. At a time when manufacturers are looking for top-quality talent, and recently discharged veterans are looking for attractive career opportunities, this program is an important part of our ongoing employee recruitment efforts and honors our veterans. Novelis’ Changzhou facility held a Power of Recycling  he Athletics Community in Göttingen organized a T education program for primary school students. In City Run for 4,600 runners with proceeds used to finance coordination with Junior Achievement China, the club and youth activities. In addition to sponsoring the program reached hundreds of students in Changzhou event, more than 60 employees from Germany and Italy local schools and was supported by a team of employees participated with our fastest team finishing third out of who volunteered more than 900 hours. 140 teams. In Seoul, colleagues helped restore the Cheonggyecheon Stream that flows through the city center and is one of the area’s most popular tourist sites, attracting 20 million visits annually. 23 Uniting Globally, Impacting Locally Novelis served as the official recycler of used beverage cans during the Rio de Janeiro Carnival parades in South America. The initiative resulted in the recycling of more than 30 tons of waste, 20 tons coming from aluminum cans, during the rehearsals and five-day event. Local students visited our Sierre plant in Switzerland to take part in a course with HES-SO Valais’, a leading skills and innovation hub, to prepare students for careers in the region and support women in science initiatives. The students visited the chemical laboratory, mechanical testing area and cast house for a demonstration on how aluminum is produced. 24 Sustainability Targets 30% 53% 55% 57% 61% 21.0 16.5 15.8 16.5 14.5 10.5 8.3 7.5 5.3 5.3 5.0 5.8 Baseline FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Baseline FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Baseline FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Target FY2007-09 Target FY2007-09 FY2007-09 Recycled Content GHG Emissions Waste to Landfill percent million metric tons CO2e kilogram/metric ton 3.7 2.7 2.6 2.7 2.7 9.46 9.63 9.38 9.24 8.7 Baseline FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Baseline FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY2007-09 Target FY2007-09 Target Water Usage Energy Intensity m3/mt FRP Sales GJ/mt FRP Sales Community Code of Conduct Key 100% of global operations are actively Employees and suppliers are holding each Kg = kilogram m3 = cubic meters executing local community service other accountable to achieve compliance. Mio. = million GJ = gigajoules initiatives. t = metric tons GHG = greenhouse gas FRP = flat rolled products Global Novelis Charitable Spend CO2e = carbon dioxide emissions Company + Employee Donations Employees $4,402,844.73 By redefining our process for employee feedback, we are working toward 100% Total Company Only Contributions of eligible employees receiving annual $3,978,528.93 performance feedback. Total Employee Donations $424,315.80 Total Number of Projects Funded in FY19 381 25 We welcome your feedback or partnership on sustainability. Novelis Inc. Novelis Inc. Novelis Corporate Communications Global Headquarters Novelis.Corporate.Communications@Novelis.com 3560 Lenox Road NE, Suite 2000 Atlanta, Georgia, 30326 USA Follow us at: facebook.com/NovelisInc twitter.com/Novelis linkedin.com/company/Novelis novelis.com/sustainability © 2019 Novelis Inc. All Rights Reserved.
