UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 A letter from our CEO We are living in a world in rapid transition, and one of the major drivers is digitalization. As with so many other areas undergoing rapid and transformative innovation, deciding whether this is a good or a worrying trend, depends on the values and the governance we apply. At e-Boks, we see digitalization as a democratic force for good, with the potential of ensuring that no one is left behind. But we are not blind to the fact, that digitalization also has the potential to cause people harm. That’s why it is so important that we make digitalization inclusive and secure – that we place citizens at the center of the digital transformation, on their terms. e-Boks is a Danish-based provider of the digital and citizens as a democratic driver for justice business-to-business and business-to-consumer public mailbox that enables the secure and effiand inclusion. That is our commitment towards users following close behind, we contribute to saving cient communication between public authorities, the UN Global Compact Human Rights princip8,000 tons of paper, 2.8 billion liters of water, and citizens and businesses. Since our beginning in les, and SDG 16 – Peace, Justice and Strong In64,000 trees from being cut down. Not least with 2001, e-Boks has established its business by destitutions. the adoption of eDelivery, it is our estimate that we livering sustainable digital solutions, and is today together with our partners and users will be able to save an important infrastructural component – not only When we were ranked as the most trusted and close to 24,750 tons of paper annually by 2030. In in the Danish society, but across Europe, where liked company in Denmark in 2018, we were both that way, our growth strategy goes hand-in-hand with we have passed more than 16 million users. humbled and proud. The successful implemenour commitment towards the UN Global Compact tation of a secure digital public mailbox hinges Environmental Principles as well as SDG 12: SustainIn 2014, The Danish Parliament passed an act, upon the trust of its users – that their right to perable Consumption and Production. At the same time, which requires all citizens above the age of 15 sonal data privacy is observed, and that their perwe recognize that data centers use vast amounts of to be able to receive Digital Post from public sonal data is secured from landing in the wrong energy and contribute to global warming. At e-Boks authorities. At the time, 90% of the Danish pohands. Earning and maintaining the trust of our we are actively pursuing an ambition of being able to pulation already used e-Boks users continues to be a key rely on 100% carbon neutral data by 2030. to access secure personal priority for e-Boks and our communication from their partners, and we are pleaworkplaces, financial institused to note that our security The UN Global Compact Principles are an intions and public authorities. systems also in 2018 proved tegral part of e-Boks’ Way of Doing BusiHowever, many senior citizens to work as intended. Diginess, and we are excited about the opporneeded help with the new way It is our vision to create tal data security is an area tunity to communicate on our progress to of receiving communication. better digital societies, in constant development, the UN Global Compact for the first time. Thanks to the on-going effort and keep contributing to the which we believe goes far of partners such as DanAge, beyond being in compliance. I would like to end by thanking our partsustainable development of who continues to offer digital We must never stop being ners and users for their trust and conficourses to seniors, as well as society through the digital vigilant about spotting emerdence in us, and not least the dedicated the Danish Disability Council, transformation experienced ging risks and threats, and e-Boks team for their continuous strive Denmark is today among the across Europe in recent years share them internally and for excellence. What better way to start top EU countries that deliver externally. 2019 than being once again certified as – leaving no one behind. high-quality digital public sera Great-Place-to-Work vices, according to the eGovernment Benchmark 2018. e-Boks is an active partner with the European It is our vision to create better digital societies, Commission’s Connecting Europe Facility (CEF) and keep contributing to the sustainable develDigital programme. In 2018, e-Boks chose to Ulrik Falkner Thagesen opment of society through the digital transformaadopt CEF eDelivery as it provides highly secure CEO, e-Boks A/S tion experienced across Europe in recent years and reliable messaging technology that allows – leaving no one behind. the secure exchange of sensitive data among our 16 million users with over 485 million transactiMany people in the world are struggling to exercions annually – mainly in Denmark, Sweden, and se their fundamental rights, simply because they Norway, but also in Finland, the United Kingdom have no proof of their identity. Securing people and Luxembourg. eDelivery is part of our strategy a digital identity is in our view, a key driver for to expand our business into markets such as delivering inclusive, peaceful and just socieNorway and Ireland, and beyond, in the coming ties. But there are dilemmas too. ID systems can years. themselves threaten human rights, particularly the right to privacy. They can become tools for Through e-Boks, more than 485 million digital surveillance by the state and the private sector; documents are sent each year, and as we grow they can exclude rather than include. As we enter our business, the environmental footprint of new markets, we place the rights of the individual our partners and users is reduced corresponas our core principle, viewing the secure digital dingly. Today, thanks to the massive adoption communication between the public, businesses of e-Boks in the Nordic public sector, and with 2 3 e-Boks in numbers 2018 The e-Boks Way of Doing Business Page 10 16 million users 2.8 billion liters of water saved In the business of protecting the environment 90% of the Danish Page 18 population uses e-Boks No. 1 most trusted and liked company in Denmark Our people are our most important resource 11.5% growth in revenue Page 8 71 employees Content A letter from our CEO e-Boks supports Goal 16 485 million digital documents sent e-Boks in numbers 2018 In the business of protecting the environment Our Business Model Performance indicators 8000 tons of paper saved Our people are our most important resource Sources 60,000 trees saved The e-Boks Way of Doing Business 4 5 Our business model How we create better digital societies with citizens at the centre Key resources Core activities Value created Financial Capital Secure Identity/ NemID We create value for our We finance our investments through cash Provided by Nets, provides a secure, digital form of stakeholders flow from our operations, and through our identification for citizens, public authorities, private Through our public and private clients we public-private ownership structure of businesses and their employees, and serves as a digital enable more than 16 million users, including PostNord A/S and Nets Denmark A/S Access signature 90% of the Danish population, to receive and store highly important private and confidential information through e-Boks. We deliver on our vision of creating more sustainable digital societies by protecting and safeguarding Digital Assets citizens’ rights, and contributing to the We invest in scalable digital solutions such as European Digital Single Market CEF eDelivery that can enable the secure and Secure Distribution efficient communication between public Guarantees a safe, digital distribution channel for sending authorities, citizens and businesses across sensitive and confidential personal data Europe We contribute to sustainable Archive development We participate in the UN Global Compact, Natural Resources and we are committed to the 2030 Agenda We rely on external data centers to power our Secure Dialogue for Sustainable Development business. Data centers consume vast Provides sender with the option to establish confidential, amounts of energy, and as an important reliable, and secure communication to end-user digital player, we are committed to sourcing 100% carbon neutral data by 2030 Digital Signing We are committed to SDG 12 Offers a reliable and secure delivery of documents to be We contribute to reducing the material Human Resources signed, as well as notification service, follow-up service, footprint of paper and water per capita and We rely on a highly skilled workforce to and archiving options per GDP, and we strive to source 100% operate our business, and we work to secure carbon neutral data by 2030 a pipeline of talent from leading educational institutions Payment Processes the invoices in collaboration with existing payment service providers (PSP). It changes the invoice status in e-Boks to paid when the payment process is completed, and features a notification service reminding We are committed to SDG 16 Security Culture the end-user of unpaid invoices We rely on a culture of security and integrity Business We contribute to securing people’s legal that always puts citizens’ interests first – their rights, fundamental freedoms, legal identitiProcesses es, and their secure and transparent access right to privacy, confidentiality and secure Portal transaction of their personal data to public and private institutions For corporate online systems, it provides an integrated platform for digitizing costly and time-consuming manual processes into companies’ own digital universes. It supports the digital signing of documents, sending Stakeholder Engagement notifications, and the secure dialogue between sender and end-user We rely on the constructive collaboration We are certified a “Great Place with public and private partners to enable to Work” e-Boks to strengthen people’s legal rights, protect their fundamental freedoms, secure We are committed to a providing a safe, their legal identities and enable their secure health promoting and family friendly working and transparent access to public and private Business Intelligence environment, where people are offered equal institutions. This is our commitment to Allows the sender to deep-dive into the datasets and opportunities to grow and develop their skills SDG 16 analyses. Insight may pave the way for improved and capabilities planning and better communication with the end-users Insight 6 7 Our people are our most important resource e-Boks provides an important part of the societal infrastructure that provides the backbone for a modern democracy. Every day, our team of highly specialized employees make decisions that are critical for our ability to deliver on our promise to our more than 16 million users – that we put them and their rights first. That we never compromise on their data privacy, confidentiality and security. We have codes of conduct, policies and procedue-Boks Way of Doing Business. Being certified as res that work as a guardrail for staying in compliana Great Place to Work, enables us to follow-up on ce with international standards and legislation, and an annual basis on our progress towards creating a we have a strong security organization involving supportive working environment, where people are every area of our business. But key for our contiempowered to do their best. nued ability to live up to the trust of our users is our ability to go beyond compliance. It starts by builOur organization ding a culture where strong values drive decisions. e-Boks is a highly specialized organization of 71 Where we trust the inner compass of our people to employees. Our organization is lean with clear rodeal with dilemmas – to think on their feet. Wheles and responsibilities. We strive to be agile and re we drive continuous improvements by learning ready for change in a business area undergoing from our mistakes. In short, an organization wherapid and accelerating transformation. At e-Boks re people trust each other, and are empowered to we strive to create an environment of trust and At e-Boks, we strive to build an lift the massive responsibility e-Boks is put in the collaboration as a critical driver for innovation and organization that is as world to deliver on. Our values are described in the customer-centric service delivery. representative of the people we serve as possible. CEO Finance, Transformations Legal & HR Director Great Place to Work vate sectors. At e-Boks, we strive to build an organization that Two years in a row, e-Boks has been A-Great-Place-to-Work-Ceris as representative of the people we serve as possible. That tified™. The certification is generated through an annual confistarts by creating a culture of diversity, and by creating equal dential employee survey. We have been certified, among other opportunities for men and women to pursue their career goals. things, due to our employees’ trust in senior management, their Gender diversity requires more than equal opportunities on the Communication Security pride in working for e-Boks, and the culture of collaborating with job. It also involves creating equal opportunities outside the job, colleagues. In 2019, we managed to increase our score thanks for example in relation to taking parental leave and having flexiand Marketing to our effort of strengthening the trust between colleagues and ble working conditions. The average age of e-Boks employees the empowerment of our organization. is 39 years, and many of our employees are at the age where they have young families. Annually, overall survey results are shared with the Management Board and detailed results are shared with each head of dee-Boks works in the STEM area, which has traditionally been partment. Each department is involved in developing a plan of male dominated. Today our total composition of men and woaction to improve the working environment. men is 24% women and 76% men. At leadership positions, we Sales Service Delivery Engineering Product have one woman out of four members of our Board of DirecManagement A safe and health promoting workplace tors, and two women out of nine members of our Management At e-Boks we prioritize the safety, health and wellbeing of our Board. Driving gender diversity in our field of expertise and in employees highly. Every year, we conduct an independent Workour organization requires that we build a strong pipeline of both place Health and Wellbeing Assessment identifying any health men and women to take on future key roles in e-Boks, and we Technology Chief and safety issues that require our attention. This both involves welcome and encourage the growing interest among female the assessment of our physical working environment, and the students to enter into STEM subjects. physical and psychological wellbeing of our employees. e-Boks also works with full-time contractors, and we are committed to In the war for talent ensuring that our standards of workplace health and wellbeing e-Boks draws on skillsets that are in ever higher demand, and also apply to them. Some of our contractors work with partner we are continuously on the lookout for talent. Among other organizations located in areas impacted by armed conflict, such things we are collaborating with the Danish Technological Unias the Ukraine, and we take special care to ensure that their versity (DTU) and we have entered into a partnership with GraDevelopment health and safety is secured. duateland, Europe’s largest career portal for students. Through Graduateland we partner with Copenhagen Business School, A family friendly workplace with equal opportunities the IT University of Copenhagen and DTU. Close to a quarter of Our users represent all walks of life, age, gender and ethnic our employees are recently graduated background, and our clients represent numerous public and priIT /-Operations 8 9 The e-Boks way of doing business e-Boks offers an important part of the societal infrastructure that enables democracy to effectively function and thrive. With the fundamental rights of the citizen as our cornerstone, the business of e-Boks fully relies on the continued trust and confidence of our clients and users. e-Boks has policies, codes of conduct and standards for how we conduct our business, which also applies to our suppliers and partners. Together they form the e-Boks way of doing business. The cornerstones are the UN Global Compact Ten Principles – Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. The e-Boks way of doing business is governed by our Management Board, and progress is tracked annually through the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress. We place human rights at the core of our business e-Boks treats and stores information of great importance to citizens, authorities and companies. It is essential that Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-Corruption clients and users trust that e-Boks above all else observes the following principles in the way we develop and manage our systems – integrity, availability and confidentiality. We apply the principle of integrity in the way we strive for Our management system accuracy, consistency and trustworthiness of information Our Information Security Policy integrates regulations and We apply the principle of availability in the way we proviinternational standards in one document. The Informatide access to information, also working to ensure that our on Security Policy also describes our governance model, systems are accessible for IT-vulnerable groups, such as which includes security personnel, a Security Board that people with disabilities and people with limited access to spans all areas of the organisation, and the overall acdevices countability for security residing with the Management Board We apply the principle of confidentiality in the way we provide certainty that all handling, transmission and storage The Information Security Policy is part of our Employee of information is secured and that access by unauthorized Handbook, and is mandatory reading for all employees. In people is avoided addition we provide education and awareness training on We involve security in all stages from strategic planning to a regular basis. Similarly suppliers, business partners and operational execution to ensure that these principles are external consultants are obliged to conform to our policy, embedded in our business and our processes and have easy access to it When we enter new markets we never compromise on our The Information Security Policy, among other things, reprinciples, but work to enable them in close cooperation fers to the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) with our partners and clients and the ISO 2700: 2013 standard We work to be ahead of the curve in anticipating future risks We adhere to the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines to our principles of security 2.0 in our effort to make e-Boks accessible for IT vulnerable groups such as people with disability or device We are responsive and transparent about security incilimitations dents, taking all necessary precautions to provide certainty that information is secured We have set a 2030 SDG 16 ambition – working towards Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions – including impact metrics that we will track annually in our UNGC CoP 10 11 We are in the business of protecting the environment We strive to be a great place to work From data warehousing to the offering of digital alternatives to the physical mail distribution and storage of documents – Our people policy sets out to ensure that all of e-Boks’ employees, no matter where they are located in the world, are e-Boks seeks to decrease our environmental footprint through offered optimal working conditions with respect for their private lives. our suppliers, clients and users, and we start with ourselves. A safe, health promoting and family-friendly working Our management system: We strive to mainstream the digital alternative to mail distributienvironment Our Employee Handbook communicates e-Boks’ people on, document signing and storage offered by e-Boks. By 2030 it Opportunities to grow and develop their skills and policies, guidelines and standards and is mandatory reading is our ambition to reach 1.5 billion digital document transactions capabilities for all employees annually – this translates into significant reductions in the use A culture of openness and empowerment The Workplace Health and Safety Board, consisting of of scarce natural resources such as trees and water, as well as the CEO, head of HR and an employee elected health and the reduction of chemicals in the environment, waste and CO2 A learning culture, where we learn from mistakes and emissions safety representative meets four times annually. An annual Workstrive for continuous improvement place Assessment is conducted, assessing our health We are committed to proactively communicating the environA culture where we do not tolerate discrimination of and safety standards, and seeking individual input from mental potential of e-Boks to all of our stakeholders, translating any form employees pertaining to their physical and psychological wortheir volume of digital documents into environmental reductions An organisation where we strive for gender diversity, king environment. Findings are communicated to the ManaBeing environmentally conscious starts with ourselves and our and where men and women are offered equal opporgement Board and to all employees, and remedying action is own paper-free processes and CO2 aware behaviour tunities to pursue their career goals as well as taking parental leave As a certified Great Place to Work, we conduct an annual We are conscious of the fact that data centres consume large employee survey with a focus on people engagement at deamounts of energy. As we increase our number of data transacpartment level and overall. Overall findings are communications, we are committed to sourcing 100% carbon neutral data ted to the Management Board, and detailed findings to each by 2030. Towards 2030, e-Boks will plant 10,000 trees annually department manager. Departments discuss the findings, and through Trees for the Future.org resulting in 120,000 trees action plans are developed and followed up upon planted by 2030 Management system We have set a 2030 SDG 12 Ambition – Responsible Production and Consumption – including impact metrics that we will track annually in our UNGC CoP Stakeholder trust is our license to operate Trust is a prerequisite for our ability to maintain and grow our business. Our Code of Business Conduct describes how e-Boks strives to engage with our stakeholders with respect, in compliance with rules and regulations, and uphold high ethical standards in everything we do. Management System: Our Code of Business Conduct builds on the UN Global Compact Ten Principles, and applies to all e-Boks employees as well as our suppliers, business partners and external consultants. The Code of Business Conduct is part of our Employee Handbook, and forms part of the mandatory reading for all employees. In addition we provide education and awareness training on a regular basis. The Code includes the following chapters: Labour standards, including our employees legal rights to freedom of association; our principle of not participating in or benefiting from any form of forced labor or child labor; our principle of not engaging in any form of discrimination; and our general employee conditions Legal compliance and human rights Health and safety, including how we ourselves, but also our suppliers must create safe working conditions Prohibited business practices, including bribery, corruption, or fraud, with specific guidance with regards to gifts and hospitality, the prevention of money laundering, and illegal competitive practices Environment, including the need for striving for continuous improvement in decreasing our environmental footprint Non-compliance and corrective action, including the steps we will take to monitor and respond to any missteps Confidential information, including how we will keep it safe 12 13 e-Boks supports goal 16 The European Convention on Human Rights Article 8 clearly spells out the need for protecting the dignity and autonomy of the individual e-Boks is committed to SDG 16: by respecting our private and confidential information, including the storing and sharing Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions of data about us; the right not to be subject to unlawful state surveillance; and the right to Every time we open one million digital mailboxes, we strengthen one million people’s legal rights, control the spreading of information about our protect their fundamental freedoms, secure their legal identities, and enable their secure and transprivate lives. parent access to public and private institutions. In this way we contribute to the social infrastructure that forms modern democracy, and we support SDG 16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. Every day, more than 16 million users refull confidence in their right to privacy and the ceive or store highly important, private and secure distribution and storage of their perconfidential information through e-Boks. This sonal data, it can sow distrust in our institutiis a responsibility we do not take lightly. At ons and democracy itself. e-Boks, the individual’s right to privacy is non-negotiable. It is a driver for how we deIn 2018, two important developments contrisign our systems and products; it underpins e-Boks is committed to building buted to strengthening the digital democratic our governance structure. It is a key criteriand maintaining our business in rights of EU citizens. The first was the Genesupport of SDG 16 on for when we enter new markets and geo ral Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), provi-graphies. By protecting the rights of the ding a strong legal backbone for ensuring the individual, we contribute to the societal infraindividual’s right to data privacy. At e-Boks structure that forms our modern democracy. we embrace this development. The second was the progress made by the European With our roots in the Nordic countries, it can Commission to enable the vision of a digital be easy to forget that the desingle market. More Target 16.3 Target 16.9 mocratic rights of the indiviand more European Promote the rule of By 2030, provide legal At e-Boks, the dual should never be taken citizens, not least law at the national and identity for all, including lightly. The truth is that many individual’s right to privacy the younger generainternational levels and birth registration people in the world are strugis non-negotiable. It is a tions, are fluid in the ensure equal access to gling to exercise their fundadriver for how we design way they study, work justice for all mental rights, for example the our systems and products and settle. In the fuone billion people in the world ture, they may have who, according to the one digital mailbox Target 16.6 Target 16.10 World Bank, live without proof of identity. where they can access and store important Develop effective, Ensure public access to They struggle to access basic services – information about themselves from authoriaccountable and information and protect including access to healthcare and finance ties and businesses across the EU. For that transparent institutions fundamental freedoms. – and may miss out on important economic vision to become reality, we need shared at all levels opportunities, such as formal employment or security standards that are anchored in Articowning a registered business. le 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In 2018, e-Boks adopted the CEF At the other end of this spectrum are the eDelivery technology that allows the secure growing privacy fears posed by digital idenexchange of sensitive data within the EU. tity thefts, cyber threats and the growing ope-Delivery will be a critical driver for our marportunity for digital surveillance by nation staket expansion in coming years tes and businesses. Unless people can have 14 15 The actions we take to protect the fundamental rights of citizens and e-Boks enables citizens to exercise their safeguard the rule of law fundamental human rights in a digital world Through e-Boks, people can access private and confidential information about themselves – for We have set a 2030 ambition for our contribution to SDG 16, which closely example their digital payslips, information about a hospital appointment, a speeding ticket from the tracks our aspirational strategy for growth. Below, we provide more detail police, or a message about their child starting school after summer. Being able to access timely and about the concrete actions we take towards this ambition. reliable information about yourself is part of the social infrastructure of a well-functioning modern Contributing to securing democracy. But it will only work, if people’s right to privacy and confidentiality is protected; if they people’s legal rights, can trust that their personal information will not land in the wrong hands – be it state, creditors or fundamental freedoms, neighbours. We are committed to ensuring that our users control and own their own information. legal identities, secure and 2030 transparent access to public and private institutions Read more here: e-Boks Terms of Use, e-Boks Privacy Policy 2025 Grow our number of users to 30 million e-Boks safeguards the individual’s right to 2019 privacy and confidentiality 2018 Grow our number of users to At e-Boks we work consistently and systematically to safeguard our users’ right to privacy and Grow our number 23 million confidentiality. People receiving digital mail through e-Boks must be able to control important of users to information about themselves – from verifying its accuracy, to giving their consent that it can be In 2018 the shared with a third party, and having the right to freely opt into or out of digital services provided. numbers of users 19 million Messages sent through e-Boks have the same legal effect as if received through regular mail, and was 16 million they take effect from the moment they are available in e-Boks. e-Boks safeguards recipients’ legal rights by ensuring that information cannot be altered or read by others. e-Boks and its content are private property. e-Boks may not delete user content as long as the mailbox is active, nor the personal information related to the profile. Users, however, have the right to delete their own messages and information at any given time. Upon death, e-Boks restricts the access to the digital mailbox of the deceased, and only the heirs can be given access upon the receipt of a probate court order. The right to control infomation about yourself Read more here: e-Boks Terms of Use, e-Boks Privacy Policy Digital access to secure e-Boks has secure systems and processes information protected from unathorized people that are in compliance with international standards e-Boks has the technologies, processes and approaches that enable the secure exchange of private and confidential information. e-Boks has always had a strong focus on security and since A secure system that is 2015, e-Boks has been ISO 27001 compliant – a well recognized international information security standard. Through PWC we provide annual external assurance of our security efforts. This audit also protected against breakincludes our external data centre supplier KMD. Overall accountability for security is anchored with down and the surveillance the Management Board, supported by a Security Board that comprises all areas of the organization, from State or business and security personnel. Collectively, they keep apprised of developments, screen for threats and risks in the cyber security space and respond accordingly through our strategy, policies and processes. Read more here: The e-Boks Way of Doing Business 16 17 In the business of protecting the environment According to the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), we are using 1 million tons of paper in Digitally, we can provide access to and mail. That makes Denmark the 8th e-Boks partners with KMD, who provide the world – every day. Much of this paper usage, even if recycled, is wasteful and unnecessary paper-free documents, minimizing most paper consuming country in the our international data center. Located and puts huge pressures on the environment – on forests, water and air quality, waste streams, both the use of paper and the physical world. This is a strong motivator for in Denmark, KMD taps into the Danish biodiversity, and climate change. transportation of letters. We can store e-Boks to continue our effort of enabling energy grid, which already today is safely – throughout a lifetime – without paper-free communication. between Europe’s greenest with close taking up any physical space. Clearly, to half of the energy supply coming from secure digital communication presents That said digitalization is not a free wind energy. e-Boks is pleased to note a great opportunity for protecting our lunch. Data centers around the world that KMD, since 2009, has found energy environment. Alone in 2018, e-Boks consume vast amounts of energy. In savings of more than 8.5 million kWh, contributed to saving a conservatively fact, the amount of energy consumed and has reduced their CO2 emissions estimated 8,000 tons of paper – by the world’s data centers is set to with 28%. As an important digital based on two pages per distribution triple in the next decade, putting an player, e-Boks’ ambition is that we by – corresponding to 2.8 billion liters enormous strain on energy supplies 2030 can rely on 100% carbon neutral of water and roughly 16,000 tons of and challenging our ability to halt global data from our data center suppliers, wood. Even though e-Boks has made warming. Already today, it is estimated Towards 2030, e-Boks will plant 10,000 significant strides in lowering the paper that data centers contribute to around trees annually through Trees for the consumption per capita in Denmark, 2% of total CO2 emissions – on par Future.org resulting in 120,000 trees the Environmental Paper Network has with the aviation industry. The key to planted by 2030. estimated that the average Danish greening digitalization is the urgent citizen still consumes 198 kilos of paper transformation to renewable green every year with 26% coming from print energy. 18 19 1.5 billion 945 million 533 million 485 million digital documents annually 8,794 tons 15,592 tons 8,000 tons of 24,750 tons paper saved 3 billion liters 5.4 billion liters 2.8 billion liters of 8.6 billion liters water usage saved e-Boks is committed to SDG 12: sheds and contributes to landfill. AcResponsible Production and Consumpcording to UNESCO, producing 1 ton tion. of paper requires about 350.000 liters of According to the World Bank, global water – or the equivalent of 7 people’s natural resource depletion – meaning annual water usage. the rate at which we consume natural resources faster than they can be reThe key to halting the rapid depletion of plenished – is growing by 45% each natural resources is SDG 12 – Respon2018 2019 2025 2030 year. Already now 1.1 billion people lack access to water, and at the current sible Production and Consumption. We have set a 2030 ambition for our contri12.2.1: Contributing to reduing rate of consumption, this situation will bution to SDG 12 – more specifically to the material footprint only get worse. By 2025, two-thirds of target 12.2.1: Reduce the material footthe world’s population may face water print per capita and per GDP. Our ambiper capita and per shortages. The pulp and paper industry tion aligns with an aspirational growth GDP not only contributes to the growing detarget for e-Boks aligned with our overforestation of our natural forests, threaall vision of contributing to the sustaitening natural habitats and biodiversity, nable development of society through it also puts a strain on our freshwater digital transformation 20 21 Key Performance Indicators Our Contribution Management System 2018 Key Performance Long Term Impact Our Contribution Management System 2018 Key Performance Long Term Impact Indicators Indicators Indicators Indicators We place human rights at the core of our business We protect the environment We protect our users’ e-Boks Information 100% of our employees We support SDG 12: The e-Boks Way of Doing 485 million digital By 2030 we have right to privacy and Security Policy, including know and understand our Responsible Production Business documents is equivalent to reached 1.5 billion digital confidentiality the GDPR and ISO Information Security Policy and Consumption. We 8,000 tons of saved paper, documents, which is 2700:2013 standard contribute to reducing Management Board 2.8 billion liters of saved equivalent to 24,750 tons We have a high level of the material footprint per performance evaluation water of saved paper, 8.6 billion security, rated by PwC capita and per GDP liters of saved water We support SDG 16: e-Boks Information 16 million users reached By 2030 we have reached By 2030 we source 100% Peace, Justice and Strong Security Policy 30 million users through carbon neutral data Institutions. We grow and Partnerships mobilized e-Boks build our business with an The e-Boks Way of Doing to support IT vulnerable 10,000 trees planted uncompromising focus on Business groups annually through Trees for protecting the fundamental the Future.org rights of citizens and Management Board safeguarding the rule of performance evaluation law Stakeholder trust is our license to operate We strive to be a great place to work We engage with our Code of Business Conduct 100% of our employees stakeholders with respect, (integrated in employee know and understand our in compliance with rules handbook) Code of Business Conduct All e-Boks employees are People Policy Overall ratings show a We strive for gender and regulations, upholding offered optimal working high level of employee diversity across all levels high ethical standards in External Trust & Like Score Through our supplier conditions with respect for Employee Handbook health and safety reported of the e-Boks organization everything we do by Caliber and Deloitte contracts all suppliers their private lives (Annual Assessment) agree to adhere to our Annual Workplace Health Code of Business Conduct & Safety Assessment Continuous improvements achieved within focus We rank among the top Great-Place-To-Work areas in individual businesses in the annual Certification™ departments for employee “Trust & Like Score” with health and wellbeing the Danish public (Annual Assessment) Continuous improvements achieved for employee engagement within focus areas in individual departments (Great Place to Work Questionnaire & follow-up mechanisms) 22 23 Sources On the global consumption of paper World Wide Fund for Nature: The Future of Paper – about pulp & paper production https://wwf.panda.org/our_work/forests/forest_sector_transformation2/pulp_and_paper2/ On the average consumption of paper in Denmark Environmental Paper Network: The State of the Global Paper Industry 2018 Shifting Seas: New Challenges and Opportunities for Forests, People and the Climate https://environmentalpaper.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/StateOfTheGlobalPaperIndustry2018_FullReport-Final-1.pdf On the use of water in paper production UNESCO: Drops of Water Water in the Productive Processes Dossier, compiled by Water Civilization International Centre, Venice http://www.unesco.org/new/en/venice/special-themes/h2ooooh-initiative/h2ooooh-initiative-drops-of-water/ On the use of trees in paper production Department of Geosciences and Natural Resource Management, Copenhagen University https://www.trae.dk/leksikon/papir-og-miljoe/ On global natural resource depletion World Bank: The Changing Wealth of Nations 2018: Building a Sustainable Future https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/29001 On the 1.1 billion people in the world without digital identity The World Bank: ID4D Dataset compiled by the World Bank Group’s Identification for Development (ID4D) initiative https://datacatalog.worldbank.org/dataset/identification-development-global-dataset On data centers’ contribution to climate change Greenpeace: Clicking Clean: A Guide to Building the Green Internet 2015 www.greenpeace.org On KMD’s commitment towards decreasing their climate footprint KMD: Communication on Climate and Environment https://www.kmd.net 24 Title: e-Boks UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Publiced: April 2019 Copyright: e-Boks A/S Advisor: Hansen & Ersbøll Agenda Layout: Strandgaard Sustainable Design 25 e-Boks A/S Hans Bekkevolds Allé 7 DK-2900 Hellerup Telephone +45 70 21 24 00 www.e-boks.com VAT number DK-25 67 41 54
