An Post UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress Human Rights  Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights  Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Commitment  We respect and support the UN Declaration of Human Rights within our business. As stated within our Company’s mission, our ambition is to work together as a united team to outperform the competition we face.  We expect our suppliers to act responsibly in all areas of business activity and to adopt and apply standards that are consistent with An Post standards on social, ethical and environmental issues.  Our Company Values include a requirement for staff to respect each other and take personal responsibility. Staff are required to care for the environment and to engage in the community as respected corporate citizens. Framework  Our Company’s mission, vision and values refer to the need for staff to respect each other, take personal responsibility, and to act as a respected corporate citizen within the communities, in which we work and live.  An Post Code of Conduct available to all staff.  An Post Policy and Procedure for Raising Matters of Concern is available to all staff. This document sets out procedures intended to encourage and enable employees to come forward and raise, within a supportive Company framework, genuine and serious concerns they may have about dishonest or unethical activity in An Post or its subsidiaries.  The policy document Work Life Balance Initiatives is available to all staff Practise  An Post launched a new accessible post office counter which was researched, designed and licensed by the Company. The first fully wheelchair accessible post office counter was installed in 11 post offices immediately continues to be installed on post offices nationwide  We have integrated our expectation of suppliers conduct into our tender documentation. An Post includes within tenders a weighting system to support the a cost evaluation and life cycle analysis which is carried out by suppliers of products using large amounts of energy  The Company’s policy documents include: o Providing Quality Customer Service to People with a Disability. This guide has been distributed to staff throughout the Company and o A review of Equality Policy and Disability Policy has been carried out through the Joint Conciliation Council (JCCC) diversity sub-committee. This booklet has been disseminated to staff including information on civil partnership rights. o A procedure for reporting bullying and harassment is included within the Dignity at Work policy. Also, a ‘Discipline and Grievance’ procedure is available. An Equality Officer is available to managers on policy issues. In relation to whistle blowing the policy document ‘Raising Matters of Concern’ offers guidance and direction in terms of key contact persons. In relation to UN SDG Goal 5: Gender Equality and UN SDG Goal 8 Providing Decent Employment and Economic Growth  An Post became sponsor of Ireland’s LGBTQ+ Pride Parade in 2019. It was a record-breaking year for the event, with more than 60,000 people taking part, members of the LGBTQ+ community, family, friend and colleagues flying the rainbow flag. Over 100 of our colleagues took part in the Dublin Pride Festival with our electric vehicles and eco-friendly trikes leading the way. Entering into the Pride spirit, 16 Post boxes along the route will become rainbows and special Pride-themed postcards will be handed out in the Pride Village located in Merrion Square, Dublin. Participating in Pride allows us to connect with staff and customers and it is our intention to remain involved as sponsor in 2020. Performance  Disability Equality eLearning certificate (NDA)  Disability Champion Fetac Level 6 (ICTU)  The Company has maintained OHSAS 18001/2007 accreditation, since gaining certification on 25/03/2012  Publication of the Company Staff Health and Safety Policy  The Joint Conciliation Council has established a diversity sub-committee  The Staff Health and Safety Policy is Documented, publicly accessible and subject to consultation with staff/staff organisations. The booklets are distributed by hand to staff in all areas of the business.  A tailored An Post Safety Guide has been developed for each area of the business with guides applicable to Collections and Delivery, Mails Processing, Retail, Administration & Managers.  The Company has maintained our Health & Safety management system accredited to national/international standards OHSAS 18001/2007 since achieving certification on 25/03/2011.  Health & Safety programmes within the Company are dealt with through various work streams including the Dignity in the Workplace Policy and a dedicated Occupational Health Support service which is an internal employee assistance programme. Labour  Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining  Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour  Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour  Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment  We respect the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) in accordance with national laws and customs. At An Post responsible business practice involves recording and investigating any accident, health or personal welfare incident with a view to implementing corrective action and to reducing and preventing further incidents. A culture of safety and well being is also critical to business success within the Company. Framework In relation to UN SDG Goal 5: Gender Equality  Pay Gap Report and Action Plan at the GPO. The Gender Pay Gap Report and Action Plan highlights how An Post is changing from an old world of mail and cash to a new world of e-commerce and financial services with the mission to improve the lives of everyone across Ireland, including its employees, now and in the future.  The Report shows the gender pay gap at An Post is 3.71%; this compares with 20% globally, 17.9% in the United Kingdom, 16% in the European Union and 13.9% in Ireland. In 2018/2019 An Post has:  Implemented an initial action plan company-wide  Taken the first steps towards reducing the Gender Pay Gap  Transformed from an all-male to a 50/50 gender balanced Management Board  Reconstituted the Diversity Sub Committee of the Joint Conciliation Council where diversity issues are discussed with Unions  Appointed a Diversity &amp; Inclusion Manager and Talent &amp; Resourcing Manager  Recruited 50% male and 50% female candidates to the An Post Graduate Programme  Completed extensive conscious / unconscious bias awareness training for Senior Management  Mentored and supported talent in the organisation  Sponsored the Irish Management Institute 30% Club Cross-Company Mentoring Programme  Promoted work life harmony with a range of programmes agreed with An Post Unions such as term time working, work sharing, options to work part-time, enhanced parental leave arrangements, flexi-time and career break options. In relation to both UN SDG GOAL 8: Providing Decent work and Economic Growth and Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities  An Post’s efforts to secure the future of Ireland’s post office network is a primary focus for the business. Our plan is to set our network of 960 post offices on a viable and sustainable footing with more services and longer opening hours. We have used business and census data along with our extensive local knowledge to form the basis for our network to actively support the future of rural Ireland. The Company is now expanding our range of financial and eCommerce services and Government business available in local post offices. Longer opening hours also serve this purpose. The outcomes are: o A post office for every community of 500 people and over o 95% of customers within at least 15km of a post office o Over 40 new post offices opening in the past two years, where a business and community need exists.  A Code of Conduct has been developed by the Company for all staff, including guidelines on behaviour, uniform, health and safety, incident & accident reporting, standards and policies within the Company.  The National Wage Agreement & collective bargaining system are used to determine staff pay levels while the performance related pay system is in place for senior managers.  Staff representatives are selected in a transparent and fair process by all employees. There are four Worker Director positions on the Board of An Post. These elected representatives are included in strategic decision making by the Board. All staff representatives on the Joint Communications Committee are also directly elected by staff as union representatives  The Company has implemented driver training for our fleet operatives under the programme with a built in elective module on sustainable driving Practise  The HR document ‘Revitalisation of Partnership Process’ documents the Company policy on communication & consultation with staff representatives.  A Joint Conciliation Council (JCCC) with Company and full union representation, meets monthly. The Company utilises the Partnership process within the JCCC to consult and inform on all change prior to implementation.  The Company has provided modular training on Communications skills to senior & middle management (Learning for Results & Leading to Succeed) as well as providing accredited training in Frontline Management Training to staff within operational responsibilities.  The Staff Health and Safety Policy is accessible to all managers and booklets are distributed by hand to staff in all areas of the business. A tailored An Post Safety Guide has been developed for each area of the business with guides applicable to Collections and Delivery, Mails Processing, Retail, Administration & Managers  Male minder – a health checker manual, has been distributed to staff throughout the Company  The Hard Stuff – an alcohol awareness manual, is being distributed to staff throughout the Company  Ideas Matter – is a staff engagement programme in our mails network, aimed at encouraging participation and innovation among our staff members  The Company has maintained health & safety management systems accredited to national/international standards, achieving OHSAS 18001/2007 accreditation on 25/03/2011  Health & safety programmes within the Company are dealt with through various work streams including the Dignity in the Workplace Policy and a dedicated Occupational Health Support service which is an internal employee assistance programme Performance  An Post continues to uphold our commitments under the Diversity Charter Ireland of which it is a founding member. The Charter commenced in 2012 with eleven companies and currently has 24  We continue to provide consultation/advice to external organisations with regard to meeting the requirements of the Disability Act and around disability issues in general.  eLearning PCs were piloted in five regional offices so that staff can access the Intranet’s ‘Equality, Diversity and Inclusion’ site. Both the NDA Disability Equality eLearning and the IHREC Delivering Equality in Public Services training modules are accessible through this site.  The Company’s health & safety programme includes targets and objectives for continuous improvement in terms of inspections, meetings with safety representatives and reduction of incidents and claims. A safety representative is appointed in each office and conducts meetings with their manager every six months. Within each mails centre (4) a safety committee meets every six months  Health and well being programmes are offered to all staff regardless of role and position. A variety of staff health and well-being initiatives are offered to all staff including flu vaccine, occupational health services, public health initiatives ‘male minder’ & active work walking challenge. Medicals are offered to senior management  Workplace and equipment are subject to safety audits including monitoring environmental conditions in the workplace (air quality, temperature, water quality).  Monitoring of workplace equipment occurs where an issue is identified. Safety audits are carried out internally and externally to comply with accreditation in the form of a sample audit through a rolling programme of inspection  The Company keeps records of  the number of sick days per year  weekly working hours  the number of recorded accidents per year  the percentage of accidents that resulted in temporary leave of absence of employees per year – or Injury Frequency Rate  the percentage of accidents resulting in permanent injuries or disability per year  the percentage of accidents resulting in fatalities per year  the accident severity rate or the number of days lost as result of accidents per year or the decline in lost days  the amount of ergonomics training  the amount of sick days taken due to physical strain  carries out constant measurement and reporting monthly inspections company wide  Health & safety reporting is conducted at board level monthly accident statistics report supplied to Executive. Environment  Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges  Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility  Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment  Each week 1.7 million customers visit our 1,123 post offices. Each day we deliver 2.5 million mail items to 2.1 million business and residential addresses. The scale of our operations, whether through our mails or retail networks, provides opportunities to make a positive impact on the economy, the environment and society in general. We recognize that our building and fleet impact on the environment. Our focus is on increasing our carbon efficiency and energy reduction.  In September 2019 the Irish Government announced Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Champions: 12 leaders from across society chosen to drive forward Sustainable Development Goals An Post is a key partner to government among the 12 leaders from across all aspects of society who are driving forward Ireland’s progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals. An Post was selected as a Company leading by example in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. Our remit is to help to raise public awareness of the Goals, and illustrate practical ways in which organisations and individuals can contribute to achieving the Goals Framework  The Company has a policy to measure its carbon footprint in an internationally recognised manner. Since 2009 we have worked with International Post Corporation (IPC) to benchmark our operations with 23 other postal services across the world.  Our measurement of carbon emissions is co-ordinated through the IPC Environmental Monitoring and Management System (EMMS) – through which we report annually. Annual results are externally assured and published by IPC. An Post also publish our individual performance within the Company’s annual report.  The company has committed to a continuous process of reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in its operations over a period of time including the attainment of objectives and measurable targets. Our target is 20% reduction in CO2 by 2020.  The Company has a formal energy and carbon policy which guides us in reducing our energy use and carbon emissions.  During 2018 we maintained ISO50001 certification. This internationally accredited energy management standard now assures our internal monitoring and both internal and external reporting on energy use at An Post.  We are complying with government legislation, targeting a reduction in buildings energy use by 33% in 2020. Ref: EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (ENERGY PERFORMANCE OF BUILDINGS) REGULATIONS 2006. o We measure our public buildings energy performance and fleet energy use and report this to Sustainable Energy Authority Ireland (SEAI). We use our results to measure performance on a year on year basis. An Post was Practise During 2018/2019 An Post took the following action to impact in energy and carbon savings: Decarbonise our operations:  50% Carbon Reduction by 2025  100 Carbon Neutral by 2050  Dublin city deliveries carbon zero  Other cities by end on 2020 (Kilkenny, Waterford, Cork, Limerick, Galway.)  An Post has committed to 750 electrical vehicles within our fleet – with 210 on the road in 2019  Buildings energy reduction in 2019 is at 8%  ISO 50001 Energy Management standard retained by An Post in 2019  An Post has achieved a 3.5% reduction in fuel in 2018/2019 Goals for the Company in 2020/2021  Implement ISO 14001 in 2020  Replacing all external lighting with LED in 2020  Replacing all internal lighting with LED by 2021 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)  The UN’s SDGs make an explicit call for businesses to emerge as frontrunners in stepping up to the sustainability challenge. Mapping relevant SDGs against the postal value chain enables An Post to identify priority areas on which to focus sustainable action. In doing so, postal companies can understand how our core activities impact different SDGs, and by specifically focussing on issues which are most material to the postal sector, we can influence the most positive change.  An Post has developed a company strategy to include the SDGs within the day to day operations of the business. We are also working with IPC to implement agreed and benchmarked measurement of performance in relation to SDGs.  Since 2012 An Post has participated in the IPC sustainability programme.  An Post has committed itself to 5 of the 17 Sustainable development Goals (SDGs).  Postal is a global industry. An Post works with the International Postal Corporation to deliver the five UN Sustainable Development Goals most relevant to the postal sector. Practise With our new ECO Plan, now in phase one, during 2019 An Post has renewed our commitment to UN SDG Goal 13: Climate Action and UN SDG Goal 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Ireland’s largest fleet leads the way with electric vehicles and Carbon-free deliveries in all Irish cities by year-end 2020: An Post Eco pledges zero emission deliveries in Irish cities including Cork, Galway, Kilkenny and Waterford by end-2020, and the provision of public electric vehicle charging points at An Post sites.  Carbon-free deliveries between Dublin’s canals by year-end 2019. An Post is investing €250,000 and saving 100 tonnes of CO2 in this initial phase with staff using the latest electric vans and tricycles for delivering to customers at all 40,000 private and business addresses between Dublin’s canals.  The plan also includes Eco-driver Training for all An Post drivers  Taking big steps to achieve a 50% reduction in carbon emissions by 2030 Anti-Corruption  Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Commitment Ensuring good governance is a key principle of An Post’s responsible business practice. As corporate responsibility becomes ever more important to our business performance, we have put in place appropriate governance structures to co-ordinate control and implement company policy and practice. Our Board of Directors and senior executives have formally adopted roles and responsibilities related to corporate governance as well as conducting their day to day business and decisionmaking in adherence with our Company's responsible policies and practices. Framework Maintaining high standards of corporate governance is a priority for An Post. In developing our corporate governance policy, the Board has sought to give effect both to the Code of Practice for the Governance of State Bodies, issued by the Department of Finance, and to the relevant main and supporting principles of good governance outlined in the 2009 Combined Code issued by the United Kingdom’s Financial Reporting Council. An Post Policy and Procedure for Raising Matters of Concern is available to all staff. This document sets out procedures intended to encourage and enable employees to come forward and raise, within a supportive Company framework, genuine and serious concerns they may have about dishonest or unethical activity in An Post or its subsidiaries. Practise The key procedures that the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control are:  A clear focus on business objectives as determined by the Board after consideration of the statutory responsibilities and risk profile of the Group’s businesses.  A defined organisational structure with a clear lines of responsibility, delegation of authority and segregation of duties designed to foster a beneficial control environment.  A risk management process which considers the strategy and development of the business in the context of the annual budget process when financial plans and performance targets are set and reviewed by the Board in light of the Group’s overall objectives.  A reporting and control system which ensures that individual businesses report to the board on an ongoing basis on their progress in achieving objectives.  The preparation and issue of financial reports, including the consolidated annual accounts is managed by the Group Finance department.  An internal audit function which monitors compliance with policies and the effectiveness of internal control within the Group’s businesses.  A Board level committee, the Audit and Risk Committee, which approves internal and external audit plans and deals with significant control issues raised by the internal and external auditors. Performance  In relation to the company’s corporate governance policy and procedures, the board of Directors has an oversight role in setting and annually reviewing the company’s responsible business practices and performance.  The Company’s diversity principles and policies apply to the nomination and composition of the company's board of directors/supervisory board.  The Company’s mission, vision and values are communicated internally and externally.  Awareness is raised as to how the Company lives by these values in everyday activities and operations (e.g. via code of practice, code of ethics, code of conduct).  The Company’s executive has appointed a person to have executive responsibility on all corporate responsibility and sustainability issues.  The company has allocated corporate responsibility KPIs to the relevant Company Directors. These KPIs are are made part of a person’s performance review and pay (compensation/bonus).  The An Post Board has a review role in relation to the following areas:  Corporate responsibility policy  Corporate responsibility performance  Breach of legislation  Compliance  Anti-competitive behaviour  Bribery & corruption  Operational risks  Reputational risks Chief Executive Statement of Commitment An Post is a major commercial organisation providing a wide range of services which encompass postal, communication, retail and financial services. This is our first communication on progress to the UN Global Compact. An Post is one of Ireland's largest companies directly employing over 9,500 people through its national network of retail, processing and delivery points. Each week 1.7 million customers visit our 1,123 post offices. Each day we deliver 2.5m mail items to 2.1 million business and residential addresses. The scale of our operations, whether through our mails or retail networks, provides opportunities to make a positive impact on the economy, the environment and society in general. Sustainability continues to be managed within the Company, adhering to and leading on government and industry legislation and targets. A robust and appropriate Governance structure has been developed and implemented as well as a formal Energy and Carbon Policy. Within the Company’s renewed business structures An Post Sustainability is placed firmly within our core purpose — to act for the common good, improving the lives of people in Ireland, now and for generations to come — demands sustainability. Our commitment is beyond politics: it is a practical and real framework to ensure the delivery of high quality and affordable services, supporting communities across the State and respecting the environment. Postal is a global industry. An Post works with the International Postal Corporation to deliver the five UN Sustainable Development Goals most relevant to the postal sector. This commitment is key to our future business strategy, contributing to our overall vision of working together to deliver a better quality service, more efficiently, to more customers by continuously adapting, innovating and implementing change. Signed: David McRedmond, CEO, An Post. ________________________________ Date: 14/12/2019
