annual report 2018 With its mineral products K+S enables farmers to provide nutrition for the world, ­provides solutions that keep industries going, improves daily life for consumers and provides s­ afety in winter. We continually meet the growing demand for mineral products mainly from ­production sites in Europe, North and South America as well as a worldwide sales network. We strive for sustainability because we are deeply committed to our responsi­bilities to people, environment, communities and economy in the regions in which we operate. our Vision: our Mission: We will be the most customer-focused, independent We enrich life by sustainably mining and transforming minerals company and grow our EBITDA to €3bn in minerals into essential ingredients for Agriculture, 2030 by … Industry, Communities and Consumers. — thinking and acting as ‘One Company’ — tapping the full potential of our existing assets — exploring new adjacent growth areas — increasing the share of our specialties business our financial year 2018 key figures: 1 € 606.3 million +5.1% € 4.04 billion revenues +11.4% ebitDa 2.6% 85.4 million Return on Capital Employed € –41.1% 14,931 +0.9% Group earnings after tax, adjusted 71% employees (FTE) Employees reached by 7.8 1.0 million t communication measures and trained in compliance matters 2 lti Rate 2 Avoided solid residue 2 ¹ Please find a comprehensive overview of key figures at the end of this Annual Report. ² A complete presentation of our sustainability targets can be found on page 47. to our shareholders contents to our shareholders 01 129  K+S Aktiengesellschaft (explanations based on the German Commercial Code (HGB)) 2 to our shareholders 133 Responsibility statement from the Legal 2 Letter to the Shareholders Representatives of K+S Aktiengesellschaft 6 The Board of Executive Directors 134 Remuneration report 8 SHAPING 2030 Agriculture 03 Industry Consumers Communities 18 Supervisory Board report 144 consolidated financial statements 26 K+S on the capital market 145 Income and loss statement 145 Statement of comprehensive income 146 Balance sheet 02 148 Statement of cash flows 149 Statement of changes in equity 30 combined management report 150 Notes 31 Business model 215 Auditor’s report 43 Corporate strategy 222 Independent auditor’s report on a limited assurance 50 Research and development engagement 53 Employees 55 Non-financial statement 04 67 Declaration on corporate governance 88 Report on economic position 110 Report on risks and opportunities 126 Report on expected developments 224 further information About this report Reporting is also based on the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards) and the recommendations of the International Integrated The reporting period covers the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018. ­Reporting Council (IIRC). Simultaneously, the Annual Report serves as the This Annual Report combines the Financial Report with the Sustainability progress report for the UN Global Compact. Report. In the event of any doubt, the German version of the Annual R ­ eport will The financial reporting is in accordance with the international IFRS standards; prevail. the Management Report is composed according to the German Accounting Standard (DRS) 20 and contains the information according to the CSR Directive Published on 14 March 2019 Implementation Act. In the declaration on corporate governance we follow the transparency requirements of the German Corporate Governance Code Key (DCGK). Cross-references within the Annual Report References to Internet sites k+s Annual Report 2018 1 1 2 3 4 5 29 6 7 8 30 31 32 9 12 10 33 34, 35 11 36 37 14 38 39 13 15 40 41 16 42 43 H 44 17 45 46 47 48 49 50 18 51 19 20 21 22 52 53 23 24 25 26 27 key sites 28 H K+S sites in Kassel, Hesse, Germany H north/south america 1 Lindbergh brine plant, Alberta, Canada S 20 Weeks Island salt mine, Louisiana, USA S K 2 K+S Potash Canada, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada K 21 Port Canaveral processing site, Florida, USA S 3 Bethune potash mine, Saskatchewan, Canada K 22 Inagua sea salt facility, Bahamas S 4 K+S Potash Canada, harbour logistic office, Vancouver, Canada K 23 Salina Diamante Branco sea salt facility, Galinhos, Brazil S 5 Solbetrieb Regina, Regina, Canada S 24 K+S Peru, Lima, Peru S 6 Ojibway salt mine, Ontario, Canada S 25 Servicios Portuarios Patillos S.A., Port of Patillos, Iquique, Chile S 7 K+S Windsor Salt Head Office, Pointe-Claire, Quebec, Canada S 26 Open-cast mining operations K+S Chile, Tarapaca, Atacama Desert, S Chile 8 Mines Seleine salt mine, Quebec, Canada S 27 K+S Brasileira Fertilizantes e Produtos Industriais, K 9 Windsor evaporated salt plant, Ontario, Canada S distribution company, São Paulo, Brazil 10 Pugwash salt mine, Nova Scotia, Canada S 28 K+S Chile Head Office, Santiago de Chile, Chile S 11 Manistee evaporated salt plant, Michigan, USA S 12 Silver Springs evaporated salt plant, New York, USA S Europe 13 Fairport salt mine, Ohio, USA S 29 K+S Transport GmbH, Hamburg, Germany E 14 Morton Salt Head Office, Chicago, Illinois, USA S 30 Frisia Zout B.V. brine plant, Harlingen, Netherlands S 15 Rittman evaporated salt plant, Ohio, USA S 31 Sigmundshall potash mine, Lower Saxony, Germany K 16 Grantsville solar evaporation salt facility, Utah, USA S (production discontinued as of 31 December 2018) 17 Hutchinson evaporated salt plant, Kansas, USA S 32 K+S Polska, distribution company, Poznań, Poland K 18 Grand Saline salt mine, Texas, USA S 33 esco Head Office in Hanover, Lower Saxony, Germany S 19 Glendale solar evaporated salt facility, Arizona, USA S 34 Braunschweig-Lüneburg salt mine, Lower Saxony, Germany S 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 35 K+S Baustoffrecycling GmbH, Sehnde, Lower Saxony, Germany E 51 K+S KALI Wittenheim, production plant, Wittenheim, France K 36 Bergmannssegen-Hugo potash mine, Lower Saxony, Germany K 52 esco Spain Head Office, Barcelona, Spain S 37 Zielitz potash mine, Saxony-Anhalt, Germany K 53 Vatel – Companhia de Produtos Alimentares S Head Office, Alverca, Portugal 38 Granulation of Animal Hygiene Products, E Bad Salzdetfurth, Lower Saxony, Germany 39 Bernburg salt mine, Saxony-Anhalt, Germany S Africa/Asia/pacific 40 Borth salt mine, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany S 54 K+S (Huludao) Magnesium Products, production plant K and distribution company, Huludao City, China 41 MSW-Chemie GmbH, Langelsheim, Lower Saxony, Germany E 55 K+S Fertilizers (India), distribution company, New Delhi, India K 42 esco Benelux, distribution company, Diegem, Belgium S 56 Al Biariq for Fertilizer Plant (Joint Venture), Riyadh, K 43 Chemische Fabrik Kalk GmbH, Cologne, North Rhine-Westphalia, E Saudi Arabia Germany 57 Shenzhen K+S Trading, distribution company, Shenzhen, China K 44 K+S Entsorgung GmbH, Kassel, Hesse E 58 Grainpulse Limited (Joint Venture), Kampala, Uganda K 45 Werra integrated potash plant, Hesse and Thuringia, Germany K (Heringen/Merkers/Philippsthal/Unterbreizbach) 59 K+S Asia Pacific, distribution company, Singapore, Singapore K 46 K+S Czech Republic, distribution and production company, S 60 K+S Salt Australia, Perth, Australia S Prague, Czech Republic 47 Neuhof-Ellers potash mine, Hesse, Germany K 48 K+S KALI France Head Office, Reims, France K H = Headquarters 49 Saline Cérébos, production and packaging of salt products, S K = Potash and Magnesium Products Levallois-Perret, France S = Salt E = Complimentary Activities 50 esco Holding France, Dombasle-sur-Meurthe, France S = Potash and rock salt mining Letter to the Shareholders dr burkhard lohr chairman of the board of executive directors 2 k+s Annual Report 2018 to our shareholders It’s a grey Tuesday morning here in Kassel as I’m writing this letter to you. The first ­sentence I committed to paper reads, “2018 was a good year for K+S”. This might well Combined Management Report puzzle some of you. Can a financial year in which we had to revise our original earnings forecasts downwards and your investment in our company lost more than 25 per cent of its value be termed a good year? Yes, it can! Allow me to explain why. A turbulent and busy year is now behind us. The slowdown in economic growth worldwide and falling share prices dampened the mood in our company, too. This situation was exacerbated by operational challenges and extraordinary factors such as the prolonged heatwave and drought in Germany, the likes of which had not been seen since records began. As a result, we were forced to temporarily stop production at our Werra potash plant in September and again at the end of the year. Just a few years ago, the combined strength of these effects might have caused earnings to slump dramatically. Today however, K+S is so stable that in spite of all the headwinds we are CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS still able to report a slight improvement in EBITDA year-on-year. This shows that we have made good progress in many areas. The implementation of our SHAPING 2030 strategy is advancing with visible results: in 2018 we started to make our administrative functions more efficient and focus on ­delivering customer value. Initial synergy effects have already been achieved in procurement, production as well as sales and marketing. Thanks to our rigorous cost discipline, good sense of perspective, and significantly lower capital expenditure, we are on track with adhering to our timetable of achieving a positive free cash flow in 2019 and ­halving our indebtedness by 2020. More than that, we will reach our target of leveraging annual synergy potential by more than €150 million from the end of 2020. We will complete the transformation phase by the end of 2020, in order to start the subsequent growth phase on a solid foundation. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 3 After some initial difficulties, we have made progress in our new potash mine in Bethune. In record time, we succeeded in constructing a completely new plant and put it into operation. We have now secured the raw materials we need for future growth. In the past year alone, we have already produced more than 1.4 million tonnes of potash in Saskatchewan. Meanwhile in Germany, we have achieved additional key milestones with the successful commissioning of a new plant for the further reduction of wastewater as well as ­extensive preparations and approval for the expansion of the Hattorf tailings pile at the Werra plant. The continuation of constructive talks with the Weser river basin manage­ment on the long-term disposal of our saline wastewater also allows us to look optimistically into the new year. Our production operations are subject to the same high sustainability standards to which we as a company are committed. This claim is expressed not only in our sustainability targets, but also in our renewed commitment to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Even though the main focus of the transformation is primarily on improving financial health, we have prepared the ground for future growth with successful initiatives. Since March 2018, we have been gathering important experience in the field of fertigation – liquid fertilization – with our aquaponics experimental test station. We firmly believe that this technology will be extremely important for our agricultural customers in the future. We are also making great strides in Africa. This long-term commitment has gained momentum with the signing of our company foundation in Uganda. In 2019, we will start linking new buyer groups and significantly expanding our presence in this future growth region inhabited by over one billion people. 4 k+s Annual Report 2018 to our shareholders Dear Shareholders, You can see why I consider 2018 to have been a good year for K+S. Following important – and correct – strategic steps in 2017, we succeeded in picking up speed on our new path. I would particularly like to thank all K+S employees who made this achievement possible in the first place and who have shown admirable commitment to our strategy. Combined Management Report There is no doubt in our minds that in 2019 we will certainly stay on track and come much closer to achieving our ambitious goals. To this end, we will continue to work persistently and diligently, even if some of you were understandably disappointed last year. I would like to thank you, also on behalf of my colleagues on the Board of Executive Directors, for the trust and support you have shown in the employees of K+S and in us as the Board of Executive Directors. All the best! CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Dr Burkhard Lohr Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors Kassel, 14 March 2019 Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 5 our Board of Excecutive Directors The Board of Executive Directors of the K+S Aktiengesellschaft (from left to right): mark roberts, thorsten boeckers und dr burkhard lohr Dr Thomas Nöcker retired on 1 September 2018. 6 k+s Annual Report 2018 to our shareholders dr burkhard lohr Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors Personnel Director Dr Burkhard Lohr (born in 1963 in Essen) has been a member of the Board of Executive Directors of K+S Aktiengesellschaft since 1 June 2012 and became Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors of K+S Aktiengesellschaft on 12 May 2017. He is Personnel Director and has responsibility for Communications & Brands, Corporate Board Office, Corporate Secretary, Environmental & Regulatory Affairs, Health, Safety, Management Systems & Sustainability, Human Resources, Combined Management Report Internal Auditing, Investor Relations, Legal & GRC and Strategy & Development. thorsten boeckers Member of the Board of Executive Directors Chief Financial Officer Thorsten Boeckers (born in 1975 in Würselen) has been a member of the Board of Executive Directors of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT since 12 May 2017. He is responsible for, among others, Controlling, Finance and Accounting, Insurance, IT, Procurement and Tax. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS mark roberts Member of the Board of Executive Directors Mark Roberts (born in 1963 in New Jersey, USA) has been a member of the Board of Executive Directors of K+S AKTIEN­ GESELLSCHAFT since 1 October 2012 with responsibility for the operating units Americas and Europe+. He has also ­responsibility for Global Marketing, Commercial and Supply ­ Chain Excellence with regard to the segments Agriculture, ­Industry, Consumers and Communities as well as Supply Chain Management Excellence and Operations Excellence with the subunit Technical Services. Further information  lease find the complete CV's on our website: P www.k-plus-s.com/executivedirectors k+s Annual Report 2018 7 agriculture industry consumer communities 8 k+s Annual Report 2018 to our shareholders SHAPING 2030 is the name of our compass for the future development of the Combined Management Report K+S Group. United in a clear mission and led by an ambitious vision, we are ­becoming “ONE K+S”, placing the customer at the centre of our actions and ­focusing on the four customer segments of agriculture, industry, consumers and communities. We will use our extensive experience and globally recognised expertise in the exploration and processing of minerals, to ­systematically ­develop our existing business and open up new business opportunities. In the first implementation phase of our strategy – the transformation – we will lay a solid foundation for future growth through organisational changes and CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ­measures to increase efficiency. For the subsequent growth phase up to 2030, we have developed a roadmap with clear and fixed development targets, ­including financial targets, and promising growth options. The first milestones for both phases were reached in 2018. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 9 AGRICULTURE 10 k+s Annual Report 2018 to our shareholders PLANT NUTRIENTS HEALTHY SOIL, Combined Management Report HEALTHY CROPS In 2050, agriculture will be facing the ­challenge of feeding around ten billion people. Therefore, healthy soils with a balanced nutrient content are necessary to accomplish this task in various ­regions all over the world. Today, how­ever, soil is not used efficiently. As a result, it erodes and loses the ability to yield healthy CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS crops. To counteract this, balanced and ­demand-based fertilization is required. With our large selection of soil fertilizers, liquid and leaf fertilizers as well as accompanying advice, we support farmers worldwide to achieve high yields and the best qualities – even in unfavourable weather conditions. With the “Helping people to help themselves” slogan, we also participate in numerous agricultural aid projects, such as “Growth for Uganda”. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 11 INDUSTRY 12 k+s Annual Report 2018 to our shareholders INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS HOW IT WORKS Combined Management Report K+S offers a broad range of high-quality potash, magnesium and salt products for industrial applications in various degrees of purity and special grain sizes. These are used, for example, in chloralkali electrolysis in the chemical industry. Our products are the basis for ­production of various plastics. Additionally they are an indispensable part of the industrial added ­value in the production of glass, CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS metallurgical processes, the textile industry, biotechnology, and even in oil and gas ­exploration. Moreover, a wide assortment of products are available to meet the particularly high demands of the pharma­ ceutical, cosmetics, food and animal nutrition industries. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 13 CONSUMERS 14 k+s Annual Report 2018 to our shareholders salt IMPROVING LIFE Combined Management Report Whether it is used as a spice or flavour ­enhancer, salt has been an essential part of our nutrition for thousands of years. Nutrition is now more than ever a m ­ atter of trust. Many consumers have become increasingly sceptical of industrially produced foods. Certified and guaranteed quality is therefore of the utmost importance to us. Our salt products are manufactured and packed using state-of-theCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS art processes and consistently comply with the highest quality, hygiene and safety standards. And while our food grade salt is most notable, we work to improve consumers’ lives in a variety of ways. Whether it be through our water softening salts used to protect your skin, clothing and household appliances, or our ice melt salt used to protect your friends, families and loved ones during the ­winter, we strive to bring pure enjoyment into consumers’ lives each and ­every day. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 15 COMMUNITIES 16 k+s Annual Report 2018 to our shareholders DE-ICING SALT ON TRACK Combined Management Report Everyone knows the hazards of icy roads. Today, we make the roads in many cities and communities safer during the winter months. We rely on a highly pure and particularly effective mixture of fine and coarse salt crystals. While the fine ­crystals ensure an immediate thawing effect, the coarse ones guarantee the required longterm effect on thicker layers of ice and snow. Another important factor for the CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS satisfaction of our public consumers are smoothly running logistics. As one of the world’s largest producers, we are not only a reliable supplier in terms of delivering sufficient quantities but, thanks to our decentralised logistics concept and consumer-­focused production, we also protect the environment. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 17 Supervisory Board Report Dr Andreas Kreimeyer Chairman of the Supervisory Board 18 k+s Annual Report 2018 to our shareholders The 2018 financial year was an eventful year for our Company. The global economy has ­deteriorated, share prices have declined considerably in some cases, and the extreme drought in ­Germany had also left its mark on the K+S business. Nevertheless, in this difficult environment we have consistently worked on the implementation of our SHAPING 2030 strategy: We have streamlined our structures, cut costs, and evaluated new business opportunities. On behalf of the Supervisory Board, I would like to thank all employees for their hard work and commitment. I also would like to express gratCombined Management Report itude to the members of the Board of Executive Directors, who successfully steered the Company amid difficult conditions, as well as to our employee representatives and Works Council members who accompanied the development of K+S in an invariably constructive manner. Special thanks go to you, our shareholders, for placing your trust in our Company, its management, its staff and our products again in 2018. On the Supervisory Board we especially discussed the new Group strategy, SHAPING 2030, in great ­detail during 2018 as well as the forward-looking organisation based thereon. Besides the detailed explanation of the business situation, other focal points of the Supervisory Board’s activities in 2018 were potential opportunities for growth, the environmental strategy, the implementation of financing measures, and the selection of suitable candidates for appointments to the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADVISING THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND MONITORING OF MANAGEMENT During the 2018 financial year, the Supervisory Board diligently performed the supervisory and ­advisory functions incumbent on it by law and in accordance with the Articles of Association and its bylaws. Numerous matters were discussed in depth and resolutions were adopted on transactions requiring approval. We continuously monitored the Board of Executive Directors’ management of the Company and advised the Board on the governance of the Group. We were always involved in decisions of fundamental importance in a timely and appropriate manner. The Board of Executive Directors regularly briefed us promptly and comprehensively on the course of business, the results of operations, financial position and net assets, the employment situation, the progress of important investment projects, planning, and the further strategic development of the Company. ­Deviations from planning were explained to the Supervisory Board in detail. The risk situation and risk management were carefully considered. The Supervisory Board received written reports from the Board of Executive Directors in order to prepare for meetings. In particular, the Chairman of the ­Supervisory Board also remained in close personal contact with the Board of Executive Directors outside of meetings and discussed significant events as well as upcoming decisions. The shareholder and employee representatives regularly discussed important agenda items at separate meetings Further information prior to meetings of the Supervisory Board. k+s Annual Report 2018 19 In 2018, six Supervisory Board meetings were held. The average attendance rate of the 16 Supervisory Board members at these meetings was 91% in the reporting period. Two meetings were a ­ ttended by all Supervisory Board members; one meeting was unable to be attended by two ­Supervisory Board members; three members were unable to attend a third meeting; and one meeting took place in the absence of four members. All absences were excused. One S ­ upervisory Board member who is an employee ­representative was unable to attend two meetings in the first six months of the year, which was more than half the number of meetings with r­ elevance for this Supervisory Board member. Of the four physical Audit Committee meetings, two were ­attended by all committee members; at each of the other two meetings one member was ­excused. The Nomination Committee met on four sessions. Three of these meetings were attended by all committee members and on one occasion one member was excused. Two of the four meetings of the Personnel Committee were attended by all committee members; at two meetings one member was excused. The Strategy Committee met on three occasions, with full attendance at all meetings. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE SUPERVISORY BOARD The composition of the Board of Executive Directors changed as follows: Dr Thomas Nöcker’s term of office ended on 31 August 2018 after 15 years on the Board of Executive Directors. Once again, we would like to thank Dr Nöcker for his close and constructive collaboration at all times and his commitment to K+S over the past years. The composition of the Supervisory Board changed as follows in 2018: Mr Dieter Kuhn left the Supervisory Board with effect from 28 February 2018 on entering retirement. Elections for employee representatives to the Supervisory Board of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT were held on 10 April 2018. Mr Harald Döll and Mr Michael Vassiliadis retired from the Board. Ms Anke Roehr, Mr André Bahn, Mr Peter Bleckmann, Mr Axel Hartmann and Mr Michael Knackmuß were elected as employee representatives. Mr Gerd Kübler was elected as a representative of the senior executives. Ms Petra Adolph and Mr Ralf Becker were elected as union representatives. The Supervisory Board appointments of Ms Jella Benner-Heinacher, Dr Annette Messemer, Mr Wesley Clark and Dr Eckart Sünner ended at the close of the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2018. Ms Jella Benner-Heinacher was re-elected. Dr Elke Eller, Mr Gerd Grimmig and Mr Nevin McDougall were ­appointed as new Supervisory Board members. 20 k+s Annual Report 2018 to our shareholders After the end of the Annual General Meeting of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT, the members of the ­Supervisory Board elected a Vice Chairman and held by-elections to the committees: ++ Mr Ralf Becker was elected as Vice Chairman. ++ Pursuant to the German Co-determination Act (MitbestG), Mr Ralf Becker is also a new ­member of the Mediation Committee. Mr Axel Hartmann and Mr Thomas Kölbl were elected as further members. Mr Ralf Becker was also elected to the Strategy Committee. ++ Ms Petra Adolph, Ms Jella Benner-Heinacher and Dr Andreas Kreimeyer were elected as new members of the Audit Committee. Mr Ralf Becker and Mr Axel Hartmann were re-elected to Combined Management Report this committee. Mr Thomas Kölbl was then elected as Chairman of the Audit Committee. ++ Dr Elke Eller, Mr Ralf Becker and Mr Michael Knackmuß were elected to the Personnel Committee. ++ Ms Jella Benner-Heinacher was re-elected to the Nomination Committee. SUPERVISORY BOARD MEETINGS One extraordinary and five ordinary Supervisory Board meetings were held during the 2018 ­financial year. At the ordinary meeting held on 14 March 2018, the Supervisory Board examined the annual financial statements, the consolidated financial statements and the management reports for the 2017 financial year in the presence of the auditor, approved the financial statements on the recommendation of the Audit Committee and, following extensive discussions, agreed to the proposal of the Board of Executive Directors concerning the appropriation of profits. The business situation CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and the outlook for the current year were discussed in depth and the proposed resolutions for the 2018 ­Annual General Meeting were also approved. In addition, the findings of the audit of the nonfinancial statement were discussed with the auditors. Furthermore, we agreed on the setting of age l­ imits for members of the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board. We were also briefed at length on the progress being made in the Group strategy SHAPING 2030 and the production situation at our new plant in Bethune. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 21 At the ordinary meeting on 14 May 2018, the Board of Executive Directors briefed the Supervisory Board in detail on the development of the business situation and earnings in the first quarter of 2018, among other things. Furthermore, we were apprised of the acquisition of Grainpulse in Uganda and of the Africa strategy. Moreover, we approved a further financial measure. We were then briefed on the status of the implementation of the new EU General Data Protection Regulation at K+S. The constituent meeting of the new Supervisory Board was held after the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2018. Following the election of the Vice Chairman, the elections for the Mediation, ­ ersonnel, Audit, Nomination and Strategy Committees were held (see the section on the compoP sition of the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board). One of the topics we discussed in detail at the ordinary meeting on 23 August 2018 was the new K+S strategy, SHAPING 2030. In addition, we were briefed on the current situation as regards environmental issues, and the business situation of the K+S GROUP was explained to us. We also addressed the production situation at our plants. At the last ordinary meeting of the year, held on 29 November 2018, the Board of Executive Directors explained the current business situation and provided a forecast of the anticipated revenues and earnings of the K+S GROUP in the 2018 financial year. The planning of the K+S GROUP for 2019, including the investment and financing framework, was examined in depth (also in terms of ­consistency with strategic objectives) and subsequently approved. We were then briefed on the implementation status of the new SHAPING 2030 strategy and the related opportunities for growth. Furthermore, the Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors gave us an explanation of the current environmental issues. The Chairman of the Audit Committee reported on this committee’s last meeting. The Supervisory Board resolved to engage DELOITTE GMBH WIRTSCHAFTSPRÜFUNGSGESELLSCHAFT to audit the non-financial statement. The joint 2018/2019 declaration of conformity by the Board of Executive Directors and Supervisory Board was likewise approved. ‘Declaration on Corporate Governance’, page 77 At the extraordinary meeting on 18 December 2018, the main topic of discussion was the handling of a potential opportunity for growth. 22 k+s Annual Report 2018 to our shareholders COMMITTEE MEETINGS In addition to the Mediation Committee required by law, the Supervisory Board has established four more committees to support its tasks and responsibilities: the Audit Committee, the Personnel Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Strategy Committee. An overview of these committees and their composition can be found in the management report on page 73 and on the K+S AKTIEN­GESELLSCHAFT website under ‘Corporate Governance’. There you can also find the bylaws for the ­Supervisory Board and its committees. Combined Management Report The Audit Committee met a total of six times in 2018. On 2 March 2018, in the presence of the auditor as well as the Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors and the Chief Financial Officer, the committee examined the 2017 annual financial statements of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT, the 2017 consolidated financial statements, the combined management report as well as the proposal of the Board of Executive Directors for the appropriation of profits, and recommended to the Annual General Meeting that DELOITTE GMBH WIRTSCHAFTSPRÜFUNGSGESELLSCHAFT again be elected as a ­ uditor. On 23 August 2018, the committee discussed the K+S GROUP’s internal control system (ICS) in detail with the Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors and the Chief Financial Officer. Moreover, the committee acknowledged and approved the report delivered by the Chief Compliance ­Officer on the status of the compliance organisation of the K+S GROUP. It was also decided to put the audit of the annual financial statements of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT and the consolidated financial statements for the 2021 financial year out to tender. Finally, the committee discussed focal points of the 2018 audit. At the meeting on 28 November 2018, the head of Internal Audit reported on his work in the K+S GROUP. The Board of Executive Directors reported on developments with regard to CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ­consultancy fees and donations as well as on the engagement of the auditor with non-audit services. Finally, the Audit Committee recommended that the Supervisory Board engage the statutory auditor to audit the non-financial statement. The respective Quarterly Report or Half-Yearly Financial Report awaiting publication was discussed by the members of the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors and the Chief Financial Officer in conference calls held on 8 May and 12 November and at a physical meeting on 9 August 2018. The Personnel Committee, which prepares personnel decisions made by the Supervisory Board and is responsible for other matters concerning the Board of Executive Directors, met a total of four times in 2018. It focused on setting targets with, and their attainment by, the members of the Board of Executive Directors, the appropriateness of the remuneration of the Board of Executive Directors in relation to the management teams and the total workforce, the gender quota and the further ­development of the remuneration system for the members of the Board of Executive Directors and Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 23 the Supervisory Board. An age limit for members of the Board of Executive Directors and a consulting agreement for Dr Nöcker were also discussed. In addition, the committee addressed the longterm succession planning for the Board of Executive Directors. Detailed information about the level of remuneration of the members of the Board of Executive Directors in 2018 as well as the structure of the current remuneration system can be found on pages 134–143. The members of the Nomination Committee likewise met four times in 2018; the main subject of debate was the long-term succession planning for the Supervisory Board. Furthermore, the committee addressed the introduction of an age limit for Supervisory Board members and limiting the number of periods in office. The Strategy Committee met a total of three times in 2018. It mainly discussed the new Group strategy SHAPING 2030 and the future organisation, as well as growth options for the K+S GROUP based thereon. The Mediation Committee did not need to be convened in the past financial year. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST No conflicts of interest involving members of the Board of Executive Directors or the S ­ upervisory Board, about which the Annual General Meeting needed to be informed, were disclosed to the ­Supervisory Board during the reporting period. AUDIT OF THE 2018 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DELOITTE GMBH WIRTSCHAFTSPRÜFUNGSGESELLSCHAFT, Hanover, audited the annual financial statements of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT, prepared by the Board of Executive Directors in accordance with the rules of the German Commercial Code (HGB), the consolidated financial statements prepared on the basis of the international accounting standards as adopted by the EU and the ­supplementary German ­legal requirements required to be applied in accordance with section 315e (1) of the H ­ andelsgesetzbuch (HGB – German Commercial Code) and the combined management and group management report for the 2018 financial year. The annual financial statements and the consolidated financial statements both received unqualified audit opinions. In addition to the statutory ­audit, the ­Supervisory Board of 24 k+s Annual Report 2018 to our shareholders K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT commissioned DELOITTE GMBH WIRTSCHAFTS­PRÜFUNGSGESELLSCHAFT to a ­ udit the conformity with limited assurance of the combined non-­financial statement in a ­ ccordance with the CSR-RUG. DELOITTE reported the results to the Audit Committee of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT at its meeting on 1 March 2019 and to the Supervisory Board at its meeting on 13 March 2019. Based on the audit procedures performed and the audit evidence o ­ btained, no matters have come to the attention of DELOITTE that cause DELOITTE to believe that the condensed non-financial statement of the company for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with Sections 315b, 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e of the German Commercial Combined Management Report Code (HGB). The annual financial statements and the consolidated financial statements were each issued with an unqualified audit opinion. The aforementioned documents, the Board of ­Executive Directors’ ­proposal concerning the appropriation of profits and the audit reports of DELOITTE GMBH WIRTSCHAFTSPRÜFUNGSGESELLSCHAFT, each of which had been submitted to the members of the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board on time, were each addressed extensively at the Audit Committee meeting held on 1 March 2019, as well as at the Supervisory Board meeting held on 13 March 2019, in the presence of the ­auditor. All questions raised at both meetings were answered satisfactorily by the Board of Executive Directors and the auditor. Following its own examination of the reports presented, the Supervisory Board did not raise any objections. It agreed with the Board of Executive Directors on its assessment of the position of K+S AKTIEN­GESELLSCHAFT and of the Group and, at the suggestion of the Audit Committee, approved the financial statements for the 2018 ­financial year, thereby ­ratifying the 2018 annual financial statements of K+S AKTIEN­GESELLSCHAFT. The Supervisory Board endorsed the proposal of the Board of Executive Directors for the declaration on corporate governance (page 67). The resolution on the appropriation of profits proposed by the Board CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of Executive Directors was also examined, particularly with regard to the present and expected future financial situation of the K+S GROUP. Following extensive discussions, the S ­ upervisory Board also approved this proposal made by the Board of Executive Directors. On behalf of the Supervisory Board Dr Andreas Kreimeyer Chairman of the Supervisory Board Kassel, 13 March 2019 Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 25 K+S ON THE CAPITAL MARKET K+S shares trended upwards in the first five months of 2018, mainly on the strength of rising potash prices overseas. From the third quarter, weather-related production problems began to weigh on the share price, whose downward trend towards year-end was furthered by an increasingly weak stock market. At the end of the financial year, our shares were trading close to their low for the year at €15.72. Capital market data Tab. 1.1 € million 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Closing price on 31 December XETRA, € 22.92 23.62 22.69 20.76 15.72 Highest price XETRA, € 26.6 38.81 23.62 24.83 25.75 Lowest price XETRA, € 19.44 22.4 16.06 19.11 15.03 Average number of shares million 191.4 191.4 191.4 191.4 191.4 Market capitalisation on 31 December € billion 4.4 4.5 4.3 4.0 3.0 Average daily trading volume million units 1.92 2.21 1.74 1.26 0.89 Enterprise value (EV) on 31 December € billion 6.1 6.9 7.9 8.1 7.4 Enterprise value to revenues (EV/revenues) x 1.6 1.7 2.3 2.2 1.8 Enterprise value to EBITDA (EV/EBITDA) x 6.8 6.5 15.3 14.1 12.3 Enterprise value to EBIT I (EV/EBIT I) x 9.5 8.8 34.6 30.1 32.8 Book value per share €/share 20.77 22.44 23.78 21.74 21.65 Earnings per share, adjusted 1 €/share 1.92 2.83 0.68 0.76 0.45 Dividend per share ² €/share 0.90 1.15 0.30 0.35 0.25 Total dividend payment ² € million 172.3 220.1 57.4 67.0 47.9 Payout ratio ²,³ % 47.0 40.6 44.0 46.2 55.6 Dividend yield (closing price) ² % 3.9 4.9 1.3 1.7 1.6 1 The adjusted key indicators include the profit/(loss) from operating forecast hedges in the relevant reporting period, which eliminates effects from changes in the fair value of the hedges (see also the ‘Notes to the income statement and the statement of comprehensive income’ on page 173). Related effects on deferred and cash taxes are also eliminated; tax rate in 2018: 30.0% (2017: 29.9%). 2 The figure for 2018 corresponds to the dividend proposal. 3 Based on adjusted earnings after tax. THE SHARE as the debt crisis in Italy and the slow-moving negotiations for the United Kingdom’s exit from the EU, put a damper on economic growth worldwide. In addition, the European Central Bank ushered INTERNATIONAL STOCK MARKETS UNDER PRESSURE in a turnaround in European monetary policy with the announceDevelopments in the global economy in 2018 were dominated by ment that it was ending its bond-buying programme in December. geopolitical conflicts and macroeconomic uncertainty, which was reflected in the performance of many international stock indices, Subsequently, the German DAX index lost around 19% of its ­value predominantly in the second half of the year. The trade dispute in 2018 and closed the year at 10,558 points. The MDAX also rebetween the economic heavyweights, the USA and China, as well corded losses of over 17%, closing at 21,588 points. The European 26 k+s Annual Report 2018 to our shareholders DJ STOX X EUROPE 600 index retreated by about 13% to end the year SHARE PRICES OF NORTH AMERICAN COMPETITORS at 337 points. The global MSCI WORLD index also trended downWe also track the performance of our share compared with that wards, losing 11% to finish the year at 1,883 points. of our publicly traded competitors. These include, in particular, the fertilizer producers NUTRIEN from Canada and MOSAIC from the PRODUCTION CUTS IN THE SECOND HALF OF THE YEAR United States, as well as the primarily salt-producing US-based WEIGHED ON THE K+S SHARE company COMPASS MINERALS. In the first six months of 2018, the K+S shares traded on the MDAX developed strongly on the whole, outperforming all benchmark While NUTRIEN only slightly underperformed the overall market indices until the mid-year mark. The share reached its high for the (–14%), COMPASS MINERALS stock showed a significantly negative year of €25.75 on 25 May. However, the share then came u ­ nder development (–42%). By contrast, the share price of MOSAIC (+14%) pressure in the second half of the year, due in particular to the benefited to a greater extent from the positive trend in the interweather-related production outages at the integrated Werra national potash markets. plant. The share recorded its lowest closing price during the year of €15.03 on 27 November. The announcement in early December Combined Management Report of a ­return to normal production levels at the integrated Werra plant gave a slight boost to the share price again. Nevertheless, amid a weak overall market it closed at a price of €15.72 at the end of the ­reporting period, close to its lowest closing price for the year (2017 year-end closing price: €20.76). In the course of the year, the short ratio fell from 12.6% to 8.4% (source: Bloomberg). www.k-plus-s.com/share K+S share performance in comparison with the DAX, MDAX, DJ Stoxx 600 and MSCI World FIG. 1.1 in % 120 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 110 DAX 100 DJ STOXX Europe 600 90 MDAX 80 MSCI World 70 K+S Jan Feb March April May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Index: 31 December 2017 Source: Bloomberg K+S share price performance in comparison with competitors in 2018 FIG. 1.2 in % K+S –24.3 NUTRIEN –14.2 MOSAIC 13.8 COMPASS –42.3 –50 –40 –30 –20 –10 0 10 20 Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 27 SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE BONDS AND RATING Under the free float definition applied by DEUTSCHE BÖRSE AG, the K+S BONDS free float is 100%. Until the end of February 2019, the following As a result of the continued high liquidity supply from the leadshareholders notified us of holdings above the legal thresholds: ing central banks, bond prices for borrowers with good credit ratings remained high on the capital market – with c­ orrespondingly ++ Dimensional Holdings Inc.: 3.005% (notification dated low yields. Most K+S bonds also benefited from this situation. 27 December 2018) ++ DWS Investment GmbH: 5.69% (notification dated RATING 31 December 2018) Following a review of K+S’s credit rating by the rating agency ­STANDARD & POOR’S, our BB rating was confirmed in August 2018. AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS FOR TRADING IN NORTH At the same time, however, STANDARD & POOR’S downgraded its AMERICA rating outlook from ‘stable’ to ‘negative’. This was mainly due to In North America, we offer an American depositary receipts (ADR) the challenges we faced at an operating level, which impeded a programme to assist investors there in trading in K+S securities ­recovery of EBITDA, the net debt/EBTIDA ratio and adjusted free and thus expanding the international shareholder base. As ADRs cash flow. The new rating outlook had no significant negative are quoted in US dollars and the dividends are also paid in US dol­impact on our Company’s eligibility for financing. lars, they are essentially similar to US stocks. Two ADRs correspond to a single K+S share. ADRs are traded on the OTC (over-the-counter) market in the form of a ‘level 1’ ADR programme. The K+S ADRs INVESTOR RELATIONS are listed on the OTCQX trading platform. RESEARCH COVERAGE ON K+S www.k-plus-s.com/adr The very extensive research coverage of the K+S GROUP remained www.otcmarkets.com virtually unchanged compared with the previous year. The banks analysing us on a regular basis range from an investment ­boutique with regional expertise to major banks with an international scope. In total, 28 banks analysed us on a regular basis during the 2018 financial year (2017: 29). www.k-plus-s.com/analysts Shareholder structure Fig. 1.3 Bond prices and yields Tab. 1.2 in % 31 Dec 2018 41 59 Private investors Institutional investors in % Price Yield 33 K+S bond (December 2021); coupon: 4.125% 106.7 1.8 thereof North America K+S bond (June 2022); coupon: 3.000% 102.4 2.3 26 K+S bond (April 2023); coupon: 2.625% 101.5 2.2 100 thereof Germany Free float K+S bond (June 2024); coupon: 3.250% 96.0 4.1 14 11 thereof UK & Ireland thereof Others 16 thereof Rest of Europe 28 k+s Annual Report 2018 to our shareholders At the end of February 2019, according to Bloomberg, 12 banks gave us a “buy/accumulate” recommendation, 11 a “hold/neutral” ­recommendation and 3 a “reduce/sell” recommendation. The ­average upside target was about €20.00. K+S INVESTOR RELATIONS OFFERS A COMPREHENSIVE RANGE OF INFORMATION In the past year, we responded to the need for information on the part of the capital market by offering 53 roadshows and conference days (2017: 52). We held investor meetings in Europe, North America and Asia, and in September we hosted a Capital Markets Day at our potash plant in Bethune, Canada. We also organised numerous one-on-one meetings and conference calls. By taking part in private shareholder events across Germany, we intensiCombined Management Report fied our contact with private shareholders. We complement the broad information offering on our website by publishing YOUTUBE ­videos showing interviews with members of the Board of Executive ­Directors as part of our ongoing financial reporting. www.youtube.com/user/kplussag The aim of our investor relations work is transparent and fair ­financial communication with all market participants in order to maintain and strengthen confidence in the quality and integrity of our corporate governance and provide comprehensive, prompt and objective information about our strategy, as well as about all events at the K+S GROUP that are relevant to the capital markets. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 29 COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT 02 31 Business model 43 Corporate strategy 50 Research and development 53 Employees 55 Non-financial statement 67 Declaration on corporate governance 88 Report on economic position 110 Report on risks and opportunities 126 Report on expected developments 129 K+S Aktiengesellschaft (Explanations based on the German Commercial Code (HGB)) 133 Responsibility statement from the Legal Representatives of K+S Aktiengesellschaft 134 Remuneration report 30 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report Business Model K+S prides itself on being a customer-centric, independent provider of mineral products for the areas of Agriculture, Industry, Consumers and Communities. We serve the constantly growing demand for mineral products from production sites primarily in Europe, North America and South America, as well as through a global distribution network. COMPANY PROFILE MATRIX STRUCTURE In our view, the best structure for One K+S is a matrix organisaAs part of our new corporate strategy SHAPING 2030, we want to tion. The new structure links geographically-oriented operating realise synergy potentials more intensively and have created a units1 with market-oriented customer segments2 and centrally new structure so as to more closely integrate the previously sepdriven excellence functions so that we can leverage their respecCombined Management Report arated Potash and Magnesium Products and Salt business units, tive strengths in projects and solutions on behalf of our customers thus forming “One Company”. everywhere. With this, we want to dispense with the silo mentaliAn overview of the most important sites of K+S is contained in the ty and focus on strengthening our networks across organisational inside cover of this Annual Report. units and countries. On 1 October 2018, we started to implement the new “One Company” structure: K+S matrix structure FIG. 2.1 BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OPERATING UNIT ¹ OPERATING UNIT ¹ EUROPE+ AMERICAS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CUSTOMER SEGMENTS ² GLOBAL MARKETING, AGRICULTURE INDUSTRY COMMERCIAL AND SUPPLY CHAIN EXCELLENCE CONSUMER COMMUNITIES OPERATIONS EXCELLENCE CORPORATE FUNCTIONS Further information 1 Segments according to IFRS 8. 2 No segments according to IFRS 8. k+s Annual Report 2018 31 While we conduct our business operation in the two operating OPERATING UNITS units Europe+ and Americas (see section “Operating Units”), the We conduct business operations in two units (segments accordcustomer segments Agriculture, Industry, Consumers and Coming to IFRS 8) in which our segment reporting will be reflected as munities form a completely new organisational dimension for K+S. of fiscal year 2019: This organisational realignment is aimed at combining common ++ Operating unit Europe+, comprising the former Potash and customer interests and developing long-term strategies. In the Magnesium Products business unit including Bethune, ESCO customer segments we want to drive innovation, pursue meg(previously part of the former Salt business unit) and the atrends, develop new markets and shape the Group-wide prodprevious supplementary activities (Waste Management and uct portfolio. They also serve as an engine for growth initiatives Recycling, Animal hygiene products, K+S Transport GmbH, and capital expenditure. The new “Global Marketing, Commercial Chemische Fabrik Kalk GmbH) and Supply Chain Excellence” unit combines the four customer ++ Operating unit Americas, comprising MORTON SALT, segments. It is responsible for driving customer segment strateK+S WINDSOR SALT and K+S SALT LA (previously part of gies, ensuring continuous process and technology improvement, the former Salt business unit) establishing global key performance indicators (KPIs) and ensuring cross-regional benchmarking in its respective excellence functions. These operating units also reflect the customer logic because the business of the customer segments Industry, Consumers and The “Operations Excellence” unit is aligned toward the developCommunities is regionally aligned in view of how the products ment of the global production network and the most effective for these segments are dependent on transport costs. In market possible steering of the production sites. Among other things, it cultivation there are numerous synergies between South Amerdefines and compiles key data, standardises maintenance, proica and North America but only few between the Americas and cesses and materials, and enables the transfer of best practice Europe due to the significant geographic distance. know-how. This scope of responsibility includes internal and external benchmarks as well as the needs-based further developBy contrast, the customer segment Agriculture operates in a gloment of our process technology competencies. bal environment. We supply potash products to the entire world from both Germany and Canada. Although there are few market The central functions Communications & Brands, Controlling, cultivation synergies between Agriculture and the other customer ­Corporate Board Office, Corporate Secretary, Environmental & segments, there are numerous synergies that we intend to more ­Regulatory Affairs, Finance & Accounting, Health, Safety, Manageintensively leverage in the areas of production, technology and ment Systems & Sustainability, Human Resources, Investor Relalogistics due to the geographic proximity of the potash and salt tions, Internal Auditing, Legal & GRC, Insurance, IT, Procurement, mines within Germany. ­Strategy & Development and Tax serve as business ­partners to the operating units. They set standards, define processes and compile The operating units have direct and close ties with their customkey data. In addition, they support the Board of Executive D ­ irectors ers. For optimal market cultivation, the two units are responsible and perform Group-wide governance tasks. for the entire value chain – from sales planning through production and marketing and distribution to delivery. Based on central strategies, they develop medium-term implementation concepts for their markets and implement central production standards. The two operating units think and act in customer segments (no segments according to IFRS 8), which in turn are considered Groupwide. In each of these segments, we concentrate on the added value offered by K+S: 32 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report CUSTOMER SEGMENTS for crops which have a greater need for magnesium and AGRICULTURE: WE ENABLE FARMERS TO PROVIDE ­sulphur, such as rapeseed or potatoes, as well as for chloride-­ NUTRITION FOR THE WORLD. sensitive crops, such as citrus fruits, vines or vegetables. F­ ully Our fertilizers are used virtually all over the world – from the water-soluble fertilizers are used in applications such as fertiwheat fields of Europe to the rice terraces of Asia to the coffee gation (use of fertilizer in irrigation systems), ­particularly for plantations of South America. fruit and vegetables. The fertilizer specialties are ­marketed under the following product brands: KALISOP®, KORN-KALI®, The customer segment Agriculture can exclusively be found in PATENTKALI®, ESTA® KIESERIT, MAGNESIA-KAINIT®, SOLUMOP®, the operating unit Europe+ and previously belonged to the forSOLUSOP®, SOLUNOP®, HORTISUL®, EPSO TOP®, EPSO MICROTOP®, EPSO mer Potash and Magnesium business unit. COMBITOP® and EPSO BORTOP®. Products and services Important sales regions and competitive positions The products of this customer segment are deployed in farming Half of revenues in the customer segment Agriculture are genas plant nutrients. As natural products, these are largely permiterated in Europe. In this region we benefit from the logistically ted for organic farming under EU law as well. Fig. 2.2 f­ avourable proximity of the production sites to European customers. Other key sales regions are located in South America, particuPotassium chloride: larly in Brazil, as well as in Asia. Fig. 2.3 The universally applicable mineral fertilizer potassium chloride is used in particular for important crops, such as cereals, K+S is the world’s fifth-largest and Western Europe’s largest corn, rice and soybeans. Potassium chloride is applied directly ­producer of potash products. With the new facility in Bethune, on fields in granular form, mixed with other straight fertilizers Canada, K+S has increased its share of the world potash market in bulk blenders to produce what are known as “bulk blends” or to about 9%. K+S is a world leader in fertilizer specialties. ­alternatively supplied as a fine-grain “standard” product to the fertilizer ­industry, which processes it along with other nutrients Major competitors include the North American companies to ­produce complex fertilizers. ­NUTRIEN and MOSAIC. Other important competitors are the ­Russian producers URALKALI and EUROCHEM, the Belarusian c­ ompany Fertilizer Specialties: ­BELARUS-KALI, the Israeli enterprise ICL, the Jordanian producer The fertilizer specialties differ from potassium c­ hloride, e ­ ither APC and the Chilean company SQM. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS because they are chloride-free, because of different n ­ utrient­ ­formulas with magnesium, sulphur, sodium and trace e­ lements, or because they are water-soluble. These products are used Agriculture – Revenues by product group FIG. 2.2 Agriculture – Revenues by region FIG. 2.3 in % in % 5 Others 19 Asia 43 1 57 50 Fertilizer Specialties Potassium Chloride 22 Europe South America 12 2 thereof Germany 4 North America 2018 2018 1 — Specialties | 2 — Commodities Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 33 INDUSTRY: WE PROVIDE SOLUTIONS THAT KEEP As a service for third parties and as a complementary business, K+S INDUSTRIES RUNNING also uses parts of underground chambers that have been ­created Our products in the Industry segment are extensively used in elecby the extraction of crude salt. In some cases, waste products are trolysis and food processing industries, however industrial appliremoved safely from the biosphere in underground depositories. In cations for our products are broad, ranging from pharmaceutical other cases, residue from the flue gas cleaning procedure is used production to copper mining. For example, electrolysis is used to as backfill material to fill the chambers. The salt m ­ ineral sites used produce chlorine, a key substance for many industries. Our minfor this purpose are separated from the ongoing raw materials erals are also contained in nutrition solutions and in cosmetic and ­extraction operation, are impermeable for both gas and liquids personal care products. We play a key role in feeding the world and are securely separated from the layers carrying groundwater. population with our products and technical know-how for the A combination of geological and technical barriers guarantees food processing industry. the highest possible safety. K+S offers a complete service covering the recycling of salt slag for the secondary aluminium ­industry. The customer segment Industry can be found in both operating An ­additional business sector is the above-ground recycling of units according to the regional split and previously belonged to low-contaminated materials. the two former business units and the Complementary Activities. At the Salzdetfuth site, furthermore, extensive sections of the Products and services above-ground infrastructure of an inactive potash plant are used K+S offers a wide range of higher-quality potash, magnesium and to granulate the well-known branded animal hygiene product salt products for industrial applications that are available in differCATSAN® for our customer MARS GmbH, among other applications. ent degrees of purity and in specific grain sizes. These are used, for example, in chlorine-alkali electrolysis in the chemical industry as K+S TRANSPORT GMBH in Hamburg acts as K+S’s own logistics a component of various plastics, to improve flavour and nutrient ­service provider, offering a number of different logistics services. content in food, in glass production, in m­ etallurgical p ­ rocesses, in the textile industry, in biotechnology, in oil and gas ­exploration, CHEMISCHE FABRIK KALK GMBH (CFK) trades in a selection of ­basic in water softening and in the recycling of ­plastics. In addition, chemicals such as caustic soda, nitric acid, sodium carbonate a range of products is available to meet the ­particularly high (soda) as well as calcium chloride and magnesium chloride. ­requirements of the pharmaceutical, cosmetics, food ­processing and animal nutrition industries. Product brands in the customer Important sales regions and competitive positions segment Industry include: APISAL®, AXAL®, BÄCKERSTOLZ®, KADD®, Europe and North America each account for 44 or 39% of revenues KASA®, K-DRILL®, MORTON® PUREX®, MORTON® STAR FLAKE® ­DENDRITIC, in the customer segment Industry. Other sales regions are located SOLSEL®. Fig. 2.4 in South America, particularly in Brazil, as well as in Asia. Fig. 2.5 Industry – Revenues by product group FIG. 2.4 Industry – Revenues by region FIG. 2.5 in % in % 5 1 Pharma Others 23 21 2 44 Chemical Food Asia Europe 1 7 19 4 14 Animal Nutrition thereof Germany Water Softening South America 15 1 2 Oil and Gas Complementary 39 North America 24 Other 2018 2018 1 — Specialities | 2 — Commodities 34 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report With potash and magnesium products for industrial, technical salt and low-sodium salt. Family-sized packages of de-icing salt for and pharmaceutical applications, K+S is also one of the most consumers round off the product range in this segment. Product competitive manufacturers in the world and is by far the largest brands include BALANCE®, BIOSAL®, DIAMANTE BRANCO®, C­ ÉRÉBOS®, ­supplier in Europe. In terms of salt products for the food processLOBOS®, MORTON®, SALDORO®, VATEL®, WINDSOR® for table salts, ing industry and salts for industrial and commercial applications, CLEAN AND PROTECT®, PURE AND NATURAL®, REGENIT®, SYSTEM ­SAVER® ESCO is a E­ uropean market leader along with along its competifor water softening and ACTION MELT®, SAFE-T-PET® and SAFE-T-­POWER® tors SÜDWESTDEUTSCHE SALZWERKE, GROUPE SALINS, WACKER C­ HEMIE for de-icing salt. Fig. 2.6 and NOURYON (formerly: AKZONOBEL). Through K+S Chile, South ­America’s largest salt producer, K+S has access to the growing We relaunched our premium German table salt brand SALDORO® sales r­ egions in South and Central America. Along with CARGILL in April 2018. Based on representative consumer studies involvand COMPASS MINERALS, MORTON SALT and K+S WINDSOR SALT ­belong ing qualitative interviews, we strategically realigned the brand, to the largest salt producers in North America. expanded the product range and modernised its design to ­better meet the needs of consumers. K+S ENTSORGUNG GMBH operates primarily in Europe and has a leading position there for underground reutilisation. Important sales regions and competitive positions Revenues of this customer segment are mainly generated in CONSUMERS: WE ENRICH THE LIVES OF END North America. Germany, France, Benelux, Scandinavia and EastCONSUMERS IN NUTRITION AND WATER SOFTENING ern ­Europe are key sales regions in Europe. Fig. 2.7 Our brands – and particularly MORTON SALT – can be found on shelves around the world. Every child in the United States knows In terms of products for consumers, K+S is a European market our “Umbrella Girl”. leader along with its competitors SÜDWESTDEUTSCHE SALZWERKE, GROUPE SALINS and NOURYON (formerly: AKZONOBEL). Through The customer segment Consumers can be found in both operatK+S Chile, South America’s largest salt producer, K+S has a ­ ccess ing units according to the regional split and previously belonged to the growing sales regions in South and Central America. to both, the former Potash and Magnesium business unit as well Along with CARGILL and COMPASS MINERALS, MORTON SALT and as the former Salt business unit. K+S WINDSOR SALT belong to the largest salt producers in North America. Products and services CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS K+S products for consumers include table salt, water softening salt, dishwasher salt and de-icing salt for use in the home. The portfolio also includes premium products such as sea salt, kosher Consumers – Revenues by product group FIG. 2.6 Consumers – Revenues by region FIG. 2.7 in % in % 2 Others 5 8 South America 14 Ice Melt Europe 2 1 3 52 38 thereof Germany Water and Pool Culinary 81 North America 2018 Further information 1 — Specialties | 2 — Commodities 2018 k+s Annual Report 2018 35 COMMUNITIES: WE PROVIDE A SAFE ENVIRONMENT IN producer, and MORTON SALT as well as K+S WINDSOR SALT, K+S is one THE WINTER of the largest salt suppliers in North America along with CARGILL Our de-icing salts prevent accidents in the winter. K+S is the only and COMPASS MINERALS. supplier present in all of the world’s major de-icing salt markets. To ensure reliable supplies to our customers, thanks to our proThe customer segment Communities can be found in both operduction and logistics network in Europe, North America and South ating units according to the regional split and previously belonged America, we can respond more flexibly than local competitors to the former Salt business unit. to weather-dependant fluctuations in demand for de-icing salt. Products and services Public road authorities, winter road maintenance services and GROUP LEGAL STRUCTURE commercial bulk customers procure de-icing salts from K+S, to a The described changes in the organisational structure initially had great extent through public tenders. Premium de-icing products no impact on the corporate structures of the individual K+S GROUP are also offered; often as a result of adding calcium or magnesisubsidiaries in 2018. um chloride, they create heat on contact with ice and snow and work more efficiently than conventional products, especially at K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT acts as the holding company for the very low temperatures. These products are marketed under the K+S GROUP and holds shares, directly and indirectly, in its subBLIZZARD WIZARD® brand in the United States and the DI-MIX® sidiaries, both in Germany and abroad, which make a signifbrand in Europe. Fig. 2.8 icant contribution to its financial performance. Along with K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT, the consolidated financial statements Important sales regions and competitive positions also include all material equity investments. Subsidiaries that are Revenues of this customer segment are mainly generated in North not material are not consolidated. America. Canada, the Midwestern United States and the US East ‘Notes’, List of shareholdings, page 212 Coast are particularly important regions in this connection. The main European sales regions include Germany, Scandinavia, EastMaterial subsidiaries are the directly held K+S KALI GMBH, ern Europe, Benelux and France. Fig. 2.9 K+S SALZ GMBH and K+S FINANCE BELGIUM BVBA. K+S SALZ GMBH encompasses ESCO – EUROPEAN SALT COMPANY GMBH & CO. KG (ESCO), In terms of production capacity, K+S is the largest supplier of salt K+S NETHERLANDS HOLDING B.V., which holds shares e.g. in Group products in the world. ESCO, along with the competitors SÜDWESTcompanies in Canada and Brazil, and K+S BELGIUM HOLDING B. V. DEUTSCHE SALZWERKE and GROUPE SALINS, is a leader in the Eu(since 31 December 2018: K+S Belgium Holding B.V.B.A.), which holds ropean market. Through K+S CHILE, South America’s largest salt shares in Group companies in Chile. K+S FINANCE BELGIUM BVBA, Communities – Revenues by product group FIG. 2.8 Communities – Revenues by region FIG. 2.9 in % in % 2 De-icing Packaged 18 Europe 9 98 thereof Germany De-icing Bulk 82 North America 2018 Commodities 2018 36 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report together with K+S NETHERLANDS HOLDING B.V., holds shares in VALUE CREATION MORTON SALT, INC. (MORTON SALT) via subsidiaries. K+S KALI GMBH and K+S SALZ GMBH primarily hold their foreign subsidiarBelow we present our business model using the value chain, which ies through dedicated intermediate holding companies. extends over the following six sections: Exploration, Mining, ProK+S ENTSORGUNG GMBH, K+S TRANSPORT GMBH and CHEMISCHE duction, Logistics, Sales/Marketing and Application. Fig. 2.10 FABRIK KALK GMBH (CFK) are held directly by K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT. The scope of consolidation has changed as follows compared EXPLORATION with 31 December 2017: K+S VERSICHERUNGSVERMITTLUNGS GMBH Exploration provides insights into the dimensions and structure of is now consolidated. INAGUA TRANSPORTS, INCORPORATED was deposits, as well as their depth and mineral content. We use the liquidated as of 21 May 2018. K+S BELGIUM HOLDING B. V. (since data obtained to estimate reserves in accordance with interna31 December 2018: K+S BELGIUM HOLDING B.V.B.A.) was estabtional standards. Worldwide, underground exploration is predomlished with effect from 1 September 2018 through spin-off from inantly conducted by drilling and seismic measurements that enaK+S NETHERLANDS HOLDING B.V. The consolidated company holds ble a spatial representation of underground geological structures. the shares in Group companies in Chile and is a wholly owned subsidiary of K+S SALZ GMBH (see above). K+S CONSULTING GMBH RESERVES AND RESOURCES was merged with K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT on 14 September 2018, Our potash and rock salt mineral deposits are either under the with retroactive economic effect from 1 January 2018. KALI (UK) ownership of the K+S GROUP or located in places where we posLIMITED was liquidated as of 11 September 2018. sess the appropriate licences and/or similar rights that permit the mining or solution mining of raw material reserves and ­secure these rights over the long term. ‘Glossary’, page 236 the k+s Value chain FIG. 2.10 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EXPLORATION MINING PRODUCTION LOGISTICS SALES/MARKETING APPLICATION Further information www.k-plus-s.com/valuechain k+s Annual Report 2018 37 Our potash deposits in Germany contain reserves of around crushed salt is brought to the extraction shaft via conveyor belts. 1.1 billion tonnes of crude salt as well as resources of around In this manner, potassium chloride (KCl) and magnesium sulphate 1.4 billion tonnes of crude salt. Reserves include stocks that have (MgSO4)/Kieserite (MgSO4·H2O) are obtained in Germany and rock been identified as certain or probable and can be extracted salt (NaCl) in Germany, the United States and Canada. In Chile, cost-efficiently using known technology. Resources are deposits rock salt is extracted using open-cast mining in the Atacama Dethat are anticipated on account of geological indicators but are sert in the Salar Grande de Tarapacá, a large former salt lake. We not yet recoverable in a cost-efficient manner or have not yet also extract sea salt and solar evaporation salt in Brazil, the Bahabeen reliably identified. These potential extraction areas are mas, at the Great Salt Lake in Utah and in Arizona, United States. ­predominantly connected to existing ones and belong to the K+S GROUP, or the K+S GROUP has the option to purchase them. Moreover, K+S operates brine fields in the United States and Canada as well as one in the Netherlands and one in Germany for the For our site in Bethune, Canada, we are quoting reserves and reextraction of evaporated salt. Since the summer of 2017, we have sources in billions of tonnes of potassium chloride ready for sale also been extracting potassium chloride by means of solution minas an end product. Reserves total 0.2 billion tonnes and ­resources ing at the new Bethune potash plant in Saskatchewan, Canada. around 0.9 billion tonnes. In 2018, 34.7 million tonnes of crude salt were mined from German The K+S GROUP has reserves in its rock salt mineral deposits of potash deposits. In addition, 1.4 million tonnes potassium chloride 0.2 billion tonnes of crude salt in Europe and about 1.3 billion were produced as marketable end product in Bethune. 5.4 million tonnes in North and South America, plus virtually infinite retonnes were mined from rock salt mineral deposits in Europe and serves of solar salt. Furthermore, resources amounting to around 17.2 million tonnes in North and South America. 0.5 billion tonnes of rock salt can be disclosed in Europe and around 1.0 billion tonnes North and South America, taking into LONG-TERM PLANNING OF MINES account extraction and impoverishment losses. Once the raw material in a mining operation has been exhausted or uneconomically viable, measures are initiated for the partial or complete closure of the mine. In Germany, decommissionMINING ing and after-care are regulated inter alia in the German Federal We extract raw materials in conventional mining above and below Mining Act. ground as well as through solution mining. We also extract salt by evaporating saline water, mostly sea water. The broadly comPotash production at the Sigmundshall site was discontinued as parable mining methods make it possible to realise synergies in planned at the end of 2018. The technical measures required to the extraction of potash and magnesium products as well as salt. shut down production and secure the mine, which will take sevThese involve the exchange of technical, geological and logistical eral more years, were developed as part of a comprehensive proknow-how as well as coordinated procurement of machines and ject and are currently being reviewed by the responsible authorauxiliary materials. ities. In addition to these activities, K+S plans to develop the site into a centre of innovation for the testing and establishment of In the case of underground extraction, crude salt is generally new areas of business. mined by means of drilling and blasting. Large shovel loaders ‘Employees’, page 53 then transport the crude salt to crushing plants. From there, the 38 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report The possible resumption of potash production at the Siegfrieddescription of our tailings pile management and water protection Giesen site, which was shut down in 1987, was approved in measures can be found under Environment in the Non-financial ­January 2019 by way of a planning decision approving ­public Statement on page 58. works. Taking into account the current framework and m­ arket ‘Glossary’, page 236 conditions, K+S will decide if and when the project can be implemented. The potash deposit in Bethune, Canada, contains the mineral powww.kali-gmbh.com/siegfriedgiesen tassium (26% potassium chloride content). Here, we use solution mining, which is the process of mining underground water-soluble Detailed plans describing the procedure for shutting down a site minerals by dissolving the minerals with water. The mineral-rich and after-care are also available for sites in the United States, solution called brine is then extracted from the ground and the Canada and Chile. minerals are recovered from it. As the solution mining process is water and energy intensive, great efforts have been taken to conIf no reasonable re-use of a decommissioned mine is possible, we serve and re-use as much of the natural resources as possible. are generally under obligation in Lower Saxony to flood the remaining caverns. 25 caverns have already been flooded there, two K+S has an annual production capacity of approximately are currently being flooded and one has been kept ‘dry’. At pres9 million tonnes of salt in Europe and 22 million tonnes in North ent, five sites in Lower Saxony are in the process of being secured, and South America. Rock salt from underground and open-cast and at 23 sites this process has already been completed. Flooding mining is ground into the desired grain size above ground. Evapat Sigmundshall is planned for 1 January 2023. orated salt is produced by evaporating the water from the brine and extracting the dissolved salt. When extracting sea salt or ­solar salt, salt water is channelled into evaporation ponds laid PRODUCTION out ­sequentially on a gradient. The brine becomes more and more The processing and refining of raw materials is one of our core concentrated as it flows through the basins until finally a layer of competencies. The mineral crude salt mined by us passes through salt several centimetres thick can be harvested. multi-stage mechanical or physical processes without changing ‘Glossary’, page 236 its natural properties. K+S has acquired mining licences from a group of local i­ nvestors At the end of 2018, the annual production capacity for potash and to set up a solar salt plant in Western Australia (Ashburton Salt CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS magnesium products reached up to 9 million tonnes. project). The project is still in the very early stages of development. After an environmental permit procedure was initiatIn addition to potassium (between 11% and 25% potassium chloed in October 2016, the first step involved the coordination of ride content), the potash deposits in Germany also contain magthe necessary study scope with the environmental authorities. nesium and sulphur (between 9% and 24% magnesium sulphate ­Following the approval of this scoping, we then initiated the actucontent). Depending on the quality of the crude salt, we use proal ­environmental studies and are completing a feasibility study for cesses such as thermal dissolution, flotation and, partly in combithe project. Only when the necessary permits have been g ­ ranted – nation with both of these, electrostatic separation (ESTA process) in 2021 at the earliest – will K+S make a final investment d­ ecision for processing. Solid residues and saline wastewater occur duron whether to build the solar salt production facility. ­Annual ing the extraction and processing of crude potash salts. A detailed production capacity of the location could be approximately 4.5 million tonnes of solar salt. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 39 OPERATIONS EXCELLENCE LOGISTICS The Operations Excellence project was initiated within the scope Our supply chain management governs and monitors the entire of the SHAPING 2030 strategy to optimize work processes in exsupply chain in order to ensure reliable supply to our customers traction, production and maintenance. The goal is to sustainably worldwide under competitive terms and conditions. We make use increase efficiency through cost savings and increased throughout. of the various transport carriers, taking into account their individuThe project will focus on processes at the facilities and on techal advantages, and incorporate more environmentally friendly and nology. It is intended to make the best processes and the most cost-effective railway lines and waterways as much as possible. expedient technology the standard according to which K+S mines With the help of key performance indicators applicable across the and refines worldwide, as this should reduce duplicate and adGroup, we monitor actual costs, measure the efficiency of logisministrative overhead. That in turn frees up capacities for furtics systems, and improve these in a continuous process in order ther growth. To ensure that the effects are not of only short durato maintain and increase customer satisfaction. tion, Operations Excellence is also anchored in the organisational structure and will accompany extraction, production and mainK+S conveys more than 50 million tonnes of goods on average, tenance in the future. including double counts when using various transport carriers. A global network of warehouse, port and distribution locations is PROCUREMENT available to this end. In 2018, K+S purchased technical goods and services (including logistics services), raw materials, consumables and supplies for OUR OWN LOGISTICS ACTIVITIES around €2.5 billion from around 16,000 suppliers. The majority With K+S TRANSPORT GMBH in Hamburg and the Chilean c­ ompany of our purchasing volume relates to production, as well as mainEMPRESA MARÍTIMA S.A., we have two logistics service providers tenance and expansion measures. Materials going into our proof our own. K+S TRANSPORT GMBH operates the ‘Kalikai’ (potash duction or our products only represent a relatively small part of quay) in Hamburg, one of the largest transshipment facilities the purchasing volume. for ­exports of bulk goods in Europe, with a storage capacity of around 400,000 tonnes. More than 3 million tonnes of potash and In accordance with the distribution of our sites, the K+S GROUP magnesium products are handled here each year. Furthermore, procures materials and services largely from Germany (42 %) and K+S TRANSPORT GMBH organises container transports in Germany the United States (22 %), but also from Canada (18 %), Chile (4 %), using inland water vessels and the railways. the Netherlandes (3 %) and the Rest of the World (11 %). Overall, 99 % of our contractual partners come from OECD countries. K+S CHILE S.A. (K+S CHILE) handles our maritime logistics through ‘Non-financial statement’, Business ethics, page 65 the shipping company EMPRESA MARÍTIMA S.A., using two of its own ships as well as additional chartered vessels. Our largest port Open and fair partnership is our claim for the cooperation with our is Patillos in Chile, where 6.5 million tonnes of salt were loaded suppliers and service providers, which we select in a systematic, onto maritime vessels in 2018. transparent, and IT-supported process that is not solely based on economic criteria. We maintain long-standing partnerships with The state-of-the-art transhipment and warehouse facility for poour strategic suppliers and service providers, partly to ensure setassium products in the port of Vancouver (Port Moody) includes curity of long-term supply and freight capacity. an unloading station for freight cars, 1,260 metres of conveyor belts and a 263 metres long storage shed for a total of 160,000 tonnes of potash products. Freight trains hauling 18,000 tonnes of product can be unloaded here and ships with a capacity of 70,000 tonnes 40 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report can be loaded at the facility's quay. K+S has 1,000 rail cars at its Patent and BRAND PORTFOLIO disposal to transport goods from the Bethune plant to the harA total of 71 patent families belong to the K+S GROUP worldwide, bour. These have been designed especially for KSPC’s requirements. which are protected by 306 national laws. The patents are for example applied in the areas of electrostatic separation, granulate We are also investing in our own wagon fleet for our European production and flotation. rail transport, which will have more than 400 freight cars in the final implementation phase The number of K+S brand rights increased slightly in 2018. As of the end of 2018, the K+S GROUP holds a total of 2,743 (2017: 2,582) national and regional proprietary rights, derived from 563 basic LOGISTICS SERVICE PROVIDERS trademarks (2017: 534). Securing long-term freight capacity is very important to us. Most of our international transport volume is forwarded by service providers with which we maintain long-standing partnerships. APPLICATION Products and services, their application, and important sales markets and competitive positions are described under the four SALES/MARKETING ­customer segments in the “Company Profile” section. We aim to be the most customer-focussed, independent provider of mineral products in the market through our corporate strategy APPLICATION ADVICE SHAPING 2030. High product quality and reliability are crucial preIn the customer segment Agriculture, professionally ­educated requisites for this. We strive for the greatest possible proximity to and trained agronomists advise our customers and develop our customers and want to offer them tailor-made products that needs-based solutions worldwide. We also conduct our own we sell worldwide through our established and customer-­oriented ­research and field trials in order to optimise the supply of distribution network. The Commercial Excellence project i­ nitiated ­nutrients by adapting our product portfolio. The crops we ­focus as part of SHAPING 2030 is aimed at improving all customer-­facing on are potatoes, corn, oil palms, rapeseed, and soybeans. For our aspects of our business. customers, we offer individual fertilization recommendations, which are the prerequisites for “good professional practice” in Assured quality, on-time delivery and professional advice should terms of agricultural land use. These recommendations help contribute significantly to customer loyalty. In terms of quality safeguard fertility and the productivity of the soil as a natural CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS management, we want to improve the quality of our products in resource in the long term. all phases of the value chain. Our quality management system is based on DIN EN ISO 9001 and is audited by accredited external cerAs a service, we offer professional advice to customers in the tification companies. We constantly assess our products for possi­agricultural sector. We anticipate trends and research ­changes in ble risks to health and safety and for their environmental compatgeneral conditions with a view to water and resource ­efficiency ibility, and ensure that they are safe for people and not harmful and in relation to soil fertility. Our aim is to optimise the s­ upply to nature when they are used responsibly and properly. We proof plant nutrients to crops even when general conditions change. vide our customers with comprehensive information about our We offer technical application advice for our industrial p ­ roducts products and services in product and safety specification sheets. worldwide. Since most of our products are chemically non-modified natural substances, they are exempt from mandatory registration in the context of the EUROPEAN CHEMICALS REGULATION REACH. All ­other substances are registered in accordance with the regulations. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 41 The “Growth for Uganda” project launched by K+S KALI GMBH in VALUE ADDED STATEMENT 2013 in cooperation with the SASAKAWA AFRICA ASSOCIATION has The following value added statement describes our contribution since trained about 131,000 small farmers to use better agriculto private and public income. Value added is calculated using sales tural techniques, reduce post-harvest losses, and correctly apply revenues and other income after deducting material costs, defertilizer. The second phase of the project focussed on the basic preciation and amortisation and other expenses. The allocation work, as well as in particular on the commercial aspect, “Farming statement reveals what share of value added went to employees, as a Business”. In an environment characterised by small farms, shareholders, government and lenders and what share remains the goal is to build an infrastructure for fertilizer sales, offer ferwith the Company (reserves). Tab. 2.1 tilizers in small volumes and provide training for distributors. The supply of self-grown food products has become more reliable and In 2018, our value added amounted to €1,341.8 million (2017: yields have increased considerably. Following the scheduled com€1,436.2 million). The majority (84%) of that, €1,122.5 million, was pletion of the project in 2018, K+S is working to transition the lesallocated to our employees (2017: €1,106.2 million (77%)). This share sons and core activities into a sustainable business model. Within is composed of wages and salaries, social insurance contributions this scope, the K+S Group invested in Ugandan agricultural infraand pension contributions. Local authorities received taxes and structure in 2018, such as in facilities for mixing fertilizer and for fees of €29.6 million (2%) (2017: €99.5 million (7%)). €104.2 milthe transhipment, processing and storage of cereals near Kampalion (8%) went as interest to lenders (2017: €85.5 million (6%)). It is la, the Ugandan capital city. This enables our local partner Grain­assumed that the shareholders will receive the suggested dividend pulse Limited to offer crop-specific fertilizer to small farmers in amounting to €47.9 million (3%) (2017: €67.0 million (5%)) and that practical amounts, as well as to purchase and process finished the Company has retained €37.6 million (3%) (2017: €78.0 million products such as coffee or cereals from the farmers after harvest(5%)) in the form of reserves and other assets. Tab. 2.2 ing. The aim is to further expand this trading platform together with our partners and to digitalize it in a second step. www.kali-gmbh.com/uganda Generation of value added TAB. 2.1 Allocation of value added TAB. 2.2 € million 2017 2018 € million 2017 2018 Revenues 3,627.0 4,039.1 To employees Other income 272.3 136.4 (wages, salaries, social benefits) 1,106.2 1,122.5 Cost of materials -1,434.8 -1.629.1 To governments (taxes, fees) 99.5 29.6 Depreciation and amortisation -331.3 -385.0 To lenders (interest expenses) 85.5 104.2 Other expenses -697.0 -819.6 To shareholders (dividends) 1 67.0 47.9 Value added 1,436.2 1,341.8 To the Company (reserves) 78.0 37.6 Value added 1,436.2 1,341.8 1 Dividends relate to the year under review and are paid in the subsequent year. The figure for 2018 corresponds to the dividend proposal. 42 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report Corporate Strategy A key focus of our work in 2018 was on implementing our corporate strategy SHAPING 2030. We have already reached the first milestones. Considering that the market and competition are c­ onstantly The strategic realignment also involves a paradigm change: while changing and megatrends are having an increasing impact we manage the operational business in two operating units, we on our business, we initiated the strategic realignment of the will become a customer-centric One K+S that focuses on our four K+S GROUP in 2017. An ambitious vision, our new mission, and the customer segments (no segments according to IFRS 8) at the same SHAPING 2030 strategy were therefore developed through intime. We are a company that systematically refines its raw matetensive dialogue and by taking into account our stakeholders’ rial and production base and, taking into account the megatrends, interests. makes use of opportunities to grow organically as well as through acquisitions. We are firmly convinced that, in this way, we can creAs a distinctive guiding principle, our vision shows where we are ate the most value for our stakeholders in the long term – while going as a company and who we want to be in 2030: “We will be offering a balanced profile of opportunities and risks. the most customer-focused, independent minerals company and grow our EBITDA1 to €3 billion in 2030 by It is also important to us to make the success of our strategy quantifiable. We have therefore formulated the following ambitions ++ thinking and acting as “One Company” for 2030: EBITDA of €3 billion with a return on capital employed ++ tapping the full potential of our existing assets (ROCE) of at least 15% and a portfolio that after 2030 can achieve ++ exploring new adjacent growth areas annual revenue growth of at least 4%. We want to achieve over ++ increasing the share of our specialties business”. two-thirds of the growth just by driving the development of our www.k-plus-s.com/vision existing business and optimising our organisation and processes. With this objective in sight, we want to create a stable foundaOur mission expresses what drives us every day and what contrition for our future growth by the end of 2020 through organisabution we intend to make through our work: “We enrich life by tional changes, efficiency enhancement measures, de-leveraging, CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS sustainably mining and transforming minerals into essential inand safeguarding our social licence-to-operate. gredients for Agriculture, Industry, Consumers, and Communities.” At the same time, we have added sustainability targets to our strategy. We have set ambitious goals for ourselves in the areas people, environment, and business ethics that we aim to realise with verifiable key indicators no later than 2030. ¹ The EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and ­amortisation, adjusted by the depreciation and amortisation amount not recognised in profit and loss in the context of own work capitalised, earnings arising from changes in the fair market value of outstanding operating anFurther information ticipatory hedges, changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges ­recognised in prior periods and in the prior year profit/loss from currency hedging for capital expenditure in Canada. A reconciliation can be found on page 95. k+s Annual Report 2018 43 SHAPING 2030 SHAPING 2030 describes the way from the status quo to the ­realization of our vision. www.k-plus-s.com/vision Our strategy will be implemented in two stages: Shaping 2030 FIG. 2.11 PHASE 1: TRANSFORMATION PHASE 2: GROWTH 2017–2020 2021–2030 MEASURES – Reduce indebtedness – Tapping the full potential of our existing assets – Realize synergies – Exploring new adjacent growth areas – Advance corporate culture – Increased share of specialties – Shaping the organisation and focusing towards our clients GOALS – Net debt/EBITDA ¹ ratio: halved vs. H1/2017 (8.1 times) – Requirements for Investment Grade-Rating achieved in 2023 – Synergies: > € 150m from the end of 2020 – EBITDA ¹ ambition: € 3 bn in 2030 – ROCE: > 15% in 2030 – Revenue growth beyond 2030: > 4% p.a. 1 The EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation, adjusted by the depreciation and amortisation amount not recognised in profit and loss in the context of own work capitalised, earnings arising from changes in the fair market value of outstanding operating anticipatory hedges, changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges recognised in prior periods and in the prior year profit/loss from currency hedging for capital expenditure in Canada. A reconciliation can be found on page 95. TRANSFORMATION PHASE THROUGH 2020 We have made impressive progress so far in realigning our organisation: our executive management functions have already been In the transformation phase, we want to create a stable foundatransitioned to the new model. Further management tiers will tion for future growth through organisational changes and effinow follow successively. The negotiations with the employee repciency enhancement measures. The best structure for this is the resentatives, which are self-evident in the context of such a reormatrix organisation. Within it we link the operating units Europe+ ganisation, are expected to be concluded in 2019. and Americas (segments according to IFRS 8) with the customer segments and global operations excellence so as to dispense with The matrix structure is a key prerequisite for a stronger customer the silo mentality and instead focus on strengthening our netfocus. What’s more, it will allow us to develop our product portworks across organizational units and countries. Through the folio more systematically and tap synergies in our existing busiend of 2020 we will align our business to our four customer segness. We mainly aim to achieve this in the areas of production, ments – Agriculture, Industry, Consumers and Communities (no administration, procurement, Commercial Excellence, and logissegments according to IFRS 8). At the core of the organisational tics. For example, one aim of the reorganisation is to release 10% change is the integration of our two existing Potash and Magneof employees (FTEs) in the administration. The planning is also sium Products and Salt business units to form “One Company”. well under way in the area of production, where we had already ‘Business model’, page 31 identified more than 1,000 specific efficiency enhancement and standardisation measures by the end of 2018. In total, with all measures we expect to generate a positive effect on earnings of at least €150 million per year from the end of 2020. 44 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report The further increase in production at our new potash plant in and are already making the preparations for this. We are currentBethune, Canada, and the expected absence of wastewater-­ ly investing in the establishment of agricultural infrastructure related production stoppages at the Werra plant, as well as a in Uganda, such as in facilities for mixing fertilizer and for the ­normalized capital expenditure volume and our working capital ­transhipment, processing and storage of cereals and coffee. The discipline should enable K+S to return to a positive free cash flow second step will be to establish a digital trading platform together from 2019. We want to halve the leverage (net debt/EBITDA ratio) with local partners. Our engagement in Uganda is designed as a by the end of 2020 compared with mid-2017. After completing the long-term one. Should this business model prove successful, we transformation phase, we are seeking to fulfil the requirements will later expand it to other Sub-Saharan countries. for ­regaining our investment grade rating in 2023. The persistent focus on our customers and our development SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMME 1 ­towards “One Company” is not just an organizational but also a cultural challenge, as the way we see our business and the way The mission we newly formulated in 2017 illustrates that suswe work together will be transformed. That’s why it’s all the more tainability plays a major role in our business operations and i­ mportant to us to actively moderate the transformation process ­ ntrepreneurial success. We want our material sustainability ise and optimally include our employees. The Board of Executive sues to be as binding as we have made our financial targets with­Directors, organisational unit heads and managers committed in the scope of SHAPING 2030. We will make our progress measurour team to the common path through numerous communicaable and comprehensible in the future by defining concrete goals tion events and measures in 2018, and explained the associated and appropriate performance indicators, as well as by regularly changes as transparently as possible. reporting on the respective current situation. GROWTH PHASE 2020 TO 2030 We have drafted a roadmap setting out development goals and promising growth options for the growth phase up to 2030. We want to increase our EBITDA while at the same time reducing their volatility. Our growth options are therefore directed at exCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS panding the specialty business and new areas of business such as ­fertigation (liquid fertilization). In the industrial sector, we intend to strengthen our product portfolio and expand our offering for the pharmaceutical industry. We also intend to step up our business in high-growth regions such as Asia and Africa, particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa, ¹ This section is part of the non-financial statement, which contains the inforFurther information mation pursuant to Sections 289b–289e Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB – German Commercial Code) and 315b and 315c HGB and is not within the scope of the audit in accordance with Section 317 (2) Sentence 4 HGB. k+s Annual Report 2018 45 K+S GROUP ACTION AREAS 1 CONCRETE SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS THROUGH 2030 1 The Sustainability Programme of the K+S GROUP addresses the ­major sustainability issues and even goes beyond them in the ­action areas. We assess issues and social trends with relevance In 2018 we set ambitious goals for ourselves in the three areas for our company early and systematically. We last determined people, environment, and business ethics. The targets decided by the ­major sustainability issues of the K+S GROUP in an online the Board of Executive Directors were drawn up by the specialist survey conducted in 2017. Throughout the world, 690 internal units and the Sustainability department. Each member of the K+S and ­external stakeholders were invited to evaluate ­sustainability Board of Executive Directors is a personal sponsor of the individu­aspects from the “GRI Standards”, the guidelines of the Global al targets and actively pursues their implementation. Reporting I­ nitiative. The response rate was over 56%. The result ‘Non-financial statement’, page 55; Declaration on Corporate shows a clear focus in the aspect of the environment on the top­Governance, page 78 ics of “wastewater”, “energy”, “emissions” and “use of water”. Our ¹ This section is part of the non-financial statement, which contains the inforstakeholders also consider the issues “health and safety” and mation pursuant to Sections 289b–289e Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB German “­compliance” to be of particular relevance. Commercial Code) and 315b and 315c HGB and is not within the scope of the audit in accordance with Section 317 (2) Sentence 4 HGB. K+S action areas FIG. 2.12 DIVERSITY & HEALTH & SAFETY INCLUSION COMPLIANCE & PEOPLE HUMAN RIGHTS ANTI-CORRUPTION BUSINESS ETHICS SUSTAINABLE WATER SUPPLY CHAINS ENVIRONMENT ENERGY & WASTE CLIMATE 46 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report K+S Sustainability KPIs and targets 2030 Target KPI 1 Unit Target value Deadline People HEALTH & SAFETY: Lost time incident rate Lost time 0 Vision Providing a healthy and safe work environment incident rate 2030 to protect our employees who constitute our (LTI rate) most valuable capital. DIVERSITY & INCLUSION: Employees’ favourable perception of Percent >90 2030 Hiring and developing a workforce that reflects inclusive work environment the places in which we do business. Fostering an inclusive environment that enables all employees to thrive and contribute to innovation and results. HUMAN RIGHTS: Sites covered by a human rights Percent 100 2030 Establishing the respect towards internationally due diligence process recognised human rights at all sites to ensure this core value is applied globally. Environment WATER: Deep well injection of saline waste water m³ p.a. 0 Beginning in Ending deep well injection of saline waste in Germany January 2022 water from potash production in Germany Additional reduction of saline process water m³ p.a. –500,000 2030 by end of 2021, no application for renewal. from potash production in Germany (Excluding a reduction due to the KCF facility Reducing saline process water. and the discontinuation of production in Sigmundshall) WASTE: Amount of residue used for other purposes than Million tonnes 3 2030 Reducing the environmental impact and conservtailings or increased amount of raw material yield p.a. ing natural resources by re-examining the potenAdditional area of tailings piles covered ha 155 2030 tial of residues stored on tailings piles. ENERGY & CLIMATE: Carbon footprint for power consumed Percent –20 2030 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reducing the carbon footprint and improving (kgCO2/MWh) energy efficiency to enhance competitiveness. Specific greenhouse gas emissions (CO2) Percent –10 2030 in logistics (kgCO₂e/t) Business Ethics SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAINS: Critical suppliers aligned with the K+S Group Percent 100 End of 2025 Demand sustainable practices from our suppliers Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) along the entire supply chain so as to align all Spend coverage of the K+S Group SCoC Percent >90 End of 2025 business activities to our values. COMPLIANCE & ANTI-CORRUPTION: All employees reached by communication Percent 100 End of 2019 Establishing a zero tolerance policy for corruption measures and trained appropriately in and bribery as well as anti-competitive practices compliance matters to avoid the risks of liability, culpability, loss of reputation as well as financial disadvantages. ¹ The base year for all our non-financial performance indicators is 2017. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 47 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE 1 In the so-called Brine Challenge, a crowdsourcing competition, we looked for new and innovative approaches, concepts and imThe dialogue with our customers and business partners, the cappulses to considerably reduce the saline wastewater that always ital market, political representatives, the communities in which runs off from the tailings piles after rainfall. In this way we want our sites are located, and our employees is very important to us. to take into account new ways of thinking in our own processes, We treat our stakeholders with respect and fairness and provide which have been developed by our own experts over the past them with comprehensive, truthful, and intelligible information. years. A total of 44 ideas had been submitted from 16 countries In this way we nurture and promote a regular exchange. by the submission deadline in December 2018. Among those submitting ideas were scientists, companies, institutes, and students, We consider stakeholders to be all individuals or organisations as well as laypersons from around the world. A panel made up of that influence or could influence issues with which our business external experts and those from within K+S is evaluating the sugactivity is linked, or who could be impacted by our business opergestions, up to three of which will each be rewarded with a prize ations. A criterion for identifying our stakeholders and weighting of €20,000 in April 2019. their importance is the extent to which mutual influence takes www.k-plus-s.com/brine-challenge place or could take place. In October 2018 we invited guests to attend the Future Food ­Forum In the year under review, for example, the Board of Executive in Berlin – the third time we have done so. International experts ­Directors sought direct dialogue on the new corporate strategy and forward thinkers, stakeholders from politics, science and NGOs, SHAPING 2030 during several employee assemblies held at vardevelopment cooperation experts and representatives from startious sites, and also utilized dialogue formats in smaller groups up companies debated the topic of global nutrition. such as the “Breakfast with the Boss” series. We maintain a conwww.future-food-forum.de/en tinuous dialogue with capital market representatives, hold regular discussions with political representatives at the site, state and In September 2018, we held our fourth Capital Markets Day with country levels, and have already provided information on our com20 guests at our new plant in Bethune, Canada. There the full pany twice at the “Kali Colloquium”, a potash symposium held in Board of Executive Directors took part in an intensive discussion Thuringia. With regard to environmental issues, we strengthened with analysts, investors, and banking representatives that focused stakeholder dialogue with environmental associations, political on topics of relevance to the capital markets, and in particular on representatives and municipalities in 2018 – particularly as perthe perspectives offered by SHAPING 2030. tains to current projects and plans. www.k-plus-s.com/cmd2018 ¹ This section is part of the non-financial statement, which contains the information pursuant to Sections 289b–289e Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB German Commercial Code) and 315b and 315c HGB and is not within the scope of the audit in accordance with Section 317 (2) Sentence 4 HGB. 48 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report OVERVIEW STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE: CONTENT AND DIALOGUE FORMATS EMPLOYEES Main topics Human resources policy decisions, remuneraThe success of our company is dependent on the expertise tion, further training, communication, career and success of our employees. Our employees voice matand family, etc. ters of importance to them at regular employee assemblies. Methods Meetings, committee activities, joint projects, A mutual exchange and transfer of information is promoted workshops/conferences, Annual Report, blogs via the Intranet. and social media, Intranet and internal communication, etc. CUSTOMERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS Main topics Quality assurance, production conditions, Dialogue with our customers helps us better identify their observation of rules and standards, complineeds, to which we align our products and services. We proance, etc. vide a wealth of information on the Internet. In addition to Methods Surveys, meetings, user training, trade fairs, personal conversations, we undertake satisfaction analyses joint projects, social media, press and public to gain specific information for improvements. relations activities, guided site tours, etc. SHAREHOLDERS/ INVESTORS/ ANALYSTS Main topics Enterprise valuation, corporate strategy, objecWe portray our business, field questions from the capital tives, results, risks/opportunities, competition, market and gather suggestions and ideas at regular roadESG issues, etc. shows and conferences. Methods Annual General Meeting, Annual Report, quarterly reporting, Capital Markets Day, meetings with selected shareholders, surveys, telephone conversations, conferences, roadshows, etc. POLITICS AND ADMINISTRATION Main topics Social licence-to-operate, environmental As a member of various associations and organisations, we issues, workplace safety, etc. directly or indirectly contribute our positions to the political Methods Meetings, workshops, committee activities, discussion through national and international dialogue with press and public relations activities, guided representatives of governments, responsible authorities and site tours, etc. parliamentary members. SITE COMMUNITIES Main topics Social licence-to-operate, environmental It is important for us to be good neighbours to the commuissues, job offers, etc. nities and regions in which are sites are located. We create Methods Meetings with selected stakeholders, workCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS trust at our sites through dialogue with the municipalities shops, information offices, open house events, and residents. press and public relations activities, guided site tours, etc. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 49 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT To ensure efficient use of resources and continuously improve our extraction and production ­processes, we conduct our own internal research and development and cooperate with external ­research institutions. Global trends give rise to additional fields of activity, and innovation­p ­ rojects supplement our traditional research and development work on salt and potash products. In line with our central focus on sustainability and customer centricity, our research focused on concepts for post-utilisation, tailings piles and disposal relating to the reduction of saline wastewater as well as product development. RESEARCH FIGURES K+S ANALYSIS AND RESEARCH CENTRE The K+S Analysis and Research Centre (AFZ) in Unterbreizbach, Research costs totalled €15.9 million in the reporting period which employs around 100 scientists, engineers and specialist and were thus slightly below the previous year's level (2017: staff, is K+S’ central research institute. The tasks of the AFZ in€16.5 million). A consistent portion of research costs was atclude carrying out analyses, application-oriented fundamental tributed to the Potash and Magnesium Products business unit. research and process and product development for all customer The Salt business unit reported a slight reduction in research segments of the K+S Group. All relevant analysis methods from expenses. Research intensity (research costs/revenue) is at the standard analysis to more complex special analysis are covered. level of previous years at 0.4%. Capitalised development-related capital expenditure ­increased to €1.4 million in the year under The AFZ also supports the production sites in optimising techni­review (2017: €0.5 million). cal processes on site. The collaboration with KSPC in Bethune was a key element in these efforts during 2018. RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS MORTON SALT RESEARCH For our research and development, we use our own various reThe focus of research and development is on accelerating growth search facilities, cooperate in public/private partnerships, initiate through customer-centric platforms for new products within the research projects at higher education institutions and other rekey market segments. The existing modern research and developsearch institutes, and cooperate with industrial partners. ment laboratory in Elgin, Illinois, has been expanded, and laboratories, technologies, and technical capabilities have been improved in order to optimise existing products by modifying product features and identifying new potential areas of application. Research figures Tab. 2.3 In € million 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Research costs 12.2 14.7 13.7 16.5 15.9 Potash and Magnesium Products business unit 6.1 7.9 8.1 8.4 8.4 Salt business unit 3.1 3.7 3.9 4.5 3.8 Other research costs 3.0 3.1 1.7 3.6 3.7 Research intensity (research costs/revenues) 0.3% 0.4% 0.4% 0.5% 0.4% Capitalised development-related capital expenditure 3.5 2.0 1.4 0.5 1.4 50 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report K+S is increasing investments to support the strategic objectives The INTERNATIONAL MAGNESIUM INSTITUTE (IMI), located in ­Fu Zhou, for innovation. Construction of a state-of-the-art research and China, is a partnership between K+S KALI GMBH and FUJIAN ­development facility near the headquarters in Chicago is under­AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY UNIVERSITY. way. The new innovation centre will contribute to accelerating growth of product innovation in key customer segments. With Last year, a research network was established in 15 provinces in the new facility, the research and development space will d ­ ouble China to harness scientific expertise for China and Asia. The coland laboratories, technologies and technical capabilities will be lective aim of the network is to reduce the environmental effects expanded. In a multi-functional space, where meetings with of the use of nitrogen and phosphate through balanced plant nu­customers, marketing events and consumer focus groups with trition. The main focus of these investigations was the nutrient live demonstrations and tastings can be held, the new innovation magnesium. The IMI hosted the third symposium on magnesium centre will create a unique Morton brand experience. This new in Guangzhou, China, where researchers shared experiences and space for innovation in the heart of Chicago is ideal for f­ ostering discussed current issues surrounding the impact of magnesium open innovation opportunities with strategic customers. It will on soil and plants and on human and plant nutrition. be fully operational from 2020. RESEARCH PARTNERSHIPS WITH EXTERNAL INSTITUTIONS INNOLABS AND COMPANIES The Innolabs, which were set up in 2017, supplement the estabSome examples of cooperation between K+S and external comlished research and development facilities in the search for new panies include the following: markets and business models. The “AgTech/Nutrition” Innolab, ++ In cooperation with K-UTEC AG Salt Technologies, research is for example, is working on overarching questions relating to the being conducted on feasible solutions for saline wastewater fields of resource conservation, water efficiency, and soil health. disposal and on product development. The “Industrial Science” Innolab is looking for new business sce++ We are working together with HAGER+ELSÄSSER on a project narios in the areas of health care and biotechnology. researching the possibilities for using membrane filtration to treat saline water. In 2018, trials were successfully carried out at a pilot facility. RESEARCH PARTNERSHIPS ++ Under a partnership agreement with the German Research Centre for Geosciences and the Friedrich-Alexander-University CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Erlangen-Nürnberg, research is being conducted on geoPUBLIC/PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS chemical interactions between salt rock, moisture, and gases. The INSTITUTE OF APPLIED PLANT NUTRITION (IAPN) is run as a p ­ ublic/ The project undertakes a combination of underground fluid private partnership by K+S together with the GEORG ­AUGUST monitoring and laboratory experiments and numerical simuUNIVERSITY of GÖTTINGEN. Last year’s research focused on the lations, with the aim of obtaining a better understanding of relation­ship between resource-conserving techniques in agrithe process in order to increase mining safety and optimise culture and optimised plant nutrition, especially with regard to the use of salt caverns. the supply of potassium and magnesium to plants. Focal points here included increasing the efficiency of water use and the environmentally friendly use of nitrogen. At the same time, methods for better determining nutrient requirements were investigated. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 51 SELECTED RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ++ Following the commissioning of the new kainite crystallisaAND RESULTS tion and flotation (KCF) facility at the Werra plant, further research and development is being carried out so that the remaining processing wastewater can be treated in such a way ++ In the area of organic agriculture, our focus is on the developthat it can be safely stored in mine voids near the site. ment of sustainable solutions for optimal plant nutrition. ++ A pilot project to cover tailings piles using a thin layer cov++ In terms of “precision agriculture”, we are working to improve er and revegetation has also begun and is being scientificalfertilizer efficiency through the development of innovative ly monitored. In addition to this pilot, other alternatives to application methods and products. cover tailings piles are also being investigated. A number of ++ The use of our products enriched with high-quality micro­ internal efforts have also been initiated, including a crowdelements can prevent possible deficiencies in crops where sourcing project, to develop new approaches. micronutrient deficiencies are found. In this respect, we www.k-plus-s.com/brine-challenge continue to develop our fertilizers based on market needs and sustainability considerations. ++ The Innolab is testing the technical feasibility of macroalgae ++ New and improved products for foliar application supplebreeding in artificial seawater at its own pilot facility. Various ment the specialities portfolio and are quickly becoming efmarine algae species are currently being cultivated and exfective alternatives to soil application in crop production. amined for economic viability. ++ Research and development work in the first test caverns in ++ With the opening of the aquaponic container and the launch the Canadian brine field were completed in 2018. The next of a consumer app, the Innolab has put the spotlight on urstep of the solution mining process is to add secondary minban farming for the first time. The aim is to raise awareing and the commissioning of the cooling pond will be scienness of, and test various technologies for urban cultivation in tifically monitored, and practical concepts will be developed closed systems. and tested. ++ Following successful development work by the AFZ, optical sorting in potash processing was installed and successfulPATENT PORTFOLIO ly commissioned to recover potash material from a residual fraction for the first time at the Neuhof-Ellers plant. Worldwide, the K+S Group has 71 patent families (2017: 70), which ++ Under the occupational exposure limits project, the chemiare protected by 306 national rights (2017: 304). The patents are cal reactions between nitrogen oxides in underground enviused, for example, in the areas of electrostatic separation processronmental conditions were investigated and their conversion es, granulate production and flotation. processes and effects described. 52 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report EMPLOYEES The Group strategy SHAPING 2030 is changing the corporate culture on multiple levels: K+S is being transformed into “One Company”. For this transformation to take place, each and every employee must be integrated appropriately in the best possible manner. Acting as “ONE COMPANY” of trade unions. The relationship with the works councils as well In 2018, the K+S Group worked on designing its new matrix as with Industriegewerkschaft Bergbau, Chemie, Energie (IG BCE) ­organisation which closely connects operating units with some is characterised by a long-standing partnership built on trust. In ­centrally driven functions to put the customer in the centre. More Chile, 53%, in the USA 59% and at KSPC no employees are organised than ever, this requires our managers to facilitate and promote in trade unions. When we started implementing SHAPING 2030 in ­successful teamwork across the K+S GROUP. With this in mind, 2018, we initiated negotiations with the social partners to achieve we are ­continuing to develop our human resources strategy into a fair balance of interests. The employees of the Sigmundshall faa comprehensive, global approach. cility were given more security for their personal future with the social plan agreed between the company and the works council in the conciliation committee proceedings. About 250 employOur workforce ees will continue to work in Sigmundshall. All other employees As of 31 December 2018, the K+S GROUP employed a total of were offered a career perspective at another site of the K+S GROUP. 15,070 employees, or 14,931 FTEs (full-time equivalents) (2017: 14,925 employees or 14,793 FTEs). Tab. 2.4 Remuneration Our workforce consists of 88.3% (2017: 88.5%) employees covered The K+S GROUP rewards its employees worldwide in line with the by a collective wage agreement, 7.6% (2017: 7.7%) employees not market and in relation to performance. In 2018, personnel expenscovered by a collective wage agreement and 4.0% (2017: 3.8%) es amounted to €1,122.5 million and were therefore around 1% trainees. On average, our employees are 42 years old and have above the level recorded in the previous year (2017: €1,106.2 milbeen working for us for 15 years. The turnover rate, i. e. the ratio lion). During the year under review, personnel expenses per emCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of persons who leave the company to average workforce size, is ployee (FTEs) amounted to €75,315 (2017: €75,485), almost on the 8.4% (2017: 7.4%). same level as in the previous year. The proportion of variable remuneration included in personal expenses, which allows our emK+S respects the freedom of association and the right to collecployees to participate in the success of the Company in the context tive bargaining. Around 76% of employees covered by a collective of a performance-related remuneration system, was €35.7 million wage agreement in Group companies in Germany are members in 2018 or approximately 3% (2017: €45.0 million or approx. 4%). Employees by unit tab. 2.4 in full-time equivalents as at 31 Dec (FTEs) 1 2017 % 2018 % Potash and Magnesium Products business unit 8,708 58.9 8,797 58.9 Salt business unit 5,008 33.9 5,015 33.6 Complementary Activities 280 1.9 280 1.9 Other areas 797 5.3 839 5.6 Further information K+S Group 14,793 100.0 14,931 100,0 1 FTE: Full-time equivalents; part-time positions are weighted according to their share of working hours. k+s Annual Report 2018 53 DEVELOPING AND PROMOTING EMPLOYEES Continuing education and further training K+S offers skilled employees and managers numerous training Expertise and innovation of our workforce are a key driver for opportunities in order to impart general and company-specif­corporate success. We therefore continue to develop and utilise ic knowledge. Depending on company requirements, we award our employees’ potential. At the same time, we are always on grants to our employees for full-time Bachelor’s or Master’s dethe lookout for talented people who will advance our continuous grees. In the United States, Canada and Chile, we support employ­development process with fresh ideas. ees who continue their education in line with their career at a university recognised by the company, by reimbursing all or part of their tuition fees. Investment in continuing education and further Training training amounted to around €13.4 million in 2018 (2017: €12.8 milExcellently trained and committed specialists are indispensable lion). The increase in costs is attributable to the number of trainfor the reorientation of our Group as part of the SHAPING 2030 ing days in Germany (14,181 days, 2017: 13,212 days) and a signifistrategy. At 31 December 2018, a total of 588 women and men in cant increase in supported technician trainings at the College for the German companies of the K+S GROUP were in a vocational Economy and Technology in Clausthal-Zellerfeld. training programme or in a cooperative study programme (2017: 567). With 201 trainees hired in 2018 we are concentrating on the growing need for specialists (2017: 179). At the end of the year, the Knowledge management/continuous improvement training ratio, based on employees in Germany, was around the process level of the previous year at 5.6% (2017: 5.5%). We offered jobs to In the knowledge management/continuous improvement proaround 85% of our trainees (2017: around 89%). cess (CIP) we give employees the opportunity to take an active role in operating processes and structures and to be involved in their shaping. At present, the knowledge management/CIP is Staff development ­effective in large sections of Germany and North America. Other As part of the Group’s strategic staff development, the global K+S r­ egions will be successively incorporated as part of One K+S. K+S competency model provides a uniform assessment basis for A total of 12,259 ideas were submitted in 2018 (2017: 13,804). The ­human resources development throughout the Group. benefit over a period of two-and-a-half years, i. e. the efficiency gains ­generated less the actual cost of knowledge management, In 2018, we opened up our talent management process also to was high at €13.8 million (2017: €13.8 million). employees covered by a collective wage agreement. Development discussions, which have been held with employees not covered by a collective wage agreement for several years now, will be inCompany pension schemes troduced for all employees covered by a collective wage agreeK+S helps its employees secure their standard of living in old age. ment starting in 2019. This is a face-to-face exchange between Every employee in the participating German companies who is an employee and their supervisor to discuss wishes and expecsigned up to one of the three company pension schemes receives tations with regard to the employee’s professional and persona subsidy from K+S. K+S subsidises the retirement benefits with al development. a 13% top-up of the amount the employees themselves pay from their remuneration subject to social security deductions into the Our management development programmes TRACK+s professional company pension scheme. The majority of our pension schemes and track+s executive are important components for the for the employees of our companies abroad are defined contribuqualification of our employees for the implementation of our tion plans, which are predominantly financed by the employees ­shaping 2030 strategy. themselves and subsidised by the employer. In 2018, we spent a ‘Non-financial Statement’, page 58 total of €20.4 million (2017: €26.2 million) on defined contribution pension plans. ‘Notes’: Note (21) ‘Provisions for Pensions and Similar Obligations’, page 188 54 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT This Non-Financial Statement (NFS) has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Sections 289b–289e HGB and Sections 315b and 315c HGB and according to the GRI Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative as an international framework. Unless otherwise indicated, all information and key figures presented in this statement relate to the K+S Group, including K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT. The ­following overview serves to ensure that the information required by law can be found and assigns it to the strategic action areas of the K+S Group. ¹ Index for the Non-Financial Statement NFS component Included in section Reference Business Model Company Profile Page 31 Corporate Strategy Page 45–49 Sustainability Management Page 78–79 Risks Report on Risks and Opportunities Page 110 Aspect Action area Reference Environmental Matters Water Page 60 Waste (Solid Residues) Page 62 Energy & Climate Page 63 Employee Matters Health & Safety Page 55 Diversity & Inclusion Page 57 Social Matters Stakeholder Dialogue Page 48–49 Respect for Human Rights Human Rights Page 58 Anti-Corruption and Bribery Matters Compliance & Anti-Corruption Page 65 Supply Chain Supply Chain Page 66 Consolidated Financial Statements We strive for sustainability, because we are committed to our rePEOPLE sponsibility to people, the environment, communities, and the economy in the regions in which we operate. Our mission is the We work daily for the satisfaction of our customers. We strive sustainable extraction and refinement of minerals. Accordingto meet their interests and those of our key stakeholders with ly, the Sustainability Program is part of the corporate strategy ­selected sustainability activities, focusing primarily on the action ­SHAPING 2030. We have set ourselves ambitious objectives in the areas that we defined in our materiality process: “Health & Safeareas of people, the environment and business ethics, and have ty”, “Diversity & Inclusion”, and “Human Rights”. developed corresponding concepts which we intend to implement ‘Employees’, page 53; ‘Sustainability management’, page 78 by 2030 at the latest. To do this, we have made the objectives ver‘Corporate strategy’, page 43 ifiable with non-financial indicators. A spreadsheet presentation www.k-plus-s.com/people of our fields of action, with the associated sustainability targets and non-financial indicators, is contained in the chapter on strategy. These series of aspects correspond to our strategic logic of Health & Safety the action fields in K+S Sustainability Programme. The health and safety of our employees is the highest priority for ‘Corporate strategy’, page 45 K+S. We have the slogan: “Nothing is more important than health and safety – not production, not revenues, not profit”, and we Further Information ¹ The section ‘Non-Financial Statement’, which contains the disclosures pursuant to sections 289b – 289e and sections 315b and 315c HGB, is not subject to auditing in accordance with section 317(2) sentence 4 HGB. k+s Annual Report 2018 55 work constantly to provide a healthy, safe working environment esco – european salt company GmbH & Co in Bernburg, G ­ ermany, for effective protection of our employees. Taking the K+S Health, while a contractor died of injuries sustained in an accident at the Safety & Environment Policy as a basis, we continuously expand Inagua site in the Bahamas. and improve the processes we have implemented for protecting health and guaranteeing safety on the job. Thus, for example, Our risk assessment processes are designed to ensure that every meeting of the Executive Board of Directors begins with work-related health and safety risks are identified at an early stage the topic of health and safety. and appropriate countermeasures are taken. We completed the implementation of a uniform system for recording near-accidents Anywhere we identify hazards, work-related pressures or health for the German potash and salt sites in 2018. This means that all risks, we actively take steps to protect health and increase occupaK+S production sites around the world now record near-accidents. tional safety. We preventively brief our staff by means of training courses and campaigns. The K+S Group is introducing a manageIn 2018, we also implemented various measures and campaigns ment system in accordance with ISO 45001 at all of its production aimed at developing employees’ decision-making abilities and sites. A global “Management Systems” competence centre helps promoting responsible health and safety behaviour. These include to coordinate the implementation and integrate other managethe introduction of the general obligation to wear eye protection ment standards. It also serves as a best practice platform. at our production sites. ‘Environment’, page 58; ‘Employees’, page 53 Health The development of occupational health and safety in the Our workplace health promotion and prevention programmes K+S Group is discussed and monitored in committees, compesupplement the management systems with measures to improve tence centres and specialist working groups at global and regionhealth competencies. The programmes are communicated at the al level. In Germany, for example, the Joint Committee on Health, individual sites and employees are invited to participate. MeasSafety and the Environment (HSE Committee), which also includes ures range from traditional health care courses and seminars to works council representatives, regularly advises on overarching early detection measures and counselling services. Programmes HSE issues. and measures are planned site-specifically based on the needs of and local conditions at the organisation in question. We continued to provide occupational health and safety training for managers and employees in 2018. In 2019, we are planning to Health care and advice in Germany is provided by company docintroduce globally consistent mandatory awareness training for tors. They also assist with the further development of operationthe management level in particular. al health management and are involved in carrying out assessments of risks and working conditions. Safety Goal: The K+S vision is completely avoiding accidents at work. We are committed to implementing operational integration manWe are therefore striving to reduce the number of accidents agement, which is mandatory in Germany, and encourage the inat work among our employees, measured as working hours lost corporation of disabled employees into operations. At 6.1% (2017: per one million hours worked (lost-time incident (LTI) rate), to zero 6.6%), the proportion of severely disabled employees of the K+S by 2030. workforce in Germany is once again above the latest published national average of just under 5% for the year 2016. In 2018, 750 work accidents occurred at our locations worldwide (2017: 794). The LTI rate for the K+S Group in 2018 fell to 7.9 comIn 2018, Professor Horst Christoph Broding, who has many years pared with 8.5 in 2017. The accident rate (number of workplace of experience in mining, was appointed to the chair for i­ ndustrial accidents divided by the number of hours worked multiplied by medicine and operational health management at the University one million) decreased to 29.3 (2017: 31.5). We are deeply sadof Witten/Herdecke, which is sponsored by K+S. dened to report two fatal accidents in 2018. One employee died following an accident underground at the mine of our subsidiary 56 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report An important aspect of health care is reliable compliance with clearly described growth path also provides new development occupational exposure limits. In response to the occupational and ­employment opportunities. ­exposure limits disclosed by the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in Germany for nitrogen oxides and particulate d­ iesel Traditionally, more men than women work in mining. As at emissions underground, our broad-based implementation p ­ roject 31 December 2018, 87% of our workforce based on the number for the German sites has been launched successfully. For example, of employees was male and 13% female for the companies of the significant progress has been made in the projects we got off the K+S GROUP. ground on the use of the latest diesel engine technology, alterna‘Target figures for the percentage of women’, page 76 tive drive technologies, the testing of reduced-emission explosive substances as well as the optimisation of ventilation underground. Goal: Hiring and developing a workforce that reflects the We also kicked off a health survey at two sites to analyse the physplaces in which we do business. Fostering an inclusive iological effects of the aforementioned substances. ­environment that enables all employees to thrive and contribute ‘Report on Risks and Opportunities’, page 121; ‘Research and to innovation and results. Development’, page 50 This goal will be achieved if, by 2030 at the latest, more than 90% of our employees perceive the working environment as inclusive. Diversity & Inclusion Going forward, this will be tracked in topic-specific pulse surveys, It is important to us that all K+S employees are valued, irrespeci.e. in the form of short surveys on core issues, so as to ascertain tive of, for example, their gender, nationality, ethnic origin,­r­ eligion the current mood and evaluate change processes. We will use the or ideology, disability, age, sexual orientation and identity. We do findings from the surveys to identify and build on the need for not tolerate any discrimination. ­action. In the last full Group-wide employee survey, which was conducted in 2015, the approval rating was 68% (ratings on a scale The recognition and promotion of diversity and inclusion is of one to five were mainly “tend to agree” or “agree”). ­enshrined in our core values and principles (CODE OF CONDUCT). We have confirmed our self-image in the form of voluntary comOur aim is to continue to expand and step up the active use of dimitments by signing the UN GLOBAL COMPACT and the CHARTA DER versity and inclusion as an essential part of our corporate culture. VIELFALT (Diversity Charter), a German initiative designed to enDiversity and inclusion are called for and supported by the mancourage diversity in companies and institutions. agement level, are promoted by human resources functions as Consolidated Financial Statements business partners in all employee processes, and live and breathe Diversity describes the set-up of our workforce. In an incluthrough the appreciation of all employees. sive working environment, everyone can leverage their potential to help meet the different requirements of our markets. Our The measures to promote diversity and inclusion are horizontal tasks. They are adapted to the requirements of the respective sites.This starts with the acquisition of talented staff. Here Employees by region Fig. 2.13 we seek to ensure that, despite an increasingly challenging lain % bour market, the best people are recruited for all divisions. We 1/1 5/5 Asia expanded our social media presence in 2018. We have now made South America our job advertisements gender-neutral so as to make it easier 21/22 for people to come on board. To retain and develop our employNorth America ees, annual talent round-table discussions are among the initia3/3 70/70 Rest of Europe Germany tives held at local, regional and global level. Their main purpose is to support the individual further training of K+S employees and promote mobility within the organisation, for example. Through 2018/2017 our TracK+S Professional and TracK+S Executive management Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 57 development programmes we support the development of our respect human rights; procedures for identifying the human rights employees and safeguard our succession planning at the same impact; implementation of measures and review of their effectime. All employees worldwide were given the opportunity to tiveness; reporting; and establishment of grievance mechanisms. ­apply for these ­international development programmes. In 2018, 16 employees commenced the one-year Track+S Professional To implement our human rights due diligence, we are about to programme. Six more employees will begin the Track+S ­Executive establish a process that is based on a standardised methodolprogramme in 2019. In addition, we make a targeted contribution ogy and takes country-specific circumstances and our business to the d­ evelopment of a diverse workforce across all organisational activity into account. It is based on the UN Guiding Principles for areas and levels and, with regard to the organisational structure, Business and Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinaaim to ensure that our employees in the matrix organisation work tional Enterprises, national action plans and other relevant guidetogether across all cultures. From 2019 onwards, we will promote lines, and laws. Our respect for human rights is enshrined in the this through a stronger mix of methods based on the 70:20:10 K+S core values and principles (Code of Conduct). The first pilot model. It puts a greater focus on learning on the job rather than for a ­human rights impact assessment will be carried out in Chile through formal training. And it is designed to ­reinforce the p ­ ositive in spring 2019; another pilot is expected to be performed in the exchange of ideas and information by K+S employees in projects, course of 2019. In these, potential adverse impacts on human shadowing in other teams and international assignments. rights will be identified, possible consequences drawn and organisational learning promoted at the same time. Requirements for human rights grievance mechanisms within the framework Human Rights of human rights due diligence have been discussed in cooperaK+S respects the internationally recognised human rights and tion with the Legal & GRC unit. supports its observance. The International Charter of Human Rights and the INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANISATION's (ILO) core labour standards are among the standards enshrined both in our ENVIRONMENT core values and principles (Code Of Conduct) and our Group-wide ­Supplier Code of Conduct. We reject any form of forced or child labour. Environment The K+S Group works continuously to minimise the impact Goal: Our Group-wide goal is observance of internationally on nature associated with the extraction and processing of recognised human rights at all of our locations and assurance raw ­materials. We use state-of-the-art mining and treatment that this basic value is applied globally. We measure this with the ­m ethods for environmentally friendly production and are KPI “Site coverage through human rights due diligence”, which we ­constantly developing these further. By investing in research intend to meet fully by 2030. As our methodology is currently beand development, we operate at the cutting edge. We will also ing developed, our activities are only just beginning. The figure be breaking new ground in future in relation to the disposal of for systematic coverage in 2018 is therefore still 0%. our residues and setting standards for the state of the art. At the same time, we need to remain economically efficient. In conResponsibility for implementing the process lies with the 'Sustainnection with the K+S sustainability objectives for 2030, we have ability' department in cooperation with the Europe+ and Amerset ourselves ambitious goals in the areas of “water”, “mining icas operating units. The global working group for the introducwaste” and “energy & climate”. tion of the human rights due diligence process started work at the beginning of December 2018. An initial training session for Our environmental management function helps us to achieve the working group has taken place. our goals and is coordinated across the Group and across all ­topics. The companies specify requirements and support the loIn implementing human rights due diligence, we consider the five cations in their implementation. Based on our integrated Health, core elements: A policy commitment to meet the responsibility to Safety & Environment (HSE) Policy, we strive to standardise and 58 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report continuously improve our management systems and HSE perCapital expenditure and operating costs for formance for key sites worldwide by introducing management environmental protection systems in accordance with DIN EN ISO 14001:2015 for environInvestments in environmental protection amounted to €99.1 milmental management and DIN EN ISO 50001:2015 for energy manlion in 2018. The €26.8 million lower level compared to the preagement on an ongoing basis. National and international comvious year (€125.9 million) results from lower investments in the mittees of experts have been set up to increase efficiency and water protection after the major project of the Kainite Crystalliexchange experience. sation and Flotation (KCF) facility at Hattorf site was completed as scheduled. While 2017 marked the main investment focus of Environmental performance indicators at plant and company levthe €180 million project, in 2018 only relatively small investments el are collected and evaluated using an environmental data softwere made for the new facility, which had already been commisware package that has been implemented at all production sites. sioned in January. We collect the environmental performance indicators reported for all key consolidated production sites. They are mostly based on In 2018, this was offset by high investments for the approved tailfigures that are measured directly. ings pile expansion at the Hattorf potash site. In terms of value, the largest subprojects included the preparation of the expanFor the non-financial indicators defined as part of the sustainasion area, including the base sealing as well as tangible assets bility targets, we present the recording method and the reportin the tailings pile technology. Another investment focus in 2018 ing limits separately. was the acquisition of the required land for the applied tailings ‘About this report’, page 227 pile expansion at the Zielitz potash site. Capital expenditure on environmental protection 1 tab. 2.5 in € million 2017 2018 deviation % Water protection 118.8 90.1 -28.7 -24.2 Prevention of air pollution and climate protection 0.9 0.9 0 0 Waste management 2.7 2.1 -0.6 -22.2 Nature conservation 2 and soil decontamination 3.4 5.1 1.7 50.0 Consolidated Financial Statements Other 0.1 0.9 0.8 >100 Total 125.9 99.1 -26.8 -21.3 ¹ The reporting of environmental investments is based on the German Environmental Statistics Act (Umweltstatistikgesetz, UStatG), but also includes the items relating to our global operations. ² Including landscape conservation. Operating costs for environmental protection 1 tab. 2.6 in € million 2017 2018 deviation % Water protection 145.7 169.9 24.2 16.6 Prevention of air pollution and climate protection 31.7 31.0 -0.7 -2.2 Waste management 14.3 16.5 2.2 15.4 Nature conservation ² and soil decontamination 2 2.1 0.1 5.0 Other 4.7 5.1 0.4 8.5 Total 198.4 224.6 26.2 13.2 ¹ The reporting of environmental investments is based on the German Environmental Statistics Act (Umweltstatistikgesetz, UStatG), but also includes the items relating to our global operations. Further Information ² Including landscape conservation. k+s Annual Report 2018 59 The higher investments in nature conservation and soil decontamWater ination compared to 2017 can be attributed to further compensaWater is also a very important resource for K+S. We use water in tion and replacement measures implemented as part of the onvarying qualities in many of our processes. We need water for going tailings pile expansion process in Zielitz. Tab. 2.5 mining and extraction in certain deposits, in production and in the use of certain products, for example in agriculture. We extract The operating costs for environmental protection in 2018 amounthigh-quality salt products from seawater and other saline waters ed to €224.6 million, up €26.2 million (2017: €198.4 million). through solar evaporation. On the other hand, certain production The reason for the significant rise was, in particular, higher costs processes and tailings piles generate saline wastewater that we arising from tailings piles of the German potash sites, which are need to dispose of. incorporated in the water protection costs. Starting in the 2018 financial year, the underlying plots and the relevant sealing mateA Group-wide water risk analysis was carried out for all relevant rials will be amortized by increasing filling on a scheduled basis, production sites in 2017 in order to identify water risks that could as the subsequent use of the pots is excluded. In addition, higher impact on our business activity. The results will continue to be expenses for recultivation obligations had to be considered due included in the site specific concepts for environmental manto the stoppage of potash production at the Sigmundshall site agement. Our aim is to minimise water-related impacts. The at the end of 2018. K+S Group has set itself concrete targets for this. The key figures for water withdrawal and wastewater disposal below provide A further cost increase in water protection was due to a rise in more information on how we use water as a resource. transports for additional measures implemented for remote ­disposal of saline wastewater of the Werra plant in Lower ­Saxony Water withdrawal and Saxony-Anhalt. The reasons were the long-lasting severe In 2018, the K+S Group withdrew a total of 422.8 million m³ of drought conditions and the associated, extremely low water levwater (2017: 397.9 million m³) from different sources for the els of the Werra, causing the discharge of saline wastewater to ­extraction and manufacturing of products. Following the start be very limited or not possible at all. of production of our Canadian potash plant Bethune, the river water intake in 2018 increased to 137.0 million m³ (2017: 133.0 milThe higher costs incurred for waste management are primarily due lion m³). The withdrawal of salt water from seas and other saline to price increases for landfill and construction waste ­disposal and sources decreased 2017 due to the damages by hurricane Irma the year-round production of the Bethune site in Canada f­ ollowing and returned to normal levels in 2018. The majority (89%) of our its commissioning start in 2017. water withdrawal takes place at locations without water stress. Operating costs primarily include additional environmental proWastewater tection measures. These measures relate in particular to water The extraction and processing of our raw materials and the ­raising protection, prevention of air pollution and climate protection, of tailings piles leads to saline wastewater. K+S continues to work waste management, nature conservation and soil decontaminahard to reduce the volume of saline wastewater generated in protion, and refer to facilities separate from other production processduction and from the disposal of residues for the long term. The es. Operating costs and depreciation on production facilities for volume and composition of processing wastewater and tailings water protection, which are integrated into production ­processes pile runoff is dependent on many factors such as local crude salt and enable the production of additional sales products, are not quality, the treatment method used, the products manufactured included. Tab. 2.6 and the product quality required. The total salt content of saline wastewater therefore varies. 60 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report Water withdrawal tab. 2.7 Wastewater tab. 2.8 in million m³ 2017 ¹ 2018 in million m³ 2017 ² 2018 Seawater and other saline water 256.1 276.2 Wastewater River water 133.0 137.0 Wastewater discharged into municipal sewage treatment plants 0.6 0.7 Groundwater 8.2 8.3 Process water in river water 110.6 112.1 Drinking water and water from municipal water utilities 1.2 1.3 Salt water ¹ Total volume of water withdrawn 398.4 422.8 Injection 3.9 8.0 ¹ The previous year’s figures have been adjusted due to subsequent data received. Saline wastewater discharged into seawater and other saline waters ² 52.4 50.8 Saline wastewater discharged into surface water 13.3 10.8 In 2018, the volume of saline wastewater discharged into surSaline wastewater in potash production 6.2 4.8 face water amounted to 4.8 million m³ (2017: 6.2 million m³) for Saline wastewater in salt production 7.1 6.0 ­ otash production and to 6.0 million m³ (2017: 7.4 million m³) for p salt production. A further 8.0 million m³ (2017: 3.9 million m³) was ¹ Total dissolved solids (TDS) > 1 g/l. ² The previous year’s figures have been adjusted due to improved classification of injected underground. wastewater. The volume of saline wastewater discharged into surface waters as a result of potash operations was down owing to the production cuts at the Werra plant. The higher figures for injection are there was a 38-day/23-day/3-day production cut as a result of the attributable to the increase in production at the Bethune plant greatly reduced scope for discharging waste during the months in Canada. of August, September and December. ‘Report on Risks and Opportunities’, page 116 The commissioning of the kainite crystallisation and flotation (KCF) facility at the Hattorf site of the Werra plant in January 2018 Regarding saline water, K+S has ambitious plans. We have set ourleads to a future reduction of around 20% in the volume of saselves the following ambitious goals up to 2021 and up to 2030: line wastewater from the Werra plant. The options available for Consolidated Financial Statements disposing of this saline wastewater are further on the discharge Goal: After 2021, K+S will no longer inject saline water below into the Werra and injection. ground in Germany. This will also allow us to fulfil a key measure of the Weser river basin management. In 2018, the K+S Group If the two means of disposal are insufficient due to prolonged low injected 1.0 million m³ (2017: 1.2 million m³) of saline wastewater water levels in the Werra river, some of the saline wastewater can arising from processing at the Hattorf site underground. In acbe transported by truck and/or rail for disposal in suitable vacant cordance with the agreement reached with Friends of the Earth mines and gas caverns or used for mine stabilisation work. In the Germany (Bund für Umwelt und Naturschutz Deutschland, summer of 2019, K+S also plans to increase the temporary storage BUND), we intend to inject a total of 1 million m³ less processing capacity for saline wastewater on-site by a further 400,000 m³ wastewater underground by 2021. The possibility of storing proto a total of up to 1 million m³. cess water underground is currently being developed for disposal of the water after 2021. In a first step, our goal is to dispose of Production at the Werra plant had to be interrupted in 2018 due 1.5 million m³ per year in suitable cavities in the mine on the to the extraordinary drought followed by low water levels of surWerra. face waters. At the Wintershall, Hattorf and Unterbreizbach sites, www.fgg-weser.de/ Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 61 Goal: By 2030, we also intend to reduce the amount of saline Tailings pile management process water from potash production to be disposed of in In 2018, K+S KALI GMBH piled up 27.6 million tonnes of solid resiGermany by a further 500,000 m3. This reduction will be in addidues in Germany (2017: 27.5 million tonnes). Comprehensive montion to the volumes saved by the KCF facility at the Werra site and itoring programmes include groundwater, deformation and dust does not include the reduction generated by the end of producmeasurements and monitor any impact the tailings piles may tion at our plant in Sigmundshall in 2018. It is therefore expected have. The data generated on this basis is available to the licensthat from 2030 onwards only 2.2 million m³ of process water from ing authorities at all times. Besides this, K+S performs regular inpotash production will need to be disposed of. The planned savternal inspections. In addition, operation of the tailings pile is ings of 500,000 m³ of saline process water include our established monitored by recurring inspections by the licensing authorities. potash plants in Germany. The K+S plant Bethune in Canada was We give the authorities detailed information about the planning in the ramp-up phase in 2018 and is built according to the state and implementation of measures. Existing tailings piles need to of the art. The environmental impact of Bethune had already been be expanded to safeguard potash production in the long term. assessed and comprehensively taken into account prior to its com++ The expansion of the Hattorf tailings pile (phase I) was missioning in 2017. ­approved in 2018 and is already being implemented. Approval was granted for an area of around 27 hectares to the northIn 2018, a total of 3.4 million m³ (2017: 4.5 million m³) of saline west of the existing tailings pile. It provides capacity for five process water was generated at the potash sites in Germany. The to six years. In addition, the authorities are already review­ volume was thus 1.1 million m³ below the previous year. Based on ing the application for the second phase of the expansion the adjusted base year 2017, which is taking into account the full of tailings pile capacity, which is expected to last until the effect of the KCF facility (–1.5 million m³) and the end of production early 2040s. at Sigmundshall plant (–0.3 million m³), the saline process water ++ The application documents for the process of extending the volume initially increased in 2018 to 0.4 million m³. tailings piles at the Zielitz site were submitted to the relevant authorities in October 2017. Public participation took place In order to achieve our goal by 2030 and safeguard German potin summer 2018. The public hearing is expected to be held in ash production, K+S is engaged in extensive research and develthe first quarter of 2019. opment projects in Germany to further optimise extraction and ++ The application documents for the planned expansion of tailtreatment processes as well as in projects to reduce the volume ing piles at the Wintershall site were submitted in April 2018. of process water to be disposed of. In the run-up to the approval process, the general public was ‘Report on Risks and Opportunities’, page 116; ‘Research and comprehensively briefed on the project at several information development’, page 50 events as well as through flyers and information published on the K+S website. Waste (Solid Residues) The tailings pile expansions will entail comprehensive compenSolid residues regularly occur in mining during the extraction and satory and replacement measures. The compensatory measures processing of crude potash salts. These make up most of our solinclude long-term, large-scale projects that aim to create new id waste. Disposal of the residue on tailings piles depends on the biotopes for fauna and flora or upgrade existing ones. Reforestconditions at the individual locations and the permits granted and ation will also be carried out primarily in areas deemed to be of aims to minimise the impact on the environment through develpoor quality from a nature conservation perspective to conserve opment of new technologies. As part of our extensive approval usable agricultural areas. In addition, before this starts to have procedures, which last several years, environmental impacts are an impact, some species conservation measures will be carried analysed and avoidance options optimised. Our operational enviout earlier than planned to ensure the uninterrupted continuity ronmental management, compliance with official requirements of environmental functions. and the relevant legislation as well as professional exchange of ideas and information in various committees ensure continuous monitoring and improvement of standards. 62 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report Goal: Our Group-wide goal is to further reduce the impact ++ At the Neuhof site, the initial steps for covering the tailings on the environment and conserving natural resources by pile with a so called innovative erosion protection have re-examining the potential of residues stored on tailings piles. already been taken. Polder construction on the top of the From 2030, we hope to use three million tonnes of residue per tailings pile is currently at the planning stage. year for purposes other than the raising of tailings piles. We are ++ At the same time, a pilot project has been running in Zielitz planning to achieve this goal by an alternative use of the tailings since 2013 to develop a further site-appropriate covering pile material and avoiding residue through increased raw mateoption, the infiltration inhibition layer. rial yield. We record this indicator on a project basis depending on the form of residue recycling. In 2018, we recycled 1.0 million In line with our strategy for legacy tailings piles, we have contintonnes of residue for evaporated salt production by FRISIA ZOUT B.V. ued to cover the Friedrichshall tailings pile. The plan is to comand avoided residue by implementing technical measures to inplete this, including all remaining work, by the end of 2021. At crease raw material exploitation. the ­Sigmundshall plant, sections of the tailings pile plateau and other sections of the sides of the tailings piles have been covered. In 2018, we initiated a variety of projects aimed at reducing resThe tried-and-tested site-specific covering process will be continidue. These include recycling of solution residue at alternative ued in the coming years. operating sites, rock salt pre-separation and other optical sort‘Report on Risks and Opportunities’, page 117 ing underground. In 2019, we will also work hard on the options to increase raw material exploitation. Energy & Climate Goal: By 2030 we aim to cover another 115 hectares of tailAs a resources company we operate many energy-intensive proings pile surface area, further reducing or preventing tailings cesses along the entire value chain, from extraction of the raw mapile runoff. This involves covering large and medium-sized tailings terials and production to transportation of the finished product. piles that will be raised in addition to the existing cover in 2017 (approx. 70 hectares). By 2030 we will thus have covered a total Energy of 225 hectares of tailings pile surface area. The tailings pile surThe K+S GROUP generates most of its global energy requirements face area covered relates to the contact surface of the tailings pile for electricity and heat in its own plants using primary energy that is relevant for reducing the tailings pile runoff. For this, the sources. We buy any additional energy required on the market. area covered will be projected to the contact surface. We will reWe are continuously working on the most energy-efficient raw Consolidated Financial Statements view progress by taking annual measurements. Where measurematerial extraction and factory production. ments are delayed compared with the reporting period, the annual figures will be based on extrapolations. An additional 5.9 Goal: By 2030 we aim to reduce our specific carbon footprint hectares of tailings pile surface area were covered in 2018. for all electrical energy used at our production sites by 20% ++ At the Hattorf site we completed pilot testing for thin film (2017 data: 302.51 kg CO2/MWh). This will entail making our e­ nergy coverage on an area of 0.5 hectares and will receive further conversion even more efficient, exploiting our potential from information about the technical feasibility and long-term ­combined heat and power (CHP) generation to a greater extent material behaviour in the future. In addition, we covered the and looking into using renewable sources of energy. The target surface of a former sludge basin spanning 4.2 hectares. A polconcerns our Scope 1 and 2 emissions from own-use electricity, der construction has begun at the top of the tailings pile in which are generated from direct energy conversion on the one Hattorf. This will be continued in 2019. The engineering of hand and indirectly sourced electricity on the other. In the 2018 further covering measures is also at the preparatory stage. financial year, our carbon footprint for electricity used was We will initiate these measures in 2019, subject to approval 298.1 kg CO2/MWh (2017: 302.51 kg CO2/MWh), a reduction of –1.5% by the regulatory authorities. They include covering the concompared with 2017 data. The decline is attributable to an additact surface of a former kieserite tailings pile and the corretional CHP electricity generation in Germany and the first-time sponding basins. achievement of the nominal capacity utilization of our KCF f­ acility Further Information in the second half of the year. k+s Annual Report 2018 63 Energy use by energy sources and greenhouse gas As 2018 was the first year of operation for the Bethune plant in emissions Scope 1, 2 and 3 tab. 2.9 Canada and due to the commissioning of the KCF facility in 2018, 2017 2018 total energy consumption in 2018 rose to 13,634.9 GWh (2017: Direct energy sources GWh 8,716.9 11,403.1 10,836.5 GWh). TAB. 2.9 mil(Scope 1) lion t Energy Sources CO2e 1.8 2.4 The energy sources used differ depending on the location of the Natural gas GWh 8,063.6 10,683.9 mines and production facilities. 85% of K+S’s steam and power Coal GWh 281.3 295.5 generation in Germany uses the primary energy source natural Diesel GWh 343.8 406.2 gas, with the remaining 15% based on energy generated from an Heating oil GWh 13.8 1.3 incineration plant. Six of our seven German potash plants have Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) GWh 9.2 10.9 their own power stations, which operate in accordance with the Petrol GWh 5.2 5.3 combined heat and power (CHP) cogeneration system. Their effiIndirect energy sources GWh 2,119.6 2,231.8 ciency level is 90%. We also operate two out of seven drying familcilities using the CHP system. CHP energy conversion at the Hat(Scope 2) lion t CO2e 0.2 0.2 torf site was expanded for the operation of the KCF facility. This Externally sourced electricity GWh 591.6 707.8 measure will enable a further 15 MW of electricity from CHP to be Externally sourced steam GWh 1,525.3 1,521.3 generated, replacing the need for external electricity. Externally sourced heat GWh 2.7 2.8 In recent years, our subsidiary Morton Salt converted two Total energy consumption GWh 10,836.5 13,634.9 coal-powered operating sites in the United States to natural gas mil(Scope 1 & 2) lion t as a reduced-emissions energy source. This has led to a substanCO2e 2.1 2.6 tial reduction in CO2 emissions across the Group. In addition, we Sold electricity GWh 37.3 42.0 are continuing to examine the possibility of using renewable en(Scope 3) milergy sources – sun and/or wind – at several production sites in Emissions of outgoing shipments lion t North America. (logistics emissions) CO2e 0.8 1.0 Due to the use of solution mining as an extraction method at our Energy Consumption new mine in Bethune, Canada, as well as the continuing expanWe operate a DIN EN ISO 50001 certified energy management syssion of the other underground raw material mining areas and the tem in all German companies with production plants. We regularhigher energy costs this entails, we anticipate increasing specific ly conduct energy audits in accordance with DIN EN ISO 16247 at all demand for primary energy. other German companies. A Group-wide concept for energy management is being developed and the introduction of ISO 50001 at Emissions our sites outside Germany has begun. As part of the Paris Agreement signed in 2016, the international community set itself the goal of limiting global warming to Through the K+S ENERGY EFFICIENCY NETWORK (KEEN), K+S thus vol1.5°C compared with pre-industrial levels as far as possible. How untarily contributes to the projects of the German Federal Govthis was to be implemented was detailed further at the 2018 ernment and German industry to establish 500 energy ­efficiency UN ­Climate Change Conference in Katowice, Poland. The aims networks by 2020. German K+S plants and external companies defined in the Paris Climate Agreement are set to be i­ mplemented are members of KEEN. The “KEEN global” group of internal experts, in Germany on the basis of the 2050 Climate Protection Plan. which was formed in 2018, will record the results of the external The aim is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions initially by 55% by initiative and analyse their applicability and implementation at 2030 compared with 1990 data with the participation of industry. global level. The group will also manage measures for achieving the “Energy & Climate” sustainability objective by 2030. www.effizienznetzwerke.org/initiative/unsere-netzwerke/ 64 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report The EUROPEAN EMISSIONS TRADING SYSTEM (EU ETS) for reducing decrease of –2.0% compared with 2017 data. Specific emissions greenhouse gas emissions in energy-intensive industries entered were avoided by changing the logistical flow of goods. In parinto force back in 2005. Emissions trading aims to reduce emisticular, the increase in short-haul transport volumes in Europe sions in those places where the reduction is the most efficient. and North America meant that a smaller amount of high-emisThe K+S GROUP currently operates 13 power stations and drying sion had to be transported long-haul, thereby reducing the averfacilities in Germany that are subject to emissions trading. Their age output per tonne. emissions are recorded in accordance with applicable EU monitoring guidelines and verified by external audit organisations. By optimising our logistics network in Europe we hope to reduce We do not anticipate any additional costs for emissions trading emissions from logistics operations and increase the c­ apacity in the third trading period (up to 2020). The Canadian govern­utilisation of our transport vehicles. Emissions are currently ment is working on a system for the evaluation of greenhouse ­calculated on the basis of DIN EN 16258. To also be able to show gas emissions in Canada. the impacts of new technologies in the future, for example by purchasing low-emissions logistics services, we are planning to We report all our emissions in Scope 1 and Scope 2 as well as substitute default values with real consumption data from our Scope 3 for logistics emissions of our outgoing shipments in service providers in the long term. CO2 equivalents (CO2e). These indicate the specific global warming potential of greenhouse gases compared with that for CO2. In 2018, CO2e emissions from the consumption of all direct and BUSINESS ETHICS indirect energy sources (Scope 1 and 2) amounted to 2.6 million tonnes CO2e (2017: 2.1 million tonnes CO2e). The emission factors K+S is a reliable partner for customers, suppliers, and the wider from the GREENHOUSE GAS PROTOCOL are used to calculate the volcommunity. For us, it is a matter of course that our employees ume of CO2e. act with integrity and a sense of responsibility. We expect the same from our business partners. In relation to business ethics, Logistics Emissions we therefore focus on the action areas “Compliance & AntiOur international logistics network ensures a smooth flow in the Corruption” and “Sustainable Supply Chains”. supply chain and transports our products to our customers all over ‘Corporate Governance’ page 67, ‘Company profile’ page 40 the world on schedule and with the lowest possible environmental impact. Our global transport chains are managed holistically and Consolidated Financial Statements regularly optimised so as to guarantee a high level of efficiency. Compliance & Anti-Corruption Compliance is an integral part of our corporate culture at K+S. The Our goal is to continue to eliminate the environmental i­ mpact applicable legal regulations, our internal regulations and the regassociated with the transportation of our products in the ulatory standards recognised by the company, and for example form of greenhouse gas emissions. By 2030, the K+S GROUP aims our commitment to the UN GLOBAL COMPACT, form the basis for to reduce specific greenhouse gas emissions in logistics operaour compliance management system. tions by 10%. This applies to the emissions of our outgoing shipments measured in kilogrammes of CO2 equivalents per tonne Every employee is made familiar with our core values and princi(tank-to-wheel). ples (Code of Conduct) as well as with the internal regulations derived from these. Target group-specific training sessions for emLogistics emissions account for a significant share of our value ployees are held on specific issues (for example, anti-trust law, chain emissions and make up the largest share of our Scope 3 anti-corruption measures, money laundering and the financing emissions. At 1.0 million tonnes CO2e, the emissions we calcuof terrorism, use of social media, data protection, environmental late from our outgoing shipments account for approximately half protection, occupational safety). of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions. The specific value per tonne in ‘Compliance management’, page 77 2018 was 17.9 kg CO2e/t (2017: 18.3 kg CO2e/t). This represents a Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 65 Goal: K+S is pursuing a zero tolerance policy for corruption Donations and Sponsorship and bribery as well as anti-competitive practices to avoid the We provide funding for selected projects in the areas of educarisks of liability, culpability, loss of reputation as well as financial tion, social affairs and culture. The Board of Executive Directors disadvantages. We have enshrined the principles of our complihas defined uniform terms and conditions for donations and sponance management system in our sustainability goals and defined sorship. K+S does not make any contributions to political parties, a key performance indicator for measuring target achievement: including their related organisations or persons. Donations toall employees are reached by communication measures and aptalling €1.9 million were made to benefit scientific and charitapropriately trained in compliance matters. The figure for 2018 is ble causes in 2018 (2017: nearly €2.4 million). 71% with communication at a value of 100% and trainings at 42% www.k-plus-s.com/community (2017: 59% with 100% communication and 18% trainings). The increase can be attributed to a higher number of training courses given in 2018. We aim to reach 100% fulfilment of this indicator Sustainable Supply Chains by the end of 2019. K+S calls for fair, sustainable business practices in supply chains and has formulated corresponding expectations and requirements In 2018, we notified employees of compliance measures at regional in the K+S Group Supplier Code of Conduct (Code). The Code reand global level through a variety of communication channels. In quires suppliers to commit to and comply with our values. It is accordance with our strategy of continuing K+S’s development as based on international standards such as the principles of the UN “One Company”, the existing communication and training measGlobal Compact, the General Declaration on Human Rights, the ures will be expanded further. In 2018, we focused mainly on esILO core labour standards and the OECD Guidelines for Multinatablishing contemporary systems, holding training seminars for tional Enterprises. It covers human and labour rights, health and specific target groups and reporting any breaches of compliance. safety, environmental considerations and responsible business. www.k-plus-s.com/suppliercodeofconduct We plan to intensify our compliance training for employees in 2019. For example, we will make a basic compliance training availGoal: By 2025, the Code is expected to cover more than 90% able to all employees. Further compliance training courses will be of our purchasing volume. Another goal is that all of our “critdeveloped in 2019 and included in the training plan. ical suppliers”, in other words suppliers with a high sustainability risk, commit to the Code by 2025. All employees can seek information or personal advice on compliance-related matters from the compliance officers. External We began rolling out the Code worldwide in 2018. It already ­covers ombudspersons can be contacted through hotlines. Employees 29.4% of our purchasing volume. 14.7% of our “critical” ­suppliers and third parties can report compliance breaches to them, anonhave committed to the Supplier Code of Conduct. The “critical” ymously if desired. Their contact details are available on the K+S suppliers are determined annually. The Corruption Perceptions website and in the portal (intranet) or on notice boards. It goes Index (CPI) and the environmental friendliness of the main prodwithout saying that whistleblowers need not fear any disadvanucts or services delivered by the supplier are taken into account, tages as a result of submitting a report (non-retaliation). among other things. Clear processes and responsibilities are ­defined in the event that a breach of the Supplier Code of ConExtractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) duct becomes known. We are participating in the EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRIES TRANSPARENCY INITIATIVE, which aims to combat corruption. K+S is an active The Code will be sent out to more suppliers in 2019. In the two member of the multi-stakeholder group of D-EITI. years that follow, there are plans to develop a monitoring system www.d-eiti.de/en/; to oversee suppliers’ compliance with the principles of the Code. www.rohstofftransparenz.de/en/ A supplier development process will be introduced for the event of any deviations. 66 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report DECLARATION ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 1 In accordance with Sections 289f and 315d of the HGB, the Board of Executive Directors issues the ­following declaration on corporate governance; with which the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board simultaneously report in accordance with number 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code. Our goal is responsible management and monitoring of the ComSUPERVISORY BOARD pany that is geared towards sustainable value creation. This prinIn accordance with Article 8 (1) sentence 1 of the Articles of Associple forms the basis of our internal decision-making and c­ ontrol ciation, the composition of the Supervisory Board is governed by processes. mandatory statutory regulations. It currently has 16 members and is subject to co-determination in accordance with the German Co-Determination Act (MitbestG). This therefore means that half GOVERNING BODIES of the Supervisory Board members are elected as representatives of the shareholders by the Annual General Meeting and half as The governing bodies of the Company are the Annual Generemployee representatives by the employees of the K+S GROUP in al Meeting, the Supervisory Board and the Board of Executive Germany. Each member is elected for a term of around five years. ­Directors. The powers vested in these bodies and their duties and www.k-plus-s.com/corporategovernance responsibilities are governed by the Aktiengesetz (AktG – G ­ erman Stock Corporation Act), the Mitbestimmungsgesetz (MitbestG – The Supervisory Board oversees and advises the Board of ExecuGerman Co-Determination Act), the Articles of Association and tive Directors in connection with the conduct of business activthe bylaws of the Board of Executive Directors and the Super­ ities. It is promptly and appropriately involved in any decisions visory Board. of f­ undamental importance. The Board of Executive Directors ­informs the Supervisory Board regularly, promptly and comprehensively about corporate strategy, planning, the course of busiConsolidated Financial Statements ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ness, earnings, the financial and asset position, the employment The shareholders assert their rights at the Annual General Meetsituation and about specific corporate opportunities and risks. ing and decide on fundamental matters affecting the Company The Supervisory Board regularly receives written reports from the by exercising their voting rights. Each share carries one vote (one Board of Executive Directors in order to prepare for meetings. ­After share, one vote principle). All documents that are important in thorough review and discussion, the Supervisory Board adopts terms of decision-making are also made available to shareholders ­resolutions on proposals made by the Board of Executive Direcon our website. The Annual General Meeting is also streamed live tors and on other matters where required. In the case of ­particular online until the end of the speech by the Chairman of the Board of business transactions that are of great importance to the ComExecutive Directors. Shareholders may exercise their voting rights pany, the Supervisory Board is also provided with immediate and through a proxy whom they have appointed and issued voting comprehensive information by the Board of Executive Directors ­instructions, or may cast a postal vote. Voting is also p ­ ossible via between routine meetings. The Supervisory Board regularly ­carries an electronic system. Shortly after the end of the Annual G ­ eneral out an efficiency review in the form of a questionnaire in order Meeting, we also publish details of attendance and the results of to obtain pointers for the future work of the Supervisory Board the voting online. and its committees. www.k-plus-s.com/agm ‘Supervisory Board Report’, page 18 Further Information 1 In accordance with Section 317 (2) sentence 6 of the HGB, the information contained in the Declaration on Corporate Governance pursuant to Section 289f and Section 315d of the HGB is not within the scope of the audit. k+s Annual Report 2018 67 The Supervisory Board has adopted bylaws and formed five commembers; two are shareholder representatives, and two are mittees from among its members: employee representatives. ++ The Mediation Committee performs the tasks set out in ++ The Nomination Committee proposes suitable candidates to Section 31 (3) sentence 1 of the MitbestG. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board for its recommendations to the ­Annual the Supervisory Board is also the chairman of this commitGeneral Meeting. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is tee. Of the four members of this committee, two memalso the chairman of this committee. The committee has four bers are shareholder representatives, and two are employee members, all of whom represent the shareholders. representatives. www.k-plus-s.com/corporategovernance ++ The Strategy Committee is responsible for advising the Board of Executive Directors on the strategic direction of the ComIn accordance with the German Act on Equal Participation of pany including strategic reviews and reporting thereof to the Women and Men in Leadership Positions, the minimum percentSupervisory Board. In addition, the Strategy Committee preage of women and men on the Supervisory Board is 30% for each pares resolutions of the Supervisory Board that require apgender. Two female shareholder representatives and two female proval concerning acquisitions, divestments, investments, oremployee representatives currently have a seat on the Superviganisational changes or restructuring. Further, it advises the sory Board. Board of Executive Directors on corporate strategy matters and on projects of a strategic nature. The Strategy Committee COMPETENCE PROFILE AND DIVERSITY consists of three members: the Chairman of the Supervisory When appointing members to the Supervisory Board, the aim Board serving as Chairman of the Committee, one shareholder is to ensure that there is a range of competencies and member representative and one employee representative. ­diversity on the Supervisory Board necessary for the proper per++ The Audit Committee performs the tasks set out in the AktG formance of the Supervisory Board tasks. and the German Corporate Governance Code. In particular, it is involved in monitoring the accounting process, the effecThe Company complies with the recommendation under number tiveness of the internal control system, the risk and oppor5.4.1 of the German Corporate Governance Code for the Supervitunity management system, the internal audit system and sory Board to set concrete targets for its composition. It should compliance, the issuing of mandates to the company audibe noted in this regard that the Supervisory Board does not i­ tself tors as well as the audit of the financial statements. It also decide on its own composition and can therefore only work to discusses the half-yearly financial report and quarterly reachieve the targets it pursues by suggesting appropriate candiports with the Board of Executive Directors prior to publidates for proposal to the Annual General Meeting. The Annual cation. The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr Kölbl (inGeneral Meeting is not obliged to follow these candidate proposdependent financial expert), has comprehensive knowledge als. As a corporate body, the Supervisory Board is not entitled to inand experience in applying accounting principles and interfluence proposals for the nomination of employee representatives. nal control procedures. He garnered this knowledge from his experience as CFO of Südzucker AG. The Audit Committee In 2017, the Nomination Committee conducted a competence analhas six members; three are shareholder representatives, and ysis of the Supervisory Board under the professional guidance of three are employee representatives. a remuneration expert. As part of this analysis, all shareholder ++ The Personnel Committee is responsible for preparing the aprepresentatives were consulted about the target and actual compointment of members of the Board of Executive Directors, petence profile. In its November meeting, the Supervisory Board including long-term succession planning. The committee discussed in detail the competence profile of the shareholder repsubmits proposals for resolutions to the plenary meeting of resentatives and is convinced that the performance of the body the Supervisory Board concerning the determination of t­ otal as a whole depends essentially on diversity in the mix of experts, remuneration for the Executive Board and the Super­visory qualifications, integrity and independence. The culture should be Board members as well as on resolving contractual ­matters characterized by professionalism and appreciation. Against this for the individual members of the Board of Executive Directors. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is also the chairman of this committee. The Personnel Committee has four 68 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report background, the requirements profile includes in particular the MEMBERS OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD IN THE 2018 following aspects: FINANCIAL YEAR (INFORMATION ON OTHER SUPERVISORY BOARD APPOINTMENTS AND SUPERVISORY BOARD BODIES ++ The members should have knowledge of the industry, AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018) product segments, production and relevant technologies. ++ Knowledge of international markets and markets relevant for K+S should be available. Dr rer. nat. Andreas Kreimeyer (born in 1955), Degree in Biology, ++ Experience in the strategic management of a company is Chairman of the Supervisory Board an essential requirement. Shareholder representative ++ A reasonable number of members should have financial Entrepreneur (former member of the Board of Executive literacy, in particular in the areas of accounting and auditing. Directors and Research Spokesperson at BASF SE, Ludwigshafen) ++ At least one independent financial expert must have a seat on the Supervisory Board. In office until the end of the ++ Knowledge in the areas of law, compliance, HR including 2020 Annual General Meeting co-determination as well as restructuring and crisis manageFirst appointed: 12 May 2015 ment should be available to the appropriate extent. Other supervisory board appointments: Efforts are also made to ensure that at least half of the sharehold++ Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), Karlsruhe er representatives on the Supervisory Board are independent. This (Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board) assumes in particular that the persons concerned do not hold a governing or advisory position with significant customers, supOther supervisory bodies: pliers, lenders, other business partners or main competitors, or ++ C.H. Boehringer Sohn AG & Co. KG, Ingelheim have any other significant business or personal relationship with (Member of the Advisory Council) the Company or its Board of Executive Directors. Potential conflicts of interest on the part of persons proposed for election to the Supervisory Board should be prevented, wherever possible. Ralf Becker (born in 1965), Trade Union Secretary Vice-Chairman The Supervisory Board believes that the aforementioned objecEmployee representative Consolidated Financial Statements tives are fulfilled with its current composition. Regional Manager North of the Mining, Chemicals and Energy Trade Union, Hanover In office until the end of the 2023 Annual General Meeting First appointed: 1 August 2009 Other supervisory board appointments: ++ Continental Reifen Deutschland GmbH, Hanover (Vice-Chairman) ++ Deutsche Shell Holding GmbH, Hamburg ++ Deutsche Shell GmbH, Hamburg ++ Shell Deutschland Oil GmbH, Hamburg Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 69 Petra Adolph (born in 1964), Master of Political Science and Philip Freiherr von dem Bussche (born in 1950), Degree in Literature Business Administration Employee representative Shareholder representative Board Secretary (participation/social policies), Entrepreneur/Farmer Mining, Chemicals and Energy Trade Union, Hanover In office until the end of the 2020 Annual General Meeting In office until the end of the First appointed: 12 May 2015 2023 Annual General Meeting First appointed: 15 May 2018 Other supervisory bodies: ++ Bernard Krone Holding SE & Co. KG, Spelle Other supervisory board appointments: (Chairman of the Supervisory Board) ++ CEWE Stiftung & Co. KGaA, Oldenburg ++ DF World of Spices GmbH, Dissen (Member of the Advisory Board) ++ Grimme GmbH & Co. KG, Damme André Bahn (born in 1968), Electrician (Chairman of the Advisory Board) Employee representative ++ Pfeifer und Langen IHKG, Cologne (Member of the Vice-Chairman of the General Works Council Shareholders’ Committee) (until 31 December 2018) of the K+S GROUP ++ DLG e.V. Frankfurt am Main (Chairman of the Supervisory Chairman of the Works Council of the Werra plant, K+S KALI Board) (until 22 February 2018) GmbH, Kassel In office until the end of the George Cardona (born 1951), Economist 2023 Annual General Meeting Shareholder representative First appointed: 15 May 2018 Economist In office until the end of the 2020 Annual General Meeting Jella Benner-Heinacher (born in 1960), Lawyer First appointed: 9 October 2009 Shareholder representative Deputy General Manager of the Deutsche Schutzvereinigung Other supervisory bodies: für Wertpapierbesitz e.V. (German association for private inves++ Board of Banque Havilland (Monaco) S.A.M., Monaco tors), Düsseldorf (Director, since 18 September 2018) In office until the end of the 2023 Annual General Meeting Dr Elke Eller (born in 1962), Degree in Economics and Business First appointed: 7 May 2003 Management Shareholder representative Other supervisory bodies: Member of the Board of Executive Directors of ++ A.S. Création Tapeten AG, Gummersbach (ViceChairman) TUI Aktiengesellschaft, Hanover In office until the end of the 2023 Annual General Meeting Peter Bleckmann (born in 1962), Trained Motorcar Mechanic First appointed: 15 May 2018 Employee representative Vice-Chairman of the General Works Council Other supervisory board appointments: of the K+S GROUP Group companies of the TUI Group Chairman of the Works Council of the Borth plant, ++ TUI Deutschland GmbH, Hanover esco – european salt company GmbH & Co. KG, Hanover ++ TUIfly GmbH, Langenhagen In office until the end of the Other supervisory bodies: 2023 Annual General Meeting Group companies of the TUI Group First appointed: 15 May 2018 ++ TUI Belgium N.V., Oostende ++ TUI Nederland N.V., Rijswijk 70 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report Gerd Grimmig (born in 1953), Degree in Mining Engineering ++ Freiberger Holding GmbH, Berlin (Member of the Shareholder representative Supervisory Board) Retired (former member of the Board of Executive Directors of ++ PortionPack Europe Holding B. V., Oud-Beijerland/ K+S Aktiengesellschaft, Kassel) Netherlands (Chairman of the Supervisory Board) ++ Raffinerie Tirlemontoise S. A., Brussels/Belgium In office until the end of the (Member of the Conseil d’Administration) 2023 Annual General Meeting ++ Saint Louis Sucre S. A. S., Paris/France First appointed: 15 May 2018 (Member of the Comité de Supervision) ++ Südzucker Polska S. A., Wrocław/Poland (Member of the Supervisory Board) Axel Hartmann (born 1958), Training in Retail Sales ++ Südzucker Versicherungs-Vermittlungs-GmbH, Employee representative Mannheim (Chairman of the Advisory Board) Chairman of the General Works Council of the K+S GROUP Chairman of the Works Council of the Neuhof-Ellers plant, K+S KALI GMBH, Kassel Gerd Kübler (born in 1967), Degree in Engineering Employee representative In office until the end of the Head of Mining, K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT, Kassel 2023 Annual General Meeting First appointed: 14 May 2013 In office until the end of the 2023 Annual General Meeting First appointed: 1 January 2016 Michael Knackmuß (born in 1975), Car Mechanic Employee representative Nevin McDougall (born in 1967), Master of Agriculture Chairman of the Works Council of the Zielitz plant, K+S KALI GMBH, (Agriculture Economics & Business) Kassel Shareholder representative President & Chief Commercial Officer, A&L Canada In office until the end of the Laboratories Inc., London, Canada 2023 Annual General Meeting Consolidated Financial Statements First appointed: 11 July 2014 In office until the end of the 2023 Annual General Meeting First appointed: 15 May 2018 Thomas Kölbl (born in 1962), Degree in Business Administration Shareholder representative Other supervisory bodies: Chief Financial Officer of Südzucker AG, Mannheim ++ Board Member of the BioEnterprise Corporation (non-profit Canadian company) In office until the end of the 2022 Annual General Meeting First appointed: 10 May 2017 Anke Roehr (born in 1964), Industrial Clerk Employee representative Other supervisory board appointments: Chairman of the Works Council of esco – european salt Group companies of Südzucker Group company GmbH & Co., Hanover ++ CropEnergies AG, Mannheim (Vice Chairman) Employee in sales and distribution of esco – european salt company GmbH & Co., Hanover Other supervisory bodies: Further Information Group companies of Südzucker Group In office until the end of the ++ AGRANA Stärke GmbH, Vienna/Austria 2023 Annual General Meeting (Member of the Supervisory Board) First appointed: 1 April 2016 ++ AGRANA Zucker GmbH, Vienna/Austria www.k-plus-s.com/supervisoryboard (Member of the Supervisory Board) ++ ED&F MAN Holdings Limited, London/United Kingdom (Member of the Board of Directors (non-executive)) k+s Annual Report 2018 71 MEMBERS WHO LEFT OFFICE IN 2018: Dr Annette Messemer (born in 1964), Political Scientist Shareholder representative Wesley Clark (born in 1952), Master of Business Divisional Director of Commerzbank AG Administration Shareholder representative Appointment ended at the end of the Operating Partner of Advent International Private Equity Group, 2018 Annual General Meeting Boston, Massachusetts, USA First appointed: 14 May 2013 Appointment ended at the end of the Other supervisory bodies: 2018 Annual General Meeting ++ Board of Directors of Essilor International S.A., First appointed: 14 May 2013 Charenton-le-Pont, France Other supervisory bodies: ++ Board of Directors of Patriot Supply Holdings, Inc., Fort Worth, Dr Eckart Sünner (born in 1944), Lawyer Texas, USA (Non-Executive Chairman) (until 2 July 2018) Shareholder representative ++ Board of Directors of ABC Supply Corporation, Beloit, WisconIndependent solicitor at Neustadt an der Weinstraße sin, USA ++ Board of Directors of Distribution international, Inc., Fort Appointment ended at the end of the Worth, Texas, USA (Non-Executive Chairman) 2018 Annual General Meeting First appointed: 28 April 1992 Harald Döll (born in 1964), Power Plant Electronics Technician Other supervisory board appointments: Employee representative ++ Infineon Technologies AG, Neubiberg (Chairman (Former Chairman of the General Works Council of the K+S since 22 February 2018) GROUP and Chairman of the Works Council of the Werra plant, K+S KALI GMBH, Kassel) Michael Vassiliadis (born in 1964), Chemical Laboratory Technician, Appointment ended at the end of the Vice Chairman 2018 Annual General Meeting Employee representative First appointed: 1 August 2009 Chairman of the Mining, Chemicals and Energy Trade Union, Hanover Dieter Kuhn (born in 1958), Mining Mechanic Appointment ended at the end of the Employee representative 2018 Annual General Meeting Retired (former First Vice-Chairman First appointed: 7 May 2003 of the General Works Council of the K+S GROUP and Chairman of the Works Council of the Bernburg plant, Other supervisory board appointments: esco – european salt company GmbH & Co. KG, Hanover) ++ BASF SE, Ludwigshafen ++ STEAG GmbH, Essen Appointment ended 28 February 2018 ++ RAG Aktiengesellschaft, Essen (ViceChairman) First appointed: 7 May 2003 ++ RAG DSK AG, Essen (ViceChairman) ++ RAG Stiftung, Essen ++ Henkel AG & Co. KGaA, Düsseldorf (since 9 March 2018) 72 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report SUPERVISORY BOARD COMMITTEES THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS MEDIATION COMMITTEE The Board of Executive Directors manages the Company under its ++ Dr Andreas Kreimeyer (Chairman) own responsibility in accordance with the law, the Articles of Asso++ Ralf Becker (since 15 May 2018) ciation and its bylaws, taking into account the resolutions adopt++ Axel Hartmann (since 15 May 2018) ed by the Annual General Meeting. The Board of Executive Direc++ Thomas Kölbl (since 15 May 2018) tors represents the Company in its dealings with third parties. ++ Harald Döll (until 15 May 2018) ++ Dr Eckart Sünner (until 15 May 2018) The bylaws of the Board of Executive Directors govern the ++ Michael Vassiliadis (until 15 May 2018) ­cooperation between its members and the allocation of business ­responsibilities as well as mutual representation. Matters STRATEGY COMMITTEE that concern other areas of responsibility or deviate from usual ++ Dr Andreas Kreimeyer (Chairman) day-to-day business have to be agreed with the other members ++ Ralf Becker (since 15 May 2018) of the Board of Executive Directors. Where possible, such mat++ Philip Freiherr von dem Bussche ters should be discussed at the regular meetings of the Board ++ Michael Vassiliadis (until 15 May 2018) of Executive D ­ irectors that are held at two or three weekly intervals and measures decided there, where necessary; a resolution AUDIT COMMITTEE must always be brought about on important business matters ++ Thomas Kölbl (Chairman, since 15 May 2018) and measures. ++ Petra Adolph (since 15 May 2018) www.k-plus-s.com/corporategovernance ++ Ralf Becker ++ Jella Benner-Heinacher (since 15 May 2018) COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS, ++ Axel Hartmann REQUIREMENTS PROFILE AND DIVERSITY ++ Dr Andreas Kreimeyer (since 15 May 2018) In accordance with Article 5 (1) of the Articles of Association, the ++ Dr Eckart Sünner (Chairman, until 15 May 2018) Board of Executive Directors has at least two members. The exact ++ Dr Annette Messemer (until 15 May 2018) number of members is determined by the Supervisory Board. Up ++ Michael Vassiliadis (until 15 May 2018) until the retirement of Dr Nöcker on 31 August 2018, the Board of Executive Directors had four male members. From 1 September PERSONNEL COMMITTEE until 31 December 2018, the Board of Executive Directors consistConsolidated Financial Statements ++ Dr Andreas Kreimeyer (Chairman) ed of three male members. ++ Ralf Becker (since 15 May 2018) ++ Dr Elke Eller (since 15 May 2018) Criteria for the appointment of Executive Board members are the ++ Michael Knackmuß (since 15 May 2018) professional suitability for the management of the respective di++ Jella Benner-Heinacher (until 15 May 2018) vision, proven achievements on the previous career path as well ++ Harald Döll (until 15 May 2018) as pronounced leadership competence. In addition, the Supervi++ Michael Vassiliadis (until 15 May 2018) sory Board is of the opinion that diversity is also important for the Board of Executive Directors. Thus, the Board should consist NOMINATION COMMITTEE of people who complement each other in terms of professional ++ Dr Andreas Kreimeyer (Chairman) and life experience and are of different ages. In addition, at least ++ Jella Benner-Heinacher one board member should have strong international experience. ++ Philip Freiherr von dem Bussche ++ George Cardona With regard to the German Act on Equal Participation of ­Women and Men in Leadership Positions, the target quota of 0% defined by the Supervisory Board of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT until 31 December 2020 was met during the reporting period. Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 73 MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Mark Roberts (born in 1963), Bachelor of Science (marketing) ++ Operating unit Americas (Information on responsibilities and appointments as of ++ Operating unit Europe+ 31 December 2018, unless otherwise stated) ++ Global Marketing, Commercial and Supply Chain Excellence including the Agriculture, Consumers, Industry, Communities Dr Burkhard Lohr (born in 1963), Degree in Business and Supply Chain Management Excellence sub-units Administration, ++ Operations Excellence with the Technical Services sub-unit Chairman, Personnel Director ++ Communications & Brands In office until 30 September 2020 ++ Corporate Board Office First appointed: 1 October 2012 ++ Corporate Secretary www.k-plus-s.com/executivedirectors; ++ Environmental & Regulatory Affairs www.k-plus-s.com/corporategovernance ++ Health, Safety, Management Systems & Sustainability ++ Human Resources ++ Internal Auditing MEMBERS WHO LEFT OFFICE IN 2018: ++ Investor Relations ++ Legal & GRC Dr Thomas Nöcker (born in 1958), Lawyer, ++ Strategy & Development Personnel Director ++ Corporate HR In office until 31 May 2020 ++ Corporate IT First appointed: 1 June 2012 ++ Corporate Health, Safety & Environment ++ Business Centre and sub-units: Supervisory board appointments: – Communication Services ++ K+S KALI GMBH (Chairman), Kassel 1 – Financial Accounting – Insurance – IT Services Thorsten Boeckers (born in 1975), Banker – Logistics Europe Chief Financial Officer – Procurement/Material Management Europe ++ Controlling – Project Management ++ Finance & Accounting – Real Estate & Facility Management ++ Insurance ++ K+S TRANSPORT GMBH ++ IT ++ K+S VERSICHERUNGSVERMITTLUNGS GMBH ++ Procurement ++ WOHNBAU SALZDETFURTH GMBH ++ Tax ++ Units of the CFO of the operating units Americas and Europe+ Appointment ended 31 August 2018 and for all direct shareholdings of the Company unless asFirst appointed: 1 August 2003 signed to another area of responsibility Supervisory board appointments: In office until 11 May 2020 ++ K+S KALI GMBH, Kassel 1 (until 14 May 2018) First appointed: 12 May 2017 Supervisory board appointments: ++ K+S KALI GMBH, Kassel 1 ¹ Group appointment. 74 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report COOPERATION BETWEEN THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS (D&O) INSURANCE DIRECTORS AND THE SUPERVISORY BOARD We have taken out D&O insurance in case a claim for compensation The Supervisory Board is kept informed by the Board of Executive based on statutory third-party liability provisions is made against Directors, at regular intervals in a timely and comprehensive manmembers of the Board of Executive Directors or the ­Supervisory ner, regarding any issues that are relevant to the Company as a Board on account of a breach of duty committed in the perforwhole and that concern corporate strategy, planning, the course mance of their duties. The excess is 10% of the respective claim of business and the earnings, financial and asset position as well up to a maximum of 1.5 times the fixed annual remuneration. The as about any particular business risks and opportunities. MoreoD&O insurance also applies to managers. ver, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is in close contact with the Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors with regard to all relevant topics. Important business transactions and measures SHARE TRANSACTIONS BY MEMBERS OF THE SUPERVISORY require the consent of the Supervisory Board; more information BOARD AND THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS on this can be found in Section 12 of the Supervisory Board bylaws. In accordance with Article 19 of the Market Abuse Regulation, www.k-plus-s.com/articlesofassociation members of the Company’s Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board must disclose the purchase and disposals of Company shares. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST No conflicts of interest involving members of the Board of ExecuThe directors’ dealings for the Supervisory Board and the Board tive Directors or the Supervisory Board, about which the ­Annual of Executive Directors in 2018 were disclosed as follows: Tab. 2.10 General Meeting needed to be informed, were disclosed to the www.k-plus-s.com/directorsdealings Supervisory Board during the reporting period. Directors’ dealings of the members of the Supervisory board and the Board of Executive Directors Tab. 2.10 Date Transaction ISIN Volume Dr Andreas Kreimeyer 18/07/2018 Bond purchase XS1854830889 €99,880.00 Consolidated Financial Statements Dr Susanne Nöcker/Dr Thomas Nöcker 13/07/2018 Bond purchase XS1591416679 €10,133.50 Dr Thomas Nöcker 13/07/2018 Bond purchase XS1854830889 €20,000.00 Dr Burkhard Lohr 13/07/2018 Bond purchase XS1854830889 €200,000.00 Thorsten Boeckers 15/03/2018 Share purchase DE000KSAG888 €24,465.00 Dr Burkhard Lohr 15/03/2018 Share purchase DE000KSAG888 €141,120.00 Dr Thomas Nöcker 15/03/2018 Share purchase DE000KSAG888 €22,671.04 Dr Thomas Nöcker 15/03/2018 Share purchase DE000KSAG888 €106,860.72 Dr Thomas Nöcker 15/03/2018 Share purchase DE000KSAG888 €5,793.07 Dr Thomas Nöcker 15/03/2018 Share purchase DE000KSAG888 €6,598.35 Mark Roberts 15/03/2018 ADR purchase US48265W1080 $ 36,525.00 Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 75 On 31 December 2018, the members of the Board of Executive Integrity Directors and the Supervisory Board collectively held less than We observe and support compliance with internationally recog­ 1% of the shares of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT and related finan­ nised human rights and act in accordance with the laws of the cial instruments. countries in which we operate. We reject any form of forced and child labour. Target figures for the first and second levels of We respect free competition. We do not tolerate any form of management below the Board of Executive Directors corruption. We avoid conflicts of interest and protect company In accordance with the German Act on Equal Participation of property against any misuse. We respect trade union freedom of Women and Men in Leadership Positions, we have set target ­association and the right to engage in collective wage bargaining. quotas for the percentage of women at management levels be­ low the Board of Executive Directors of K+S AKTIENGSELLSCHAFT Respect, Fairness, and Trust until 31 December 2021. Although we were able to increase the We treat our business partners, employees, and other stakehold­ share of women in the first management level below the Board ers with respect and fairness. Providing an environment of equal of ­Executive Directors by more than two percentage points, the o ­ pportunities and rejecting of any kind of discrimination is a target of 13% could not yet be achieved as of 31 December 2018. matter of course for us. We create a workplace atmosphere that Due to fluctuation and a slight increase in the total number of ­facilitates the open exchange of ideas and an approach to deal­ management p ­ ositions at this management level, the proportion ing with one another characterised by confidence. of women as of the reporting date was around 8% (2017: 6%). A favourable result was achieved by exceeding the target quota of Competence and Creativity 11% in the second management level below the Board of Execu­ We take actions to maintain and increase specialist competen­ tive Directors with almost 22% as of 31 December 2018 (2017: 19%). cies, commitment and motivation of our employees. We encour­ age our employees to contribute their creativity to the success of the company. We reward our employees in line with the market CORPORATE GOVERNANCE/DECLARATION OF CONFORMITY and in relation to performance on the basis of salary structures Over and above the legal obligations, we have defined our own which are oriented towards economic success. core values and principles in our Code of Conduct, which forms a compulsory framework for our conduct and decisions and pro­ As a global company, we recognise that intercultural competence vides orientation for our corporate actions. is an important factor of our continued success. We develop inter­ cultural competences in a targeted way. CORE VALUES AND PRINCIPLES (CODE OF CONDUCT) The high degree of entrepreneurial expertise the K+S GROUP shows Transparency in its business units is recognised by business partners and oth­ We provide our employees, shareholders, the capital market, the er stakeholders alike. It is vital that we continuously develop this media and other stakeholders with comprehensive, truthful and reputation. In order to do this we rely on the integrity and respon­ intelligible information. sibility of each individual employee. Other important regulations applicable across the Group are our Sustainability “Management within the K+S GROUP”, “Organisation within the We know that a sustainable successful economy is based not only K+S GROUP” and “Corporate Governance and Monitoring in the on rules and laws, but also requires people’s basic trust. In ­order to K+S GROUP” guidelines. achieve our principal goal, which is sustainable economic ­success, we also consider the connected ecological and social aspects of Each organisational unit of the K+S GROUP is obliged, in compliance our activities. with the regulations of higher-level units, to issue the ­required ­illustrative regulations for its area of responsibility to ensure We act upon opportunities which arise while handling risks with ­proper governance and monitoring. care. 76 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report The content of (overall) works agreements and regulatory standCOMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT ards (i.e. rules and standards of third parties, which the K+S GROUP Our Group-wide compliance management system creates the preor parts of it have undertaken to comply with and implement) requisites for ensuring awareness across the Group of applicable have the same importance as internal regulations; this applies legislation as well as our internal regulations and other regulainter alia to the German Corporate Governance Code unless the tions of equal importance, and that compliance with these can Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board have jointbe monitored. We want not only to avoid the risks of liability, cully agreed on deviations from its recommendations. pability and fines as well as other financial disadvantages for the Company, but also to ensure a positive reputation for the ComIn December 2018, the Company’s Board of Executive Directors pany, its corporate bodies and employees in the public eye. We reand the Supervisory Board made the following joint declaration gard it as a matter of course that breaches of compliance are purin accordance with Section 161 of the AktG: sued and penalties inflicted. ‘Non-financial statement’, page 65 www.k-plus-s.com/corporategovernance “We declare that the recommendations of the Government Commission of the German Corporate Governance Code, published The risk of compliance violations including corruption risk is taken by the German Ministry of Justice in the official section of the into account in the risk management process at K+S. Compliance German Federal Gazette, were complied with in 2018 and will be risks can also be identified through the regular review of complicomplied with in 2019 as follows: ance issues carried out by Internal Audit. ‘Report on Risks and Opportunities’, page 121 In the period from 1 January 2018 to 14 March 2018, with the exception of the recommendations in number 5.1.2 (2) sentence 3 The Board of Executive Directors has entrusted the head of the (stipulation of an age limit for the members of the Board of Ex“Legal & GRC” unit with the role of Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) ecutive Directors) and number 5.4.1 (2) sentence 2 (stipulation of and the task of ensuring that an effective and lawful compliance an age limit for Supervisory Board members as well as a regular management system is in place in the K+S GROUP. The Chief Comlimit for the term of office on the Supervisory Board) pliance Officer reports directly to the Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors and heads up the Global Compliance Committee and on which the compliance officers of each operating unit and the heads of central Company functions that are relevant in terms of Consolidated Financial Statements as of 14 March 2018 to the full extent. compliance have a seat (for example, Internal Audit, ­Legal, Human Resources). The Global Compliance Committee has the task of adOn 14 March 2018, we resolved to introduce age limits for memvising on general compliance management topics and coordinatbers of the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board ing this across the Group. In addition, it is tasked with analysing as well as a regular limit for the term of office on the Supervisory the general suitability of the compliance management system on Board. We previously did not believe that it is necessary or approa regular basis and issuing recommendations for a ­ ctions to the priate to stipulate age limits for the members of the Board of Exrespective responsible management if a need for action is identiecutive Directors and the Supervisory Board or regular limits for fied. The Board of Executive Directors reports on the compliance the term of office on the Supervisory Board, as the ability to carry management system to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory out the work of the respective corporate body does not necessarBoard of K+S Aktiengesellschaft on a regular basis. ily end upon reaching a certain age or a certain length of service, but depends solely on the respective individual capabilities. We By the end of the first quarter of each year, the CCO receives a comhave now aligned ourselves with a general trend by introducing pleteness letter about reported compliance incidents across the age limits for the members of the Board of Executive Directors entire Company. In 2018, there were again no incidents of corrupand the Supervisory Board as well as a regular limit for the term tion and no penalties had to be paid. of office on the Supervisory Board. ‘Non-financial statement’, page 65 Further Information Kassel, December 2018” k+s Annual Report 2018 77 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF RISK AND OPPORTUNITIES The aim of the risk and opportunity management system is to MONITORING promptly identify risks and opportunities across the whole K+S In addition to the relevant statutory requirements, the target staGROUP and evaluate the impact on the asset, financial or earntus of an effective and legally compliant corporate governance and ings position as well as the non-financial impact of the risks and monitoring system (internal control system in a broader sense) in opportunities. Steps are then taken to prevent/reduce the risks or the K+S GROUP has been defined in the “Governance and Moniuse the opportunities; by doing so, the system supports the Comtoring in the K+S GROUP” guideline adopted by the Board of Execpany’s success on a sustainable basis. Moreover, structured interutive Directors. This guideline also stipulates the regulatory and nal and external reporting of the risks and opportunities should organisational measures required to achieve and maintain this be ensured. The following principles apply in this respect: status. This system should ensure: ++ Corporate actions are inevitably associated with risk. ++ The sustainable economic efficiency of business operations The aim is to use the opportunities available and only take (these also include protecting assets and preventing and risks that are unavoidable in order to secure income potential. identifying damage to assets), ++ No action or decision may constitute a risk in itself, which ++ Responsible corporate governance, can foreseeably lead to a risk in terms of the Company’s ++ The adequacy and reliability of internal and external continued existence. accounting procedures, ++ Compliance with legislation relevant to the Company. A Group-wide applicable directive governs the tasks and powers of the parties involved in the risk management process as well as The structure of the governance and monitoring system is dethe risk and opportunities management process itself and defines fined in detail by additional internal regulations; consistent standthe requirements for risk and opportunity reporting. ards are agreed for the formulation and communication of such regulations. The Central Risk and Opportunities Management Committee has the task of providing advice on general issues relating to risk and The “Legal & GRC” unit, whose head reports directly to the Chairopportunities management and coordinating these across the man of the Board of Executive Directors, is responsible for coGroup. It also has the task of analysing the general suitability of ordinating Group-level development and maintenance of an the risk and opportunities management system on a regular baequally effective and legally compliant governance and monisis and issuing recommendations for actions to the respective toring system. responsible management if a need for adjustment is identified. The task of the central Governance, Risk, Compliance (GRC) ComA detailed description of the process for identifying, assessing, mittee is to analyse the general suitability of the governance and controlling and reporting risks and opportunities, a presentation monitoring system on a regular basis and to issue recommendaof risk management in relation to financial instruments (IFRS 7), tions for actions to the respective responsible management if as well as the significant risks and opportunities, can be found in weaknesses are identified. the Report on Risks and Opportunities from page 110. Firstly, the sub-systems of risk and opportunity management and sustainability management, which are relevant for both the govSustainability Management 1 ernance and monitoring components, are presented below. These Corporate action on the part of K+S GROUP is geared towards the complement one another and overlap in part. Finally, governance achievement of sustainable economic success. In order to enand internal monitoring are explained. joy economic success in the long-term, appropriate account also needs to be taken of ecological and social aspects; they are therefore an integral part of our strategy. Sustainability Management, page 55 ¹ This section is part of the non-financial statement, which contains the information pursuant to Sections 289b–289e HGB and 315b and 315c HGB and is not within the scope of the audit in accordance with Section 317 (2) Sentence 4 HGB. 78 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report The Board of Executive Directors is responsible for setting the GOVERNANCE strategic sustainability goals of the K+S GROUP. A member of the The framework and general objectives of the K+S GROUP governBoard of Executive Directors is a sponsor for each goal. The Board ance system are derived from its mission and vision, which are of Executive Directors is provided with regular updates on the described in the “Corporate Strategy” section on page 43. development of the key non-financial indicators. Any non-financial risks are identified and assessed as part of risk management. The basis for fulfilment of this mission is the Group strategy defined by the Board of Executive Directors. Sub-targets and sub-strategies, processes and measures are defined for its imResponsible member of the Board of Sustainability goals Executive Directors (sponsor) plementation based on regular talks between the Board of ExHealth & Safety Mark Roberts, COO ecutive Directors and the heads of the K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT units reporting directly to it and the management of key Group Diversity & Inclusion Mark Roberts, COO companies, which in turn are broken down in a cascading process Human Rights Mark Roberts, COO to the respective subordinated organisational levels. The relevant Water Dr Burkhard Lohr, CEO content of each of these is communicated to the respective emWaste Dr Burkhard Lohr, CEO ployees by the line manager. Energy & Climate Mark Roberts, COO Sustainable Supply Chains Thorsten Boeckers, CFO The quality of target definition is crucial in terms of achieving Compliance & Anti-Corruption Thorsten Boeckers, CFO these targets and being able to assess them. Therefore, they must be specific, measurable, achievable, realistic and time-based, and Sustainability management of the K+S GROUP is a part of the should not contradict other targets. “Health, Safety, Management Systems and Sustainability” unit. Its head reports directly to the Chairman of the Board of ExecuKey business transactions and measures require the approval of tive Directs and chairs the Central Sustainability Committee. The the whole Board of Executive Directors or of the member of the task of the unit is to create effective structures and to engage Board responsible for the respective unit/Group company. in and deal with sustainability issues within the K+S GROUP. The unit further determines, analyses and prioritises sustainability The relevant control instruments are mid-term planning and rollrequirements set by or imposed on the K+S GROUP. It draws up ing monthly planning. Mid-term planning of the K+S GROUP comproposals to the Board of Executive Directors for the strategic foprises a planning period of three years and includes the annual Consolidated Financial Statements cus in terms of sustainability issues and reports on the relevant plan for the coming financial year and planning for the following performance indicators. The unit is also responsible for external two years. Key figures are planned by the operating units and the sustainability reporting. K+S Aktiengesellschaft units in numerous sub-processes; the most important planning assumptions are specified ­centrally. ConThe Central Sustainability Committee has the task of advising on trolling collates the mid-term planning for the consolidated opersustainability issues and coordinating these across the Group. It ational planning as well as human resources, capital expenditure also analyses the general suitability of the sustainability manageand financial planning of the K+S GROUP and provides an explanament system on a regular basis and issues recommendations for tion of this to the Board of Executive Directors. Once this has been action to the respective responsible management if a need for adapproved, the Board of Executive Directors presents the annual justment is identified. The Committee met on three occasions in plan to the Supervisory Board for approval and explains planning 2018, to define the K+S sustainability goals and to discuss approfor the following two years. Once the consolidated financial statepriate performance indicators as well as to discuss and improve ments have been prepared, the Board of Executive Directors and the internal and external reporting. the Supervisory Board receive an overview as part of a budget/ actual comparison of the main differences from the annual plan Managers of the central specialist units are closely involved in for the previous K+S GROUP financial year. the strategy process related to sustainability issues and develop Further Information measures to implement the goals in cooperation with the operRolling monthly planning is based on the endorsed annual plan. ating units. They regularly report to the Board of Executive DirecHere, generally all key figures, such as revenues, earnings, financial tors on the progress of achieving the targets through the efforts position and capital expenditure for the current financial year are of sustainability management. projected by the units to be included in the consolidated finan‘Non-financial Statement’, page 55 cial statements and consolidated by Controlling. The actual values k+s Annual Report 2018 79 available and new information about business development are We use the performance indicator return on capital employed continually included in the projections. Significant assumptions (ROCE) to monitor our financial objective; its relevance was also are checked on a regular basis and updated where necessary. Deemphasised again when communicating our SHAPING 2030 stratviations are analysed and assessed as part of rolling monthly planegy. We derive economic value added on the basis of ROCE using ning and are used to manage business operations. The Board of the weighted average cost of capital before taxes. Economic valExecutive Directors receives a written and verbal explanation of ue added is also included in the calculation of variable remunerthe consolidated rolling monthly planning of the K+S GROUP. ation for the Board of Executive Directors and non-tariff paid employees. A principal key performance indicator for managing the KEY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS company is adjusted Group earnings after tax, which serves as The Company’s activities are managed based on the following key the basis for dividend proposals. financial performance indicators: ++ EBITDA1 (K+S GROUP, business units, operating units in the The comparison of the actual and projected course of business future) on page 90 includes, amongst others, the performance indica++ Adjusted free cash flow2 (K+S GROUP) tors referred to above. ++ Return on Capital Employed (ROCE)3 (K+S GROUP, business units, operating units in the future) A presentation and description of the development of earnings ++ Group earnings after tax, adjusted (K+S GROUP) figures in the last five years can be found in the ‘Earnings P ­ osition’ ‘Definition of the financial indicators used’, page 234; section on page 97 and that of cash flow in the ‘Financial ­Position’ ‘Glossary’, page 236 section on page 103. Since the 2018 financial year, we direct the Company primarily by In addition to revenues and return on total investment, other key utilising the earnings figure EBITDA. Also, since the beginning of financial figures and non-financial figures that are also relevant 2018, the short-term incentive (STI) as a variable component of the to the K+S GROUP are sales volumes, average selling prices and the remuneration of the Board of Executive Directors and non-tariff number of employees. Although operating earnings (EBIT I) as well paid employees has been based on a comparison of the planned as capital expenditure no longer function as key financial perforEBITDA with the actual EBITDA achieved. As part of our growth mance indicators, they nevertheless still receive attention. Howstrategy, SHAPING 2030, we have set an EBITDA target for 2030 ever, these figures are not considered key performance indicators and published it as a long-term value perspective for the Group. within the meaning of German Accounting Standard (DRS) 20. This emphasises the relevance we place on EBITDA as a key performance indicator. Following the successful completion of the conNON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS struction of the Canadian Bethune production site as the largest In the context of sustainability management, the requirements investment project in the history of K+S, we are now primarily foof the K+S GROUP and those imposed on it are determined, anacusing on reducing indebtedness (net debt/EBITDA ratio). For this lysed and prioritised in order to define specific sustainability tarreason, we are focusing on the key financial performance indicagets for sub-areas (sites, companies, operating units etc.). In this tor of adjusted free cash flow. manner, performance indicators and target values in sustainabil‘Remuneration Report’, page 134 ity management were set for the K+S GROUP in 2018. ‘Sustainability programme’, page 47 ¹ The EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation, adjusted by the depreciation and amortisation amount not recogMONITORING nised in profit and loss in the context of own work capitalised, earnings arising from changes in the fair market value of outstanding operating anticipatory The monitoring system is intended to ensure fulfilment of the hedges, changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges recognised management requirements developed in the context of the govin prior periods and in the prior year profit/loss from currency hedging for capernance system as well as compliance with the relevant legal reital expenditure in Canada. The calculation of the “EBITDA” performance indiquirements. It consists of process-integrated monitoring measures cator can be found in the Economic Report on page 95. (internal control system in a narrower sense) as well as process-in² The calculation of the “Adjusted free cash flow” performance indicator can be found in the Economic Report on page 101. dependent monitoring measures. 3 The calculation of the “ROCE” performance indicator can be found in the ­Economic Report on page 97. 80 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report Process-integrated monitoring measures entail that management undergo training according to their tasks and receive regular trainresponsible for an internal process must identify and analyse risks ing particularly in relation to changes in regulations or processes. to achieving objectives in order to be compliant with internal regulations and the law. Depending on the significance of the respecWe have a Group-wide IT platform for all major companies, a tive risk, upstream, process-integrated controls are to be defined standard Group accounts structure and automatically standardthat are designed to prevent the occurrence of this risk. Downised accounting processes. This standardisation ensures the propstream, process-integrated controls are also to be defined which er and timely reporting of key business transactions. Binding regidentify errors that have occurred/risks that have materialised as ulations as well as control mechanisms are in place for additional quickly as possible so that the relevant action to counter these can manual recording of accounting transactions. The measurement be taken. Depending on the materiality of the respective process of balance sheet items, such as impairment tests on goodwill and its risks, the risk analysis conducted, the controls defined and or the calculation of mining obligations, is performed by interthe action taken are to be recorded. nal Group experts. In individual cases, such as the measurement of pension obligations, the measurement is performed by exterNon-process dependent monitoring measures are implemented nal experts. by the internal audit department. Reports containing summary audit results are produced for these audits and presented to the To prepare the consolidated financial statements of the K+S GROUP, respective responsible management to support managers with the financial statements of those companies whose accounts are assessing the general suitability and actual effectiveness of the kept on the K+S GROUP IT platform are imported directly into an governance and monitoring system. The reliability of the risk and IT consolidation system. In the case of the remaining consolidatopportunity management system and the compliance manageed companies, the financial statements data are transferred via ment system are reviewed on a regular basis. an online interface. The validity of the financial statements data transferred is reviewed by means of system controls. In addition, Non-process dependent monitoring measures are taken exterthe financial statements submitted by the consolidated companally in connection with the annual audits as well as in the form nies are reviewed centrally with due consideration being given to of IT penetration tests. the reports prepared by the auditors. Information relevant to the consolidation process is automatically derived and obtained in a formalised manner by the system, thus ensuring that intragroup GROUP ACCOUNTING PROCESS (SECTION 289 (4) transactions are properly and completely eliminated. All consoliConsolidated Financial Statements AND SECTION 315 (4) OF THE HGB)/AUDIT dation processes for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are carried out and documented in the IT consolidation system. The components of the consolidated financial statements, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are applied including key information for the Notes, are developed from this. when preparing the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The rules for K+S GROUP accounting and reporting in acThe annual financial statements of companies subject to mancordance with IFRS stipulate standard accounting policies for the datory audits and the consolidated financial statements are auGerman and foreign companies included in the consolidated fidited by independent auditors in addition to the existing internancial statements. In addition, we impose detailed and formalnal monitoring. This is the key process-independent monitoring ised requirements for the reporting of the consolidated compameasure with regard to the Group accounting process. The annual nies. New external accounting regulations are analysed promptly financial statements of those German companies not subject to in terms of their effects and, if these are relevant to us, are implemandatory audits are audited by the internal audit department. mented in the accounting processes through internal regulations. Moreover, the independent auditor audits the reliability of the The accounting policies for the separate financial statements of early risk detection system. K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT and its domestic subsidiaries are documented in accounting instructions, in accordance with German The 2018 audit was conducted by DELOITTE GMBH WIRTSCHAFTSFurther Information commercial law and supplementary provisions. All employees PRÜFUNGSGESELLSCHAFT, HANOVER. This company or its predecessor companies have conducted our audits since 1972. The auditor k+s Annual Report 2018 81 directly responsible was auditor/tax adviser Dr Christian H. ­Meyer ITEM 3: DIRECT OR INDIRECT INTERESTS IN THE CAPITAL (auditor of K+S since Annual Report 2015). The overall mandate EXCEEDING 10% was overseen by auditor/tax adviser Heiner Kompenhans (auditor No direct or indirect interests in the share capital of more than of K+S since Annual Report 2015) as responsible partner. DELOITTE 10% were reported to us. GMBH WIRTSCHAFTSPRÜFUNGSGESELLSCHAFT issued a declaration of independence pursuant to number 7.2.1 of the German Corporate Governance Code. The elected auditor is appointed by the SuperITEM 4: HOLDERS OF SHARES WITH SPECIAL RIGHTS visory Board, acting on a recommendation submitted by the AuCONFERRING CONTROL POWERS dit Committee. The Audit Committee supervises the audit activThere are no shares with special rights conferring control powers. ities. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Chairman of the Audit Committee are advised by the auditor without delay of any reasons giving rise to exclusion or partiality that may ITEM 5: VOTING RIGHT CONTROL IN THE EVENT OF EMPLOYEE arise during the audit if these cannot be eliminated immediately. OWNERSHIP OF CAPITAL Furthermore, the auditor should immediately advise of any findNo voting right controls apply. ings and occurrences of relevance to the tasks of the S ­ upervisory Board that may arise during the audit. In addition, the auditor is required to advise the Supervisory Board or make an appropriITEM 6: STATUTORY REGULATIONS AND PROVISIONS OF THE ate note in the audit report if, during the course of the audit, he ARTICLES OF ASSOCATION CONCERNING THE APPOINTMENT identifies any facts suggesting incompatibility with the declaraAND DISMISSAL OF MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE tion on conformity issued by the Board of Executive Directors and DIRECTORS AND AMENDMENTS TO THE ARTICLES OF the Supervisory Board in accordance with Section 161 of the AktG. ASSOCIATION The appointment and dismissal of member of the Board of Executive Directors are governed by Section 84 of the AktG. AccordDISCLOSURES IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION ingly, the members of the Board of Executive Directors are ap289A (1) AND SECTION 315 (1) OF THE HGB AS WELL pointed by the Supervisory Board for a maximum term of five AS THE EXPLANATORY REPORT OF THE BOARD OF years. In accordance with Article 5 of the Articles of Association, EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS IN ACCORDANCE WITH the Board of Executive Directors of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT has at least two members. The number of members is determined SECTION 176 (1) SENTENCE 1 OF THE AKTG by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board may appoint a member of the Board of Executive Directors as Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors. The Supervisory Board may rescind ITEM 1: COMPOSITION OF THE SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL the appointment of a member of the Board of Executive DirecThe share capital is €191,400,000, divided into 191,400,000 shares. tors or the appointment of the Chairman of the Board of ExecuThe bearer shares of the Company are no-par value shares. There tive Directors for good cause. are no other classes of shares. The Annual General Meeting may pass amendments to the Articles of Association with a simple majority of the share capital ITEM 2: RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING RIGHTS OR ON THE represented (Section 179 (2) of the AktG in conjunction with ArtiTRANSFER OF SHARES cle 17 (2) of the Articles of Association), unless mandatory statuEach share carries one vote; no restrictions apply to voting rights tory provisions require a larger majority. or to the transfer of shares. The Board of Executive Directors is not aware of any relevant shareholder agreements. 82 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report ITEM 7: BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ POWERS ++ In order to implement a scrip dividend where the shareholdREGARDING THE OPTION TO ISSUE OR BUY BACK SHARES ers are asked to offer their dividend claim, in full or in part, AUTHORISATION TO CREATE NEW AUTHORISED CAPITAL as a non-cash contribution in return for new shares in the OR AUTHORISED CAPITAL II WITH THE OPTION TO EXCLUDE Company. SHAREHOLDERS’ SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS The Board of Executive Directors may only make use of the authorThe Board of Executive Directors was authorised by the Annuisations described above to exclude the right to subscribe insofar al General Meeting on 12 May 2015 to increase the Company’s as the proportionate amount of the total shares issued with exshare capital, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, by a toclusion of the right to subscribe does not exceed 10% of the share tal of €19,140,000.00, in one lump sum or several partial amounts capital (10% ceiling), neither on the date of the resolution regardat different times, by issuing a maximum of 19,140,000 new ing these authorisations nor on the date they are respectively ex­registered shares (authorised capital) in return for cash and/or ercised. If other authorisations to issue or sell Company shares or non-cash contributions during the period to 11 May 2020. The to issue rights are exercised, which enable or obligate the acquisiBoard of Executive Directors was further authorised on 11 May tion of Company shares, during the term of the authorised capital 2016 to increase the Company’s share capital, with the consent of or authorised capital II until their respective utilisation thus exthe Supervisory Board, by a total of €19,140,000.00, in one lump cluding the right to subscribe, this must be credited against the sum or several partial amounts at different times, by issuing a 10% ceiling referred to above. maximum of 19,140,000 new registered shares (authorised capital II) in return for cash and/or non-cash contributions during The Board of Executive Directors is authorised to determine the the period to 10 May 2021. Shareholders are generally offered the further details of capital increases from the authorised capital or right to subscribe when increasing capital from the authorised the authorised capital II with the consent of the Supervisory Board. capital or authorised capital II respectively. The new shares can be acquired by a financial institution determined by the Board of As a result of the option granted by the Board of Executive DiExecutive Directors with the obligation that they must be offered rectors to implement a capital increase with limited exclusion of to the shareholders for subscription (indirect subscription right). the right to subscribe with the approval of the Supervisory Board www.k-plus-s.com/agm2015invitation; until 11 May 2020 (authorised capital) or 10 May 2021 (authorised www.k-plus-s.com/agm2016invitation capital II), the Company will be given a widespread instrument with the help of which, for example, fast and flexible use can be The Board of Executive Directors is authorised, both for the aumade of the opportunities that present themselves to make acConsolidated Financial Statements thorised capital and for the authorised capital II, with the consent quisitions. The Board of Executive Directors will only make use of of the Supervisory Board, to exclude the shareholders’ statutory this option if there is an appropriate ratio between the value of right to subscribe up to a proportionate amount of the share capthe new shares and the value of the consideration. ital of €19,140,000.00 (corresponding to 19,140,000 no-par value shares) in the following cases: AUTHORISATION TO ISSUE CONVERTIBLE BONDS ++ For fractional amounts that arise as a consequence of the AND BONDS WITH WARRANTS WITH THE OPTION TO right to subscribe. EXCLUDE SHAREHOLDERS’ SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS WHILE ++ In the case of capital increases in return for cash contribuSIMULTANEOUSLY CREATING CONDITIONAL CAPITAL tions up to a proportionate amount of the share capital Authorisation to issue convertible bonds and bonds with of €19,140,000.00 (corresponding to 19,140,000 no-par value warrants shares) if the issue price of the new shares is not significantly The Board of Executive Directors is authorised until 11 May 2020, less than the stock exchange price of already listed shares of with the consent of the Supervisory Board, to issue bearer and/or the same type and structure on the date when the issue price registered convertible bonds and/or warrant linked bonds (bonds) is finally agreed. on one or more occasions, with an aggregate nominal value of up ++ In the case of capital increases in return for non-cash conto €750,000,000.00 with or without a limited term, and to issue or tributions up to a proportionate amount of the share capiimpose conversion rights or obligations on the holders or creditors Further Information tal of €19,140,000.00 (corresponding to 19,140,000 shares) if of bonds, or warrants on shares in the Company with a proportionthe new shares are to be used as consideration in the acquiate amount of the share capital of up to a total of €19,140,000.00, sition of an undertaking or an interest in an undertaking by as set out in greater detail in the terms and conditions of the the Company. k+s Annual Report 2018 83 convertible or warrant-linked bonds. The proportionate amount with conversion obligations, a right to subscribe to the extent of the share capital represented by the shares to be issued upon to which they would be entitled following the exercising of conversion may not exceed the nominal amount of the bonds. these rights or the fulfilment of the conversion obligations. www.k-plus-s.com/agm2015invitation ++ In order to exempt fractional amounts from the shareholders’ right to subscribe, which are a consequence of the subIn addition to euros, bonds may also be issued in the legal tender scription ratio. of any OECD country, limited to the corresponding euro counter-val++ Insofar as the bonds are issued in connection with the acquiue at the time of issuing the bond. Bonds may also be issued by sition of undertakings, interests in undertakings, or parts of group companies of the Company; in this case, the Board of Execundertakings in exchange for non-cash considerations, proutive Directors is authorised to act as guarantor for the bonds on vided the value of the consideration is adequate in relation behalf of the Company and to grant or impose conversion rights to the value of the bonds. or obligations or warrants on shares in the Company to/upon the holders or creditors of such bonds. The bond issues may be subThe authorisations described above to exclude the right to subdivided into equivalent debentures in each case. scribe only apply to bonds with conversion rights or obligations or warrants on shares representing a proportionate amount of the The Company’s shareholders are generally entitled to subscription share capital of up to 10% of the share capital as of the date of the rights to bonds. The bonds can also be acquired by one or more firesolution or, if the amount of the share capital is lower at that nancial institutions with the obligation that they must be offered time, on the date when the authorisation is exercised. to the Company’s shareholders for subscription. If bonds with conversion rights are issued, creditors may exchange The Board of Executive Directors is however authorised with the their bonds against shares in the Company in accordance with the approval of the Supervisory Board to exclude subscription rights, bond terms and conditions. The exchange ratio is calculated by diin full or in part, in the following cases: viding the nominal amount of a bond by the conversion price de++ If bonds are issued against cash and if the issue price is not termined for a new share in the company. The exchange ratio can substantially lower than the theoretical market value of the also be calculated by dividing the issue price of a bond that is bebonds calculated in accordance with recognised actuarial low the nominal amount by the conversion price determined for methods. However, exclusion of subscription rights only apa new share in the company. The exchange ratio can be rounded plies to bonds with conversion rights or obligations or warup or down to the next whole number in each case; a premium rants on shares representing a proportionate amount of the to be paid in cash can also be determined. Moreover, provision share capital of up to 10% of the share capital as of the date can be made for fractional amounts to be combined and/or setof the resolution or, if the amount of the share capital is lowtled in cash. The proportionate amount of the share capital reper at that time, on the date when the authorisation is exerresented by the shares to be issued per bond may not exceed the cised. The maximum limit of 10% of the share capital is renominal amount of the bond. duced by the proportionate amount of the share capital amount attributable to shares issued during this authoriIf warrant-linked bonds are issued, one or more warrants will be sation period in connection with another increase in capiattached to each bond, which authorise the holder to subscribe tal where subscription rights are excluded in direct or indito shares in the Company, as set out in greater detail in the warrect application of Section 186 (3) sentence 4 of the AktG. The rant terms and conditions to be defined by the Board of Executive maximum limit of 10% of the share capital is also reduced by Directors. The proportionate amount of the share capital reprethe proportionate amount of the share capital attributable to sented by the shares to be issued per bond may not exceed the own shares, which are sold by the Company during this aunominal amount of the warrant-linked bond. thorisation period, where subscription rights are excluded in direct or indirect application of Section 186 (3) sentence 4 of The respective conversion or option price for a share in the the AktG. ­Company (subscription price) must correspond to either (a) at ++ If and insofar as this is necessary in order to grant the bearleast 80% of the weighted average stock exchange price of K+S ers of convertible bonds or warrants in respect of shares in shares in the XETRA computer trading system (or any functionally the Company or the creditors of convertible bonds provided 84 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report comparable successor system replacing it) at the Frankfurt Stock­ The Board of Executive Directors is authorised, in the context of Exchange during the last ten trading days prior to the day on the requirements described above, with the approval of the Super­ which the Board of Executive Directors adopts the resolution to visory Board, to define the further details of the issue and struc­ issue the convertible or warrant-linked bonds, or (b) at least 80% ture of the convertible and/or warrant-linked bonds, particularly of the weighted average stock exchange price of K+S shares in the interest rate, issue price, term, denomination, dilution protection, XETRA computer trading system (or any functionally comparable and the conversion or warrant period or to define these in consul­ successor system replacing it) at the Frankfurt Stock E ­ xchange tation with the corporate bodies of the holding companies issu­ during the days on which subscription rights are traded on the ing the convertible and/or warrant-linked bonds. Frankfurt Stock Exchange, with the exception of the last two days of subscription rights trading. Conditional capital increase The share capital is increased by up to €19,140,000.00 by issuing For warrant-linked bonds or bonds with conversion rights, or ob­ up to 19,140,000 bearer shares with no par value (conditional cap­ ligations, the warrants or conversion rights, or obligations, can be ital). The purpose of the conditional capital increase is to grant adjusted to preserve value in the event of a dilution in the value no-par value shares to the holders or creditors of bonds, which of the warrants or conversion rights, or obligations, in accordance are issued by the Company or group companies of the Company with the bond terms and conditions, notwithstanding Section 9 in accordance with the above authorisation before 11 May 2020. (1) of the AktG, insofar as the adjustment is not already stipulat­ New no-par value shares will be issued at the conversion or option ed by law. Moreover, the bond terms and conditions may make price to be determined in each case as described above. provision for a value-preserving adjustment of the warrants or conversion rights/obligations in the event of a capital reduction The conditional capital increase will be implemented only insofar or other extraordinary measures or events (such as a third party as the holders or creditors of conversion rights or warrants from obtaining control, unusually large dividends). bonds, which were issued by the Company or a group company before 11 May 2020 based on the authorising resolution of the An­ The bond terms and conditions may also make provision for a con­ nual General Meeting held on 12 May 2015, exercise their conver­ version obligation at the end of the term (or an earlier date) or for sion rights or warrants; or as the holders or creditors of the con­ the Company’s right to grant shares in the Company, in full or in vertible bonds with conversion obligation, which were issued by part, in lieu of payment of the amount due to the creditors of the the Company or a group company before 11 May 2020 based on bonds at the time of final maturity of bonds with conversion rights the authorising resolution of the Annual General Meeting held Consolidated Financial Statements or warrants (this also includes maturity on account of termina­ on 12 May 2015, who are required to convert, fulfil their conversion tion). The bond terms and conditions may also stipulate in each obligation; or if the Company elects before 11 May 2020, based on case at the Company’s discretion that instead of being converted the authorising resolution of 12 May 2015, to grant shares in the into new shares from conditional capital, warrant-linked or con­ Company, in full or in part, in lieu of payment of the amount due; vertible bonds may be converted into existing shares in the Com­ and if no cash settlement is made or own shares are used to set­ pany or that the warrant can be fulfilled by providing such shares. tle such claims. New no-par value shares are eligible to partici­ pate in the profits from the beginning of the financial year during Finally, the bond terms and conditions may make the provision which they are created through the exercise of conversion rights that in the event of a conversion, the Company will not grant or warrants or through the fulfilment of conversion obligations; shares in the Company to the party entitled to the conversion, but in deviation from this, the Board of Executive Directors may de­ will make a payment, which for the number of shares to be sup­ termine, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, that new noplied alternatively, corresponds to the weighted average stock ex­ par value shares are eligible to participate in the profits from the change price of K+S shares in the XETRA computer trading system beginning of the financial year, in respect of which the Annual (or any functionally comparable successor system replacing it) at General Meeting has not yet adopted a resolution regarding the the Frankfurt Stock Exchange during the ten trading days follow­ appropriation of the balance sheet profit at the time when the ing the declaration of the conversion or exercise of the warrant. conversion rights or warrants are exercised or the conversion ob­ Further Information ligations are fulfilled. The Board of Executive Directors is author­ ised with the consent of the Supervisory Board to determine the k+s Annual Report 2018 85 additional content of share rights and further details of the imexchange price by more than 10%; the relevant stock exchange plementation of a conditional capital increase. price will be the weighted average stock exchange price of K+S shares in the XETRA computer trading system (or any functionally In addition to the traditional options for raising outside and ­equity comparable successor system replacing it) at the Frankfurt Stock capital, issuing convertible bonds and/or warrant-linked bonds Exchange during the last ten trading days prior to the publication can also provide an opportunity to take advantage of attractive of the offer to buy. In the event of a call to shareholders to submit financing alternatives on the capital markets depending on the offers for sale, the purchase price offered per share (excluding acmarket situation. The Board of Executive Directors believes that quisition costs) must not exceed or undercut the relevant stock exit is in the Company’s interests that this financing option is also change price by more than 10%; the relevant stock exchange price available to the Company. Issuing convertible bonds and/or warwill be the weighted average stock exchange price of K+S shares rant-linked bonds makes it possible to raise capital under attracin the XETRA computer trading system (or any functionally comtive conditions. The conversion and/or option premiums achieved parable successor system replacing it) at the Frankfurt Stock Exbenefit the Company’s capital base thereby enabling it to take change during the last ten trading days prior to the publication ­advantage of more favourable financing opportunities. The other of the call to shareholders to submit offers for sale. In the event possibility provided for, in addition to the granting of conversion of acquisition by means of a public offer to buy addressed to all rights and/or warrants, to create conversion obligations, widens shareholders or by way of a public call to shareholders to submit the scope for structuring this financing instrument. The authorisaoffers for sale, the volume of the offer or call can be limited. If the tion provides the Company with the necessary flexibility to place overall subscription to this offer or the offers for sale exceed this the bonds itself or through direct or indirect holding companies. volume, shares must be acquired on allocation basis. Provision The option to exclude the right to subscribe allows the ­Company may be made for preferential acceptance of small quantities of to make rapid use of advantageous stock exchange situations up to 100 shares offered for sale per shareholder. and to place bonds on the market quickly and flexibly ­under atwww.k-plus-s.com/agm2015invitation tractive conditions. Furthermore, the Board of Executive Directors is authorised, with AUTHORISATION TO ACQUIRE AND USE OWN SHARES the consent of the Supervisory Board, to sell shares in the CompaWITH THE OPTION TO EXCLUDE SHAREHOLDERS’ RIGHT TO ny, which are or were acquired based on the authorisation above or SUBSCRIBE authorisation previously granted by the Annual General Meeting The Board of Executive Directors is authorised to acquire own pursuant to Section 71 (1) (8) of the AktG, on the stock exchange shares representing no more than 10% of the total no-par value or via a public offer addressed to all shareholders. In the following shares comprising the share capital of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT uncases, shares may be disposed of by other means and thus with til 11 May 2020. At no time may the Company hold more than 10% the exclusion of the shareholders’ right to subscribe: of the total number of no-par value shares comprising its share ++ Disposal against payment of a cash sum that is not significapital. Acquisition will be made via the stock exchange by means cantly below the relevant stock exchange price; of a public offer to buy addressed to all shareholders or by way of ++ Issue of shares as consideration for the purpose of acquira public call to shareholders to submit offers for sale. In the event ing undertakings, parts of undertakings or interests in of a purchase effected on a stock exchange, the purchase price undertakings; per share (excluding acquisition costs) must not exceed or under++ Servicing of convertible bonds and bonds with warrants, cut the relevant stock exchange price by more than 10%; the relewhich have been issued on the basis of authorisation given vant stock exchange price will be the price of the K+S share in the by the Annual General Meeting. ­XETRA computerised trading system (or any functionally comparable successor system replacing it) at the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, The authorisation to exclude the right to subscribe applies in redetermined by the opening auction on the day of purchase. In the spect of all shares representing a proportionate amount of the event of a purchase by means of an offer to buy addressed to all share capital of up to 10% of the share capital when the resolushareholders, the purchase price offered per share (excluding action is adopted or if the amount of the share capital is lower at quisition costs) must not exceed or undercut the relevant stock that time, on the date when the authorisation is exercised. If use 86 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report is made of other authorisations to issue or sell Company shares or ITEM 8: SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS THAT APPLY IN THE EVENT to issue rights, which enable or obligate the acquisition of ComOF A CHANGE OF CONTROL RESULTING FROM A TAKEOVER BID pany shares, during the term of this authorisation to acquire own In 2013, K+S concluded a syndicated credit line for €1 billion. All shares, thus excluding the right to subscribe, the total number loans drawn against this line of credit will become due and payaof shares issued or sold where the right to subscribe is excluded ble immediately and the entire credit line will become redeemable must not exceed 10% of the share capital. in accordance with the loan terms and conditions if one person acting alone or more persons acting jointly acquire control over Finally, the Board of Executive Directors is authorised, with the K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT. Also in the case of the bonds issued by consent of the Supervisory Board, to withdraw shares in the ComK+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT, as well as the promissory notes issued, pany from circulation, which are or were acquired based on the the respective creditors have the right, in the event of a change authorisation above or authorisation previously granted by the of control, to terminate the bonds or promissory notes that have Annual General Meeting pursuant to Section 71 (1) (8) of the AktG, not yet been redeemed. without the Annual General Meeting having to pass a further resolution on such withdrawal. Shares must be withdrawn from cirThe provisions in credit agreements and bond conditions agreed culation in accordance with Section 237 (3) (3) of the AktG without in the event of a change of control are routine and reasonable a capital reduction in such a way that withdrawal results in an infrom the perspective of protecting the legitimate interests of the crease in the proportion of remaining no-par value shares in the creditors. share capital pursuant to Section 8 (3) of the AktG. The Board of Executive Directors is authorised pursuant to Section 237 (3) (3) clause 2 of the AktG to adjust the number of shares indicated in ITEM 9: AGREEMENTS CONCLUDED WITH THE BOARD the Articles of Association. OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OR EMPLOYEES CONCERNING COMPENSATION IN THE EVENT OF A TAKEOVER BID The authorisations to purchase own shares as well as to dispose Agreements of this type exist with the members of the Board of of them and withdraw them from circulation may be exercised Executive Directors of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT and are explained in full or in part each time and on several occasions in the latter in detail in the Remuneration Report on page 140. The existing case. The authorisation granted by the Annual General Meeting compensation agreements with the members of the Board of to the Board of Executive Directors to purchase a limited number Executive Directors take into appropriate consideration both the of own shares in the Company is a common instrument availalegitimate interests of those concerned and of the Company and Consolidated Financial Statements ble in many companies. The ability to resell own shares, puts the its shareholders. Company in a position to, for example, gain long-term investors in Germany and abroad or to finance acquisitions flexibly. Moreover, it will also enable the Company to use shares for servicing convertible and warrant-linked bonds. It may be advisable to use own shares in full or in part instead of new shares from a capital increase to fulfil conversion rights or warrants. Using own shares rules out any dilution of shareholder interests that would occur if conditional capital were used. The continued option to withdraw own shares from circulation is also a common alternative, the use of which is in the interest of the Company and its shareholders. Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 87 REPORT ON ECONOMIC POSITION We increased both revenues and earnings in the 2018 financial year. Revenues of the K+S GROUP rose from €3,627.0 million in the previous year to €4,039.1 million. EBITDA ¹ amounted to €606.3 million, moderately higher than the previous year’s figure (2017: €576.7 million). OVERVIEW OF THE COURSE OF BUSINESS Following a recovery that lasted until the third quarter of 2018, crude oil prices fell sharply in the final quarter. At the end of December, the price of Brent Crude was around USD 54 per barrel MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT (31 December 2017: USD 67). The main reasons for the price deGlobal gross domestic product rose by 3.7% in 2018, although the cline were higher supplies due to production increases in major differences in economic momentum widened between different producer countries and high inventories in the United States. The countries and regions. Driven by fiscal stimulus measures, the average price for 2018 of around USD 72 was nevertheless signifiUnited States economy gained further momentum. In the euro cantly above that of the previous year (2017: USD 55). zone and Japan, on the other hand, the growth rate was noticeably slower. In addition to the sharp decline in automobile producThe NCG Natural Gas Year Future, which focuses primarily on tion, the respective labour markets also underperformed. Growth western and southern Germany, rebounded to €26/MWh over in the emerging economies slowed down, albeit to very different the course of the year following a drop from around €18/MWh degrees, as the financial environment worsened. Russia, many at the beginning of the year to approximately €16/MWh in the Asian countries and parts of Latin America experienced only mifirst quarter, and ended the year at around €22/MWh. The avernor downturns, while Argentina and Turkey experienced severe age fi­ gure increased to around €21/MWh compared to the p ­ revious turbulence and slipped into recession. year (2017: €17/MWh). The Henry Hub Natural Gas Future, which Sources: Kiel Institute for the World Economy (IfW), IMF focuses primarily on North America, reported a slight decline from 3.0 USD/mmBtu at the beginning of the year to 2.8 USD/mmBtu at Prices for important soft commodities initially showed a positive the end of 2018. In the meantime, the price picked up and reached trend during 2018. While the price of wheat improved over the an annual high of 4.5 USD/mmBtu on 14 November. The average course of the year, soybeans and palm oil reported tangible price for the year was 3.1 USD/mmBtu. drops in the second half of the year. The DOW JONES-UBS AGRICULTURE SUBINDEX, which tracks developments in the prices of corn, The value of the US dollar stood at EUR/USD 1.18 for the year on soybeans, sugar, wheat, soy oil, cotton and coffee, decreased by average and thus below the level of the previous year (2017: EUR/ around 13%. Fig. 2.14 USD 1.13). Fig. 2.15 IMPACT ON K+S The changes in the macroeconomic environment had an impact on the business development of K+S as follows: ++ The K+S GROUP’s energy costs are affected in particular by 1 T  he EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amorthe cost of purchasing natural gas, which rose slightly in the tisation, adjusted by the depreciation and amortisation amount not recognised ­reporting period, mainly as a result of significantly higher volin profit and loss in the context of own work capitalised, earnings arising from umes coming from the production ramp-up of the Bethune changes in the fair market value of outstanding operating anticipatory hedges, mine. Our long-term purchase contracts with favourable conchanges in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges recognised in prior periods and in the prior year profit/loss from currency hedging for capital exditions make us less dependent on short-term market price penditure in Canada. A reconciliation can be found on page 95. changes. 88 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report DEVELOPMENT OF PRICES FOR AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS AND CRUDE OIL IN 2018 Fig. 2.14 in % 130 120 Wheat 110 Corn 100 Soybeans 90 Palm Oil 80 Crude Oil (Brent) 70 Dow Jones-UBS Agriculture Subindex Jan Feb March April May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Index: 31 December 2017 Source: Bloomberg DEVELOPMENT OF EXCHANGE RATES IN 2018 Fig. 2.15 in % 120 110 100 90 80 CAD to USD 70 Euros to USD Jan Feb March April May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Index: 31 December 2017 Source: Bloomberg ++ Foreign currency hedging system: The use of hedging instruSECTOR-SPECIFIC ENVIRONMENT ments for the Potash and Magnesium Products business unit POTASH AND MAGNESIUM PRODUCTS BUSINESS UNIT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS resulted in an average exchange rate of EUR/USD 1.14 in 2018 In the 2018 financial year, the industry-specific situation for the including hedging costs (2017: EUR/USD 1.12). We also hedged Potash and Magnesium Products business unit was characterised the euro exchange rate for the capital expenditure related to by good demand. Because contracts between the major potash construction of the Bethune plant payable in Canadian dolproducers and the Chinese and Indian customers were signed at lars for the last time in the 2017 financial year. Due to product a relatively late date in the previous year, remaining ­contractual revenues invoiced in US dollars, the Canadian dollar is now quantities were still being delivered in the first six months of 2018. hedged against the US dollar. The average hedging rate in the In the course of the third quarter, a new price for potassium chloyear under review was USD/CAD 1.31 (2017: 1.45 EUR/CAD). ride including freight of USD 290 per tonne for both China and ‘Financial position’, page 98 ­India (2017: USD 230 and 240 per tonne, respectively) was agreed. ++ Prices of important soft commodities remained at a comparThe global average price level for potassium chloride rose further atively low level over the course of the year. Despite recent in 2018 compared with the previous year and has continued to price increases, e. g. for fertilizers, the resulting earnings prosgain ground over the course of the year. pects continued to give farmers sufficient incentive in the year under review to increase yield per hectare by using plant Prices for fertilizer specialities also rose on average, but more modnutrients. erately than prices for potassium chloride. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 89 SALT BUSINESS UNIT COMPARISON OF ACTUAL AND PROJECTED An extraordinarily strong winter at the beginning of 2018 led to COURSE OF BUSINESS low stocks of de-icing salt at US customers in the Midwest as well EARNINGS FORECAST as in Canada. As a result, price increases were realised for the At the time of publishing the financial figures for the second quar2018/2019 winter season. In Europe, prices remained at the levter of 2018, we had set our earnings forecast at €660–740 million, el of the previous winter season. Prices were below the previous which was below the market expectation of around €800 million year only on the US East Coast owing to the competitive market at the time. As announced in the course of the third quarter, this environment. Compared with the previous year, the de-icing salt forecast was adjusted to a range of €570–630 million on 15 Noseason in Northern Europe and North America started the fourth vember 2018, mainly due to weather-related stoppage days in the quarter of 2018 slightly weaker overall than in the previous year, context of our third quarter report and the associated extensive after good early fills business in the third quarter. off-site disposal measures for saline waste water in the fourth quarter. In addition, a sharp rise in logistics costs in the Salt busiGeneral conditions for the sale of consumer products and salts for ness unit negatively impacted earnings. At €606.3 million, the K+S the food industry improved slightly compared to the previous year. GROUP’S EBITDA for the 2018 financial year was within this adjustIn North America, higher prices for water softening salts were reed range (2017: €576.7 million). However, it is not in accordance corded. A similar development was seen for salts for industrial apwith our forecast of a significant increase from the statements plications in Europe, also due to reduced product availability. There we made in our 2017 Annual Report. TAB. 2.11 was slightly higher global demand for pharmaceutical salts (e. g. ­dialysis), due primarily to the higher average age of the population. The Potash and Magnesium Products business unit achieved At the same time, however, the entire business sector was exposed EBITDA of €359.3 million in the reporting period (2017: €268.8 milto high cost inflation, mainly driven by increased logistics costs. lion) despite the aforementioned adjustments and still achieved a significant increase compared with the previous year, as forecasted in our 2017 Annual Report. The Salt business unit generKEY EVENTS AFFECTING THE COURSE OF BUSINESS ated EBITDA of €274.5 million (2017: €325.2 million) and was thus ++ Product availability at the integrated Werra plant was signifunable to achieve a tangible increase in EBITDA, as we had origiicantly lower compared to the previous year. Due to the exnally forecast in the 2017 Annual Report. Although sales volumes treme drought, it was not possible to completely dispose of increased as expected, they were offset by, among other things, the saline wastewater from production, despite numerous the cost increases described above. countermeasures. We were therefore forced to temporarily ‘Presentation of segments’, page 104 halt production at that plant. ++ In the 2018 financial year, we further increased the producFor adjusted Group earnings after tax, we had forecast a range tion at our new Bethune potash plant, which opened in 2017. of €55–85 million at the time of the Q3/18 Quarterly Report. After around 0.5 million tonnes had been produced in 2017, At €85.4 million, earnings were at the upper end of this corridor. production volumes in 2018 were already a good 1.4 million However, in the course of adjusting our EBITDA forecast during the tonnes. year, we also had to reduce the range for adjusted Group earnings ++ Contracts signed with Chinese and Indian customers in the after tax. Originally, we had assumed a “significant increase” here second half of 2018 had a stable to slightly positive effect on compared to 2017, according to the statements in the 2017 Annuglobal potash demand and reflect the ongoing recovery in poal Report (2017: €145.0 million). tassium chloride prices. ++ K+S had to accept higher freight prices in 2018, especially in ROCE amounted to 2.6% and was thus, as recently expected, sigNorth America. Further price-related increases in logistics nificantly below the previous year’s level (2017: 3.2%). Here, too, costs are also expected for 2019. To some extent, these inwe had adjusted our forecast in the course of the year for the creases can be offset by passing them on to customers and by other measures. 90 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report TARGET/ACTUAL COMPARISON 2018 Tab. 2.11 Forecast 2017 Annual Forecast Forecast Forecast ACTUAL 2017 Report Q1/18 Q2/18 Q3/18 ACTUAL 2018 K+S Group tangible tangible Revenues € billion 3.63 increase increase 3.90-4.10 3.90-4.10 4.04 significant significant EBITDA ¹ € million 576.7 increase increase 660-740 570-630 606.3 significant significant Group earnings after tax, adjusted ² € million 145.0 increase increase 110-160 55-85 85.4 significantly significantly significantly significantly below prior below prior below prior below prior Capital expenditure € million 810.8 year year year year 443.2 significant improvement, significant significant significant still slightly improvement, improvement, improvement, Adjusted Free Cash flow € million -389.8 negative still negative still negative still negative -206.3 significant significant significant significant ROCE % 3.2 increase increase increase decrease 2.6 EUR/USD exchange rate EUR/USD 1.13 1.20 1.21 1.21 1.20 1.18 Potash and Magnesium Products business unit significant significant significant significant EBITDA ¹ € million 268.8 increase increase increase increase 359.3 significant significant significant significant ROCE % 1.4 increase increase increase increase 1.2 Salt business unit tangible moderate moderate EBITDA ¹ € million 325.2 increase increase stable increase 274.5 million tangible tangible tangible tangible Sales volumes – crystallised salt tonnes 20.3 increase increase increase increase 23.7 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS significant significant tangible tangible ROCE % 8.9 increase increase increase increase 8.1 ¹ The EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation, adjusted for depreciation and amortisation of own work capitalised recognised directly in equity, earnings from fair value changes arising from operating anticipatory hedges still outstanding, changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges recognised in prior periods, and in the prior year earnings from the hedging of investments in Canadian dollars. A reconciliation can be found on page 95. ² The adjusted key indicators include the profit/(loss) from operating forecast hedges in the relevant reporting period, which eliminates effects from changes in the fair value of the hedges (see also the ‘Notes to the income statement and the statement of comprehensive income’ on page 173). Related effects on deferred and cash taxes are also eliminated; tax rate in 2018: 30.0% (2017: 29.9%) reasons already mentioned, after we had assumed a “significant CASH FLOW FORECAST ­increase” at the time of publishing the 2017 Annual Report. At the We met our forecast of a continued negative but significantly level of our Potash and Magnesium Products and Salt business ­improved adjusted free cash flow for the 2018 financial year. Howunits, ROCE also fell tangibly to 1.2% in the Potash and M ­ agnesium ever, the forecast of a “slightly negative” expected free cash flow ­Products business unit and moderately to 8.1% in the Salt busiwas adjusted to “negative”. It amounted to €–206.3 million in the ness unit (2017: 1.4% and 8.9% respectively). reporting period (2017: €–389.8 million). The forecast of a c­ apital expenditure volume “significantly below the previous year” was Further information achieved. k+s Annual Report 2018 91 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS With regard to regional distribution, the higher proportion of potash products sold from Bethune led to a percentage increase in revenues in South America and Asia. Accordingly, the percentage for REVENUES Europe declined. Nevertheless, we continued to generate the largest In the 2018 financial year, K+S GROUP revenues amounted share of revenues here, now accounting for 41%, followed by North to €4,039.1 million compared to €3,627.0 million in the previous America with around 35%. South America and Asia accounted for year. Larger sales volumes of potassium chloride from the Bethune 13% and 9%, respectively, of our total revenues. Fig. 2.17 plant and higher market prices for potash and magnesium products had a positive impact on the revenue trend. Increased sales volumes in the Salt business unit and higher prices for water sofDEVELOPMENT OF ORDERS tening salt and de-icing salt in North America also contributed to Most of our business is not covered by longer-term agreements the positive revenue trend. This was offset by reduced availability on fixed volumes and prices. The business in the Potash and Magof potash and magnesium products from Germany, in particular as nesium Products business unit is characterised by long-term cusa result of weather-related production stoppages at the integrattomer relationships as well as revolving framework agreements ed Werra plant, as well as negative currency effects in both busiwith non-binding volume and price indications. ness units. A certain seasonality can generally be recognised from the quarterly revenues; in terms of volume, the first six months In the Salt business unit, de-icing salt contracts for the public secfor the Potash and Magnesium Products business unit usually tor in Europe, Canada and the United States are awarded through benefit from the start of spring fertilizing in Europe. The de-icing public tenders. We generally participate in these tenders from the salt business is normally focused on the first and fourth quarter second quarter for the coming winter season, but also, in some of a year. TAB. 2.12, 2.13 cases, for subsequent winter seasons. The contracts include agree‘Display of segments’, page 104; ments on both prices and maximum volumes. If the contractual‘Segment reporting’, page 150 ly agreed volumes are subject to fluctuations permitted by law – ­depending on weather conditions – these volumes cannot be Within the K+S GROUP, the revenue contributions of the Potash classified as orders on hand. This also applies if volumes can be and Magnesium Products and Salt business units were once again transferred to the following winter if demand is weak in a parrelatively balanced, accounting for 49% and 47% respectively of ticular season. total revenues. 4% of revenues were generated by Complementary Activities. Fig. 2.16 REVENUES BY UNIT Tab. 2.12 in € million 2017 Q1/18 Q2/18 Q3/18 Q4/18 2018 % Potash and Magnesium Products business unit 1,703.5 488.7 440.5 422.2 621.6 1,973.0 +15.8 Salt business unit 1,762.0 635.6 326.9 375.0 553.3 1,890.8 +7.3 Complementary activities 159.9 44.9 43.9 41.7 41.9 172.4 +7.8 Reconciliation 1.6 0.6 0.6 1.2 0.5 2.9 +81.2 K+S Group 3,627.0 1,169.8 811.9 840.1 1,217.3 4,039.1 +11.4 Share of total revenues (%) – 29.0 20.1 20.8 30.1 100.0 – 92 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report REVENUES BY UNIT fig. 2.16 REVENUES BY REGION fig. 2.17 in % in % 4.3/4.4 9.0/8.1 2.4/2.0 Complementary Activities Asia Africa, Ozeania 13.0/10.7 South America 48.9/47.0 46.8/48.6 Potash and Magnesium 41.0/43.7 Salt business unit Products business unit Europe 14.9/16.3 34.6/35.5 thereof Germany North America 2018/2017 2018/2017 For the reasons stated above, the reporting of orders on hand is fell to €146.8 million (2017: €187.8 million) and other operating not relevant for the assessment of our shortand medium-term expenses to €171.6 million (2017: €186.1 million). The gains/losses profitability. on operating anticipatory hedges decreased to €–49.5 million in 2018 (2017: €61.2 million). ‘Consolidated financial statements’, page 145 DEVELOPMENT OF SIGNIFICANT COSTS During the reporting period, cost of sales rose from €2,414.6 million­ Within the costs, the cost of materials, personnel expenses, ento €2,779.5 million. Except for price-related increases, especially in ergy and freight costs had a particularly strong effect on the cost logistics services, the cost of sales also rose as a result of the ramptrend. At €1,629.1 million, the cost of materials increased tangibly, up in production at our Bethune plant. In addition, the extensive mainly as a result of higher production volumes (2017: €1,434.8 use of logistics services for the off-site disposal of saline wastemillion). In 2018, personnel expenses amounted to €1,122.5 million, water in Germany led to an increase in production costs. How­ever, and were therefore slightly higher than the amount of the prethese transports were necessary during the extreme drought in vious year (2017: €1,106.2 million). Freight costs of €883.6 million order to maintain production for as long as possible. Selling ex(2017: €714.8 million) partly benefited from relatively low crude CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS penses amounted to €779.8 million in the year under review comoil prices, yet remained noticeably above the figure for the previpared to €704.5 million in the previous year. This increase was ous year, mainly due to increased volumes and prices. Energy costs also the result of higher sales volumes. Other operating income were €261.7 million compared to €253.3 million, with the increase due mainly to volume increases. ‘Notes’, page 150 VARIANCE COMPARED WITH PREVIOUS YEAR Tab. 2.13 in % 2018 Change in Revenues +11.4 EARNINGS DEVELOPMENT IN THE PAST FINANCIAL YEAR – volume/structure-related +9.8 OPERATING EARNINGS EBITDA AND EBIT I – price/pricing-related +4.6 Since the 2018 financial year, we have been controlling the com– currency-related -3.0 pany in particular via the EBITDA. EBIT I no longer acts as a key – consolidation-related – ­financial performance indicator and will be reported for the last time this year. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 93 EBITDA BY UNIT 1 Tab. 2.14 in € million 2017 Q1/18 Q2/18 Q3/18 Q4/18 2018 % Potash and Magnesium Products business unit 268.8 120.8 90.6 3.4 144.5 359.3 +33.7 Salt business unit 325.2 120.9 23.3 41.5 88.8 274.5 -15.6 Complementary Activities 30.3 9.8 8.0 6.2 7.2 31.3 +3.3 Reconciliation 2 -47.6 -14.7 -16.8 -14.7 -12.6 -58.8 – K+S Group 576.7 236.8 105.1 36.4 228.0 606.3 +5.1 Share of total EBITDA (%) – 39.1 17.3 6.0 37.6 100.0 – 1 T  he EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation, adjusted by the depreciation and amortisation amount not recognised in profit and loss in the context of own work capitalised, earnings arising from changes in the fair market value of outstanding operating anticipatory hedges, changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges recognised in prior periods and in the prior year profit/loss from currency hedging for capital expenditure in Canada. A reconciliation can be found on page 95. 2 Expenses and income that cannot be allocated to business units and Complementary Activities are recorded separately and shown under ‘Reconciliation’. EBIT I BY UNIT Tab. 2.15 in € million 2017 Q1/18 Q2/18 Q3/18 Q4/18 2018 % Potash and Magnesium Products business unit 81.4 52.5 21.1 -68.5 64.5 69.6 -14.5 Salt business unit 223.0 102.1 4.0 21.7 69.0 196.8 -11.7 Complementary Activities 23.5 8.7 6.8 5.0 5.9 26.4 +12.3 Reconciliation 1 -57.0 -16.3 -18.5 -16.3 -14.4 -65.5 – K+S Group 270.8 147.0 13.4 -58.1 124.9 227.2 -16.1 Share of total EBIT I (%) – 64.7 5.9 -25.6 55.0 100.0 – 1 Expenses and income that cannot be allocated to business units and Complementary Activities are recorded separately and shown under ‘Reconciliation’. EBITDA 1 amounted to €606.3 million in the year under review Operating profit (EBIT I) amounted to €227.2 million in the year and was moderately higher than the previous year’s amount under review, compared to €270.8 million in the previous year; (2017: €576.7 million). This was due to price and volume i­ ncreases this represents a decline of around 16%. EBIT I contains depreci– as already described in the section on revenue development – ation and amortisation including impairment losses and reverwhich were mainly offset by cuts in production at the integrated sals (adjusted for depreciation and amortisation charged on own Werra plant, but also by the ongoing effects from the ramp-up of work capitalised and recognised directly in equity) of €379.1 milour Canadian production and the efforts associated with this to lion. This item increased by around 24% compared to the previimprove product quality. In addition, a disproportionate increase ous year (2017: €305.9 million), mainly due to the full-year deprein transport costs had a negative impact. The reconciliation fell ciation and amortisation at the Bethune site in Canada. TAB. 2.15 to €–58.8 million in 2030 (2017: €–47.6 million) mainly due to non-recurring costs in connection with a IT changeover and exEARNINGS AFTER OPERATING HEDGES (EBIT II) ternal consulting costs for SHAPING 2030. TAB. 2.14 Earnings after operating hedges (EBIT II) of €165.3 million were generated in 2018 (2017: €327.3 million). The difference between 1 T  he EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amorEBIT I and EBIT II of €–61.9 million (2017: €+56.5 million) was largely tisation, adjusted by the depreciation and amortisation amount not recognised the result of the negative change in the fair values of outstandin profit and loss in the context of own work capitalised, earnings arising from ing hedging transactions and the elimination of maturing transchanges in the fair market value of outstanding operating anticipatory hedges, actions with positive fair values. TAB. 2.16 changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges recognised in prior periods and in the prior year profit/loss from currency hedging for capital ex‘Consolidated financial statements’, page 145; penditure in Canada. A reconciliation can be found on page 95. ‘Glossary’, page 236 94 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report RECONCILIATION TO OPERATING EARNINGS (EBIT I) AND EBITDA Tab. 2.16 in € million 2017 2018 Earnings after operating hedges (EBIT II) 327.3 165.3 Income (–)/expenses (+) arising from changes in the fair value of outstanding operating anticipatory hedges -37.2 25.7 Elimination of prior-period changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges -10.3 36.2 Realised gains (–)/losses (+) from currency hedging for capital expenditure in Canada -9.0 — Operating earnings (EBIT I) 270.8 227.2 Depreciation and amortisation (+)/impairment losses (+)/reversals of impairment losses (–) on non-current assets 330,0 385,0 Capitalised depreciation expenses recognised directly in equity 1 (–) -24,1 -5,9 EBITDA 576,7 606,3 1 Relates to depreciation of assets used to create other items of property, plant and equipment. Depreciation is capitalised as part of cost and not recognised in profit or loss. RECONCILIATION TO Group earnings after tax, FINANCIAL RESULT adjusted Tab. 2.17 The financial result deteriorated from €–26.4 million to €–112.2 milin € million 2017 2018 lion. One major reason for this change was a sharp increase in Group earnings after tax 184.6 42.1 interest expense; following the commissioning of the Bethune Income (–)/expenses (+) arising from chanplant, less borrowing costs are capitalised now, and we also issued ges in the fair value of outstanding operaa €600 million corporate bond in July 2018 to refinance the €500 ting anticipatory hedges -37.2 25.7 million bond maturing in December 2018. Accordingly, an addiElimination of prior-period changes in the tional interest expense was incurred for this period. In addition, fair value of operating anticipatory hedges -10.3 36.2 the currency-related other interest income from the measureElimination of resulting deferred taxes and taxes payable 16.9 -18.6 ment of financial assets and liabilities from the previous year no Realised gains (–)/losses (+) from currency longer applied. hedging for capital expenditure in Canada -9.0 — Group earnings after tax, adjusted 145.0 85.4 GROUP EARNINGS AND EARNINGS PER SHARE In the year under review, Group earnings after tax amounted CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The changes in fair value arising from hedging transactions are to €42.1 million (2017: €184.6 million). While the tax expenses reported in profit or loss. EBIT II includes all earnings from operatfor 2017 of €116.3 million included a non-recurring tax expense ing hedges, i. e. both reporting date-related measurement e­ ffects of €28.3 million in relation to the US tax reform, the tax expenses and earnings from realised operating hedging derivatives. Any for 2018 of €10.9 million included a retrospective positive effect ­effects on earnings arising from the hedging of underlying transof €4.2 million from the US tax reform. The expected income tax actions relating to financing that are not reflected in EBIT I and II expense was calculated based on a domestic Group income tax are ­reported in the financial result. rate of 30.0% (2017: 29.9%). In the year under review, earnings per share reached €0.22 (2017: €0.96). As in the previous year, the calculation was based on an average number of 191.4 million no-par value outstanding shares. ‘Notes’, page 179 Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 95 EARNINGS PER SHARE Tab. 2.18 2017 Q1/18 Q2/18 Q3/18 Q4/18 2018 % Earnings per share (€) 0.96 0.40 -0.17 -0.33 0.32 0.22 -77.1 Earnings per share, adjusted (€) ¹ 0.76 0.44 -0.05 -0.32 0.38 0.45 -41.3 Average number of shares (millions) 191.40 191.40 191.40 191.40 191.40 191.40 – 1 T  he adjusted key indicators include the profit/(loss) from operating anticipatory hedges in the respective reporting period, which eliminates effects from fluctuations in the fair value of the hedges. Related effects on deferred and cash taxes are also eliminated; tax rate in 2018: 30.0% (2017: 29.9%). MARGIN KEY INDICATORS abb. 2.18 in % 2018 15.0 5.6 2017 15.9 7.5 15.0 2016 6.6 25.,3 2015 18.7 23.4 2014 16.8 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 EBITDA margin EBIT I margin ADJUSTED GROUP EARNINGS AND ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER As at 31 December 2018, we held no treasury shares. At the end of SHARE the year, the total number of shares of the K+S GROUP outstandFor the basis of our dividend, we also report adjusted Group ing therefore remained unchanged at 191.4 million no-par value ­earnings after tax, which eliminate the effects from operating anshares. TAB. 2.18 ticipatory hedges and serves as an internal performance i­ ndicator at the same time. Furthermore, the effects on deferred taxes and taxes payable resulting from this adjustment are eliminated, but KEY INDICATORS ON RESULTS OF OPERATIONS the impacts of the US tax reform are not. The adjusted Group MARGIN KEY INDICATORS earnings after tax serve as a basis for calculating dividends in The margin key indicators changed as follows in the year under ­accordance with our distribution policy and are determined in review: our EBITDA of €606.3 million resulted in an EBITDA margin table 2.17. TAB. 2.17 (revenues/EBITDA) of 15% compared to 16% in the previous year. The EBIT I margin (revenues/EBIT I) was almost 6% (2017: 8%). The Adjusted Group earnings after tax amounted to €85.4 million return on revenues (Group earnings after tax, adjusted/revenues) (2017: €145.0 million). Adjusted earnings per share ­amounted was around 2% (2017: 4%). Fig. 2.18 to €0.45 in the year under review compared to €0.76 in the previ‘Definition of key financial indicators’, page 234 ous year. This figure, too, was based on 191.4 million no-par ­value shares. 96 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report RECONCILIATION TO COST OF CAPITAL COMPUTATION OF THE ROCE Tab. 2.19 The weighted average cost of capital for the K+S GROUP is calin € million 2017 2018 culated by adding the returns expected by equity providers on ROCE = Operating Earnings (EBIT I)/ their equity share and the interest on the interest-bearing share Capital employed (Average for the Year) 3.2% 2.6% of debt in total capital using the peer group method under IAS Potash and Magnesium Products 36. As this is considered from an after-tax perspective, the avbusiness unit 1.4% 1.2% erage interest on debt is reduced by the corporate tax rate. Salt business unit 8.9% 8.1% Complementary Activities 33.8% 35.3% The returns expected by equity investors derive from a riskfree interest rate plus a risk premium. The cash value equivaEBIT I 270.8 227.2 lent average of the yields of government bonds denominated Intangible assets ¹ 789.1 807.6 in euros with a maturity of 1 to 30 years was assumed as the Property, plant and equipment 6,692.6 6,687.9 risk-free interest rate according to the Svensson method; as of Investments in affiliated companies and 31 December 2018 this was 0.95% (2017: 1.25%). The risk premiother equity interests 20.6 88.8 um has been calculated using a market risk premium of 6.25% Operating assets 1 7,502.3 7,584.3 (2017: 6.25%) as well as the beta factor of 1.12 derived from the Inventories 690.9 691.5 peer group in relation to the MSCI WORLD benchmark index. Trade receivables 714.9 836.7 This means that an equity provider is entitled to notional reOther assets 338.8 316.8 turns of 7.9% (2017: 7.7%). Trade payables -288.4 -239.7 Other liabilities -312.5 -330.2 The average interest on debt before taxes is 3.1% (2017: 2.8%) and Current provisions -292.3 -314.6 results from the peer group company rating and a corresponding Working capital adjustments² 116.7 166.7 spread applicable to the risk-free basic interest rate. After taking Working capital 968.1 1,126.7 into account the adjusted Group tax rate of 28.5%, this results in Capital employed 8,470.4 8,711.0 an average cost of debt after taxes of 2.2% (2017: 2.0%). 1 Adjusted by the deferred tax included in goodwill from initial consolidation. 2 Adjusted by CTA asset surpluses, receivables and liabilities from investments, air ­values of operating forecast hedging transactions, reimbursement claims and ­corresponding obligations as well as liabilities from finance lease. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MULTIPLE PERIOD OVERVIEW OF MARGIN AND PROFITABILITY RATIOS 1 Tab. 2.20 Key Indicators in % 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Gross margin 42.1 45.9 36.3 33.4 31.2 EBITDA margin 23.4 25.3 15.0 15.9 15.0 EBIT I margin 16.8 18.7 6.6 7.5 5.6 Return on revenues ² 9.6 13.0 3.8 4.0 2.1 Return on equity after taxes ², ³ 9.9 13.1 2.9 3.3 2.1 Return on total investment ², ³ 9.0 10.4 2.7 3.1 2.4 Working capital 768.1 945.9 894.6 968.1 1,126.7 Operating assets 4,265.5 5,900.3 6,639.0 7,377.6 7,464.0 Return on capital employed (ROCE) 12.7 12.5 3.0 3.2 2.6 Weighted average cost of capital before taxes 8.4 8.3 8.2 8.5 8.4 Value added (€ million) 216,4 262,8 -391,7 -438,1 -500,8 1 Information refers to the continuing operations of the K+S Group. 2  he adjusted key indicators include the profit/(loss) from operating forecast hedges in the relevant reporting period, which eliminates effects from changes in the fair value T Further information of the hedges. Related effects on deferred and cash taxes are also eliminated; tax rate for 2018: 30.0% (2017: 29.9%). 3 This information refers to continued and discontinued operations of the K+S Group. k+s Annual Report 2018 97 COMPUTATION OF RETURN ON EQUITY Tab. 2.21 on total investments amounting to 2.4% (2017: 3.1%). The return in € million 2017 2018 on capital employed (ROCE) of the K+S GROUP fell to 2.6% in the Equity 4,160.7 4,144.1 year under review compared to 3.2% in the previous year. In 2018 as well, the ROCE was therefore below our cost of capital of 8.4% Effects of fair value fluctuations arising from operating anticipatory hedges -26.5 16.9 before taxes. As a result, the K+S GROUP was forced to record a negEquity, adjusted as of 31.12. 4.134.2 4,161.0 ative value added of €–500.8 million for the past financial year Equity, adjusted (LTM) 4,351.2 4,147.6 (2017: €–438.1 million). EBIT I in the Potash and Magnesium ProdGroup earnings after tax, adjusted 145.0 85.4 ucts business unit was adversely affected by the first full-year deEquity 3.3% 2.1% preciation and amortisation charge. This also had a corresponding effect on ROCE in the Potash and Magnesium Products business unit (1.2% compared to 1.4%). ‘Definition of key indicators’, page 234 Computation of return on total investments Tab. 2.22 in € million 2017 2018 Computation of return on equity and return on total investments Balance sheet total 9,754.4 9,966.2 are presented in tables 2.21 and 2.22. TAB. 2.21, 2.22 Effects from fair value fluctuations -27.7 13.3 Effects from deferred tax 268.9 267.3 FINANCIAL POSITION Reimbursement claims and corresponding obligations -26.1 -27.0 Total assets, adjusted as at 31.12. 9,431.7 9,685.2 Total assets, adjusted (LTM) 9,470.6 9,738.6 PRINCIPLES AND GOALS OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT Earnings, adjusted before taxes 297.8 235.7 OF THE K+S GROUP Return on total Investment 3.1% 2.4% FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT IS CONTROLLED CENTRALLY The primary goals of financial management in the K+S GROUP include: ++ securing liquidity and controlling it efficiently across As of 31 December 2018, the debt to equity ratio calculated accordthe Group, ing to the peer group method is 48.5%. (2017: 40.7%). ++ maintaining and optimising the financial capability of the Group, and In total, this results in a weighted average cost of capital for the ++ reducing financial risks, including through the use of K+S GROUP, as for the individual business units, of 6.0% (2017: financial instruments. 6.0%) after taxes. Based on an average figure for capital tied up of €8,744.5 million (of which tied up in operations: €8,590.8 milCentral cash management allows us to control liquidity and lion), for 2018, this resulted in a capital charge of €524.7 million ­optimise the cash flows within the K+S GROUP. In order to m ­ aintain (2017: €509.9 million). This corresponds to a cost of capital before our capability for financing and to achieve a low cost of ­capital for taxes of 8.4% (2017: 8.5%). borrowed capital and equity, we aim to achieve a capital structure in the long term which is orientated towards the standard critePROFITABILITY RATIOS ria and indicators for an “investment grade” rating. Mainly due to Profitability ratios were declining, due mainly to the negative EBIT I the construction of our new Bethune potash plant in ­Canada in performance in both business units. In the year under review, the the last years we currently have a “non-investment grade” r­ ating. return on equity after taxes was 2.1% (2017: 3.3%) with the return Our capital structure is managed on the basis of the following key figures: Tab. 2.23 ‘K+S on the Capital Market’, page 26 98 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report Currency and interest rate management is performed centrally for net positions (net revenues in US dollars less freight and other all key Group companies. Derivative financial instruments are only costs) are therefore hedged using derivatives, normally options entered into with top-rated banks and are spread across several and futures. banks and continuously monitored to reduce the risk of default. Options and futures are used to hedge a worst-case scenario but FOREIGN CURRENCY HEDGING SYSTEM at the same time, the opportunity remains for some of the foreign Exchange rate fluctuations can lead to the value of the service currency positions to benefit from more favourable exchange rate performed not matching the value of the consideration received movements. In 2018, the rate realised for the euro against the US because income and expenditure arise at different times in difdollar in the Potash and Magnesium Products business unit avferent currencies (transaction risks). Exchange rate fluctuations, eraged EUR/USD 1.14 including costs (2017: EUR/USD 1.12), and the especially in the euro/US dollar and Canadian dollar/US dollar exrate realised for the Canadian dollar against the US dollar averchange rate, particularly affect the levels of earnings and receivaged CAD/USD 1.31 including costs. ables in the Potash and Magnesium Products business unit. Key KEY INDICATORS OF THE CAPITAL STRUCTURE Tab. 2.23 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Net debt/EBITDA ratio 1.8 2.3 6.9 7.2 7.3 Net debt/equity (%) 40.9 55.9 78.7 99.5 107.2 Equity ratio (%) 50.6 51.9 47.2 42.7 41.6 FOREIGN CURRENCY HEDGING – POTASH AND MAGNESIUM PRODUCTS BUSINESS UNIT Tab. 2.24 2017 Q1/18 Q2/18 Q3/18 Q4/18 2018 EUR/USD exchange rate after premiums 1.12 1.15 1.14 1.12 1.15 1.14 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Average EUR/USD spot rate 1.13 1.23 1.19 1.16 1.14 1.18 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE BY UNIT 1 Tab. 2.25 in € million 2017 Q1/18 Q2/18 Q3/18 Q4/18 2018 % Potash and Magnesium Products business unit 680.4 48.1 70.0 89.4 109.2 316.7 -53.5 Salt business unit 118.8 13.5 18.9 31.1 47.7 111.2 -6.4 Complementary Activities 4.4 0.3 1.1 1.1 4.3 6.8 +55.2 Other capital expenditure 7.2 0.6 1.2 2.8 4.0 8.6 +19.7 K+S Group 810.8 62.5 91.2 124.4 165.1 443.2 -45.3 Share of capital expenditure (%) – 14.1 20.6 28.1 37.3 100.0 – ¹ Relates to cash payments for investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, taking claims for reimbursement from claim management into account. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 99 Furthermore, currency effects occur for subsidiaries whose funcPOTASH AND MAGNESIUM PRODUCTS BUSINESS UNIT tional currency is not the euro (translation risks): On the one hand, We invested €316.7 million in the Potash and Magnesium Prodthe earnings of these companies determined in a foreign currency ucts business unit, €363.7 million less than in the previous year are translated into euros at average rates and recognised in prof(2017: €680.4 million) which can be traced back to the aforemenit or loss, and on the other hand, their net assets are translated tioned reasons. At the Bethune plant, we continued to develop the into euros at the rates prevailing on the reporting date. The latter cavern fields (“Pads”) and expand the pipeline network. In Germacan result in currency-related fluctuations in the equity of the K+S ny, our capital expenditure mainly went towards the purchase of GROUP. Translation effects from the conversion of US ­dollars and new bulk material wagons. An important individual project was Canadian dollars occur in the Salt and Potash and Magnesium the expansion of the tailings pile at the Hattorf site. Products business units and are not hedged. TAB. 2.24 ‘Presentation of segments’, page 104, ‘Environment’, page 58 SALT BUSINESS UNIT CAPITAL EXPENDITURE ANALYSIS Capital expenditure in the Salt business unit decreased In 2018, the K+S GROUP invested a total of €443.2 million and was to €111.2 million in 2018 (2017: €118.8 million). One of the most thus able to significantly reduce the capital expenditure volume significant projects in the year under review was the opening of compared to the previous year (2017: €810.8 million). As expectthe respective mining horizons at our Ojibway, Canada, and Weeks ed, the decrease compared to the previous year was mainly due Island, USA, sites. to the lower capital expenditure for our Bethune plant, which we successfully commissioned in 2017. In addition, investments subCOMPLEMENTARY ACTIVITIES jected to a high cost discipline in the last financial year. FIG. 2.19, Our capital expenditure for Complementary Activities increased TAB. 2.25 to €6.8 million (2017: €4.4 million). The majority of this spending went towards investments for expanding capacity in the Animal At the end of the year, there were capital expenditure obligations Hygiene Products segment at the Salzdetfurth site. totalling €397.1 million related to ongoing investment projects and obligations from operating leases. We calculate capital expenditure as follows: TAB. 2.26 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE COMPARED TO DEPRECIATION, AMORTISATION, WRITE-DOWNS AND CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES fig. 2.19 in € million 443.2 2018 379.1 307.2 810.8 2017 305.9 306.8 1,170.8 2016 289.8 445.4 1,278.8 2015 275.9 669.4 1,153.2 2014 254.2 719.1 0 300 600 900 1,200 1,500 Capital expenditure ¹ Depreciation/Amortisation ² Cash flow from operating activities ¹ Relates to cash payments for investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, taking claims for reimbursement from claim management into account. ² Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs (including impairment losses and reversals) recognised in profit or loss on property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and investment properties, as well as impairment losses on financial assets. 100 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report LIQUIDITY ANALYSIS FINANCING ANALYSIS Net cash flows from operating activities in the year under review As at 31 December 2018, 87% of financing resulted from equity and were €308.7 million, almost at the same level as in the previous non-current debt, which in turn preferentially consists of bond year (2017: €306.8 million). An increase in EBITDA over the previous payables (31 December 2017: 86%). Provisions also make up a large year was offset by higher income tax payments and slightly higher part of the debt. Fig. 2.20 capital employed in working capital compared to the previous year. EQUITY ON PREVIOUS YEAR LEVEL In 2018, net cash flows used in investing activities (adjusted for Equity amounted to €4,144.1 million on the balance sheet purchases/sales of securities and other financial investments) date compared to €4,160.7 million in the previous year. Due to amounted to €–515.0 million (2017: €–696.6 million) and reflected an increase in debt to a total of €5,822.1 million (31 December, the decrease in investments mentioned before. At €–206.3 million, 2017: €5,593.7 million), the equity ratio declined slightly to 41.6% the adjusted free cash flow (excluding purchases/sales of secu(31 December, 2017: 42.7%). rities and other financial investments) showed a significant improvement compared to the previous year (2017: €–389.8 million). RECONCILIATION CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Tab. 2.26 Net cash flows from financing activities in the year under review in € million 2017 2018 fell to €187.3 million (2017: €411.5 million). The main reason for this Additions of other intangible assets and were higher repayments compared to the previous year. property, plant and equipment 950.7 553.2 – Borrowing costs 51.4 17.5 As at 31 December 2018, net cash and cash equivalents amounted – Capitalisation of depreciation 24.1 5.9 to €162.2 million (31 December 2017: €175.7 million). These consist – Recultivation 15.6 39.1 of term deposit investments, money market instruments and com– Reimbursement claims and parable securities with a residual term of less than three months. other non-cash changes 48.8 47.5 Tab. 2.27 Capital expenditure 810.8 443.2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW OF CASH FLOWS Tab. 2.27 in € million 2017 Q1/18 Q2/18 Q3/18 Q4/18 2018 % Net cash flows from operating activities 306.8 232.8 59.4 -16.3 32.8 308.7 +0.6 Net cash flows used in investing activities -663.5 -90.0 -155.0 -368.2 100.5 -512.7 +22.7 Free cash flow -356.7 142.8 -95.6 -384.5 133.3 -204.0 +42.8 Adjustment for purchases/sales of securities and other financial investments -33.1 0.0 47.0 230.7 -280.0 -2.3 +93.1 Adjusted free cash flow -389.8 142.8 -48.6 -153.8 -146.7 -206.3 +47.1 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES fig. 2.20 in % 41.6 45.4 13.0 2018 42.7 43.4 13.9 2017 Further information 0 20 40 60 80 100 Equity Non-current debt Current debt k+s Annual Report 2018 101 DEBT SHARE INCREASED Non-current provisions for pensions and similar obligations inNon-current debt including non-current provisions amounted creased to €187.0 million (2017: €166.4 million). The average to €4,528.4 million as at 31 December 2018 (2017: €4,240.2 ­million). weighted interest rate for pensions and similar obligations was As a result, the proportion of non-current debt increased to 45.4% 3.1% as at 31 December 2018 (31 December 2017: 2.9%). The actuarof total equity and liabilities (31 December 2017: 43.4%). This was ial valuation of pension provisions uses the projected unit credit mainly due to higher non-current financial liabilities. method in accordance with IAS 19. ‘Notes’, Page 150 Current debt was €1,293.7 million at the balance sheet date (31 ­December, 2017: €1,353.5 million). Its share of total equity and SIGNIFICANCE OF OFF-BALANCE SHEET FINANCING liabilities therefore decreased to 13.0% as at 31 December 2018 INSTRUMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL POSITION (31 December 2017: 13.9%). We use operating leases for company vehicles, storage capaci‘Notes’, Page 150 ties and IT equipment, for example. Their scope has no material ­bearing on the economic position of the K+S GROUP. FINANCIAL LIABILITIES As at 31 December 2018, financial liabilities amounted to €3,283.3 million (31 December 2017: €3,021.7 million). In NET ASSETS ­December 2018, we redeemed a €500 million bond. In July 2018, a corporate bond with a total volume of €600 million was issued for refinancing purposes. Further large parts of our non-current ANALYSIS OF ASSET STRUCTURE debt relate to the corporate bonds issued in June 2012, DecemTotal assets of the K+S GROUP amounted to €9,666.2 m ­ illion as at ber 2013 and March 2017 as well as the promissory notes issued 31 December 2018 (31 December 2017: €9,754.4 million). Property, in the summer of 2016. plant and equipment amounted to €6,687.9 million, about the same level as in the previous year (31 December 2017: €6,692.6 milPROVISIONS lion). In particular due to increased product sales from Bethune, The non-current provisions of the K+S GROUP are mainly provitrade receivables also increased to €836.7 million (31 Decemsions for mining obligations as well as for pensions and similar ber, 2017: €714.9 million). Cash and cash equivalents, current obligations. and non-current securities and other financial investments fell to €185.8 million as at the balance sheet date (31 December The provisions for long-term mining obligations remained ­virtually 2017: €201.0 million). Compared to the previous year, the ratio of unchanged at €1,015.1 million at the balance sheet date (31 Denon-current to current assets was almost unchanged at 80:20 cember 2017: €1,000.0 million). The average discount rate also (2017: 81:19). Fig. 2.21 ­remained at 3.3% (2017: 3.3%). ASSETS fig. 2.21 in % 79.8 20.2 2018 80.6 19.4 2017 0 20 40 60 80 100 Non-current assents Current assents 102 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report MULTIPLE PERIOD OVERVIEW OF THE FINANCIAL POSITION Tab. 2.28 in € million 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Equity 3,974.5 4,295.6 4,552.2 4,160.7 4,144.1 Equity ratio (%) 50.6 51.9 47.2 42.7 41.6 Non-current liabilities 2,999.8 3,036.8 3,930.4 4,240.2 4,528.4 – of which provisions for pensions and similar obligations 162.8 166.1 186.7 166.4 187.0 – of which provisions for mining obligations 872.5 870.1 996.0 1,000.0 1,015.1 Non-current provisions as share of total equity and liabilities (%) 15.2 12.5 12.3 12.0 12.1 Current liabilities 880.9 941.2 1,162.9 1,353.5 1,293.7 – of which trade accounts payable 284.6 306.0 343.8 288.4 239.7 Financial liabilities 1,551.3 1,543.7 2,534.5 3,021.7 3,283.3 Net financial liabilities 590.9 1,363.6 2,401.1 2,974.1 3,241.5 Net debt 1,626.2 2,399.8 3,583.8 4,140.5 4,443.6 Financial liabilities/equity (%) 39.0 35.9 55.7 72.6 79.2 Net debt/equity (%) 40.9 55.9 78.7 99.5 107.2 Working capital 768.1 945.9 894.6 968.1 1,126.7 Net cash flows from operating activities 719.1 669.4 445.4 306.8 308.7 Free cash flow 134.2 -106.4 -756.0 -356.7 -204.0 Net cash flows from/(used in) financing activities -787.8 -151.5 769.1 411.5 187.3 NET DEBT Tab. 2.29 in € million 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 182.6 167.6 Non-current securities and other financial investments 7.0 7.0 Current securities and other financial investments 11.4 11.2 Financial liabilities -3,021.7 -3,283.3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Liabilities from finance leases -173.0 -164.2 Long-term reimbursement claim for Morton Salt bond 19.6 20.2 Net financial liabilities -2,974.1 -3,241.5 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations -166.4 -187.0 Long-term provisions for mining obligations -1,000.0 -1,015.1 Net debt -4,140.5 -4,443.6 MULTIPLE PERIOD OVERVIEW OF ASSETS Tab. 2.30 in € million 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Tangible and intangible fixed assets 5,128.3 6,123.1 7,540.4 7,655.4 7,670.2 Financial assets, non-current securities and other financial investments 47.0 14.1 34.4 28.0 96.1 Inventories 578.8 705.3 710.4 690.9 691.5 Trade receivables 732.9 708.6 656.5 714.9 836.7 Cash and cash equivalents, current securities and other financial investments 910.0 163.1 154.5 194.0 178.8 Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 103 The net debt of the K+S GROUP was €4,443.6 million as at the 2019 financial year, the leased assets have to be capitalized in 31 ­December 2018 (31 December 2017: €4,140.5 million). Net accordance with the newly applicable accounting standard IFRS ­financial liabilities, excluding non-current provisions, amount16 (see Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements “New or ed to €3,241.5 million as at the reporting date (31 December changed accounting standards and interpretations” on page 167). 2017: €2,974.1 million). These increases were essentially attributable to negative adjusted free cash flows. The net debt/EBITDA ­ratio stood at 7.3 (31 December 2017: 7.2). The year 2018 was signifPRESENTATION OF SEGMENTS icantly affected by weather-related production standstills at our integrated Werra plant in Germany. We assume that EBITDA has decreased due to w ­ eather-related reasons by around €110 milPOTASH AND MAGNESIUM PRODUCTS BUSINESS UNIT lion. Our goal, however, remains to reducing our net debt/EBITDA SIGNIFICANT INCREASE IN REVENUES ­ratio by half by 2020 from its H1 17 level of 8.1 and to achieving this In the year under review, revenues for this business unit a­ mounted goal within the scope of the transformation phase as part of our to €1,973.0 million, compared to €1,703.5 million in the previous SHAPING 2030 strategy. TAB. 2.29, 2.30 year. This significant increase was due mainly to an increase in ‘Corporate strategy’, page 43 sales volumes thanks to the additional production output at our ‘Definition of key indicators’, page 234 Bethune plant in Canada. In addition, higher fertilizer prices, especially overseas, had a positive impact. This was offset by ­reduced product availability at the German sites, in particular as a result RESTRICTED ASSETS of weather-related production stoppages and a lower operationIn 2005, we began funding the pension obligations of the domestic al performance at the integrated Werra plant. In total, the sales companies through a contractual trust arrangement (CTA model). ­volumes in the Potash and Magnesium Products business unit Such allocation of funds requires that financial resources are earnevertheless increased tangibly to around 7.5 million tonnes (2017: marked. The same applies to plan assets which serve to fund pen6.7 million tonnes). TAB. 2.31, 2.32 sion obligations in Canada. Moreover, reinsurance arrangements ‘Industry-specific framework conditions’, page 89 are in place which are also to be classified as plan assets in accordance with IFRS. Obligations treated in this way are presented on In the reporting year, around 53% of revenues were generated in the balance sheet on a net basis in accordance with IFRS. In 2018, Europe. Of the remaining revenues, the majority was generated restricted assets in connection with pension obligations amountin Asia and South America. fig. 2.22 ed to €399.0 million compared to €441.3 million in the previous year. In addition, as of the balance sheet date, plan assets for obliIn the 2018 financial year, revenues for potassium chloride (MOP) gations from working lifetime accounts amounted to €19.3 ­million increased significantly to €1,004.0 million (2017: €733.4 million), (2017: €0 million), which was also netted on the balance sheet. in particular due to higher volumes as a result of the increase in ‘Notes’, note (21), page 188 production at the Bethune potash plant. In addition, prices ­partly­ rose tangibly over the course of the year. An unfavourable currency trend had an offsetting effect. In Europe, we sold around ASSETS NOT SHOWN ON THE BALANCE SHEET 1.2 million tonnes of potassium chloride in the year under review As at 31 December 2018, other financial obligations totalled (2017: 1.2 million tonnes), and more than 2.9 million tonnes were €397.1 million (31 December 2017: €388.3 million) and concern both sold overseas compared to 2.0 million tonnes in the previous year. obligations arising from uncompleted capital expenditure projects as well as from operating leases for factory and office equipRevenues for fertilizer specialities remained virtually ­stable ment (e. g. printers, photocopiers and IT peripherals). In addition, at €727.4 million compared to the same period last year rail cars, vehicles and storage capacities are rented. Starting with (2017: €710.5 million). Lower product availability at the integrated 104 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report Werra plant was offset by slight price increases. While sales volINTEGRATED WERRA PLANT TEMPORARILY CLOSED umes in Europe remained unchanged at around 2.0 million tonnes, OWING TO EXTREME DROUGHT overseas sales fell from over 0.7 million tonnes in the previous year In the third and fourth quarters of 2018 we were forced to suspend to 0.6 million tonnes. production at the sites of the Werra plant as follows: Wintershall 38 days, Hattorf 23 days and Unterbreizbach 3 days. The weather­In the Industrial Products unit, revenues declined moderately related negative EBITDA effect in 2018, including all related costs, to €241.6 million from €259.5 million in the previous year. Sales amounted to around €110 million. This was due to the unusually volumes in Europe decreased to around 0.5 million tonnes (2017: long drought in Germany, which resulted in extremely low water 0.6 million tonnes) due to availability and remained stable overlevels in the Werra river. Consequently, discharge of saline wasteseas at 0.2 million tonnes (2017: 0.2 million tonnes). water into this river was only possible to a very limited extent, if at all, although we were able to reduce the amount of wastewaRECOVERY OF OPERATING EARNINGS ter produced thanks to our kainite crystallisation and flotation EBITDA of the business unit amounted to €359.3 million in the year facility (KCF facility) and were able to gain additional flexibility by under review and was thus significantly higher than the previous expanding our basin capacity and fully exploiting additional measyear’s figure (2017: €268.8 million). This was mainly attributable to ures. For temporary wastewater disposal, we made intensive use the sales and price volume increases described above. Our Canaof additional remote measures such as discharge into the inactive dian plant in Bethune improved its earnings contribution signifiK+S Bergmannssegen-Hugo mine (Hanover region). cantly compared to the previous year, as expected, and achieved ‘Environment’, page 58 a positive EBITDA for the first time. This was mainly offset by cuts in production at the integrated Werra plant. KEY FIGURES Tab. 2.31 in € million 2017 Q1/18 Q2/18 Q3/18 Q4/18 2018 % Revenues 1,703.5 488.7 440.5 422.2 621.6 1,973.0 +15.8 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – of which potassium chloride 733.4 224.6 205.9 215.3 358.3 1,004.0 +36.9 – of which fertilizer specialities 710.5 202.6 173.7 155.3 195.8 727.4 +2.4 – of which industrial products 259.5 61.5 60.9 51.6 67.7 241.6 -6.9 EBITDA 268.8 120.8 90.6 3.4 144.5 359.3 +33.7 REVENUES BY REGION fig. 2.22 VARIANCE COMPARED WITH PREVIOUS YEAR Tab. 2.32 in % in % 2018 4.6/4.1 Africa, Ozeania Change in revenues +15.8 18.1/16.8 – volume/structure-related +10.0 Asia – price/pricing-related +7.7 53.4/58.9 19.8/15.6 – currency-related -1.9 Europe South America 14.7/17.2 – consolidation-related – thereof Germany 4.1/4.6 North America Further information 2018/2017 k+s Annual Report 2018 105 DEVELOPMENT OF REVENUES, SALES VOLUMES AND AVERAGE PRICES BY REGION 1 Tab. 2.33 2017 Q1/18 Q2/18 Q3/18 Q4/18 2018 % Revenues € million 1,703.5 488.7 440.5 422.2 621.6 1,973.0 +15.8 Europe € million 1,002.8 306.0 244.2 214.3 288.2 1,052.7 +5.0 Overseas USD million 791.5 224.7 233.6 242.0 386.5 1,086.8 +37.3 t million Sales volumes (product) 6.71 1.94 1.71 1.56 2.24 7.46 +11.2 t million Europe (product) 3.77 1.11 0.89 0.75 0.99 3.74 -0.8 t million Overseas (product) 2.94 0.84 0.83 0.81 1.25 3.72 +26.5 Average price €/t (product) 253.8 251.6 257.2 270.0 276.9 264.4 +4.2 Europe €/t (product) 266.0 276.3 274.4 285.7 289.6 281.5 +5.8 USD/t Overseas (product) 269.0 269.1 282.8 297.5 304.5 291.9 +8.5 1 R  evenues include prices both inclusive and exclusive of freight costs and, in the case of overseas revenues, are based on the respective EUR/USD spot rates. Hedging transactions were concluded for most of these sales revenues. Prices are also affected by the relevant product mix and should therefore be taken as a rough indication only. PRODUCT AVAILABILITY AT GERMAN PRODUCTION SITES potash mine, as addressed in summer 2018. We have identified 2018 has shown that we still need to improve our efficiency in several approaches to significantly improve our product quality terms of exploiting our German deposits. The challenges we at Bethune, so we are confident that we will achieve our quality identified in the course of the year included among other things target by the end of 2019. ­limited personnel and machinery availability at the Werra plant, low levels of recoverable materials (K2O) in mine sections of the EXPANSION OF TAILINGS PILE CAPACITY FOR THE HATTORF Unterbreizbach site and geological challenges at the Neuhof POTASH SITE APPROVED site. We were able to make some improvements by the end of The licensing authorities approved our application for the expanthe year as a result of numerous measures, such as the partial sion of tailings pile capacity at the Hattorf site on 11 October 2018. ­renewal of the underground vehicle fleet, but still lagged behind The safe disposal option for solid production residues this will proour p ­ otential technical capacity and thus could not exploit the vide is an essential requirement for operation of the potash mine. market­able deductible potential. For this reason, and as part of The current approval status is valid for five to six years. In addition, our new S­ HAPING 2030 strategy, we have launched the ­Operational the authorities are currently reviewing the application for the secExcellence p ­ roject. We aim to significantly increase efficiency at ond phase of the expansion of tailings pile capacity, which is exall our sites by 2020. pected to last until the early 2040s. We are also confident that we ‘Business model’, page 31 will receive the required permits for the expansion of tailings pile capacity at our Wintershall and Zielitz sites in due time. BETHUNE PLANT IN CANADA PRODUCES MORE THAN ‘Risk and opportunity report’, page 117; 1.4 MILLION TONNES OF POTASH FOR THE FIRST TIME In the 2018 financial year, we generated in excess of 1.4 million DISCONTINUATION OF PRODUCTION AT SIGMUNDSHALL tonnes of potassium chloride at our new Bethune site for the POTASH MINE first time, enabling us to meet our latest production target. HowPotash production at the Sigmundshall site (Hanover region) ever, we are still in the ramp-up phase. We are working hard to terminated on 21 December 2018. The recoverable reserves were meet the various challenges associated with the start-up of a new dwindling, and the conditions for mining the commodity at a 106 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report depth of over 1,400 metres pushed people and technology to the approximately 27% more de-icing salt was sold over the course limit. As a result of the greater effort required to mine, producof the year (2017: 10.7 million tonnes). At €55 per tonne, the avtivity at this site fell steadily over the past three years despite the erage price was around 4% down on the previous year’s figure. strong commitment of the employees. While prices in the Midwest of the USA and Canada rose during the course of the year, prices on the East Coast and in Europe fell. Overall, revenues from de-icing salt in 2018 amounted to €739.8 milSALT BUSINESS UNIT lion, compared with €613.2 million in the previous year. MODERATE INCREASE IN REVENUES In the 2018 financial year, revenues in the Salt business unit Revenues of €411.9 million for the Consumer Products segment in amounted to €1,890.8 million (2017: €1,762.0 million), about 7% the year under review remained roughly at the level of the previabove the figure for the previous year, due mainly to higher reveous year (2017: €407.4 million). Higher prices for water softening nues in the North American de-icing salt business resulting from salts in North America were offset by the unfavourable developvolume effects. fig. 2.23, TAB. 2.34, 2.35 ment of exchange rates. Sales volumes also remained stable at 1.5 million tonnes. In North America, demand for de-icing salt rose significantly as a result of the winter weather at the beginning of the year and Revenues for industrial salts, such as for the animal feed, oil/­ led to low inventories on the part of our customers. By contrast, natural gas and pharmaceutical industry, increased by 5% in the the end of the year was comparatively mild. European demand in past financial year; revenues amounted to €334.4 million com2018 remained at the previous year’s level. At 13.5 million tonnes, pared to €318.4 million in the previous year. Negative currency KEY INDICATORS Tab. 2.34 in € million 2017 Q1/18 Q2/18 Q3/18 Q4/18 2018 % Revenues 1,762.0 635.6 326.9 375.0 553.3 1,890.8 +7.3 – of which de-icing salt 613.2 361.4 48.3 88.8 241.3 739.8 +20.6 – of which consumer products 407.4 97.6 100.7 100.1 113.5 411.9 +1.1 – of which industrial salt 318.4 81.9 83.0 83.9 85.6 334.4 +5.0 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – of which food processing 242.5 52.1 53.9 56.2 55.7 217.9 -10.1 – of which salt for chemical use 144.6 30.8 33.9 37.1 43.0 144.8 +0.1 EBITDA 325.2 120.9 23.3 41.5 88.9 274.5 -15.6 REVENUES BY REGION fig. 2.23 VARIANCE COMPARED WITH PREVIOUS YEAR Tab. 2.35 in % in % 2018 0.4/0.3 0.3/0.2 Asia Africa, Ozeania Change in revenues +7.3 7.0/6.9 – volume/structure-related +10.0 22.6/24.0 South America Europe – price/pricing-related +1.5 8.7/9.5 – currency-related -4.3 thereof Germany – consolidation-related – 69.7/68.5 North America Further information 2018/2017 k+s Annual Report 2018 107 DEVELOPMENT OF REVENUES, SALES VOLUMES AND AVERAGE PRICES 1 Tab. 2.36 2017 Q1/18 Q2/18 Q3/18 Q4/18 2018 % De-icing Revenues € million 613.2 361.4 48.3 88.8 241.3 739.8 +20.6 million Sales volumes tonnes 10.66 6.89 0.94 1.59 4.11 13.53 +26.9 Average price €/tonnes 57.5 52.5 51.4 55.9 58.7 54.7 -4.9 Consumer products, food processing, industrial salt and salt for chemical use Revenues € million 1,108.3 262.4 271.5 277.4 297.7 1,109.0 +0.1 million Sales volumes tonnes 9.66 2.45 2.51 2.54 2.65 10.15 +5.1 Average price €/tonnes 114.8 107.1 108.2 109.4 112.3 109.3 -4.9 1 Revenues include prices both inclusive and exclusive of freight costs. Prices are also affected by exchange rate movements and the relevant product mix and should therefore be taken as a rough indication only. effects were more than offset by significantly higher sales volEBITDA BURDENED FROM LOGISTICS COSTS umes in South America. Overall, we sold 4.3 million tonnes in this EBITDA amounted to €274.5 million, down from €325.2 million in product group, an increase of around 19% on the previous year’s the previous year. In addition to negative currency effects, the main value (2017: 3.6 million tonnes). reason for the significant decrease was the increase in logistics costs over the course of the year. Our logistics expenses, which Revenues from salt for the food processing industry fell by a good account for about one-third of the business unit’s total costs, in10% to €217.9 million (2017: €242.5 million) as a result of volume creased significantly, especially in North America, owing to temand currency factors. Sales volumes in 2018 amounted to just unporary increases in fuel prices and an increase in the cost of freight der 1.2 million tonnes (2017: 1.3 million tonnes). due to insufficient capacity for trucks. In addition, the drought in Germany and the resulting low river water levels led to higher We could confirm revenues from the salt for chemical use busifreight costs for inland water vessels in Europe. ness at the same high levels of the previous year, rising slightly to €144.8 million (2017: €144.6 million). Sales volumes of 3.2 million tonnes in total were slightly lower than in the previous year COMPLEMENTARY ACTIVITIES (2017: 3.3 million tonnes). REVENUES ABOVE PREVIOUS YEAR Revenues for Complementary Activities increased moderately At 23.7 million tonnes, sales volumes for solid salt were around 17% to €172.4 million (2017: €159.9 million). Intra-group revenues deabove the figure for the previous year (2017: 20.3 million tonnes). riving from services provided to K+S Group companies are not TAB. 2.36 KEY FIGURES Tab. 2.37 in € million 2017 Q1/18 Q2/18 Q3/18 Q4/18 2018 % Revenues 159.9 44.9 43.9 41.7 41.9 172.4 +7.8 – Waste Management and Recycling 85.8 23.7 22.7 21.2 21.5 89.1 +3.8 – K+S Transport GmbH 9.7 2.6 2.6 2.1 2.6 9.9 +2.1 – Animal Hygiene Products 40.1 10.9 10.4 10.8 10.2 42.3 +5.5 – CFK (Trading) 24.3 7.7 8.1 7.6 7.7 31.1 +28.0 EBITDA 30.3 9.8 8.0 6.2 7.2 31.3 +3.3 108 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report included in these figures. If these intra-Group revenues are inASSESSMENT OF THE CURRENT ECONOMIC cluded, total revenues for the year under review amounted SITUATION BY THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE to €202.5 million (2017: €188.6 million). Fig. 2.24, Tab. 2.37, 2.38 DIRECTORS 1 Revenues in the Waste Management and Recycling Segment increased from €85.8 million to €89.1 million in the year ­under 2018 was a particularly challenging year for the K+S GROUP. The review, mainly as a result of higher volumes. At €9.9 million, prolonged heat wave combined with extreme drought, in particuthird-party revenues for K+S TRANSPORT GMBH were about at the lar, resulted in low water levels in the Werra, making stoppages same level as in the previous year (2017: €9.7 million). ­Revenues in production in the second half of the year unavoidable, resultincreased volume-related to €42.3 million for the Animal Hygiene ing in a weather-related negative EBITDA effect of around €110 Products segment (2017: €40.1 million). The CFK trading busimillion. This was despite the fact that we reduced the amount of ness recorded a price-driven increase in revenues to €31.1 million wastewater produced thanks to the KAINITE CRYSTALLISATION AND (2017: €24.3 million). ­FLOTATION facility (KCF facility) and were able to gain additional flexibility by expanding our basin capacity and fully exploiting adEBITDA AT PREVIOUS YEAR’S LEVEL ditional measures. But challenges such as limited personnel and EBITDA for Complementary Activities amounted to €31.3 million machinery availability at the Werra plant, low levels of recoverain the year under review, almost on a par with the previous year ble materials (K2O) at the Unterbreizbach site and geological chal(2017: €30.3 million). Price and volume-related increases were allenges at the Neuhof site have also shown that we still need to most offset by cost increases. improve our efficiency in terms of exploiting our German deposits. Just a few years ago, the combined strength of these ­effects might have caused earnings to slump. Today, the K+S GROUP is so stable that in spite of all the headwinds, we were still able to improve our EBITDA by 5% to €606.3 million. This was attributable REVENUES BY REGION fig. 2.24 to the positive market environment for potash and magnesium in % products, a good de-icing salt business in the first quarter, the 0.2/0.4 0.0/0.1 ramp-up in production at our Canadian potash site in Bethune as Asia Africa, Oceania well as our efforts and strategic decisions with regard to operat15.3/17.6 ing performance. At €–206.3 million, the adjusted free cash flow CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Rest of Europe 84.5/81.9 remained negative although it improved significantly compared Germany to the previous year (2017: €–389.8 million). The net debt/EBITDA ratio in 2018 stood at 7.3 (31 December 2017: 7.2). 2018/2017 VARIANCE COMPARED WITH PREVIOUS YEAR Tab. 2.38 in % 2018 Change in revenues +7.8 – volume/structure-related +3.0 – price/pricing-related +4.8 – currency-related – – consolidation-related – Further information 1 As at 5 March 2019. k+s Annual Report 2018 109 REPORT ON RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES As an international company, K+S regularly encounters a series of developments and events that may affect the achievement of financial and non-financial goals. Strategy and planning constitute the starting point for the management of risks and opportunities at K+S. We define risks as negative deviations and opportunities as posand appropriate countermeasures, the focus of consideration will itive deviations from possible future developments of a forecast be on the net likelihood of occurrence and the net loss potential or target value. affecting the operating result. With regard to their likelihood of occurrence and loss potential, MANAGEMENT PROCESS risks are assessed internally for a short-, mediumand long-term observation period, i. e. for the coming 12, 36 and 120 months from the time of identification or review. The assessments for risks that IDENTIFICATION have already been identified and the counter-measures develRisks and opportunities are generally identified in the respective oped and possibly implemented are continuously reviewed to corporate departments using various tools. There are a number of ensure these are up to date and effective; they are adjusted and tools available for this purpose. In ongoing operations and project reported in the event of significant changes or if defined threshmanagement, we take a close look at analyses of the market and olds are exceeded. the competition, for instance, evaluate a wide range of external information, the relevant revenue/cost elements and mining circumTo assess the financial impact, each opportunity is examined in stances, and observe risk indicators and success factors from the terms of its feasibility, profitability and any risks it may entail. macroeconomic, industry-specific, legal and political environment. Suitable development measures are specifically sought, pursued ‘Declaration on Corporate Governance’, page 67 and implemented in order to make effective use of opportunities. The benefit potential only applies to the net perspective following implementation of appropriate development measures. The asASSESSMENT OF THE FINANCIAL IMPACT AND MANAGEMENT sessment periods are identical to those used for risk assessment. We have set up and documented specific processes for managing risks and opportunities. For each risk a gross assessment is carried out initially in which the likelihood of occurrence and the ASSESSMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL IMPACT loss potential are quantitatively assessed in terms of the financial Identified risks can also have negative effects on the non-finanimpact. The next step involves developing suitable countermeascial aspects of environmental matters, social and employee-relatures, considering alternative risk scenarios. Our aim is to reduce ed matters, respect for human rights, anti-corruption and bribery the loss potential or the likelihood of occurrence. The decision matters. In case the risk materialises, these effects may give rise whether to implement the measures also takes account of the to reputational risks that are difficult or impossible to quantify. actual costs required. In the process, risks can also be transferred to a third party. If the gross likelihood of occurrence and/or gross The non-financial impact is identified and assessed based on our loss potential can be reliably reduced by implementing effective central sustainability analyses and using the dimensions of loss potential and likelihood of occurrence. 110 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report Systems and concepts for managing developments or events that Directors without delay in case of urgency. The Supervisory Board may affect the above-mentioned aspects are described in our susis also briefed by the Board of Executive Directors on a regular batainability strategy in the non-financial statement. sis and in a timely manner, immediately in urgent cases. ‘Non-financial Statement’, page 55 RISK MANAGEMENT IN RELATION TO THE REPORTING UTILISATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Internal reporting on risks and opportunities is based on a threshold concept. This involves continuous reporting on risks and opportunities by the corporate departments to the Board of ExecWe aim to limit financial risks (for example, exchange rate risk, utive Directors if defined thresholds for both the likelihood of interest rate risk, default risk and liquidity risk) through special occurrence and loss potential/benefit potential are exceeded. Inmanagement. A centralised finance management system has formation on whether a risk or an opportunity is included in the been set up at K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT for this purpose. In addiforecast or planning is also provided. tion, we manage our capital structure to safeguard the financing of business operations and investing activities at all times Risks and opportunities whose financial impact is considered in and in the long term. the mid-term planning or forecast through corresponding earn‘Financial Position’, page 98 ings discounts or premiums do not form part of risk and opportunity reporting. Risks related to the non-financial aspects as defined Our international business activities can give rise to currency-­ by the CSR Directive Implementation Act should at least have a related revenue risks, which we counteract through hedging transsignificant loss potential and a high likelihood of occurrence; such actions as part of our currency management. Internal regulations were not identified in the past financial year. However, where madetermine the permissible hedging strategies as well as hedging terialising risks could have a significant or serious non-financial instruments, responsibilities, processes and control mechanisms. impact on the aspects of environmental matters, social and emOther market risks may arise from changes in interest rates. Simployee-related matters, respect for human rights, anti-corruption ilar regulations apply insofar as derivative financial instruments and bribery matters as well as supply chain, we specify these in are specifically used here for hedging purposes. Financial transthe description of the relevant risk. actions are conducted only with suitable partners. The suitability of partners and compliance with position limits is continuousCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Moreover, when determining the substantial general assumptions ly reviewed through regular monitoring. A balanced distribution for the mid-term planning or forecast (such as volumes, revenues, of the financial derivatives used across various counterparties is costs, exchange rates, interest rates), the relevant risks and opporimplemented to further limit the risk of default. tunities need to be considered in the likeliest scenario. In addition, the negative/positive effect that certain deviations would have on The instruments selected are used exclusively to secure underlying the individual planning parameters is required to be disclosed for transactions, but are not used for trading or speculative purposes. particular planning assumptions (“sensitivities”). Firstly, hedging transactions are concluded for existing underlying transactions. Our intention here is to largely avert exchange The Board of Executive Directors and management continually rate risks arising from recognised underlying transactions (usually have an overview of the current risk and opportunity exposure ­receivables). Secondly, we enter into hedging transactions for futhanks to standardised reporting. Significant risks that arise in the ture business, which can be anticipated with a high level of probshort term are communicated directly to the Board of Executive ability based on empirically reliable findings (anticipatory hedges). ‘Notes’, page 150 Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 111 RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES 2019 – 2021 A change in the general conditions compared with the assumptions made in our mid-term planning may result in a reassessment of risks and opportunities over time. The results are then Risks and opportunities that could affect the results of operations, communicated accordingly in our interim reporting. financial position and net assets of K+S during the mid-term planning period (three years) and have not yet been incorporated into the planning through corresponding earnings discounts or premiOVERVIEW OF RISKS ums are listed and described in this section. The cumulative net Table 2.40 provides an overview of the risks with significant or loss/net benefit potential is distinguished as follows: moderate net loss potential with their net likelihood of occurrence for an observation period of three years, as well as the change in ++ Significant financial impact: > €200 million the assessment compared with the previous year. Comparable ++ Moderate financial impact: > €25–200 million risks from different business units are aggregated and reported. The risks listed are considered as potential negative deviations The relevant likelihood of occurrence is differentiated as follows: from the assumptions made in the mid-term planning (for example in respect of volumes, revenues, costs, exchange rates and in++ Likely: > 50% terest rates). If no business unit is specified, the risks apply to the ++ Possible: 10–50% entire K+S Group. Tab. 2.40 ++ Unlikely: < 10% We show changes in the assessment of risks and opportunities OVERVIEW OF OPPORTUNITIES compared with the previous year as follows: Table 2.39 provides an overview of the opportunities with significant and moderate net benefit potential with their net like++ Higher than in the previous year: ↑ lihood of occurrence for an observation period of three years, as ++ Lower than in the previous year: ↓ well as the change in the assessment compared with the previous year. Comparable opportunities from different business units Opportunities Tab. 2.39 Likelihood of occurrence Benefit potential External and industry-specific opportunities Macroeconomic developments Possible Moderate Price increase/increase in demand Possible Moderate Weather-related fluctuations in demand Possible Significant Operational opportunities Market penetration, market development, expansion in capacity, cost optimisation, acquisitions and/or strategic partnerships, innovation Possible Moderate Leveraging of synergies Possible Moderate Ramp-up phase at the Bethune site Possible Moderate Litigation Possible Moderate Energy costs Possible Moderate Financial opportunities Currency/exchange rate fluctuations Possible Significant Change in the general interest rate level Possible Moderate Upgrading of the company rating Possible Moderate 112 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report Risks Tab. 2.40 Likelihood of occurrence Loss potential External and industry-specific risks Macroeconomic developments Possible Significant Increased supply/reduced demand Possible Significant Weather-related fluctuations in demand Possible Significant Additional weather-related costs Possible Moderate Risks arising from changes in the legal environment Management planning in accordance with the Water Framework Directive or amendment, refusal or revocation by a court of official licences for the disposal of liquid and solid production residues in Germany Possible Significant More stringent requirements regarding the outdoor storage of de-icing salt in North America Possible Significant Collateral security under mining law Possible Moderate Tightening of existing regulations on the underground disposal of mining waste Possible Moderate Operational risks Leveraging of synergies Possible Moderate Ramp-up phase at the Bethune site Possible Moderate Litigation risks and legal disputes Possible Moderate Energy costs and energy supply Possible Moderate Freight costs and availability of transport capacity Possible Moderate Production equipment Possible Moderate Carbon dioxide pockets in deposits Possible Moderate Changes in the composition of crude salt Possible New Moderate New Damage due to rock bursts Unlikely Significant Water inflow Unlikely Significant Compliance Unlikely Significant CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Non-compliance with regulations on occupational exposure limits underground Unlikely New Significant New Loss of suppliers and supply bottlenecks Unlikely Moderate Personnel Unlikely Moderate IT security Unlikely Moderate Reputation Unlikely Moderate Financial risks Currency/exchange rate fluctuations Possible Significant Change in the general interest rate level Possible Moderate Downgrading of the company rating Possible Moderate Liquidity Unlikely Significant Default on receivables from customers Unlikely Moderate Default of partners in financial transactions Unlikely Moderate Further information are aggregated and reported. The opportunities listed are considvolumes, revenues, costs, exchange rates and interest rates). If ered as potential positive deviations compared with the assumpno business unit is specified, the opportunities concern the entions made in the mid-term planning (for example in respect of tire K+S GROUP. Tab. 2.39 k+s Annual Report 2018 113 EXTERNAL AND SECTOR-SPECIFIC RISKS AND As K+S’s planning is based on the expectations stated in the foreOPPORTUNITIES cast report, the assessment of the future macroeconomic situation is incorporated directly in the forecast for 2019. MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS Demand for potash and magnesium products is significantly influINCREASED SUPPLY/REDUCED DEMAND enced by economic growth and the associated rising standards of Particularly products from our Potash and Magnesium Products living in the regions relevant to us, trends in soft commodity pricbusiness unit could be threatened by considerable decreases in es and, in part, also by political decisions in some consumer coundemand caused by external influences. tries. International prices for potassium chloride continued to increase in 2018, continuing the positive trend seen since mid-2016. In terms of demand, macroeconomic factors such as unfavourOverall, we believe that the level of agricultural prices should conable exchange rate developments or liquidity reduction of farm tinue to provide an incentive for farmers to increase their yield per businesses could affect demand in individual sales regions. The hectare also through more intensive use of plant nutrients. There same is true for political market regulation, for example through is a risk that growth in the emerging economies will slow down regional subsidy cuts, the imposition of customs duties on fercontrary to expectations and/or that the sovereign debt crisis in tilizers and/or agricultural products or the introduction of more the Euro area will intensify again. If this should lead to agriculturrestrictive fertilizer regulations. Environmental factors such as al prices falling to a level that triggers uncertainty among farmdiseases in certain crops, the occurrence of animal epidemics or ers about their future income situation, it could adversely affect unfavourable weather conditions could likewise lead to a decline their demand for plant nutrients. The impact on the Company dein demand. Moreover, demand could also develop negatively due pends on the duration and the intensity of the relevant scenario. to deliberate purchasing restraint on the part of our customers. ‘Macroeconomic environment’, page 88 Changes on the supply side could arise as a result of capacity exThe impact of the general economic situation on demand for de-icpansion. New and existing producers are in the process of expanding and industrial salt as well as for consumer products and salt ing their production capacity based on their forecasts of long-term for food processing is of minor importance, since this business is growth in demand on the global potash market. largely independent of economic conditions. Should the market not be ready to absorb additional volumes enUnpredictable changes in US trade policy cannot be ruled out. tirely, this could increase competitive pressure during a transitionThese are possible and are being continuously monitored. Some al period. Furthermore, producers could attempt to gain additionparts of the US tax reform also are not yet finalized. The relevant al market share or regain lost market share by increasing supply impact cannot be assessed at present. within available capacity. A decline in demand could also give rise to increased competitive pressure. A hard or soft Brexit would have little direct impact on K+S. The indirect effects, however, are currently not predictable. Major increases in capacity and its utilisation, increases in supply from individual producers within available capacity as well as Should the global economy develop better than expected and longer-term decreases in demand could substantially affect pricing growth prove to be higher than generally forecast, especially in and/or sales prospects. This could change the existing structure our main sales regions Europe, North America, Brazil and South of the entire plant nutrient market, even resulting in the squeezEast Asia, this could lead to positive deviations from planning. ing out of supply-side competition. Consequently, a drop in potash prices and/or saleable volumes cannot be ruled out. We would respond to the effects described above with demand-oriented production management. 114 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report The impact on the Company depends on the duration and intensiWEATHER-RELATED FLUCTUATIONS IN DEMAND ty of these events. Since the development of new potash capacity In the Salt business unit, the weather in the de-icing salt regions is very capital-intensive and takes many years to implement, there of Europe and North America is of particular relevance. Our planshould be an incentive for producers to obtain an attractive prening is based on a rolling average for the past ten years. An unmium on the capital employed. We consider the long-term drivusually hard winter in K+S’s de-icing salt regions could have a ers to be still valid: demand for agricultural products and thus for ­clearly­­positive effect on sales volumes of de-icing salt caused plant nutrients depends on megatrends such as the growing world by a weather-­related increase in demand. This in turn could put population and a rising standard of living in the emerging econopressure on inventory levels and subsequently result in increasmies. Plant nutrients, which increase yields and enhance quality, ing prices. Conversely, mild winters may lead to a weather-relatwill therefore also play a key role in future agricultural production. ed decrease in demand and thus considerably reduced sales volumes; this in turn could create large season-ending inventories of To increase competitiveness, we are working to further improve de-icing salt, putting pressure on tenders for the upcoming winter our cost and organisational structures and expand our specialiseason. Both cases would have a moderate financial impact on ty products. the development of the Company's revenues and earnings with respect to one year. Should such positive or negative weather conditions be repeated during the medium-term period, significant PRICE INCREASE/INCREASE IN DEMAND opportunities or risks could arise. Opportunities with significant positive effects essentially lie in demand for potash and magnesium products. We are responding to such fluctuations with regional diversification, demand-oriented production management and flexible In 2018, the industry situation in the Potash and Magnesium Prodworking time models. Strategic inventories and flexible adjustucts business unit was characterised by strong demand. Internament of production levels of de-icing salt enable us to meet spikes tional prices for potassium chloride continued to increase almost in demand even at short notice. everywhere in 2018, continuing the trend seen since mid-2016. If farmers utilise any additional available uncultivated land or inA sales risk for the Potash and Magnesium Products business unit crease the intensity of existing cultivation, this would require adcould arise as a result of a weather-related decline in demand. Proditional use of plant nutrients and in future could result in global longed cold and wet weather conditions during the spring seademand for potash fertilizers rising faster than forecast. In addison, which is particularly important for Europe, could, for examCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS tion, the trend towards balanced fertilization involving the use of ple, result in shifts in or even declining sales of plant nutrients. the main nutrients nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) The same holds for weather phenomena such as El Niño, La Niña in key sales regions such as India and China could lead to disproor droughts, which could lead to significant losses of yields for portionate growth in demand for potash. farmers in the affected regions and reduced use of plant nutrients. The financial impact of the associated increase in demand depends to a large extent on the scale of the fertilizer price increase triggered as a result. Compared with the assumptions made in our mid-term planning, we consider positive price effects with a moderate impact to be possible, but we do not anticipate a significant impact in the medium-term owing to the expected competition. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 115 ADDITIONAL WEATHER-RELATED COSTS RISKS ARISING FROM CHANGES IN THE LEGAL In the Potash and Magnesium Products business unit, water law ENVIRONMENT framework conditions are particularly important at some production sites for the unrestricted use of the available technical production capacity. We believe that the commissioning of the A large number of licences and permits under public law are re­kainite crystallisation and flotation facility (KCF facility) in Janquired for the exercise of our activities, particularly in the areas uary 2018 will allow the Werra plant to dispose of saline wasteof mining/extraction/processing and disposal of residues. The water close to the site under the existing permits in a hydrologiframework for the granting of these licences and permits is firmcal normal year under the assumption of the unobstructed use of ly entrenched in European and national environmental, water the deep-well injection. In a dry year, however, certain volumes of and mining law with respect to production in Germany and Eusaline wastewater would have to be disposed of remotely, generrope. We believe that the regulatory density will increase further ating additional costs for the transportation of this waste. In the in the future. case of extreme drought (similar to summer/autumn 2018) with an unusually low water flow in the Werra river over a prolonged There is a risk for all activities requiring approval that third parties period, production stoppages could occur if all available resourcwill appeal against licences or permits after they have been grantes for off-site waste disposal are exhausted. In addition to the ed and that these will be revoked by courts. Furthermore, extenlow water flow, under extreme conditions the water temperature sions of existing licences and permits or new ones granted may could also affect production at the Werra plant because the volbe restricted in terms of time and scope, permanently amended ume of water used for cooling purposes that can be discharged or refused or further conditions may be attached. In addition, aninto the Werra and Ulster rivers is additionally limited by official cillary provisions of individual authorizations/permits may result temperature threshold values. in their suspension. For this reason, K+S developed additional measures for wastewater disposal. We have obtained permits for temporary storage of brine MANAGEMENT PLANNING IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE WATER at the Springen mining field (Merkers mine) and for discharging FRAMEWORK DIRECTIVE OR AMENDMENT, REFUSAL OR process and tailings pile water into the inactive K+S BergmannsREVOCATION BY A COURT OF OFFICIAL LICENCES FOR THE segen-Hugo mine (Hanover region). Furthermore, another cavern DISPOSAL OF LIQUID AND SOLID PRODUCTION RESIDUES in at the underground gas storage (UGS) facility in Bernburg is being Germany secured by flooding with saturated saline water from potash proIn the Potash and Magnesium Products business unit, both solid duction at the Werra plant. Additional measures include continresidues and liquid residues (saline wastewater) arise from both uous expansion of basin capacity on site to further increase the ongoing production and the tailings piles. The solid residues are flexibility of wastewater management. In doing so, we aim to ineither placed on our tailings piles or disposed of underground. crease the temporary storage capacity for saline wastewater on ­Saline wastewater is discharged into rivers in accordance with site to a total of up to 1 million m3. existing permits and some is injected into the dolomite layer. It is also used to secure old mines permanently. Refusal of official permits for the disposal of liquid production residues: discharge The management plans based on the European Water Framework Directive and German water legislation impose significant general conditions for the above-mentioned means of disposal of 116 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report residues from the German sites. For the coming years, the mancircumstances. The results of a 3D groundwater model also conagement plans for the second management period of 2015 to 2021 firm that adverse effects from the injection to the groundwater of the individual river authorities (FGG) are relevant in this regard. can be excluded. A revocation is still possible if compliance with ‘Environment’, page 58 the threshold values at two wells of a potable water supply facility is not ensured. The management plan currently in force forms the regulatory framework for the period from 2015 to 2021 and will not have any K+S continues to work hard on measures to reduce saline wastedirect adverse effect on potash production in the Hesse-­Thuringia­ water and on alternative disposal options. Research and develpotash district during this period. Further measures and target opment as well as innovation activities are also being promotvalues for the third management period from 2021 to 2027 will ed. These are designed to ensure the disposal of production and be reviewed and defined in the coming years. If the aspects intailings pile wastewater into the Werra river largely through the cluded in the management plan for the period from 2015 to 2021 discharge permit. The aim of these measures is also to maintain (in particular the target values in bodies of water) also appear in added value and safeguard the associated jobs over the long term the plan for the period after 2021 without further realizable and by means of further substantial investments, as well as to r­ educe proportionate measures being available, considerable risks relatthe impact on the Werra and Weser rivers and thus ensure the ing to the granting and retention of operating licences, planning ­future viability of the potash plants in the Hesse-Thuringia ­potash decisions approving public works and water permits cannot be district. ruled out. This could have a material adverse effect on employ‘Environment’, page 58 ment and on the region's economic situation. REFUSAL OR REVOCATION BY A COURT OF OFFICIAL PERMITS Further measures for saline wastewater prevention and additionFOR THE DISPOSAL OF SOLID PRODUCTION RESIDUES al means of disposal will be examined during the period from If licences and permits for the expansion of tailings piles are re2015 to 2021. voked or necessary projects for the expansion of tailings piles are not approved or are only approved subject to unreasonably high Refusal of official permits for the disposal of liquid requirements, it would not be possible to dispose of the solid resproduction residues: injection idues. We consider the complete refusal or the withdrawal of all The deep-well injection permit for saline wastewater from potexisting licences and permits for the expansion of tailings piles ash production at the Werra plant is valid until the end of 2021. to be unlikely, as the permits are compatible with the legal and CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The permit is for an annual injection volume of 1.5 million m3 and statutory framework. Furthermore, they represent the state of the it also limits the daily injection volume to 5,000 m3 per day. K+S art and there is governmental and widespread political support will not apply for a continuation of deep-well injection. If, confor the preservation of potash mining in Germany in the federal trary to expectations, circumstances arise that could have an adstates that are relevant to us. verse effect on usable groundwater resources, if ancillary clauses could not be complied with, or if appeals against the existing Individual licences and permits for the necessary expansion of permit were successful, this could result in the restriction or revtailings piles might not be granted in certain circumstances or ocation of existing permits. might be approved only to a limited extent. In the worst case, this would result in an adjustment of production levels and posThis in turn could lead to production stoppages and/or major cuts sibly the closure of the affected sites with considerable negative in production at the affected sites due to a lack of disposal options economic repercussions both for the Company and for the emfor saline wastewater (injection volumes) and/or give rise to adployment and economic situation of the region in question. This ditional costs for transport to remote alternative disposal sites. could be avoided through the development of further safeguards We believe that the decisions by the authorities will endure and and through rescheduling, which would nevertheless lead to sigthat potash production at the Werra plant is secured under these nificant cost increases. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 117 The licensing authorities approved the application for the expanIndividual licences and permits for the necessary expansion of sion of tailings pile capacity at the Hattorf site on 11 October 2018. tailings piles at the Werra and Zielitz locations may be granted in The current approval status is valid for five to six years. In addition, certain circumstances with ancillary provisions for the imposing the authorities are currently reviewing the application for the secof further safety measures. However, it is unlikely that licenses ond phase of the expansion of tailings pile capacity, which is exand permits will be refused. pected to last until the early 2040s. ‘Tailings pile management’, page 62 We are also confident that we will receive the required permits for the expansion of tailings pile capacity at the Wintershall and MORE STRINGENT REQUIREMENTS REGARDING THE OUTDOOR Zielitz sites in due time. STORAGE OF DE-ICING SALT IN NORTH AMERICA ‘Tailings pile management’, page 62 In the past, there have been no special environmental protection requirements regarding the outdoor storage of de-icing salt in INCREASE IN HEAVY METAL VALUES IN THE GROUND AND North America. However, more and more individual states and SURFACE WATER IN THE SURROUNDING AREA OF THE local authorities are now moving towards defining mandatoTAILINGS PILES ry standards in this regard. As a result of stricter local requireIn the course of our comprehensive and continuous monitoring ments, comprehensive measures may be required, including inof the ground and surface water in the surrounding area of the door storage. tailings piles, an increase in heavy metal values was identified at some points. However, in terms of their composition and concenIn conjunction with environment experts we continue to work on tration, these cannot be classified as tailings pile material. environmental audits to determine whether owned and leased warehouse locations comply with the new local requirements. According to the current state of knowledge, a greater number of decisive factors with locally varying degrees of manifestation and interaction could play a role in the emergence of this phenomeCOLLATERAL SECURITY UNDER MINING LAW non. Therefore, K+S has, in collaboration with external research The determination of collateral security under mining law is subinstitutions, adopted a fundamental investigation regarding the ject to the professional judgement of the acting authorities; at circumstances (comprehensive survey, supplementary monitorthe present time, existing collateral security is usually provided ing measures and construction of additional measuring points) through the formation of corresponding provisions as well as that extends across the locations. With the approval of the authrough comfort letters or group guarantees. If additional secuthorities, K+S has, with due regard to conditions at the individual rity had to be furnished, this could narrow the Company's finanlocations, developed and implemented respective concepts (incial scope, especially if such security were required to be providcluding collecting, draining and cleaning of the emerging spring ed through bank guarantees or a deposit of funds. water at the Hattorf location as well as drainage works and wells or the removal of topsoil with heavy metal mobilisation potential) to tackle the phenomenon described. TIGHTENING OF EXISTING REGULATIONS ON THE UNDERGROUND DISPOSAL OF MINING WASTE The potential impact of increased amounts of heavy metals and The Closed Cycle and Waste Management Law (KrWG) and the trace matters on the subjects of protection (particularly groundGerman Federal General Mining Ordinance (ABBergV) must be water and drinking water protection areas) located in the sphere complied with for underground waste disposal. The existing regof influence of the tailings piles is therefore excluded through suitulations currently vary from one federal state to another. A tightable technical measures with due regard to general conditions at ening of the regulations could result in higher costs for the underthe individual locations. ground disposal of mining waste, as it may then only be possible to store waste with mineral properties underground. This would have the effect of driving up running disposal costs as well as the costs required to close down mining sites. 118 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report OPERATIONAL RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES LITIGATION RISKS AND LEGAL DISPUTES K+S is exposed to risks arising from legal disputes or legal proceedings in which we are either currently involved or that could MARKET PENETRATION, MARKET DEVELOPMENT, EXPANSION arise in the future. IN CAPACITY, COST OPTIMISATION, ACQUISITIONS AND/OR STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS, INNOVATION It cannot be ruled out that K+S might be involved in further lawIn all customer segments, we use our growth potential to increase suits and arbitration proceedings with suppliers in connection our market share by generating higher sales volumes from our with supplies and services procured in connection with the inexisting customer base and/or by acquiring new customers. Furvestment project for building the new Bethune potash mine. We thermore, we are reviewing whether it would be possible to enalso already asserted reimbursement claims against contracting ter new sales regions with our products. We also want to use our parties involved in the project. The outcome of potential ­legal market-related opportunities by investing in new products and disputes, which can take an extended period of time to clarify, is business approaches. The enterprise value should be continually very difficult to predict. This could result in cash outflows or inincreased in the process. This will require external growth, plus flows that negatively or positively affect the site’s profitability. an organisational reorientation. In addition, possibilities to opThe impact in terms of liquidity and earnings varies significanttimise costs (e. g. by way of process digitalisation at the underly. Through the formation of a claim management team, a conground mines or by increasing the efficiency of machinery, protinuous claim management process is ensured with the goal of cesses and organisational structures) will be closely reviewed and processing K+S’s existing receivables from suppliers and recovery thus meaningfully implemented on an ongoing basis. claims to achieve the best possible outcome. Through the systematic implementation of the growth initiatives As a mine owner, K+S KALI GmbH maintains the Merkers mine and defined in detail in our corporate strategy, we want to make sucimplements preservation measures there. The costs of the presercessful use of the opportunities presented and achieve sustainvation methods are currently borne by the Free State of ­Thuringia able, profitable growth. in accordance with the indemnification agreement on the cleanup of pre-existing environmental contamination of October 1999, under which the state is required to bear costs reviewed by a court LEVERAGING OF SYNERGIES of law under the indemnification agreement. The Meinigen adK+S assumes the leveraging of synergies will increase earnings ministrative court ruled in the first instance that the Free State CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS by at least €150 million per year from the end of 2020. Signifiof Thuringia is required to comply fully with the agreement and cant deviations from projected effects represent both a risk and thus bear the costs for the clean-up of pre-existing environmenan opportunity. tal contamination. This agreement requires the State of Thuringia to bear the costs for the environmental damaged caused by the former GDR potash mining on the border between Thuringia and RAMP-UP PHASE AT THE BETHUNE SITE Hesse carried out until 1990. The State appealed this decision. The In 2023, the new potash plant in Bethune in Canada will reach higher administrative court in Weimar allowed the appeal by the its full production capacity. When a site of this size is being built, State of Thuringia against the ruling by the Meiningen adminisnegative effects in the transition to regular operation (ramp-up trative court. A decision of the court in the matter is still pending. phase) cannot be ruled out completely. Conversely, planned qualiWe still firmly believe that the decision in the first instance was tative and quantitative objectives may also be surpassed. Furthercorrect and therefore consider significant implications unlikely. more, technical and logistical challenges may lead to higher costs or lower production volumes. Through systematic cost and quality management we try to limit negative effects and increase earnings contributions. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 119 K+S Aktiengesellschaft uses subsidiaries in Malta and Belgium in higher costs. Furthermore, considerable additional costs are into finance Group companies. As part of the tax audit for the years curred when crude oil prices rise. The heavy reliance of our busi2011 to 2013, a further review was performed in this context and, ness operations on transport likewise makes us highly dependfor the first time, an objection was filed that led to the tax addent on the relevant infrastructure facilities such as ports, roads, back of foreign income. Corresponding additional tax payments railway lines and loading facilities. A breakdown or a bottleneck were stipulated. In addition, additional tax payments may have could limit the sales prospects and thus production. to be made for subsequent years. Appeals were filed against existing tax assessment notices. Fulfilment of the tax assessment We make every effort to limit cost increases and safeguard transnotices was suspended by the tax authorities in conformity with port capacity for the Group through long-term agreements. the judicial order. The appeal procedures have not yet been finalised. It is considered unlikely that the tax authorities will assert their opinion in a court case. PRODUCTION EQUIPMENT The production facilities of the K+S GROUP are characterised by All other process risks are described in the context of the relea high degree of complexity and efficiency. As a result of operavant risk. tional and accident risks to which our facilities, production plants, storage and loading facilities are exposed, business interruptions may occur and serious personal injury or damage to property or ENERGY COSTS AND ENERGY SUPPLY the environment may also be caused. The energy costs incurred by K+S are primarily determined based on our consumption of natural gas and power. This applies in varWhere possible and economically viable, suitable insurance c­ over ying degrees to all corporate departments. Energy prices are often is taken out with the aim of limiting these risks. Tailored training subject to strong fluctuations. Sharp market-related rises in enand staff development measures are also designed to increase ergy prices compared with the projected price level constitute a occupational safety. price risk and cannot be ruled out in the future. Furthermore, an amendment to the Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) or a review of the criteria for the exemption from the EEG surcharge for CHANGES IN THE COMPOSITION OF CRUDE SALT energy-intensive companies could lead to cost increases. A posiThe extraction of crude salt in our mining operations forms the bative development of energy costs compared with projected costs sis for the production of fertilizers and industrial products. We are provides an opportunity for K+S. implementing an extensive geological investigation programme aimed at developing our mining operations further and exploitTo limit this risk, we have reduced the quantities of natural gas ing new crude salt deposits. Nevertheless, significant discrepanrequired for our potash and salt production in Europe by using cies may arise in the quantity and quality of crude salt deposits. steam from alternative fuel heating systems. Moreover, we are Unforeseen geological faults in salt exploitation with low minpursuing a hedging strategy worldwide that allows us to secure eral content may lead to additional costs and reduced producattractive prices for purchasing natural gas in the medium term tion volumes. by concluding fixed supply agreements. ‘Energy/Climate’, ‘Environment’, page 63 CARBON DIOXIDE POCKETS IN DEPOSITS Carbon dioxide pockets constitute a latent potential danger in cerFREIGHT COSTS AND AVAILABILITY OF TRANSPORT CAPACITY tain mines. Despite our comprehensive safety measures, carbon Our total costs are influenced by freight costs to a considerable dioxide could escape from these pockets in an uncontrolled mandegree. A significant proportion of our products in terms of volner. Consequently, there are risks of production cuts/stoppages as ume needs to be transported to the customer over long distances well as of personal injury and damage to property. Underground in some cases. Reduced availability of freight capacity could result extraction is therefore always carried out in compliance with specific safety guidelines in case of escapes of CO2. 120 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report DAMAGE DUE TO ROCK BURSTS COMPLIANCE There is the specific risk at active and inactive mining sites of a There is a general risk that members of management/supervisudden subsidence of the earth's surface over a large area that sory bodies or employees of K+S GROUP companies may breach could, in certain circumstances, be severe (rock burst). If a rock laws, internal regulations or regulatory standards recognised by burst occurs, in addition to the partial or complete loss of the mine the Company. K+S could sustain damage to its assets or reputaand damage to facilities, it could also result in personal injury or tion as a result. death and in considerable damage to the property of third parties. We have established a Group-wide compliance management sysOur professional dimensioning of the underground safety pillars tem that helps to raise awareness among employees and prevent based on comprehensive research serves to secure the surface, breaches of compliance, including through training in the main safeguard the stability of the mine workings over a longer period areas of risk (for example, competition law and anti-trust law, corof time and therefore prevent rock bursts. After the closure of a ruption and money laundering). Compliance management is conlocation, preservation measures are carried out, for which approtinuously reviewed and adjusted as required, for example based priate provisions have been recognised. Continuous monitoring of on recent developments. the mine workings aims to provide timely indications of whether ‘Declaration on Corporate Governance’, page 77 additional measures for the protection of the mine workings and the prevention of damage resulting from mining are necessary. NON-COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS ON OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE LIMITS UNDERGROUND WATER INFLOW The Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in Germany has Hydrogeological risks generally exist in underground mining operdefined the occupational exposure limits for nitrogen oxides and ations. There are risks in connection with shafts that cut through particulate diesel emissions underground that shall apply in the water-bearing rock shafts and in saline deposits in rock strata. future. These statutory requirements must be met for our GerHydro­geological risks are limited through the extensive safeguards man mining operations starting from 31 October 2021 or from we have put in place; however, these risks could result in signifi31 October 2022, respectively. To satisfy them, K+S is currently incant uncontrollable damage culminating in the total loss of the vestigating, as part of an extensive project, for example the use mine. In this case, material adverse effects on employment, the of the latest diesel engine technology, alternative drive technolregion's economic situation and damage to the environment and ogies, the development of low-emission explosive substances as CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS to property would be virtually unavoidable. well as the optimisation of ventilation underground. There is a risk that the investments considered in the planning will not suffice. Extensive exploration work is carried out by means of ­seismology,­ There might also not be enough time to fulfil the requirements drilling and ground-penetrating radar in order to secure the mines. (machinery uptime). If these requirements cannot be met in the Preservation of protective layers and adequate dimensioning of long term, there is a risk that in an extreme case German sites safety pillars ensure maximum mine safety. Ongoing maintenance could close down or significant production limitations could occur. work on the shafts should ensure that the risk of groundwater inflows can normally be virtually ruled out. Because the top of a shaft is in a high position, surface water is not expected to gain LOSS OF SUPPLIERS AND SUPPLY BOTTLENECKS access to mine workings even if flooding occurs. The number of suppliers for raw materials, consumables and supplies as well as technical equipment and spare parts specific to mining is limited. In spite of counter-measures in place, supply Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 121 bottlenecks, non-delivery or delivery boycotts, over which we only IT SECURITY have very little influence or no influence at all, could result in limOur IT systems support almost all corporate functions in large ited availability of these materials and thus lead to a significant measure. The IT security risk lies primarily in loss of the availabilincrease in costs or have adverse effects on production. ity, integrity, confidentiality and authenticity of data due to external attacks (for example, hackers, viruses) and internal risks (for We will mitigate these procurement risks through market analyexample, technical failure, sabotage). If this risk were to materises, targeted supplier selection and evaluation, long-term supply alise, serious interruptions to business could result. However, we agreements, clearly defined quality standards and state-of-theconsider a prolonged failure of the IT systems to be unlikely due art purchasing methods. to the precautions we take. We limit such risk by having independent experts continuously PERSONNEL review the scope and effectiveness of our wide-ranging security Competition for qualified managers and specialists is fierce in all measures. Insurance to cover claims from IT system failures has of the regions in which we operate. The loss of employees in key been taken out for cyber-attacks with a loss amount of €50 million. positions constitutes a fundamental risk. Moreover, we could be facing demographic challenges in the future, especially in Europe and North America. This increases the risk that suitable applicants REPUTATION for vacancies will not be found or that it will take considerable The materialisation of any risk may have a financial impact for the time and effort to find them. Company that is difficult or impossible to quantify depending on the perception among the general public of a loss of image. This The K+S GROUP wants to be an attractive employer not only for enincludes, in particular, risks with material adverse effects on the try-level staff, but also for qualified managers and specialists. By non-financial aspects of environmental matters, social and emoffering practical support for the next generation of employees as ployee-related matters, respect for human rights, anti-corruption well as tailored training and further education measures and by and bribery matters, as well as failure to achieve targets defined promoting high achievers and employees showing potential, the by the Company. K+S GROUP still succeeds in permanently motivating employees and in retaining qualified managers and specialists for the long We counter such developments with open, timely communicaterm. In addition, our focus on diversity in our workforce enables tion to our stakeholders. us to unlock all potential in the labour market. By adopting this strategy and increasing cooperation with selected higher education institutions, we offer qualified managers and specialists promising career prospects. ‘Employees’, page 53 122 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report FINANCIAL RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES TRANSLATION RISKS Furthermore, currency effects arise in relation to subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the Euro, since the earnings of CURRENCY/EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS these companies calculated in a foreign currency are translated A currency risk results from transactions which are not effected into Euros at average rates and recognised in net profit or loss. in the currency of our Group reporting (the Euro). In the case of However, the net assets of these companies are translated into this risk, we make a distinction between transaction and transEuros at the rates prevailing on the reporting date. This conversion lation risks. While the risk relates to negative exchange rate desystem could result in currency-related fluctuations in the earnvelopments, positive exchange rate developments may have a ings and equity of K+S. These translation effects arise throughout advantageous impact on earnings and equity, thus presenting the K+S GROUP and are not hedged. an opportunity. TRANSACTION RISKS CHANGE IN THE GENERAL INTEREST RATE LEVEL A significant proportion of K+S GROUP revenues is in US Dollars. In Both risks and opportunities arise as a result of changes in the addition to this, revenues are also generated and costs incurred in general interest rate level. other national currencies (such as Canadian Dollars, Chilean Pesos and Pounds Sterling). Our earnings are therefore exposed to On the one hand, changes in market interest rates have an effect exchange rate fluctuations. This may lead to the value of the seron future interest payments for variable-rate liabilities, as well vice performed not matching the value of the consideration reas on interest income for variable-rate investments. Impacts on ceived in transactions, because income and expenditure are infixed-interest liabilities arise when the interest rate fixation excurred at different times in different currencies. Exchange rate pires and an prolongation is sought. The market values of finanfluctuations, especially in the EUR/USD and CAD/USD exchange cial instruments are also affected. However, due to the current firates, primarily affect the Potash and Magnesium Products businancing structure, only a moderate impact is expected. ness unit in relation to the level of earnings and receivables as well as costs and liabilities. The K+S GROUP is required to report long-term provisions, particu‘Financial Position’, page 98 larly from mining obligations and pensions, at the present value of the future anticipated expenditure. A change in the market interWe use derivative financial instruments to counter exchange est rates compared with the preceding reporting date could thereCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS rate risks arising from transactions. Significant net positions are fore lead to changes in the discount rates on the current reporting hedged using derivatives, normally options and futures, in the condate and thus to an adjustment of long-term provisions. A onetext of transaction hedging. These ensure a “worst case” ­exchange off adjustment by half a percentage point would have a moderate rate. On the basis of revenue and cost planning as well as expectimpact on the balance sheet and the earnings of the K+S GROUP. ed capital expenditure, the volumes to be hedged are determined and updated continuously using safety margins, so as to avoid exMost of the pension obligations are covered by plan assets resultcess hedging or hedging shortfalls. ing from fixed-income securities, shares and other investments. ‘Notes’, page 150 Decreasing income from these investments may have an unfavourable effect on the fair value of the plan assets. We mitigate the risk of fluctuations in the fair value of the plan assets through balanced asset allocation and continuous analysis of the investment risks. ‘Notes’, page 150 Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 123 UPGRADING/DOWNGRADING OF THE COMPANY RATING DEFAULT ON RECEIVABLES FROM CUSTOMERS Ratings are used to assess the creditworthiness of companies and We maintain comprehensive business relationships with many are normally issued by external rating agencies. The rating procustomers. If one or more major customers is not in a position to vides indications of the ability of companies to pay, particularfulfil their contractual payment obligations towards us, this could ly for credit institutions and institutional investors. It cannot be result in corresponding losses for us, which in turn could have an ruled out that a rating agency might change K+S’s credit rating. adverse effect on the financial position of K+S. A downgrade could negatively impact the financing costs of K+S. Risks arising from payment default are covered across the Group Conversely, an upgrade in the credit rating – and hence an immainly through credit insurance. We only waive a security against provement in the Company’s rating – has a positive effect on the non-payment following a critical review of the customer relationcosts and availability of the Company’s financing options. We hope ship and express approval. to fulfil the requirements to regain an investment grade rating in 2023; at the present time, we believe that an earlier upgrade is unlikely. DEFAULT OF PARTNERS IN FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS ‘Financial Position’, page 98 Default risks also exist with regard to partners with which we have concluded hedging transactions, credit lines exist or money was invested. A potential failure of a bank or another partner could LIQUIDITY have an adverse effect on the financial position of K+S. There is Liquidity risk entails the failure to procure the funds needed to no particular dependency on any individual financial institutions. meet payment obligations or the inability to do so in a timely manner. External factors, especially a general financial crisis, could make it impossible to replace credit lines or bonds on acceptable CHANGES IN INDIVIDUAL RISKS AND commercial terms should the need arise. In this case, a risk assoOPPORTUNITIES COMPARED WITH THE PRIOR ciated with procuring liquidity would also arise. PERIOD For this reason, the principal objective of our liquidity management activities is to ensure the ability to make payments at any The assessments made in relation to the likelihood of occurrence given time. The liquidity requirement is determined through our and/or financial impact of the risks and opportunities reported liquidity planning and must be met with cash on hand and bank in prior periods are shown in Tables 2.39 and 2.40 on pages 112 balances, committed credit lines and other financial instruments. and 113. Liquidity is managed by the central treasury department using Risks in the Potash and Magnesium Products business unit in recash pooling systems. As of 31 December 2018, the available liquidlation to the disposal of liquid and solid production residues conity amounted to €1,187.0 million and consisted of investments and tinue to be significant on account of the regulatory conditions. cash on hand and bank balances as well as the unused portion of The risk of a refusal or revocation by a court of official permits our syndicated credit line running until mid-2020. The available for the disposal of solid production residues and the disposal of liquidity was therefore significantly higher than our target miniliquid residues in the discharge subsegment remains within the mum reserve of €300 million. In the case of investments, we purprobability of risk of between 10% and 50%. sue the goal of optimising the income earned from cash on hand and bank balances at low risk. ‘Notes’, Note (25) ‘Financial liabilities’, page 197 124 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report The application for the extension of tailings pile capacity in ASSESSMENT OF RISK AND OPPORTUNITY POSITION ­Hattorf was approved. This means that the approval process startBY THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS: NO RISKS ed in 2011 for the expansion of tailings pile capacity is continuing TO THE COMPANY'S CONTINUED EXISTENCE AS A to progress well. The approval granted, which is valid for five to GOING CONCERN six years, relates to the first part of the project. Relevant risks pertaining to the disposal of solid production residues at the Hattorf site have been significantly mitigated for this period. The risk and opportunity position assessed below is based on the findings of our risk and opportunity management system in conAs part of the tax audit for the years 2011 to 2013 a statement was junction with the planning, management and monitoring sysmade, which may lead to tax burdens. Appeals have been lodged. tems in place. The higher administrative court in Weimar allowed the appeal Taking into account the likelihood of occurrence and the financial by the State of Thuringia against the ruling by the Meiningen adimpact of each of the risks discussed, and based on the findings ministrative court that the Free State of Thuringia must bear the of our mid-term planning, at the present time the Board of Execucosts of the clean-up of pre-existing environmental contaminative Directors does not expect any future development where the tion. We still firmly believe that the decision in the first instance risks, either individually or in conjunction with other risks, could was correct. have a lasting adverse effect on the results of operations, financial position and net assets of K+S, jeopardising its continued exRisks from changes in the composition of crude salt have been istence as a going concern. updated on the basis of our exploration knowledge and cannot be excluded, in particular with the advance into peripheral a ­ reas K+S’s risk position is unchanged due to positive developments in of the deposits. the potash market and the environmental regulations, notwithstanding the cost pressure for environmental and additional disCompliance with the new applicable occupational exposure limits posal measures. for nitrogen oxides and particulate diesel emissions underground is required from 31 October 2021 or 31 October 2022, ­respectively. The opportunities open to K+S in the medium term provide a posThis is the reason this risk is returning to the observation period itive outlook. We are confident that K+S’s operating strength profor the mid-term planning. Our extensive measures help us to vides a solid foundation for our future business growth and that CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS comply with these requirements. the resources necessary to take advantage of the opportunities are available. Overall, the risk and opportunity position is nearly unchanged compared with the previous year and will continue to receive considerable attention owing to the general conditions in the Potash and Magnesium Products business unit. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 125 REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS We expect to see a moderate rise in revenues in 2019; EBITDA 1 is expected in a corridor between €700 and 850 million and should therefore increase significantly compared to 2018. The main reasons for these developments are the higher production volumes assumed at the Bethune site and the expected absence of wastewater-related production stoppages at the Werra plant. The Report on Expected Developments is based on the future that production in emerging markets will only expand at a modexternal reporting in the new structure for the financial year erate rate. Economists expect the rate of expansion in the euro 2019 in the operating units Europe+ and Americas as segments zone to stagnate. Possible effects of a Brexit are not only slowin ­accordance with IFRS 8. ing the economy in the United Kingdom. However, the UK’s im‘Business modell’, page 31 minent departure is not expected to have any significant impact on our f­ uture earnings, financial and asset position. The share of the United Kingdom in the total revenues of the K+S GROUP is only FUTURE MACROECONOMIC in the low single-digit percentage range. SITUATION The economic development in the US is expected to have peaked in 2018 and the decade-long upswing could well lose momentum. The following details on the future macroeconomic situation are Moreover, a deteriorating trade environment is likely to have a based on forecasts by the KIEL INSTITUTE FOR THE WORLD ECONOMY dampening effect on world trade growth. In China, the impact of and the INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF). TAB. 2.41 US sanctions as well as more rigid lending should lead to weaker production growth according to the experts in Kiel. The INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND as well as the experts at the IFW in Kiel forecast that the growth rate in global gross domestic Notwithstanding the fact that inflation is expected to rise only product in 2019 will fall to 3.5% or 3.4%, respectively (2018: 3.7%). slowly worldwide, economists are assuming both further tightThis forecast is based on the assumption that capacity utilisaening of the hitherto expansive monetary policy and a slowdown tion in the advanced economies will hardly increase at all and in government growth incentives. This should also have a dampening effect on global GDP growth in the long term. Percentage change in gross domestic product Tab. 2.41 in %; in real terms 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019e Germany +1.5 +2.2 +2.5 +1.5 +1.3 Euro area +1.6 +1.9 +2.4 +1.8 +1.6 World +3.4 +3.3 +3.8 +3.7 +3.5 Source: IWF ¹T  he EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amhedges, changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges recogortisation, adjusted by the depreciation and amortisation amount not recognised in prior periods and in the prior year profit/loss from currency hedging nised in profit and loss in the context of own work capitalised, earnings arising for capital expenditure in Canada. A reconciliation can be found on page 95. from changes in the fair market value of outstanding operating anticipatory 126 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report FUTURE INDUSTRY SITUATION should increase especially in E ­ urope. Despite recent variability in oil pricing, demand for potash products in Europe as well as for salt products in the US should be above last year’s level; in CanAGRICULTURE ada, demand could decline due to expected production cuts in In the future, it will only be possible to meet the increasing the oil and gas industry. In South America, demand for salt for ­demand for soft commodities in light of a constantly growing the extraction of copper from mined raw ore (copper leaching) is global population, changing eating habits and limited arable land expected to grow in 2019 as well. by intensifying fertilizer application. A balanced use of mineral plant nutrients is crucial here. Even the continued low price level of agricultural products on a long-term comparative basis, followCONSUMERS ing a partial recovery, should continue to give farmers sufficient North America is among the leading sales regions for consumer incentive to increase yields per hectare by means of a balanced salt products; demand in this region is expected to remain more or even greater use of fertilizers in case of deficiency. or less stable overall in 2019. Consumption at the previous year’s level is expected in Europe and South America as well. In the long For 2019, we expect global potash demand to remain at least stable term, however, for table salt, a global trend of increased use of compared with the year under review (2018: over 71 m ­ illion­ tonnes more premium salt such as sea salt or kosher salt as well as low-­ including around 5 million tonnes of potassium sulphate and potsodium products is discernible. ash grades with a lower mineral content). Following the significant recovery in prices for standard potash (MOP) in the course of 2018, prices for fertilizer specialities should follow suit in 2019. COMMUNITIES The positive environment of 2018 should also favourably reach In the de-icing salt segment, the 2018/2019 winter season started into 2019 for potassium chloride (MOP). averagely overall after a good previous year. While in Europe, the wintry weather conditions at the beginning of the year caused a demand for de-icing salt slightly above average, the business in INDUSTRY North America at the beginning of the year was still slightly beDemand for potash, magnesium and salt products in the ­customer low average. segment industry is expected to rise slightly in the medium term. Global demand for products for industrial applications should inCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS crease noticeably. Aided by the ageing population, demand for EXPECTED DEVELOPMENT OF REVENUES AND pharmaceutical products should continue to support moderate EARNINGS growth rates. While demand for products for food processing is expected to remain more or less stable in 2019, demand for water softening salts and potash and salt products for animal nutrition In the 2019 financial year, we expect revenues of the K+S GROUP to increase moderately (2018: €4.04 billion). EBITDA of the K+S GROUP is expected to improve significantly to between €700 million and €850 million2 (2018: €606.3 million). Further information 2 I ncluding a positive effect from IFRS 16. k+s Annual Report 2018 127 In the operating unit Europe+ (segment in accordance with IFRS 8), regional split. As usual, this forecast assumes that our sales the further increase in production at our new Bethune potash of de-icing salt in the fourth quarter will remain at the longplant in Canada and the expectation that the wastewater-relatterm average level. ed production stoppages at the Werra plant will not recur are ++ An average spot rate of EUR/USD 1.20 (2018: EUR/USD 1.18) expected to have a positive effect, such that revenues are likely is ­assumed for the euro-dollar exchange rate. to rise moderately and EBITDA significantly as a result (revenues 2018: €2.60 billion, EBITDA: €443.4 million). Meanwhile, revenues The adjusted Group earnings after tax should increase s­ ignificantly and EBITDA in the operating unit Americas (segment in accordcompared to the same period in the previous year (2018: €85.4 milance with IFRS 8) are expected to remain more or less stable (revlion) due to the effects described above. enues 2018: €1.46 billion, EBITDA: €221.7 million. With an average de-icing salt business, higher product prices should be balanced by cost inflation. ANTICIPATED FINANCIAL POSITION AND PL ANNED CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Our assessment for full-year 2019 is mainly based on the following assumptions: ++ Changes in the product mix are counteracting a positive marAlthough the capital expenditure volume of the K+S GROUP for ket environment in the Agriculture customer segment, which 2019 should exceed that of the previous year (€443.2 million), belongs to the operating unit Europe+, and as a result we mainly as a result of further expansions of our tailings pile ­expect a moderate increase in the average price for potash ­capacities in Germany, the adjusted free cash flow should imand magnesium products in our product portfolio in 2019 prove significantly compared with the previous year as a result (2018: €255/tonne). of our operating improvements and active working capital man++ The expected sales volume of all products in the A ­ griculture agement; this should return to positive figures for the first time customer segment is likely to be between 6.9 and 7.2 m ­ illion since 2013 (2018: €–206.3 million). Despite more capital being tied tonnes (2018: 6.8 million tonnes), mainly as a result of higher up, the return on capital employed (ROCE) should increase signifiproduction volumes at the Bethune site. Assuming a normal cantly due to significantly higher earnings (2018: 2.6%). At the ophydrological year for 2019, no wastewater-related ­production erating unit level, ROCE for Europe+ is expected to rise significantly cuts due to prolonged low water periods in the Werra are (2018: 2.0%), while it is expected to significantly lag behind previ­expected. Our efforts to further improve our wastewater ous year’s level for the Americas (2018: 7.9%). management and to expand local storage capacity should significantly reduce the risk of shutdowns, even in the event of prolonged drought. Our challenges at the Werra and PROPOSED DIVIDEND FOR THE Neuhof sites are addressed and the product availability has 2018 FINANCIAL YEAR already improved. Nevertheless, we expect that the German sites in 2019 will still lag behind the technically available capacity. Our earnings-oriented dividend policy is essentially reflected in a ++ Especially due to the continued use of off-site disposal of payout ratio of 40 to 50% of adjusted Group earnings a ­ fter­t­ axes. ­saline wastewater, our production costs in the Agriculture As we have a positive view on 2019 as described, the Board of Excustomer segment will still be burdened by logistic costs of ecutive Directors and the Supervisory Board intend to propose about €40 million. a dividend of €0.25 per share (previous year: €0.35 per share) to ++ Owing to the weather-related overall average start to the the ­Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2019. Against this backde-icing salt business, for the 2019 financial year we exground, the distribution ratio of 56% (previous year: 46%) of pect sales volumes of between 12.5 and 13.0 million tonnes ­adjusted Group earnings after tax is slightly above the corridor (2018: 13.3 million tonnes) in the Communities customer segof the dividend policy. ment, which belongs to both operating units according to the 128 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report GENERAL STATEMENT ON THE EXPECTED K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT DEVELOPMENT OF THE K+S GROUP (EXPLANATIONS BASED ON THE The Board of Executive Directors of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT views GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE 2019 optimistically and expects that EBITDA of the K+S GROUP will (HGB)) be significantly higher than that of the previous year and will be within a corridor between €700 and €850 million. A good market environment for fertilizers, the continued ramp-up of our The management report of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT and the Group Bethune site and the continuing measures to improve our opermanagement report have been combined for the 2018 financial ating performance should contribute to this development. Overyear. The annual financial statements of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT all, the a ­ djusted free cash flow of the K+S GROUP should continue in accordance with the GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE (HGB) and the to improve significantly in 2019 and achieve positive figures for combined Management Report are published simultaneously in the first time since 2013. the German Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger). DECL ARATION ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Declaration on Corporate Governance in accordance with Section 289f of the German Commercial Code (HGB) can be found on page 67. INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 289A (1) OF THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE (HGB) AND EXPL ANATORY REPORT OF THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Information in accordance with Section 289a (1) of the German Commercial Code (HGB) and the explanatory report of the Board of Executive Directors can be found on page 82. REMUNERATION REPORT The information to be disclosed in accordance with ­Section 289a (2) of the German Commercial Code (HGB) is provided on page 134. BUSINESS OPERATIONS, CORPORATE STRATEGY, CORPORATE MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING, OVERVIEW OF THE COURSE OF BUSINESS Further information Information on business operations, corporate strategy, corporate management and monitoring as well as an overview of the business performance can be found on pages 31–49 and 78–91. k+s Annual Report 2018 129 INCOME STATEMENT OF K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT 1 Tab. 2.42 in € million 2017 2018 Revenues 136.3 137.8 Cost of sales 141.8 152.4 Gross profit -5.5 -14.6 Sales and distribution, general and administrative expenses and research costs 36.9 37.3 Other operating income and expenses 16.9 -18.5 Income from investments, net 76.6 324.0 Net interest -138.7 -168.7 Write-downs of long-term financial assets and securities classified as current assets 0.2 0.1 Expenses from transfer of losses – – Earnings before tax -87.9 84.8 Income tax expense 24.5 10.3 Earnings for the period -112.4 74.5 Withdrawal from other revenue reserves 179.4 – Accumulated profit 67.0 74.5 1 A detailed income statement is included in the 2018 Annual Financial Statements of K+S Aktiengesellschaft. BALANCE SHEET OF K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT – ASSETS Tab. 2.43 in € million 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 Intangible assets 8.4 9.9 Tangible fixed assets 61.4 61.4 Financial investments 6,923.8 6,663.0 Fixed assets 6,993.7 6,734.3 Inventories 1.7 4.8 Receivables and other assets 427.4 754.1 Securities 6.2 6.1 Cash on hand and bank balances 46.5 78.9 Current assets 481.8 843.9 Prepaid expenses 14.3 10.3 ASSETS 7,489.8 7,588.6 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Other operating income was significantly lower, dropping €45.8 million to €100.5 million (2017: €146.3 million). This was mainAt €137.8 million, K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT’s revenues were €1.5 milly attributable to higher income from the measurement of USD lion above the previous year’s level (€136.3 million). Revenues in and CAD items compared to the previous year. the Animal Hygiene Products segment were slightly higher than in the previous year (+4%) and revenues in the IT segment rose Other operating expenses decreased from €129.5 million to by 2%. Other revenues declined by €0.7 million to €55.3 million €119.0 million. This was due mainly to lower exchange currency (2017: €56.0 million), mainly due to an increase in intragroup billtranslation losses. By contrast, consulting expenses were higher. ing of services rendered to Group companies. 130 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report Income from investments increased from €76.6 million in 2017 FINANCIAL POSITION to €324.0 million in 2018. The main reasons for this increase were the profit transfers of €217.5 million (2017: €58.4 million) from Fixed assets increased by €259.4 million to €6,734.7 million K+S KALI GMBH and €44.1 million (2017: –) from K+S SALZ GMBH), and (2017: €6,993.7 million). This was principally due to capital rethe income of €40.4 million (2017: –) from the investment in K+S turned to affiliated companies. Fixed assets therefore accountFINANCE BELGIUM BVBA. Further income from investments r­ esulted ed for 89% of total assets (2017: 93%). Overall, the total assets from the transfer of profit of €11.5 million (2017: €8.9 m ­ illion from rose €98.8 million to €7,588.6 million in 2018. Current assets inK+S ENTSORGUNG GMBH and €9.4 million (2017: €7.4 million) from creased by €362.1 million to €843.9 million (2017: €481.8 million). K+S TRANSPORT GMBH. As a result of higher receivables from profit transfers and cash pool receivables, receivables from affiliated companies increased Other interest and similar income was around the previous year's from €372.4 million in 2017 to €646.5 million. There was a decline level at €10.5 million (2017: €10.9 million). in receivables from current loans to subsidiaries. TAB. 2.43, 2.44 Interest and similar expenses increased from €149.6 million Equity was around the prior-year level at €1,973.9 million to €179.2 million, mainly due to higher interest expenses result(2017: €1,966.4 million). The equity ratio was unchanged at 26% ing from the bonds issued in March 2017 and July 2017, negative as of the reporting date (2017: 26%). Liabilities to affiliated comeffects from the measurement of plan assets, and an increase in panies of €2,083.9 million (2017: €2,241.0 million) primarily coninterest payable to Group companies. The increase was held back sisted of cash pooling liabilities and loan liabilities. by lower expenses for interest added to provisions. Income after taxes increased by €186.9 million to €74.5 million (2017: €–112.4 million). TAB. 2.42 BALANCE SHEET OF K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT – EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Tab. 2.44 in € million 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 Issued capital 191.4 191.4 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Share premium 701.6 701.6 Retained earnings 1,006.4 1,006.4 Accumulated profit 67.0 74.5 Equity 1,966.4 1,973.9 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 2.6 24.5 Tax provisions 25.8 9.7 Other provisions 208.2 224.6 Provisions 236.6 258.8 Liabilities 5,281.3 5,351.4 Deferred income 5.5 4.5 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 7,489.8 7,588.6 Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 131 Total liabilities increased by €70.1 million to €5,351,4 million in 2018 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (2017: €5,281.3 million). The main reasons for this rise were the redemption and issue of bonds and liabilities to banks. Liabilities to Detailed information about the research and development activiaffiliated companies decreased. As of the reporting date, the comties of the K+S GROUP, which relate primarily to holding companies pany reported provisions of €258.8 million with a predominantly with operating activities, can be found on page 50. long-term character. The company's financing came to a considerable extent from funds available in the long term. RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES EMPLOYEES The business development of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT is essentially subject to the same risks and opportunities as the K+S GROUP. K+S K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT had an annual average of 1,029 e­ mployees AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT participates in the risks and opportunities of (2017: 962 employees). As in the previous year, the proportion of its shareholdings and subsidiaries according to its respective inwomen was 35% and of men 65% (2017: 35% women, 65% men). terest share. More information can be found in the 'Risk and OpThereof 22 were trainees (2017: 20 trainees). The increase in portunity Report' on page 110. personnel was mainly due to the integration of the IT Service ­Centre into K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT. The number of occupationThe description of the internal control system with regard to the al ­accidents was 16 (2017: 16), with an accident rate of 12.0 (2017: accounting process of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT (Section 289 (4) 12.8) and accidents involving downtime of 1.5 per million working of the German Commercial Code (HGB)) can be found on page 81. hours (2017: 0.8). The proportion of severely disabled employees was 4.6% in 2018 (2017: 4.7%). REPORT ON POST-BAL ANCE SHEET DATE EVENTS DIVIDEND The Report on Post-Balance Sheet Date Events for the K+S GROUP and K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT can be found on page 214. K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT reports accumulated profit of €74.5 million for the 2018 financial year (2017: €67.0 million). REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS The Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board intend to propose to the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2019 The earnings performance of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT depends that the accumulated profit of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT for the 2018 to a large extent on the performance of its subsidiaries. ­The ­financial year should be used as shown in TAB. 2.45 expected business development of the K+S GROUP can be found in the Report on Expected Developments on page 126. APPROPRIATION OF PROFITS Tab. 2.45 in € million 2017 2018 Dividend per share (€) 0.35 0.25 Total dividend payment based on 191,400,000 no-par value shares eligible for dividend 67.0 47.9 Allocation to other reserves – 26.6 Accumulated profit 67.0 74.5 132 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report Responsibility Statement from the legal representatives of K+S Aktiengesellschaft To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the appli­ FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS cable principles for financial reporting, the consolidated financial statements and the annual financial statements of K+S AKTIEN­ This report contains facts and forecasts that relate to the ­future GESELLSCHAFT give a true and fair view of the assets, financial and development of the K+S GROUP and its companies. The forecasts earnings position of the Group and K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT, and are estimates that we have made on the basis of all the informa­ the combined Management Report includes a fair review of the tion available to us at this time. Should the assumptions under­ development and performance of the business and the position lying these forecasts prove incorrect or should certain risks – of the Group and K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT, together with a descrip­ such as those referred to in the Risk Report – materialise, actual tion of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the devel­opments and results may deviate from current expectations. expected development of the Group and K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT. The Company assumes no obligation to update the statements ­contained in this Management Report, save for the ­making of Kassel, 5 March 2019 such disclosures as required by law. K+S Aktiengesellschaft Board of Executive Directors CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 133 REMUNERATION REPORT This report explains the main features of the remuneration performance-related part consists of two components: the b ­ onus ­systems used for the Board of Executive Directors and the Super­ (STI) as well as two variable remuneration components, based on visory Board of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT, together with the specif­ key indicators, with a long-term incentive character (LTI I and LTI II). ic design of the individual components. The members of the Board of Executive Directors also have pen­ sions entitlements. The management contracts do not include a claw-back clause, as we consider the absolute level of remu­ REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD OF neration of the members of the Board of Executive Directors as EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS very moderate compared with other companies – especially other MDAX companies. Fixed, basic remuneration not related to performance is paid REMUNERATION STRUCTURE monthly. Additionally, the members of the Board of Executive The criteria for the appropriateness of remuneration include, in Directors receive fringe benefits, in particular contributions to particular, the responsibilities and performance of the Board of pension, health and long-term care insurance as well as non-cash Executive Directors, a comparison with senior executives world­ remuneration, which consists mainly of the use of company cars. wide and the total workforce, as well as the economic situation, the success and future prospects of the Company, considering Since 1 January 2018, the performance-related remuneration com­ comparable remuneration of their peer group. ponents have been composed of two elements: The short-term incentive (STI) relates to the current financial year and, at 40%, The remuneration for the members of the Board of Executive ­comprises the smaller part of variable remuneration. The long­Directors consists of annual components and those with a longterm incentive (LTI) comprises the more significant part, at 60%, term incentive character. The annual remuneration compo­ and is made up of two equally weighted components. One is linked nents include both those not related to performance (fixed) and to value added (LTI I) and the second is linked to share price per­ performance-related components (variable). The components formance (LTI II). Both components are measured over a threethat are not related to performance comprise fixed remunera­ year period. tion, non-cash remuneration and other benefits. The variable 1T  he EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amhedges, changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges recogortisation, adjusted by the depreciation and amortisation amount not recognised in prior periods and in the prior year profit/loss from currency hedging nised in profit and loss in the context of own work capitalised, earnings arising for capital expenditure in Canada. A reconciliation can be found on page 95. from changes in the fair market value of outstanding operating anticipatory Illustrative calculation of the annual remuneration of a member of the Board of Executive Directors. tab. 2.46 Target achievement Target achievement Maximum target 100% 0% achievement in € Fixed remuneration 485.0 485.0 485.0 Bonus 380.0 1 0.0 2 912.0 3 Annual remuneration 865.0 485.0 1,397.0 LTI I 10 285.0 4 0.0 5 570.0 6 LTI II 10 285.0 7 0.0 8 570.0 9 Total remuneration 1,435.0 485.0 2,537.0 1 Actual EBITDA ^= plan EBITDA; performance factor ^ = 1.0. 6 Actual Value Added (average performance period) ^ = 200%. 2 Actual EBITDA ^= 0%. 7 K+S share price (average performance period) ^= performance MDAX (average reference ^ ^ 3 Actual EBITDA = 200%; performance factor = 1.2. value). 4 Actual Value Added (average performance period) ^= plan Value Added 8 K+S share price (average performance period) ^ = 0%. (average reference value). 9 K+S share price (average performance period) ^ = 200%. ^ 5 Actual Value Added (average performance period) = 0%. 10 If appropriate, pro rata temporis until the end of the appointment. 134 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report LTI II fig. 2.25 Reference period Performance period 2017 2018 2019 2020 MDAX 2017 1 MDAX 2020 2 K+S share 2017 1 K+S share 2020 2 Beginning of programme End of programme ¹ Average for the stock market year; reference base. 2 Average for the stock market year 2020; reference base for comparison of performance with 2017. The STI is measured against reaching the EBITDA ¹ set in the anperformance period has ended, actual value creation is c­ ompared nual plan. If the EBITDA figure from the annual plan approved by to planned value creation. If actual and planned value creation are the Supervisory Board is reached, the STI base amount is 100%. the same, target achievement is 100%. If the actual value creation If the actual EBITDA exceeds or falls short of the planned EBITDA, exceeds or falls short of the planned value creation, the percentthe percentage rate of target achievement increases or decreasage target achievement increases or decreases in a linear fashion es in a linear fashion by the same percentage. Maximum target by the same percentage. Maximum target achievement is 200% achievement is 200% and minimal achievement is 0%. The Superand minimum achievement is 0%. visory Board has no discretion to influence target achievement. LTI II is based on the K+S share price performance (incl. dividends Instead of a bonus based on personal performance, after the end paid) compared to the performance of the MDAX (Performance of the relevant financial year, the Supervisory Board sets a perIndex). If the K+S share price performance is equal to the perforformance factor for the entire team of executive directors. This mance of the MDAX during the reference period, target achieveserves as a multiplier on the base amount of STI and ranges from ment is 100%. If the price performance of the K+S share exceeds 0.8 to 1.2. The performance factor depends on achievement of anor falls short of the performance of the MDAX, the percentage rate CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS nual targets defined between the Supervisory Board and the enof target achievement increases or decreases in a linear fashion by tire Board of Executive Directors. For the years from 2018 to 2020, the same percentage. Maximum target achievement is 200% and the specific target is reaching the milestones of the SHAPING 2030 minimum achievement is 0%. Since LTI II – and thus 50% of longstrategy, e.g. reducing indebtedness. term remuneration – is linked to the performance of K+S shares, there is no special “ownership guideline”. fig. 2.25 Sample calculation for applying the performance factor: The Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors receives 1.5 times STI fulfilment level, e. g. the remuneration of an ordinary member of the Board of Exec100% x performance factor, e. g. 1.1 = 110% utive Directors. To determine LTI I, before the performance period begins, the LTI CLAIMS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS – OLD SYSTEM S ­ upervisory Board as a rule uses the mid-term planning to define UNTIL 31 DECEMBER 2017 value added for each year of the performance period. The planned The executive directors have claims under ongoing lti programmes value added corresponds to the arithmetical mean of the three from 2015, 2016 and 2017, which are outlined below: value contribution figures of the performance period. After the Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 135 LTi Programme fig. 2.26 Value contributions in € million Reference period Performance period Year –4 Year –3 Year –2 Year –1 Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Ø Ø Beginning of End of programme programme LTI PROGRAMME 2015–2018 fig. 2.27 In € million 2011 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Result Av. 302 Av. –277 Difference = €–579 million Disbursement ² LTI 2015 500 384 222 102 226 –396 –437 –502 – – = €0.0 thousand Av. 234 not yet complete (av. to date: -445) LTI 2016 – 384 222 102 226 –396 -437 –502 – – Av. 39 not yet complete (av. to date: -470) LTI 2017 – – 222 102 226 –396 –437 –502 – – Reference period Performance period ¹ In 2011, the cap was reached on account of outstanding value contributions (LTI until 2017). 2 For an ordinary member of the Board of Executive Directors, payment is made in April of the year following the end of the programme. The system is based on a multi-year assessment in accordance The value contribution (LTI until 2017) is capped at €±500 million with the value contributions (LTI until 2017) achieved. The Compaper financial year. ny's success is thereby determined on the basis of two four-year periods. The value contribution (LTI until 2017) is derived as follows: Two four-year periods (a “reference period” and a “performance ­period”) are compared to determine the result for an LTI tranche. Operating earnings (EBIT I) The reference period covers the four years prior to commencement of the respective LTI, while the performance period covers + interest income for the financial year the four years of the respective LTI term. The diagram 2.26 shows – capital costs (before taxes) for the financial year the LTI programme periods: fig. 2.26 = value contribution (LTI until 2017) 136 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report The average of the four value contributions (LTI until 2017) for the Mark Roberts receives his remuneration in euros. In order to limit reference period is calculated at the beginning of an LTI period exchange rate risks, a clause has been agreed according to which and the average of the four value contributions (LTI until 2017) exchange rate offsetting takes place at the end of each year, in for the performance period at the end of the programme. The the event that the actual rate of the respective transfers differs difference between these average value contributions (LTI until from the rate upon signing the contract (EUR 1.00 = USD 1.30) by 2017) is reflected as a percentage on a scale from €–200 million more than 10% in individual cases or by more than 5% on averto €+200 million. If the value contributions (LTI until 2017) in the age for the whole year. reference and performance period are the same, 100% of the LTI is paid out. In this case, the variable component of remuneration The average salary of the Board of Executive Directors in the with a long-term incentive character for an ordinary member of past financial year was 5.2 times (2017: 5.5 times) that of senior the Board of Executive Directors is €350,000. In the case of unexecutives worldwide and 23.6 times (2017: 21.0 times) the toderperformance, the payment decreases on a straight-line basis tal workforce. to 0% in line with the percentage deviation. In the case of outperformance, the payment increases accordingly up to an upper Dr Thomas Nöcker’s term of office ended on 31 August 2018. The limit of 200% (= €700,000). The Chairman of the Board of Execplanned reduction in the size of the Board of Executive Directors utive Directors receives 1.5 times that of an ordinary member of to three members was therefore achieved. the Board of Executive Directors. The total remuneration of the Board of Executive Directors relatPayment is made in April of the year following the end of the proed to four members, three of whom were in office for the whole gramme. In the event of termination of an employment contract year. In the previous year, the Board of Executive Directors had or reaching retirement age, a discounted pro-rata payment for all five members, three of whom were in office for the whole year. current tranches is generally made in April of the following year. PENSION COMMITMENTS As shown in figure 2.27, the value contributions generated in the The pensions of the active members of the Board of Executive four-year performance period were below those generated in the ­Directors are based on a modular system, i.e. a pension module reference period. Consequently, the 2015 LTI programme had no is created for each year of service as a member of the Board of positive value. Executive Directors. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REMUNERATION AMOUNT The pension modules are calculated on the basis of 40% of the Details of the individual remuneration of the Board of Executive fixed annual remuneration of the respective member of the Board Directors in the 2018 financial year are shown in the tables beof Executive Directors. There is an upper limit on the total annulow. The difference between the “Benefits granted” and “Beneal pension under this modular system to avoid disproportionatefits received” tables merely relates to the variable remuneration ly high pensions resulting from long periods of service (>15 years). elements. The “Benefits granted” table shows amounts that have The amount is calculated in accordance with actuarial principles been promised in the event of 100% target achievement. An exand set aside for retirement; the factors for the creation of the ception to this is the share-based payment of LTI II. The “Benefits 2018 modules for the members of the Board of Executive Direcgranted” table shows the amounts committed to the members of tors are between 9.0 and 18.0%, depending on their age. These the Board of Executive Directors for the entire remaining contract factors decline with increasing age. The individual pension modperiod. The “Benefits received” table, on the other hand, shows ules earned during the respective financial years are totalled and, amounts that will be paid in the following year based on the tarwhen the insured event occurs, the respective member of the gets that have actually been achieved. Board of ­Executive Directors or, if applicable, his surviving dependents, r­ eceive the benefit to which they are entitled. The upper limit In the course of the reduction of the Executive Board in the for the Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors is €325,000, first step from five to four members and the associated greatand for an ordinary member of the Board of Executive Directors it Further information er ­responsibility of the individual Executive Board members, the is €245,000. These amounts are reviewed every three years and Supervisory Board increased the remuneration of the Executive adjusted if necessary – a routine review is scheduled for 2019. Board by 2.5% with effect from 1 January 2018. k+s Annual Report 2018 137 REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (BENEFITS GRANTED) Dr Burkhard Lohr Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors Thorsten Boeckers Member of the Board of Executive Directors since 6/2012 Member of the Board of Executive Directors since 5/2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2018 (min.) (max.) 2017 3 2018 (min.) (max.) in € thousand Fixed remuneration 584.8 727.5 727.5 727.5 269.3 485.0 485.0 485.0 Fringe benefits 1 26.9 28.5 28.5 28.5 12.7 20.1 20.1 20.1 Total 611.7 756.0 756.0 756.0 282.0 505.1 505.1 505.1 One-year variable remuneration 877.3 570.0 0.0 1,368.0 403.9 380.0 0.0 912.0 Multi-year variable remuneration 4 487.3 950.1 0.0 1,900.2 57.8 613.4 0.0 1,226.8 – LTI (until 2017) 487.3 – – – 57.8 – – — – LTI I (from 2018) – 344.4 0.0 688.8 – 224.6 0.0 449.2 – LTI II (2018–2020) – 344.4 0.0 688.8 – 224.6 0.0 449.2 – LTI II (2019–2021) – 201.9 0.0 403.8 – 129.6 0.0 259.2 – LTI II (2020–2022) – 59.4 0.0 118.8 – 34.6 0.0 69.2 Total 1,976.3 2,276.1 756.0 4,024.2 743.7 1,498.5 505.1 2,643.9 – Service costs 740.0 743.4 743.4 743.4 521.8 719.8 719.8 719.8 Total remuneration 2,716.3 3,019.5 1,499.4 4,767.6 1,265.5 2,218.3 1,224.9 3,363.7 1 Fringe benefits are capped at €75,000. 2 Before exchange rate offsetting: a US dollar rate is stipulated for the translation of remuneration. Since payments are initially converted using current rates, offsetting may be required after the end of the year. 3 Assumption of the remaining periods for the LTI entitlements that Mr. Boeckers received as the Head of Investor Relations of K+S Aktiengesellschaft. 4 If appropriate, pro rata temporis until the end of the appointment. REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (BENEFITS RECEIVED) Dr Burkhard Lohr Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors Thorsten Boeckers Member of the Board of Executive Directors since 6/2012 Member of the Board of Executive Directors since 5/2017 2018 2017 2018 2 2017 2 in € thousand Fixed remuneration 727.5 584.8 485.0 269.3 Fringe benefits 28.5 26.9 20.1 12.7 Total 756.0 611.7 505.1 282.0 One-year variable remuneration 469.6 540.1 313.1 232.5 Multi-year variable remuneration 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – LTI until 2017 0.0 3 0.0 4 0.0 3 0.0 4 – LTI I from 2018 – – – – Other – – – – Total 1,225.6 1,151.8 818.2 514.5 – Pension-related expenses 743.4 740.0 719.8 521.8 Total remuneration 1,969.0 1,891.8 1,538.0 1,036.3 1 Incl. exchange rate offsetting. 2 Assumption of the remaining periods for the LTI entitlements that Mr Boeckers received as the Head of Investor Relations of K+S Aktiengesellschaft – 2015-2018 programme is valueless. 3 Term 2015–2018. 4 Term 2014–2017. DISCLOSURES IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 314(1) NO. 6A GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE Tab. 2.49 Fixed remuneration 1 STI LTI until 2017 LTI I from 2018 LTI II until 2018 Total Dr Burkhard Lohr 756.0 469.6 0.0 – 605.7 1,831.3 Thorsten Boeckers 505.1 313.1 0.0 – 388.8 1,207.0 Mark Roberts 2 590.4 346.5 0.0 – 498.9 1,435.8 Dr Thomas Nöcker 341.7 208.7 0.0 28.7 63.3 642.4 1 Including fringe benefits. 2 Including exchange rate offsetting. 138 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report tab. 2.47 Mark Roberts 2 Dr Thomas Nöcker Member of the Board of Executive Directors since 10/2012 Member of the Board of Executive Directors from 8/2003 to 8/2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2018 (min.) (max.) 2017 2018 (min.) (max.) 420.0 485.0 485.0 485.0 420.0 323.3 323.3 323.3 55.4 53.6 53.6 53.6 25.5 18.4 18.4 18.4 475.4 538.6 538.6 538.6 445.5 341.7 341.7 341.7 630.0 380.0 0.0 912.0 630.0 253.3 0.0 608.0 350.0 760.2 0.0 1,520.4 350.0 126.6 0.0 253.2 350.0 – – – 350.0 – – – – 261.3 0.0 522.6 – 63.3 0.0 126.6 – 261.3 0.0 522.6 – 63.3 0.0 126.6 – 166.3 0.0 332.6 – – – – – 71.3 0.0 142.6 – – – – 1,455.4 1,678.8 538.6 2,971.0 1,425.5 721.6 341.7 1,202.9 648.2 538.9 538.9 538.9 432.2 283.3 283.3 283.3 2,103.6 2,217.7 1,077.5 3,509.9 1,857.7 1,004.9 625.0 1,486.2 tab. 2.48 Mark Roberts 1 Dr Thomas Nöcker Member of the Board of Executive Directors since 10/2012 Member of the Board of Executive Directors from 8/2003 to 8/2018 2018 2017 1 2018 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 536.8 481.1 323.3 420.0 53.6 55.4 18.4 25.5 590.4 536.5 341.7 445.5 346.5 429.8 208.7 362.6 0.0 0.0 28.7 0.0 0.0 3 0.0 4 0.0 3 0.0 4 – – 28.7 – – – – – 936.9 966.3 550.4 808.1 538.9 648.2 283.3 432.2 1,475.8 1,614.5 833.7 1,240.3 Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 139 Disclosures in accordance with IFRS 2 Tab. 2.50 EARLY TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS WITH THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Expenses LTI II Provisions LTI II If the appointment as a board member is revoked, the member of Dr Burkhard Lohr 238.0 238.0 the Board of Executive Directors receives, at the time of terminaThorsten Boeckers 156.1 156.1 tion, a severance payment of 1.5 times the fixed remuneration, up Mark Roberts 173.0 173.0 to a maximum of the total remuneration for the remaining term Dr Thomas Nöcker 57.7 57.7 of the employment contract. Total 624.8 624.8 In the event of an early termination of a contract with a m ­ ember Pension benefits are adjusted in line with changes in the of the Board of Executive Directors as the result of a takeover ­“consumer price index for Germany” only on payment. Entitle(“change of control”), the fixed remuneration and bonuses outments arising from modules earned are non-forfeitable. The statstanding until the end of the original term of the appointment utory provisions on the non-forfeitability of pension entitlements will be paid plus a compensatory payment, unless there are reaapply for future pension agreements. These provisions specify that sons justifying a termination of the respective contract without p ­ ension entitlements only become non-forfeitable after five years giving notice. The bonus is calculated on the basis of the averof ­service. A fixed euro-US dollar exchange rate has been agreed age of the preceding two years. The compensatory payment is for Mark Roberts. 1.5 times the annual fixed remuneration. In addition, there is an upper limit for severance payments, whereby entitlements arisIf the term of office of a member of the Board of Executive Direcing from the “change of control” clause may not exceed the valtors ends, the retirement pension starts upon reaching the age of ue of the combined annual remuneration for three years. In the 65 unless it is to be paid on the basis of an occupational or genevent of a change of control, members of the Board of Executive eral disability or as a surviving dependent’s pension in the event Directors enjoy no extraordinary right to terminate their contract. of death. In the event of an occupational or general disability of a member of the Board of Executive Directors prior to reaching OTHER pension age, the respective member receives a disability pension The Supervisory Board has introduced an age limit of 65 years for commensurate with the pension modules created up to the time members of the Board of Executive Directors. the disability occurs. If disability occurs before the age of 55, modules are fictitiously created on the basis of a minimum value for The members of the Board of Executive Directors were not promthe years missing up to the age of 55. In the event of the death ised or granted benefits by third parties for their work as executive of a serving or former member of the Board of Executive Direcdirectors during the reporting period – nor did they receive any tors, the surviving spouse receives 60%, each orphan 30% and loans. Apart from the employment contracts mentioned, there are each half-orphan 15% of the benefit. The maximum amount of the no contractual relationships between the Company or its Group benefits awarded to surviving dependents may not exceed 100% companies and members of the Board of Executive Directors or of the pension payment. If this amount is reached, the benefit is persons closely related to them. reduced proportionately. If a member of the Board of Executive Directors retires at the age of 60, entitlements can already be The total remuneration of previous members of the Board of claimed in accordance with the pension commitment at that time. Executive Directors and their surviving dependents amounted to €2.1 million in the reporting year (2017: €2.1 million). In 2018, the following amounts were allocated to pension provisions for members of the Board of Executive Directors: taB. 2.51 REMUNERATION OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD The pension module earned by each of the members of the Board REMUNERATION STRUCTURE of Executive Directors in 2018 gives rise to pension expenses, The remuneration of the Supervisory Board is regulated by Artiwhich are calculated in accordance with actuarial principles. The cle 12 of the Articles of Association. A member of the Supervisory increase in current values compared to the previous year's value Board receives fixed annual remuneration of €100,000. The Chairis due to the fact that the period until the assumed start of the man of the Supervisory Board receives twice this amount and the pension is one year shorter. Vice-Chairman 1.5 times this amount. 140 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report Pensions of the members of the Board of Executive Directors 1 tab. 2.51 Current value Current value in € thousand Age as of 01.01. Pension expense 2 as of 31.12. 2018 55 3,545.3 814.3 4,515.9 Dr Burkhard Lohr 2017 2,923.8 792.7 3,545.3 Norbert Steiner 2018 64 – – – (member until 11 May 2017) 2017 8,641.1 367.3 8,519.0 Thorsten Boeckers ³ 2018 43 796.0 735.8 1,621.2 (member until 12 May 2017) 2017 279.9 526.8 796.0 Dr Thomas Nöcker 2018 60 6,602.0 415.3 7,326.0 (member until 31 August 2018) 2017 6,279.6 545.3 6,602.0 2018 55 3,068.6 600.3 3,907.8 Mark Roberts 2017 2,867.2 699.8 3,068.6 Dr Otto Lose 4 2018 48 – – – (member from 1 January to 28 November 2017) 2017 0.0 593.4 593.4 2018 14,011.9 2,565.7 17,370.9 Total 2017 20,991.6 3,525.3 23,124.3 1 Disclosures in accordance with IFRS. 2 Including interest expense. 3 Includes pension entitlements from the time as Head of Investor Relations of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT. 4 Dr Otto Lose resigned from the Board of Executive Directors with effect from 28 November 2017; his employment contract ended on 31 December 2017. In addition to the pension expenses reported, pension-related expenses of €1,270.1 thousand were incurred for the remaining period of his original employment contract from 29 November 2017 to 31 December 2019, increasing the current value of the total entitlement as at 31 December 2017. The members of the Audit Committee each receive annual reSupervisory Board for services rendered personally, particularly muneration of €15,000 and the members of the Personnel Comconsultancy or brokerage services, nor were any benefits granted. mittee €7,500. Each member of the Nomination Committee receives annual remuneration of €7,500 if at least two meetings In addition to the Supervisory Board remuneration, employee have taken place during the respective year. The chairmen of these representatives, who are employees of the K+S GROUP, receive CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS committees each receive twice this amount and a vice-chairman remuneration that is not related to activities performed for the 1.5 times this amount. Finally, each member of the Supervisory ­Supervisory Board. Board receives a fee of €750 for attending a meeting of the Supervisory Board or one of its committees; however, if more than A relative of one Supervisory Board member is employed by the one meeting is held on the same day, members will receive a maxK+S Group. This person's remuneration is in line with the internal imum of €1,500 per day. The members of the Supervisory Board remuneration policy of the K+S Group and corresponds to the norare entitled to reimbursement by the Company of any expenses mal remuneration paid to people in comparable posts. that are necessary and reasonable for the performance of their duties, as well as to the reimbursement of any value added tax Absence from meetings (VAT) to be paid as a consequence of their activities in their capacThe following table provides an individualized overview of memity as S ­ upervisory Board members. bers’ attendance of meetings of the Supervisory Board and its committees in 2018. REMUNERATION AMOUNT Details of the individual remuneration of the Supervisory Board Age limit and maximum terms of office for the 2018 financial year are shown in the table below: tab. 2.52 Candidates may not be 72 or older when they are elected. In addition, members may serve on the Supervisory Board for a maxFurther information Additionally, in 2018, members of the Supervisory Board were imum of four terms office – five in exceptional cases. This does ­reimbursed expenses totalling €79.7 thousand (2017: €64.9 thounot affect the statutory co-determination rules. sand). In 2018, no remuneration was paid to members of the k+s Annual Report 2018 141 REMUNERATION OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD 1 tab. 2.52 Fixed remuAudit Personnel Nomination Strategy Attendance in € neration Committee Committee Committee ­Committee 5 fees Total Dr Andreas Kreimeyer 2018 200,000 10,000 15,000 15,000 0 8,250 248,250 (Chairman since 10 May 2017) 2017 166,667 – 8,125 2, 3 10.625 3 0 10,500 195,917 Michael Vassiliadis 2018 62,500 6,250 3,125 – 0 1,500 73,375 (until 15 May 2018 Vice-Chairman) 2017 150,000 15,000 7,500 – 0 8,250 180,750 Ralf Becker 2018 133,333 15,000 5,000 – 0 6,750 160,083 (since 15 May 2018 Vice Chairman) 2017 100,000 15,000 – – – 6,750 121,750 Petra Adolph 2018 66,667 10,000 – – – 1,500 78,167 (since 15 May 2018) 2017 – – – – – – – André Bahn 2018 66,667 – – – – 2,250 68,917 (since 15 May 2018) 2017 – – – – – – – 2018 100,000 10,000 3,125 7,500 – 8,250 128,875 Jella S. Benner-Heinacher 2017 100,000 – 7,500 – 11,250 123,750 Peter Bleckmann 2018 66,667 – – – – 2,250 68,917 (since 15 May 2018) 2017 – – – – – 0 0 2018 100,000 – – 7,500 – 5,250 112,750 George Cardona 2017 100,000 – – 7,500 – 6,750 114,250 Wesley Clark 2018 41,667 – – – – 1,500 43,167 (until 15 May 2018) 2017 100,000 – – – – 3,750 103,750 Harald Döll 2018 41,667 – 3,125 – – 0 44,792 (until 15 May 2018) 2017 100,000 – 7,500 – – 5,250 112,750 Dr. Elke Eller 2018 66,667 – 5,000 – – 1,500 73,167 (since 15 May 2018) 2017 – – – – – – – Gerd Grimmig 2018 66,667 – – – – 2,250 68,917 (since 15 May 2018) 2017 – – – – – – – 2018 100,000 15,000 – – – 6,000 121,000 Axel Hartmann 2017 100,000 15,000 – – – 6,750 121,750 2018 100,000 – 5,000 – – 4,500 109,500 Michael Knackmuß 2017 100,000 – – – – 3,750 103,750 Thomas Kölbl 2018 100,000 25,000 – – – 5,250 130,250 (since 10 May 2017) 2017 66,667 10,000 – – – 4,500 81,167 2018 100,000 – – – – 3,750 103,750 Gerd Kübler 2017 100,000 – – – – 3,750 103,750 Dieter Kuhn 2018 16,667 – – – – 0 16,667 (until 28 February 2018) 2017 100,000 – – – – 3,750 103,750 Nevin McDougall 2018 66,667 – – – – 1,500 68,167 (since 15 May 2018) 2017 – – – – – – – Dr. Annette Messemer 2018 41,667 6,250 – – – 2,250 50,167 (until 15 May 2018) 2017 100,000 15,000 – – – 6,750 121,750 2018 100,000 – – – – 3,750 103,750 Anke Roehr 2017 100,000 – – – – 3,750 103,750 Dr. Eckart Sünner 2018 41,667 12,500 – – – 2,250 56,417 (until 15 May 2018) 2017 100,000 30,000 – – – 6,750 136,750 2018 100,000 – – 7,500 0 6,000 113,500 Philip Freiherr von dem Bussche 2017 100,000 – – 7,500 0 8,250 115,750 2018 1,779,170 110,000 39,375 37,500 0 76,500 2,042,545 Total 2017 4 1,766,667 106,250 36,875 36,875 0 105,000 2,051,667 1 Excluding reimbursement to members of the Supervisory Board for value added tax (VAT) paid as a consequence of their activities. 2 Since 10 May 2017. 3 Chairman since 21 August 2017 4 Excluding members who stepped down in 2017. 5 Currently without compensation, will be revised in 2019. 142 k+s Annual Report 2018 combined management report ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD OF K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT AT MEETINGS HELD IN 2018 Tab. 2.53 Meetings,­ including Total Plenary Total Committee Total Supervisory ­committee plenary meetings committee ­meetings attendance Board member meetings meetings attended meetings attended in % Dr. Andreas Kreimeyer 20 6 6 14 14 100% Michael Vassiliadis (until 15 May 2018 Vice-Chairman) 5 2 1 3 2 60% Ralf Becker (since 15 May 2018 Vice-Chairman) 15 6 6 9 9 100% Petra Adolph (since 15 May 2018) 7 4 2 3 2 57% André Bahn (since 15 May 2018) 4 4 4 100% Jella S. Benner-Heinacher 14 6 6 8 8 100% Peter Bleckmann (since 15 May 2018) 4 4 4 100% George Cardona 10 6 5 4 3 80% Wesley Clark (until 15.05.2018) 2 2 2 100% Harald Döll (until 15 May 2018) 3 2 1 0% Dr Elke Eller (since 15 May 2018) 7 4 3 3 2 71% Gerd Grimmig (since 15 May 2018) 4 4 4 100% Axel Hartmann 10 6 6 4 4 100% Michael Knackmuß 9 6 6 3 3 100% CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Thomas Kölbl 10 6 5 4 4 90% Gerd Kübler 6 6 6 100% Dieter Kuhn (until 28 February 2018) Nevin McDougall (since 15 May 2018) 4 4 3 75% Dr Annette Messemer (until 15 May 2018) 3 2 2 1 1 100% Anke Roehr 6 6 6 100% Dr Eckart Sünner (until 15 May 2018) 3 2 2 1 1 100% Philip Freiherr von dem Bussche 13 6 6 7 7 100% Total 159 94 90% 65 92% 91% Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 143 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 03 145 Income statement 145 Statement of comprehensive income 146 Balance sheet 148 Statement of cash flows 149 Statement of changes in equity 150 Notes 215 Auditor’s report 222 Independent auditor’s report on a limited assurance engagement 144 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INCOME STATEMENT 1 Tab 3.1 in € million Note 2017 2018 Revenues (1) 3,627.0 4,039.1 Cost of sales 2,414.6 2,779.5 Gross profit 1,212.4 1,259.6 Selling expenses 704.5 779.8 General and administrative expenses 231.4 228.5 Research and development costs 16.6 15.9 Other operating income (2) 187.8 146.8 Other operating expenses (3) 186.1 171.6 Net income from equity investments (4) 4.5 4.2 Gains/(losses) on operating anticipatory hedges (5) 61.2 –49.5 Earnings after operating hedges (EBIT II) 2, 3 327.3 165.3 Interest income (6) 10.6 11.6 Interest expense (6) 53.4 120.7 Other financial result (7) 16.4 –3.1 Financial result –26.4 –112.2 Earnings before tax 300.9 53.1 Income tax expense (8) 116.3 10.9 – of which deferred taxes –14.4 –17.9 Earnings for the period 184.6 42.2 Non-controlling interests – 0.1 Earnings after tax and non-controlling interests 184.6 42.1 Earnings per share in € (basic = diluted) (11) 0.96 0.22 consolidated financial statements STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 1 Tab 3.2 in € million Note 2017 2018 Earnings for the period 184.6 42.2 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations –528.4 –49.0 Items of other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods –528.4 –49.0 Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans 7.8 –5.2 Measurement of equity instruments at fair value – 10.7 Items of other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss 7.8 5.5 Other comprehensive income after tax (20) –520.6 –43.5 Total comprehensive income for the period –336.0 –1.3 Non-controlling interests – 0.1 Total comprehensive income for the period, net of tax and non-controlling interests –336.0 –1.4 1 Rounding differences may arise in percentages and numbers. 2 The reconciliation of EBIT II to operating earnings (EBIT I) and EBITDA is presented in the notes (see “Notes to the Income Statement and the Statement of Comprehensive Income” on page 173). 3 These are key figures not defined by IFRS. Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 145 BALANCE SHEET 1 Tab 3.3 in € million Note 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 Intangible assets (12) 962.8 982.3 – of which goodwill from acquisitions of companies (12) 672.7 693.2 Property, plant and equipment 6,692.6 6,687.9 Investment properties (13) 5.3 6.4 Financial investments (14) 21.0 89.1 Other financial assets (18, 19) 46.3 36.2 Other non-financial assets 29.0 21.9 Securities and other financial investments (15) 7.0 7.0 Deferred taxes (16) 95.2 92.6 Income tax refund claims – 28.0 Non-current assets 7,859.3 7,951.2 Inventories (17) 690.9 691.5 Trade receivables (18) 714.9 836.7 Other financial assets (18, 19) 107.6 86.2 Other non-financial assets 155.9 172.5 Income tax refund claims 31.7 49.3 Securities and other financial investments (15) 11.4 11.2 Cash and cash equivalents (30) 182.6 167.6 Current assets 1,895.1 2,015.0 TOTAL ASSETS 9,754.4 9,966.2 1 Rounding differences may arise in percentages and numbers. 146 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BALANCE SHEET 1 Tab 3.4 in € million Note 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 Issued capital (20) 191.4 191.4 Share premium (20) 645.7 645.7 Other reserves and net retained earnings (20) 3,322.1 3,305.4 Total equity attributable to shareholders of K+S Aktiengesellschaft 4,159.2 4,142.5 Non-controlling interests 1.5 1.6 Equity 4,160.7 4,144.1 Financial liabilities (25) 2,451.8 2,741.4 Other financial liabilities (19, 25) 154.2 154.9 Other non-financial liabilities 10.2 13.2 Income tax liabilities 48.5 46.6 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations (21) 166.4 187.0 Provisions for mining obligations (22) 1,000.0 1,015.1 Other provisions (22, 23) 156.4 140.1 Deferred taxes (16) 252.6 230.1 Non-current liabilities 4,240.2 4,528.4 Financial liabilities (25) 569.9 541.9 Trade payables (25) 288.4 239.7 Other financial liabilities (19, 25) 89.3 112.3 Other non-financial liabilities 58.8 49.9 Income tax liabilities 54.6 35.3 Provisions (22, 24) 292.3 314.6 Current liabilities 1,353.5 1,293.7 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 9,754.4 9,966.2 1 Rounding differences may arise in percentages and numbers. Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 147 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 1 Tab 3.5 in € million Note 2017 2018 (30) Earnings after operating hedges (EBIT II) 327.3 165.3 Income (–)/expenses (+) arising from changes in the fair value of outstanding operating anticipatory hedges –37.2 25.7 Neutralisation of changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges recognised in prior periods –10.3 36.2 Realised gains (–)/losses (+) from currency hedging for capital expenditure in Canada –9.0 – Depreciation, amortisation, impairment losses (+)/reversals of impairment losses (–) 305.9 379.1 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in non-current provisions (excluding interest rate effects) 5.4 5.7 Interest received and similar income 10.6 8.3 Realised gains (+)/losses (–) on financial assets/liabilities –20.2 27.9 Interest paid (–) –63.5 –91.6 Income tax paid (–) –36.0 –99.6 Other non-cash expenses (+)/income (–) 2.0 –0.1 Gain (–)/loss (+) on sale of assets and securities –22.4 6.7 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in inventories –31.1 6.8 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in receivables and other operating assets –99.9 –134.7 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in liabilities from operating activities –34.0 –37.6 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in current provisions 22.9 32.1 Allocations to plan assets –3.6 –21.5 Net cash flow from operating activities 306.8 308.7 Proceeds from sale of assets 60.0 6.4 Purchases of intangible assets –11.3 –10.0 Purchases of property, plant and equipment –743.5 –504.7 Purchases of financial investments –7.6 –6.7 Proceeds from sale of consolidated companies 5.8 – Proceeds from sale of securities and other financial investments 62.4 297.8 Purchases of securities and other financial investments –29.3 –295.5 Net cash flows used in investing activities –663.5 –512.7 Dividends paid –57.4 –67.0 Proceeds from other allocations to equity 2.0 – Purchases of own shares –2.4 – Sales of own shares 0.2 – Repayment (–) of borrowings –385.4 –754.3 Proceeds (+) from borrowings 854.5 1,008.6 Net cash flows from/(used in) financing activities 411.5 187.3 Cash change in cash and cash equivalents 54.8 –16.7 Exchange rate-related change in cash and cash equivalents –17.7 3.2 Consolidation-related change in cash and cash equivalents 3.9 – Net change in cash and cash equivalents 41.0 –13.5 Net cash and cash equivalents as at 1 January 134.7 175.7 Net cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 175.7 162.2 – of which cash on hand and bank balances 182.6 167.6 – of which cash received from affiliated companies –6.9 –5.4 1 Rounding differences may arise in percentages and numbers. 148 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 1 Tab 3.6 Note (20) Remea­s­ure­ Total Net retained Foreign ment Measurement equity ­attribprofits/ currency gains/(losses) of equity utable to Non-­ Issued Share revenue translation on defined ­instruments shareholders controlling in € million capital premium reserves reserve benefit plans at fair value of K+S AG interests Equity Balance as at 1 January 2018 191.4 645.7 3,349.0 61.5 –88.4 – 4,159.2 1.5 4,160.7 Adjustments r­ esulting from the first-time application of IFRS 9 2 – – – – – 51.6 51.6 – 51.6 As at 1 January 2018 (adjusted) 191.4 645.7 3,349.0 61.5 –88.4 51.6 4,210.8 1.5 4,212.3 Earnings for the period – – 42.1 – – – 42.1 0.1 42.2 Other comprehensive income after tax – – – –49.0 –5.2 10.7 –43.5 – –43.5 Total comprehensive income for the period – – 42.1 –49.0 –5.2 10.7 –1.4 0.1 –1.3 Dividend for the ­previous year – – –67.0 – – – –67.0 – –67.0 Other changes in equity – – 0.1 – – –0.1 – 0.1 Balance as at 31 December 2018 191.4 645.7 3,324.2 12.5 –93.6 62.3 4,142.5 1.6 4,144.1 Balance as at 1 January 2017 191.4 645.7 3,219.9 589.9 –96.2 – 4,550.7 1.5 4,552.2 Earnings for the period – – 184.6 – – – 184.6 – 184.6 Other comprehensive income after tax – – – –528.4 7.8 – –520.6 – –520.6 Total comprehensive income for the period – – 184.6 –528.4 7.8 – –336.0 – –336.0 Dividend for the ­previous year – – –57.4 – – – –57.4 – –57.4 Other changes in equity – – 1.9 – – – 1.9 – 1.9 Balance as at 31 December 2017 191.4 645.7 3,349.0 61.5 –88.4 – 4,159.2 1.5 4,160.7 1 Rounding differences may arise in percentages and numbers. 2 For details on the IFRS 9 amendment, see “New or amended financial reporting standards and interpretations” on page 167 Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 149 NOTES SEGMENT REPORTING SEGMENT REPORTING 1 Note Total revenues of which revenues with third parties (37) in € million 2017 2018 2017 2018 Potash and Magnesium Products business unit 1,773.6 2,035.8 1,703.5 1,973.0 Salt business unit 1,771.6 1,898.7 1,762.0 1,890.8 Complementary Activities 188.6 202.5 159.9 172.4 Reconciliation 2 (36) –106.8 –97.9 1.6 2.9 K+S total 3,627.0 4,039.1 3,627.0 4,039.1 Note Assets Liabilities in € million 2017 2018 2017 2018 Potash and Magnesium Products business unit 6,400.1 6,544.8 1,415.2 1,451.7 Salt business unit 3,001.5 3,044.0 612.3 702.2 Complementary Activities 104.9 121.6 56.1 61.0 Reconciliation 2 (36) 247.9 255.8 3,510.1 3,607.2 K+S total 9,754.4 9,966.2 5,593.7 5,822.1 1 Rounding differences may arise in percentages and numbers. 2 Figures for business units are shown before intersegment consolidation. Expenses and income as well as balance sheet items that cannot be allocated to business units are reported separately. Both effects are shown under “Reconciliation”. 3 The EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation, adjusted by the depreciation and amortisation amount not recognised in profit and loss in the context of own work capitalised, earnings arising from changes in the fair market value of outstanding operating anticipatory hedges, changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges recognised in prior periods and in the prior year profit/loss from currency hedging for capital expenditure in Canada. A reconciliation can be found on page 95. 4 Return on capital employed (see definition in section entitled “Further information” on page 234). 5 Relates to cash payments for investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, taking claims for reimbursement from claim management into account. 6 Relates to systematic depreciation and amortisation. If material impairment losses or reversals of impairment losses are involved, they are disclosed in Note (35). 7 Adjusted for the depreciation amount recognised in equity as own work capitalised. 150 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tab. 3.6 of which intersegment revenues EBIT I EBITDA 3, 7 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 70.1 62.8 81.3 69.6 268.8 359.3 9.6 7.9 223.0 196.8 325.2 274.5 28.7 30.1 23.5 26.4 30.3 31.3 –108.4 –100.8 –57.0 –65.5 –47.6 –58.8 – – 270.8 227.2 576.7 606.3 ROCE 4 Capital expenditure 5 Depreciation and amortisation 6, 7 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 1.4% 1.2% 680.4 316.7 187.4 289.7 8.9% 8.1% 118.8 111.2 98.6 77.7 33.8% 35.3% 4.4 6.8 6.8 4.9 – – 7.2 8.6 9.4 6.7 3.2% 2.6% 810.8 443.2 302.2 379.0 Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 151 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN NON-CURRENT ASSETS STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN NON-CURRENT ASSETS 2018 1 Gross carrying amounts Balance Change Balance as at in scope of Reclassi­fi­ Translation as at in € million Note 1 Jan 2018 consolidation Additions Disposals cations differences 31 Dec 2018 Other acquired concessions, ­industrial property rights, similar rights and assets, and licences in such rights and assets 83.9 – 7.0 11.9 5.3 1.0 85.1 Customer relations 231.2 – – – – 7.6 238.8 Brands 119.6 – – – – 4.1 123.8 Port concessions 34.1 – – – – 1.6 35.7 Goodwill from acquisitions of companies 672.7 – – – – 20.5 693.2 Internally generated ­ intangible assets 31.1 – 0.1 0.1 – – 31.1 Emission rights 15.2 – 0.2 0.2 – – 15.2 Intangible assets in progress 9.8 – 2.8 – –4.7 – 7.9 Intangible assets (12) 1,197.6 – 10.0 12.2 0.6 34.8 1,230.8 Land, land rights and ­ buildings including buildings on ­third-party land 2,207.8 – 67.7 52.3 44.2 –27.7 2,239.8 Finance leases for land, land rights and buildings including buildings on third-party land 1.0 – – – – – 1.1 Raw material deposits 703.1 – – – – 1.8 704.9 Technical equipment and machinery 5,715.7 – 170.3 71.0 225.2 –71.4 5,968.9 Finance leases for technical equipment and machinery 248.1 – 0.5 0.9 0.5 –8.9 239.3 Ships 52.6 – – 0.1 – 2.1 54.6 Finance leases for ships 1.9 – – – – –0.1 1.8 Other equipment, operating and office equipment 465.7 – 18.4 85.2 9.6 –1.5 407.0 Prepayments and assets under construction 557.0 – 286.3 1.3 –281.5 –7.0 553.4 Property, plant and equipment 9,952.9 – 543.2 210.8 –1.8 –112.6 10,170.9 Investment properties (13) 10.2 – – 0.4 1.3 – 11.0 1 Rounding differences may arise in percentages and numbers. 152 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tab. 3.7 Net carrying Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses amounts Balance Change in ­Depreciation Reversals of Balance Balance as at scope of and Impairment impairment Reclassi­fi­ Translation as at as at 1 Jan 2018 consolidation amortisation losses losses Disposals cations differences 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018 56.8 – 8.0 – – 11.9 – 0.7 53.6 31.6 138.8 – 10.9 – – – – 3.7 153.5 85.3 11.8 – 0.2 – – – – 0.1 12.0 111.7 1.4 – 0.1 – – – – 0.1 1.6 34.1 – – – – – – – – – 693.2 26.0 – 2.0 – – 0.1 – – 27.8 3.3 – – – – – – – – – 15.2 – – – – – – – – – 7.9 234.7 – 21.3 – – 12.1 – 4.6 248.5 982.3 519.2 – 80.4 – – 4.9 – 1.1 595.8 1,643.9 0.9 – 0.1 – – – – – 1.0 0.1 44.0 – 10.1 – – – – 0.4 54.3 650.5 2,306.5 – 243.3 – – 61.7 – 3.0 2,491.0 3,477.9 12.6 – 10.5 – – – – –0.6 22.4 216.9 11.2 – 2.3 – – 0.1 – 0.6 14.0 40.6 1.1 – 0.1 – – – – – 1.2 0.7 364.9 – 16.8 – – 77.5 – –1.0 303.1 103.9 – – – – – – – – – 553.4 3,260.3 – 363.6 – – 144.2 – 3.2 3,483.0 6,687.9 4.9 – 0.1 – – 0.4 – – 4.6 6.4 Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 153 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN NON-CURRENT ASSETS 2017 1 Gross carrying amounts Balance Change in Balance as at scope of Reclassi­fi­ Translation as at in € million Note 1 Jan 2017 consolidation Additions Disposals cations differences 31 Dec 2017 Other acquired concessions, ­industrial property rights, similar rights and assets, and licences in such rights and assets 72.1 0.6 16.3 1.1 1.0 –5.0 83.9 Customer relations 259.9 – – – – –28.8 231.2 Brands 133.7 – – – – –14.1 119.6 Port concessions 38.8 – – – – –4.7 34.1 Goodwill from acquisitions of companies 753.4 – – – – –80.7 672.7 Internally generated ­ intangible assets 26.1 – 0.4 – 4.6 – 31.1 Emission rights 15.2 – 0.2 0.1 – – 15.2 Intangible assets in progress 9.5 – 5.6 – –5.3 – 9.8 Intangible assets (12) 1,308.8 0.6 22.5 1.3 0.3 –133.3 1,197.6 Land, land rights and ­ buildings including buildings on ­third-party land 1,396.7 –6.2 124.8 51.3 797.0 –53.1 2,207.8 Finance leases for land, land rights and buildings including buildings on third-party land 2.4 – – 1.1 – –0.3 1.0 Raw material deposits 768.8 – – – – –65.8 703.1 Technical equipment and machinery 3,451.4 –5.2 400.8 61.9 2,055.1 –124.6 5,715.7 Finance leases for technical equipment and machinery 43.4 – 139.6 0.1 70.7 –5.6 248.1 Ships 58.8 – 0.7 – 0.3 –7.2 52.6 Finance leases for ships 2.0 – – – – –0.1 1.9 Other equipment, operating and office equipment 441.9 –0.1 25.8 13.5 23.2 –11.7 465.7 Prepayments and assets under construction 3,417.4 –0.2 236.4 1.8 –2,946.3 –148.5 557.0 Property, plant and equipment 9,582.9 –11.7 928.2 129.6 – –416.8 9,952.9 Investment properties (13) 11.1 – – 0.9 – – 10.2 1 Rounding differences may arise in percentages and numbers. 154 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tab. 3.8 Net carrying Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses amounts Balance Change in ­Depreciation Reversals of Balance Balance as at scope of and Impairment impairment Reclassi­fi­ Translation as at as at 1 Jan 2017 consolidation amortisation losses losses Disposals cations differences 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2017 52.1 – 8.9 – – 1.1 – –3.1 56.8 27.1 139.2 – 15.0 – – – – –15.4 138.8 92.3 11.8 – 0.2 – – – – –0.2 11.8 107.9 1.4 – 0.1 – – – – –0.2 1.4 32.7 – – – – – – – – – 672.7 19.9 – 6.0 – – – – – 26.0 5.2 – – – – – – – – – 15.2 – – – – – – – – – 9.8 224.4 – 30.4 – – 1.1 – –18.9 234.7 962.8 489.8 –4.3 58.5 4.8 – 18.7 – –10.9 519.2 1,688.7 2.1 – 0.1 – – 1.1 – –0.2 0.9 0.2 40.8 – 6.5 – – – – –3.3 44.0 659.0 2,211.2 –3.6 199.7 0.1 1.3 57.9 0.3 –42.0 2,306.5 3,409.2 8.6 – 4.5 – – – – –0.5 12.6 235.5 10.3 – 2.3 – – – – –1.4 11.2 41.4 1.0 – 0.1 – – – – –0.1 1.1 0.8 363.1 –0.5 24.2 – – 13.1 – –8.9 364.9 100.8 – – – – – – – – – 557.0 3,126.9 –8.4 296.0 4.9 1.3 90.8 0.3 –67.3 3,260.3 6,692.6 4.9 – – – – – – – 4.9 5.3 Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 155 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN PROVISIONS STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN PROVISIONS 1 Balance as at Translation in € million Note 1 Jan 2018 differences Additions Backfilling of vacant mines and shafts 344.8 –0.5 12.0 Maintenance of tailings piles 565.2 –0.2 39.4 Risk of mining damage 33.0 – 0.5 Other mining obligations 57.0 – 0.4 Provisions for mining obligations (22) 1,000.0 –0.7 52.3 Service anniversaries 30.7 – 1.8 Other personnel obligations 26.9 0.3 18.3 Personnel obligations (23) 57.6 0.3 20.1 Other provisions 98.7 0.6 1.5 Provisions (non-current liabilities) 1,156.3 0.2 73.9 Provisions for mining obligations (22) 22.4 – 0.4 Personnel obligations (24) 112.2 0.9 78.0 Provisions for obligations from sales transactions (24) 38.8 0.2 51.5 Provisions for obligations from purchase contracts (24) 78.8 –1.3 89.1 Other provisions 40.1 0.1 25.8 Provisions (current liabilities) 292.3 –0.1 244.8 Provisions 1,448.6 0.1 318.7 1 Rounding differences may arise in percentages and numbers. BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated financial statements are prepared in euros (€). To ensure a clear presentation, the individual items of the consolidat­ ed financial statements are presented in millions of euros (€ mil­ The consolidated financial statements of the K+S GROUP prepared lion). Rounding differences may arise in percentages and numbers. by K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT as at 31 December 2018 have been ­prepared in accordance with the International Financial Report­ The consolidated financial statements were prepared by the Board ing Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Stand­ of Executive Directors on 5 March 2019 and presented to the ards Board (IASB). This process took account of all IFRSs adopted ­Supervisory Board for approval at its meeting on 13 March 2019. by the European Union for which application was mandatory as at the balance sheet date, as well as the additional requirements of section 315e of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetz­ SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION buch, HGB). K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT is a listed stock corporation (Aktien­ The following companies were added to the scope of consoli­ gesellschaft) registered in the commercial register under HRB dation in 2018: 2669 at the Local Court of Kassel. Its registered office is Bertha++ K+S VERSICHERUNGSVERMITTLUNGS GMBH von-Suttner-Str. 7, 34131 Kassel, Germany. ++ K+S BELGIUM HOLDING B.V.B.A. 156 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tab. 3.9 Interest Balance as at component Utilisation Reversal Reclassification CTA reclassification 31 Dec 2018 10.5 4.4 4.6 15.5 – 373.3 12.9 1.2 52.3 – – 563.8 0.2 0.8 2.8 –1.5 – 28.6 1.5 9.0 0.5 – – 49.4 25.1 15.4 60.2 14.0 – 1,015.1 0.6 1.7 – – – 31.4 0.2 1.4 0.1 –11.8 19.3 13.1 0.8 3.1 0.1 –11.8 19.3 44.5 2.7 4.5 2.7 –0.7 – 95.6 28.6 23.0 63.0 1.5 19.3 1,155.2 – 1.5 – –14.0 – 7.3 – 83.6 6.6 11.7 – 112.6 – 25.6 9.9 – – 55.0 – 64.3 9.3 – – 93.0 – 17.4 2.7 0.8 – 46.7 – 192.4 28.5 –1.5 – 314.6 28.6 215.4 91.5 – 19.3 1,469.8 K+S BELGIUM HOLDING B.V. (since 31 December 2018: K+S BELGIUM All joint ventures and companies over which companies of the HOLDING B. V.B.A.) was established on 1 September 2018 as a ­spin-off K+S GROUP exercise significant influence (associates) are accountfrom K+S NETHERLANDS HOLDING B.V. The company has shares in ed for using the equity method. The potential impact on earnings ­INVERSIONES K+S SAL DE CHILE SPA including its subsidiaries. of accounting for such equity interests using the equity method is, however, immaterial from a Group perspective. As a result of The following company was removed from the scope of con­ their overall immateriality, all equity investments in joint ventures solidation in 2018: and associated companies were therefore recognised at fair value ++ INAGUA TRANSPORTS, INCORPORATED in both the 2018 financial year and the previous year. 16 (2017: 15) domestic and 42 (2017: 42) foreign companies were A complete summary of equity investments of K+S AKTIEN­ included in the consolidated financial statements. A total of 24 GESELLSCHAFT can be found in the list of shareholdings on page 212. (2017: 27) subsidiaries were not included in the consolidated financial statements and are measured at fair value according to IFRS 9, as they are immaterial to the consolidated financial statements in terms of total assets, revenues and earnings. Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 157 CONSOLIDATION METHODS Associates are companies over which K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT ­directly or indirectly has significant influence. SUBSIDIARIES Subsidiaries are companies controlled by K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT. ACCOUNTING POLICIES Control is presumed to exist in cases where K+S AKTIEN­ GESELLSCHAFT has pre-existing rights that give it the current abili­ ty to direct the relevant activities. The relevant activities are those RECOGNITION OF INCOME AND EXPENSES that have a significant effect on the company’s returns. As a rule, In the K+S GROUP, revenues include income from the sale of the ability to exercise control is based on K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT goods and the provision of services, as well as revenues from directly or indirectly holding a majority of the voting rights. Con­ ­customer-specific construction contracts. K+S acts as a principal solidation begins on the date when K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT gains in ­almost all transactions. control of the investee. Multiple element arrangements occur in the form of goods sup­ The financial statements of the consolidated subsidiaries are plies and transport services provided subsequently. The transac­ ­prepared as at the same balance sheet date as the consolidated tion price is determined taking any variable elements into account financial statements. The assets and liabilities of the consolidat­ and is allocated to the respective performance obligations on the ed subsidiaries are recognised and measured uniformly in accord­ basis of stand-alone selling prices. No directly observable standance with the policies described here and in the following notes. alone selling prices are available for either the goods supplied or transport services provided. The stand-alone selling prices of the Revenues, expenses and income generated or incurred between transport services provided are therefore determined by apply­ consolidated companies while the companies concerned are mem­ ing the adjusted market approach method; the stand-alone sell­ bers of the K+S GROUP are eliminated in full. Similarly, receiv­ables ing prices of goods are calculated using the residual value method. and liabilities as well as inter-company profits resulting from goods and services supplied between consolidated subsidiaries Revenues are recognised from the sale of goods as at the date are eliminated, unless they are immaterial. when control of the goods is transferred to the customer (reve­ nue recognition at a point in time). In normal circumstances the In acquisition accounting, the cost of the investee is offset against date of transfer of control is the date at which the risks and re­ the share of the remeasured equity attributable to it at the date wards associated with ownership are transferred. of acquisition. Any positive difference that remains after allocat­ ing the purchase price to the assets and liabilities is recognised Revenues from services and customer-specific construction con­ as goodwill. Any negative differences from the purchase price tracts are recognized in the K+S GROUP over the period during ­allocation are recognised in profit or loss. which the performance obligation is satisfied. Revenue from ser­ vices is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period in which the services are provided. Revenues from customer-specific con­ JOINT OPERATIONS, JOINT VENTURES struction contracts are recognized according to the ratio of costs AND ASSOCIATES incurred to expected total costs (input method). ­Because of the Joint operations and joint ventures are defined by the existence nature of the services provided and customer-specific construc­ of a contractual arrangement according to which K+S AKTIENGE­ tion contracts, this is the most suitable method for presenting a SELLSCHAFT directly or indirectly conducts the respective activities true and fair view of the transfer of control to the customer. If the jointly with a non-Group company. stage of completion cannot be estimated reliably, revenues are 158 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS recognised only to the extent of the expenses incurred that the Other operating expenses are charged to profit or loss on the Company is expected to recover. date the goods or services are used, or the expenses are incurred. Deferred revenues arising from performance obligations that have not been (fully) satisfied (contract liabilities) are recognized in NET INCOME FROM EQUITY INVESTMENTS the balance sheet as “other non-financial liabilities” under curThis item contains income (dividend distributions, profit or loss rent liabilities. transfers) from non-consolidated subsidiaries, joint ventures, ­associates and other equity investments on a net basis. Receivables from customer-specific construction contracts are receivables that represent a conditional right to payment from the customer for K+S (contract assets within the meaning of IFRS 15). INTANGIBLE ASSETS These types of receivables are recognized in the balance sheet as Intangible assets are recognized at cost, if it is probable that “Other non-financial assets” in the short term. ­economic benefits associated with the intangible assets will flow to the Company and cost can be reliably determined. P­ urchased Reversals of provisions and additions to provisions for sales transi­ntangible assets are recognised at cost. Internally generated actions are reported under revenues. ­intangible assets are recognised at the development cost attributable to them (production costs). They are subsequently ­carried Contracts containing (explicitly agreed or implied) significant at cost less amortisation and, if required, impairment losses. ­financing arrangements do currently not normally exist. Should The o ­ ption of subsequent measurement at fair value, which is this apply to future contracts with customers, use of the facilita­allowed under certain conditions, is not exercised. If their useful tion of considering such effects only from a term of payment of lives can be determined, intangible assets are subject to systemmore than one year in the transaction price will be made. Costs atic a ­ mortisation. If they have indefinite useful lives, they are not of obtaining contracts with payment terms of one year or less amortised, but written down for impairment, if necessary. Goodare not capitalised but recognised immediately in profit or loss. will is always assumed to have an indefinite useful life. If the amount can be determined reliably and it is probable that Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised using the economic benefits will flow to the Company as a result of the straight-line method based on normal useful lives. The followtransaction, other operating income is recognised in the period ing useful lives are applied to these assets as standard across the in which a legal (contractual or statutory) claim arises. Group: TAB: 3.10 USEFUL LIVES OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS WITH FINITE USEFUL LIVES Tab. 3.10 in years Customer relations 5–20 Brands 20 Port concessions 250 Other intangible assets 2–50 Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 159 The amortisation charges for the financial year are disclosed in the PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT income statement in line with the use of the assets concerned Property, plant and equipment is recognized at cost, if it is probaunder the following items: ble that economic benefits associated with the assets will flow to ++ Cost the Company and cost can be reliably determined. Where r­ elevant, ++ Selling expenses cost also includes future restoration and renaturation obligations ++ General and administrative expenses for which provisions have been recognised in accordance with ++ Research and development costs IAS 37. They are subsequently carried at cost less amortisation ++ Other operating expenses and, if required, impairment losses. The option of subsequent measurement at fair value, which is allowed under certain conImpairment losses are recognised in case of impairment. If the ditions, is not exercised. reasons for previously recognised impairment losses no longer exist, the impairment loss is reversed, although the net carrying Property, plant and equipment is generally depreciated using the amount of the asset must not be exceeded. Impairment losses straight-line method based on normal useful lives. Certain ­assets on goodwill must not be reversed. in the “Finance leases for technical equipment and machinery” group are depreciated according to the proportional performance Goodwill is tested for impairment at least once a year and an immethod, because this method more suitably reflects the consumppairment loss is recognised if necessary. Any need to recognise tion of economic benefits. an impairment loss is determined in accordance with IAS 36 by comparing the carrying amounts of the cash-generating units to For property, plant and equipment depreciated using the straightwhich goodwill has been allocated with the recoverable amounts line method, the following useful lives are applied as standard of the units. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less across the Group: TAB: 3.11 costs to sell and value in use. Value in use is determined based on the discounted expected future cash flows from the cash-generThe amortisation charges for the financial year are disclosed in the ating units to which the corresponding goodwill amounts have income statement in line with the use of the assets concerned been allocated. under the following items: ++ Cost CO2 emission rights are initially measured at cost. Accordingly, ++ Selling expenses rights granted free of charge are recognised at a value of zero ++ General and administrative expenses and those acquired for a consideration are recognised at cost. If ++ Research and development costs the fair value on the reporting date falls below cost, an impair++ Other operating expenses ment test is carried out under which the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit holding the emission rights is compared with the value in use of that unit. USEFUL LIVES OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Tab. 3.11 If intangible assets are sold or decommissioned, the gain or loss in years calculated as the difference between net realisable value (sale proBuildings 15–50 ceeds less cost of disposal) and the net carrying amount is recogRaw material deposits 17–250 nised in other operating income or expenses. Technical equipment and machinery (excavations) 4–122 Technical equipment and machinery (other) 8–39 Ships 25 Other equipment, operating and office equipment 7–11 160 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Acquired raw material deposits are recognised as property, plant LEASES and equipment. Depreciation starts on the date the raw m ­ aterials A lease is a contract that conveys the right to control the use of an are first extracted. identified asset for a period of time in exchange for a s­ ingle payment or a series of payments. Leases are divided into finance leasExcavations (main ventilation drifts, main conveyor roads, return es and operating leases. A finance lease is a lease that transfers air collection drifts, main access roads, workshops, bunkers, waresubstantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, houses) are also reported as property, plant and equipment, if they who consequently becomes the beneficial owner of the asset. If are used for longer than one period. that is the case, the lessee recognises the asset at its fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. A Impairment losses in excess of depreciation charges already recogcorresponding amount is recognised as a lease liability. The deprenised are charged to other operating expenses. These impairment ciation policy for lease assets is the same as for comparable legally losses are determined in accordance with IAS 36 by comparing the owned assets. Lease payments under operating leases are recogcarrying amounts with the discounted expected future cash flows nised as expenses over the lease term on a straight-line basis, unof the assets concerned. If no specific cash flows can be allocated less another systematic basis is more representative of the time to the assets concerned, the cash flows of the corresponding cash pattern of the user’s benefit. Conditional lease payments under generating units are used for the comparison instead. If the reaan operating lease are expensed in the period they are incurred. sons for previously recognised impairment losses no longer exist, the impairment loss is reversed as appropriate, although the net carrying amounts must not be exceeded. GOVERNMENT GRANTS Government grants for the acquisition or production of ­property, If property, plant and equipment is sold or decommissioned, the plant and equipment (e.g. investment subsidies and grants) ­reduce gain or loss calculated as the difference between net realisable the cost of the assets to which they relate. Performance-relatvalue (sale proceeds less cost of disposal) and the net carrying ed grants are offset against the corresponding expenses in the amount is recognised in other operating income or expenses. ­current year. CAPITALISATION OF BORROWING COSTS INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, Investment property is recognized at cost, if it is probable that construction or production of a qualifying asset form part of the economic benefits associated with the investment property will cost of that asset and should therefore be capitalised. A qualifyflow to the Company and cost can be reliably determined. It is ing asset is an asset that takes a period of at least one year to get subsequently carried at cost less amortisation and, if required, ready for its intended use or sale. If the qualifying asset can be impairment losses. The option of subsequent measurement at shown not to be financed with borrowings, no borrowing costs fair value, which is allowed under certain conditions, is not exerare recognised. In the statement of cash flows, capitalised borcised. Investment property is depreciated using the straight-line rowing costs are reported under “Interest paid” in “Net cash flow method based on normal useful lives. A useful life of 50 years is from operating activities”. Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 161 generally assumed. The depreciation expense is recognised under fair value. Financial liabilities include, in particular, financial obliother operating expenses. Income from the disposal of investment gations, trade payables as well as derivative financial instruments properties is recognised in the financial result. with a negative fair value. Classification and Measurement NON-CURRENT ASSETS AND DISPOSAL GROUPS HELD The classification and measurement of financial assets depends FOR SALE AS WELL AS DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS on the company’s business model, among other factors. Since K+S A non-current asset (or disposal group) is classified as held for sale, always pursues the objective of collecting the contractual cash if most of its carrying amount will be recovered through a sale flows from financial assets, they are classified and measured u ­ nder transaction rather than through continuing use. This is the case, the “hold” business model. if the asset (or disposal group) is available for sale in its present condition and if such sale is highly probable. Non-current assets The accounting treatment of financial assets in the form of debt in(or disposal groups) classified as held for sale are carried at the struments additionally depends on the cash flow characteristics. If lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. These the contractually agreed cash flows represent solely payments of assets are no longer depreciated. principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, they are measured at amortised cost. If this cash flow condition is not An operation is reported as a discontinued operation, if it has been met, the assets are measured at fair value through p ­ rofit or loss. sold or is classified as held for sale and ++ represents a separate major line of business or Equity instruments in the “hold” business model are always measag­ eographical area of operations, ured at fair value. This mainly applies for shares in non-consolidat++ is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of ed subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other equity investa separate major line of business or geographical area ments. They are always held for the long term and not for trading. of operations, or For this reason, the OCI option is exercised, which allows ­changes ++ represents a subsidiary exclusively acquired with in fair value to be recognised in other comprehensive income witha view to resale. out reclassifying them to the income statement on disposal. Derivatives are measured at fair value. Changes in fair value are FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS recognised through profit or loss. Derivatives are derecognised on Financial instruments are contracts that give rise to a financial the settlement date. Hedge accounting is not applied. asset for one of the parties to such contract and to a financial liability or equity instrument for the other party. As a rule, finanFinancial liabilities (except derivatives with negative fair values) cial assets and financial liabilities are disclosed separately from are measured at amortised cost. each other (no offsetting). Financial assets mainly comprise cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, receivables from cusImpairment Losses tomer-specific construction contracts, securities, financial investFor financial assets not measured at fair value, impairment losses ments as well as derivative financial instruments with a positive are always recognised on the basis of expected losses. 162 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At initial recognition, an impairment loss in the amount of the CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS ­expected twelve-month losses must always be recognised. InterThis item includes cash on hand and balances with banks. It also est is determined on the basis of gross carrying amounts. includes financial investments with a maturity of generally not more than three months from the date of acquisition. If default risk increases significantly in subsequent periods, the impairment loss is determined on the basis of the lifetime expected losses of the instrument. Interest is likewise determined PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND SIMILAR OBLIGATIONS on the basis of gross carrying amounts. The provisions for pensions and similar obligations are determined in accordance with actuarial principles applying the projected unit If there is objective evidence of impairment (e.g. insolvency), the credit method. The discount rate is determined on the basis of the impairment loss is also determined on the basis of the lifetime returns for high-grade corporate bonds available at the r­ eporting expected losses of the instrument, but interest is determined on date. High-grade corporate bonds are bonds with an AA rating. To the basis of net carrying amounts. this end, corporate bonds that match the expected maturity and currency of the pension obligations must be used. Since appropriAt K+S, the guidance on impairment losses is applied most freate long-term corporate bonds were not always available at the quently to trade receivables, for which lifetime credit losses are balance sheet date, the interest rate with matching maturities was recognised on initial recognition in accordance with the simpliin such cases determined by means of extrapolation. ­Aspects such fied IFRS 9 model. as future expected salary and pension increases, cost increases for healthcare benefit commitments as well as mortality rates are also taken into account. Any plan assets are offset against the INVENTORIES corresponding obligations. In accordance with IAS 2, inventories include assets held for sale in the ordinary course of business (finished goods and merchanThe net interest for a reporting period is determined by multidise), assets in the production process for sale in the ordinary plying the net liabilities from the defined benefit pension plans course of business (work in progress), and materials and supplies ­(asset) by the discount factor specified above. Both factors are that are consumed in production (raw materials, consumables determined at the beginning of the reporting period after taking and supplies). into account expected allocations/disbursements. Inventories are measured at the lower of average cost and net Remeasurement gains or losses on the net liabilities from defined ­realisable value. In addition to direct costs, production costs also benefit pension plans are recognised in other comprehensive ininclude reasonable proportions of fixed and variable material and come. They include: manufacturing overhead provided they are incurred in connection ++ actuarial gains/losses, with the production process. The same applies to general admin++ income from plan assets, excluding amounts contained in istrative expenses, post-employment and other employee benefit the net interest attributable to the net liabilities from decosts as well as other social security expenses. Fixed overheads are fined benefit pension plans (asset) and allocated on the basis of normal capacity. Net ­realisable value is ++ changes in the effects of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts defined as the estimated selling price less the estimated costs of contained in the net interest attributable to the net liabilities completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. from defined benefit pension plans (asset). Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 163 MINING AND OTHER PROVISIONS ACQUISITIONS Provisions are recognised in an amount corresponding to the Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition ­extent to which they are expected to be used for discharging method. In connection with the remeasurement of the ­a­cquiree, current obligations to third parties arising from a past event. all hidden reserves and hidden liabilities of the acquiree are Such ­utilisation must be more probable than not and it must ­uncovered, and assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are recbe p ­ ossible to reliably estimate the amount of the obligations. ognised at their fair values (with the exceptions specified in IFRS 3). Non-current provisions with a remaining maturity of more than Any resulting positive difference from the cost of the acquiree is one year are discounted using a capital market interest rate of recognised as goodwill. Any negative difference is immediately suitable duration to take account of future cost increases, if the recognised in profit or loss. interest rate effect is material. JUDGEMENT AND ESTIMATES SHARE-BASED PAYMENT The K+S Group’s share-based payment programme is a cash-settled share-based payment plan that is part of performance-­related JUDGEMENT IN THE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING pay (LTI II programme). The fair value of the obligation is charged POLICIES to the income statement pro rata over the benefit period. Fair The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities sometimes ­depend ­value and the associated provision to be recognised are remeason judgement on the application of accounting policies. This ured as at each balance sheet date. Any changes in fair value and ­relates in particular to the following: the c­ orresponding changes in the amount of the provision are ++ determination of the basis of consolidation, ­recognised in profit or loss. Fair value is calculated using a recog++ determination of whether a company acts as principal or nised option pricing model (CRR option pricing model). agent in a sales transaction and ++ determination of whether a transaction is classified as an operating lease or as a finance lease within the meaning of DEFERRED TAXES IAS 17. Deferred taxes are determined in accordance with IAS 12 ­using the accounting-based liability method in line with common ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS IN THE APPLICATION ­international practice. This results in the recognition of deferred OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES tax items for temporary differences between the tax base and The reasons for and amount of some items recognised in the IFRS the amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet, as financial statements are in some cases based on estimates and well as for tax loss carryforwards. However, deferred tax assets the definition of certain assumptions. This is particularly necesare only recognised, if it is sufficiently probable that they will be sary in the case of realised. Deferred taxes are measured using tax rates that, under ++ determining the useful lives of depreciable items of property, current legislation, are expected to apply in the future when the plant and equipment, temporary differences will reverse. The effects of changes in tax ++ specifying measurement assumptions and future gains or ­legislation on deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised losses in connection with impairment tests, especially for in profit or loss in the period in which the changes in legislation capitalised goodwill, have been substantively enacted. As specified in IAS 12, deferred ++ determining the net realisable value of inventories, tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. Deferred tax assets ++ determining the inputs necessary for the measurement of and liabilities are offset based on maturity within individual compension provisions and similar obligations (e.g. discount panies or within tax groups. rate, future wage/salary and pension trends, mortality rates, healthcare cost trends), 164 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ++ determining of the fair value for the valuation of the proviBased on the above criteria, depreciation of the Bethune plant sions for share-based payment in accordance with IFRS 2, began on 1 September 2017. The completed facilities were reclas++ determining amounts, settlement dates and discount rates sified from “Prepayments and assets under construction” to the for the measurement of provisions for mining obligations, appropriate asset class and depreciation commenced on a pro++ selecting inputs for the model-based measurement of derivaspective basis on the basis of useful lives. tives (e.g. assumptions about volatility and interest rates), ++ determining the accrual of revenues and expenses according to IFRS 15 for services that have not yet been (fully) provided SIGMUNDSHALL POTASH MINE at the balance sheet date, In the 2017 financial year, it was decided to discontinue potash ++ determining the profit or loss on customer-specific construcproduction at the Sigmundshall site by the end of the 2018 finantion contracts according to the stage of completion (estimate cial year due to the limitation of inventories that can be produced of contract progress, total contract costs, cost to completion, profitably. The actual closure took place in December 2018. Some total contract revenue and contract risks), of the employees will continue to be employed for securing the ++ determining the usability of tax loss carryforwards, mine and REKAL operations beyond the year 2018, while another ++ determining the fair value of intangible assets, ­property, part will be transferred to other K+S Group locations. The other plant and equipment and liabilities acquired in ­connection employees were terminated as of 31 December 2018 for compulwith a business combination, and determining the u ­ seful sory reasons. In the course of the financial year K+S concluded a lives of the intangible assets and property, plant and social plan with the works council, which regulates the conditions ­equipment acquired and for the employees affected by the plant closure. ++ determining of the fair value for the valuation of shares in ­affiliated companies and participations. Major expenses from the plant closure result from the provisions for social plan expenses, the reduction in the scheduled useful life Despite taking great care in producing such estimates, actual and adjustments to the mining provisions for this site. In the pre­outcomes may differ from the assumptions made. vious year, this resulted in a total burden on earnings of €43.0 million. In the current financial year, further expenses of €13.4 million were recorded. The expenses are to be allocated entirely to the START OF DEPRECIATION OF BETHUNE Potash and Magnesium Products business unit. An asset must be depreciated or amortised as soon as it is available for use as intended by the management. In relation to the Bethune plant, it was determined that this point has been reached on the basis of the following criteria: ++ ability to ensure continuous production of the product in saleable condition, ++ amount of capital expenditure incurred compared with planned capital expenditure and ++ degree of physical completion of the plant. Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 165 CURRENCY TRANSL ATION most of their cash flows in this currency. The companies using the US dollar are: COMPANIA MINERA PUNTA DE LOBOS LTDA., EMPRESA DE SERVICIOS LTDA., EMPRESA MARITIMA S.A., INAGUA GENERAL STORE, The annual financial statements of foreign Group companies are LTD., INVERSIONES COLUMBUS LTDA., INVERSIONES EMPREMAR LTDA., translated into euros in accordance with the functional currency K+S ASIA PACIFIC PTE. LTD., K+S BELGIUM HOLDING B.V.B.A., K+S CHILE concept of IAS 21. All companies conduct their operations indeS.A., K+S FINANCE BELGIUM BVBA, MORTON BAHAMAS LTD., SERVICIOS pendently in financial, economic and organisational terms. The MARITIMOS PATILLOS S.A. and SERVICIOS PORTUARIOS PATILLOS S.A. functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates; it normally corresponds The translation of significant currencies in the Group was based to the local currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at the on the following exchange rates per one euro: tab: 3.12, 3.13 exchange rate prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates for the In the year under review, net translation differences of €–25.2 milquarter. The resulting currency translation differences are recoglion (2017: €34.1 million) were recognised in the income statement nised directly in equity. When Group companies exit the scope of (e.g. measurement/realisation of receivables and liabilities in a consolidation, the corresponding currency translation difference foreign currency); they were mainly reported in other operating is reversed and recognised in profit or loss. income or expenses. 13 companies use the US dollar, rather than their local currency, as the functional currency, because these companies generate EXCHANGE RATES Tab. 3.12 2018 Closing rate as Q1 quarterly Q2 quarterly Q3 quarterly Q4 quarterly per € 1 at 31 Dec average average average average US dollar (USD) 1.145 1.229 1.191 1.163 1.141 Canadian dollar (CAD) 1.561 1.554 1.538 1.521 1.506 Czech koruna (CZK) 25.724 25.402 25.599 25.718 25.864 Brazilian real (BRL) 4.444 3.989 4.294 4.597 4.344 Chilean peso (CLP) 794.630 740.029 741.107 771.088 776.494 Pound sterling (GBP) 0.895 0.883 0.876 0.892 0.887 EXCHANGE RATES Tab. 3.13 2017 Closing rate Q1 quarterly Q2 quarterly Q3 quarterly Q4 quarterly per € 1 as at 31 Dec average average average average US dollar (USD) 1.199 1.065 1.102 1.175 1.177 Canadian dollar (CAD) 1.504 1.410 1.482 1.473 1.496 Czech koruna (CZK) 25.535 27.021 26.535 26.085 25.650 Brazilian real (BRL) 3.973 3.347 3.544 3.715 3.820 Chilean peso (CLP) 738.085 698.293 731.358 754.190 745.933 Pound sterling (GBP) 0.887 0.860 0.861 0.898 0.887 166 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NEW OR AMENDED FINANCIAL REPORTING continue to be measured at amortised cost ­(especially in the case STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS of trade receivables and other financial assets). Changes affect the measurement of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other equity investments that are not consolidatIFRS 9 “FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS” ed due to immateriality. These were previously measured at cost IFRS 9 replaces the current standard for accounting for financial inand have been recognised at fair value since 1 January 2018. The struments, IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measresulting increase in the carrying amount of €51.6 million was recurement”. Its application is mandatory for K+S from financial year ognised directly in equity (other comprehensive income) as at­ 2018 onwards; there is no early application. In addition to new 1 January 2018 in accordance with the transitional arrangements. qualitative and quantitative disclosure requirements, IFRS 9 led Prior-year figures have not been restated. For subsequent periods, to the following adjustments: the OCI option will be exercised in all cases, which allows changes in fair value to be recognised in other comprehensive income Classification and Measurement without reclassifying them to the income statement. The classification and measurement of financial assets now depends on the underlying business model and the contractual cash Derivatives continue to be recognised at fair value through profit flow characteristics. K+S’s business model for financial instruments or loss, and debt instruments issued (e.g. bonds) continue to be in the form of debt instruments specifies that they are always held recognised at amortised cost. to maturity. Since the cash inflows normally represent solely payments of principal and interest on the underlying receivables, they NEW OR AMENDED FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS Tab. 3.14 Date of ­mandatory appli­cation in the Standard/interpretation K+S Group 1 New IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 New IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 New IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 1 January 2018 Amendment IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property 1 January 2018 Classification and Measurement of Share-Based Amendment IFRS 2 Payment Transactions 1 January 2018 Amendment IFRS 15 Clarifications to IFRS 15 1 January 2018 Collective standard to amend Amendment several IFRSs Annual improvements to IFRSs 2014–2016 cycle 2 1 January 2018 1 Initial application for companies whose registered office is in the EU for reporting periods beginning on or after this date. The application of new or amended IFRS standards or interpretations for companies whose registered office is in the EU is subject to endorsement by the European Commission. Occasionally, the date of mandatory application ­determined by the European Commission may differ from the first-time application date stipulated by the IASB. 2 The amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 28 are effective for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018; the amendments to IFRS 12 had to be applied as at 1 January 2017. Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 167 Impairment of losses is expected (for details, see Note 18 “Trade Receivables The new guidance of IFRS 9 for recognising impairment is based on and Other Financial Assets”). expected credit losses. To date, impairment losses have only been recognised for loss events that have already occurred. In addition to hedging derivatives, the “other financial assets” item contains a large number of individual items (e.g. claims for The main balance sheet items affected are trade receivables. reimbursement, insurance receivables), for which no material ­Because of the high degree of collateralisation and the good ­financial standing of the contractual partners, only a small amount MEASUREMENT CATEGORIES AND CARRYING AMOUNTS BY CLASS Tab. 3.15 in € million Measurement categories Carrying amounts as at 31 Dec 2017/1 Jan 2018 IAS 39 IFRS 9 IAS 39 IFRS 9 Difference Fair value through other Shares in affiliated companies Available comprehensive and other equity investments for sale1 income 20.6 72.2 51.6 Loans and Loans receivables Amortised cost 0.4 0.4 – Financial investments 21.0 72.6 51.6 Loans and Trade receivables receivables Amortised cost 714.9 714.9 – Held Fair value through Derivatives with positive fair values for trading profit or loss 45.0 45.0 – Loans and Other non-derivative financial assets receivables Amortised cost 109.0 109.0 – Other financial assets 154.0 154.0 – Securities and other financial Loans and investments receivables Amortised cost 11.4 11.4 – Fair value through other Securities and other financial Available comprehensive investments for sale income 7.0 7.0 – Loans and Cash and cash equivalents receivables Amortised cost 182.6 182.6 – Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost Amortised cost 3,021.7 3,021.7 – Financial liabilities Trade payables at amortised cost Amortised cost 288.4 288.4 – Held Fair value through Derivatives with negative fair values for trading profit or loss 7.6 7.6 – Financial liabilities Other non-derivative financial liabilities at amortised cost Amortised cost 62.9 62.9 – Liabilities from finance leases IFRS 7 IFRS 7 173.0 173.0 – Other financial liabilities 243.5 243.5 – 1 Until 31 December 2017, cost was measured in accordance with IAS 39.46c. 168 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS impairment losses are expected. The derivatives continue to be Hedge Accounting measured at fair value and are not subject to impairment rules. The amended regulations on hedge accounting aim for a closer Due to the good financial standing of the counterparties and the alignment of hedge accounting with the company’s risk manageshort residual maturities, there is a low risk of impairment for sement strategy. The new regulations will have no impact as the curities and other financial investments as well as cash and cash K+S GROUP does not currently apply hedge accounting. equivalents. Table 3.15 shows the classes of financial instruments and liabilities Overall, the amended impairment rules did not have a material efunder IFRS 9, including the respective previous and new measurefect at the time of initial application or at the reporting date. The ment categories and carrying amounts. TAB. 3.15 impairment losses recognised in the reporting period are therefore limited to loss events that have already occurred. In future, The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities are reconany change in expectations may have a corresponding impact on ciled from the IAS 39 to the IFRS 9 measurement category as folthe amounts of impairment losses. lows. TAB. 3.16, 3.17 RECONCILIATION OF CARRYING AMOUNTS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS FROM IAS 39 TO IFRS 9 TAb. 3.16 IAS 39 carrying IFRS 9 carrying Effect amount amount on equity in € million 31 Dec 2017 Reclassification Reme­asurement 1 Jan 2018 1 Jan 2018 IFRS 9 measurement categories (31 December 2017: IAS 39) Fair value through profit or loss (31 December 2017: held for trading) 45.0 – – 45.0 – Derivatives with positive fair values 45.0 – – 45.0 – Fair value through OCI (31 December 2017: available for sale) 27.6 – 51.6 79.2 51.6 Shares in affiliated companies and other long-term equity investments¹ 20.6 – 51.6 72.2 51.6 Securities and other financial investments 7.0 – – 7.0 – Amortised cost (31 December 2017: loans and receivables) 1,018.3 – – 1,018.3 – Loans 0.4 – – 0.4 – Trade receivables 714.9 – – 714.9 – Other non-derivative financial assets 109.0 – – 109.0 – Securities and other financial investments 11.4 – – 11.4 – Cash and cash equivalents 182.6 – – 182.6 – 1 Until 31 December 2017, cost was measured in accordance with IAS 39.46c. Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 169 RECONCILIATION OF CARRYING AMOUNTS OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES FROM IAS 39 TO IFRS 9 TAb. 3.17 IAS 39 carrying IFRS 9 carrying Effect amount amount on equity in € million 31 Dec 2017 Reclassification Remeasurement 1 Jan 2018 1 Jan 2018 IFRS 9 measurement categories (31 December 2017: IAS 39) Fair value through profit or loss (31 December 2017: held for trading) 7.6 – – 7.6 – Derivatives with negative fair values 7.6 – – 7.6 – Amortised cost (31 December 2017: amortised cost) 3,373.0 – – 3,373.0 – Financial liabilities 3,021.7 – – 3,021.7 – Trade payables 288.4 – – 288.4 – Other non-derivative financial liabilities 62.9 – – 62.9 – No IFRS 9/IAS 39 measurement category Liabilities from finance leases 173.0 – – 173.0 – IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS recognised pro rata over the duration of the goods transport (recIFRS 15 replaces IAS 11 “Construction Contracts” and IAS 18 “Reveognition over time). This will result in a timing mismatch between nue” as well as the corresponding interpretations. the recognition of revenues and the recognition of the corresponding selling expenses. The K+S GROUP initially applied IFRS 15 as at 1 January 2018, ­using the modified retrospective method. The K+S GROUP has exercised The quantitative effects on the K+S GROUP’s assets, liabilities, the option that allows users to apply IFRS 15 retrospectively only ­financial position and profit or loss arising from the first-time apto contracts that have not yet been (fully) performed as at 1 Janplication of IFRS 15 are not material from the Group’s perspective. uary 2018. The need to defer revenues for transport services not yet p ­ rovided led to a reduction in retained earnings (equity) and the recogThe application of IFRS 15 led to a change in accounting treatment nition of a contract liability of €4.3 million as at 1 January 2018. for multiple element arrangements. Multiple element arrangeExpenses accrued for transport services not yet provided ­(other nonments occur in the form of goods supplies and transport services financial liability) led to an increase in retained earnings ­(equity) provided subsequently. Whether a transport service represents by the same amount. a separate performance obligation depends on the relevant contractual arrangements with the customer. To date, the K+S GROUP If there is a change in business development (e.g. price or volume has recognised revenues from transport services simultaneously changes) or a change in the K+S GROUP’s business model, there with the revenues attributable to the supply of goods. In future, may be an impact from the application of IFRS 15 in future periods. the share of revenues attributable proportionately to transport services identified as a separate performance obligation will be 170 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADJUSTMENTS DUE TO INITIAL APPLICATION OF IFRS 15 (BALANCE SHEET) TAb. 3.18 Carrying Carrying amount amount as at Adjustment without in € million 31 Dec 2018 due to IFRS 15 applying IFRS 15 Other non-financial assets 172.5 5.5 167.0 Current assets 2,015.0 5.5 2,009.5 TOTAL ASSETS 9,966.2 5.5 9,960.7 Other non-financial liabilities 49.9 5.5 44.4 Current liabilities 1,293.7 5.5 1,288.2 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 9,966.2 5.5 9,960.7 ADJUSTMENTS DUE TO INITIAL APPLICATION OF IFRS 15 (STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME) TAb. 3.19 Carrying Carrying amount amount as at Adjustment without in € million 31 Dec 2018 due to IFRS 15 applying IFRS 15 Revenues 4,039.1 –1.2 4,040.3 Gross profit 1,259.6 –1.2 1,260.8 Selling expenses 779.8 –1.2 781.0 The table 3.18 shows the adjustments resulting from the applicaIFRS 16 LEASES tion of IFRS 15 required for each item in the balance sheet, arising IFRS 16 replaces the current IAS 17 “Leases” as well as the associfrom a comparison of amounts before and after amendments to ated interpretations: IFRIC 4 “Determining whether an Arrangethe applicable rules. TAB. 3.18 ment Contains a Lease”, SIC 15 “Operating Leases – Incentives” and SIC 27 “Evaluating the Substance of Transactions in the Legal Form The table 3.19 below shows the adjustments resulting from the of a Lease”. The core concept of the new standard is to standardapplication of IFRS 15 required for each item in the statement of ise the accounting treatment of all leases by the lessee. The precomprehensive income, arising from a comparison of amounts beviously required differentiation between finance and operating fore and after amendments to the applicable provisions. TAB. 3.19 leases no longer applies to the lessee. In future, all rights and obligations arising from leases must be recognised in the balance The first-time application of IFRS 15 does not affect any other items sheet as right of use assets and lease liabilities. The only excepin the balance sheet or statement of comprehensive income. IFRS tions are short-term leases of up to one year for low-value assets. 15 does not impact on the cash flow statement either. Because of the growth in the balance sheet, other financial liabilities will increase and the equity ratio will decline accordingly. NEW OR AMENDED FINANCIAL REPORTING For leases currently classified as operating leases, the lessee will STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS YET TO in future recognise depreciation and impairment on the right-ofBE APPLIED use asset and interest expenses on the carrying amount of the lease liability, instead of lease expenses. This change will lead to an improvement in key figures such as EBIT I, EBIT II and EBITDA. The following financial reporting standards and interpretations were published by the IASB by the balance sheet date, although Further Information application by the K+S GROUP is only required at a subsequent date. TAB. 3.20 k+s Annual Report 2018 171 NEW OR AMENDED FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS YET TO BE APPLIED Tab. 3.20 Date of mandatory­ application in the Standard/Interpretation K+S Group 1 New IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 New IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 1 January 2019 Amendment IFRS 9 Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation 1 January 2019 Amendment IAS 1, IAS 8 Definition of “material” open Amendment IAS 19 Plan Amendments, Curtailments and Settlements open Amendment IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2019 Amendment IFRS 3 Definition of a Business open Amendment Diverse Updating a Reference to the Conceptual Framework in IFRSs open Collective standard to amend Amendment several IFRSs Annual improvements to IFRSs, 2015–2017 cycle open 1 Initial application for companies whose registered office is in the EU for reporting periods beginning on or after this date. The application of new or amended IFRS standards or interpretations for companies whose registered office is in the EU is subject to endorsement by the European Commission. Until then, the date of mandatory application for companies whose registered office is in the EU remains open. Early application of IFRS standards or interpretations (if provided for by the IASB) is subject to EU endorsement. ­Occasionally, the date of mandatory application determined by the European Commission may differ from the first-time application date stipulated by the IASB. Changes in the way lease expenses from operating leases are rerelevant data of the existing leases. The obligations from operported will also result in an improvement in cash flows from opating leases identified on the basis of this analysis as of 31 Deerating activities and a deterioration in cash flows from financcember 2018 can be found in the Notes on page 204. As of 1 Janing activities. Moreover, IFRS 16 will require new qualitative and uary 2019, these obligations will be discounted at the respective quantitative disclosures. marginal interest rate in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 16 in order to recognise the lease liability for initial application date The new standard must be applied to financial years beginning to be determined. The right of use to be capitalized corresponds on or after 1 January 2019. The K+S Group will apply the new guidto the lease liability, which may be adjusted by prepayments and ance from 1 January 2019 onwards using the modified retrospecdeferred lease liabilities or provisions. As of 1 January 2019, additive method and opts not to restate prior-year figures. The cumutional lease liabilities of approx. €200–220 million, additional uslative effect of the transition will be recognised directly in equity age rights of approx. €190–210 million and a reduction in the eqat the time of transition. The effect on equity is not expected to uity ratio of approximately 0.8 percentage points. The additionally be significant. K+S will exercise the option that allows entities not applicable lease liabilities include non-lease components that were to recognise assets for short-term leases of all classes of assets waived due to the exercise of the option to separate them from and leases of low-value assets. Moreover, for individual classes of the leasing component and that are not included in the obligaleased assets, lease and non-lease components will not be sepations under operating leases as at 31 December 2018. rated. At the time of initial application, the simplification will be used in part to treat leases with a contract term in 2019 as shortOTHER AMENDMENTS term leases and not apply a balance sheet approach. As things stand at present, the other changes to the financial To assess the effects and to implement the new regulations, ­reporting standards and interpretations will have no material a group-wide project was set up to collect the balance sheet ­impact on the consolidated financial statements of the K+S GROUP. 172 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE INCOME STATEMENT AND C) FINANCIAL RESULT STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Effects on profit or loss from hedging items with a financing ­element that affect EBIT I and II neither in the current financial year nor in future financial years are reported in the financial ­result The income statement and statement of comprehensive income (e.g. interest rate derivatives). are presented on page 145. The income statement has been pre­ pared in accordance with the cost of sales method. Internal control of the K+S GROUP is performed on the basis of ­EBITDA, which is in turn determined on the basis of operating earn­ The K+S GROUP uses derivatives to hedge market risk. The hedging ings (EBIT I). EBIT I differs from the EBIT II reported in the income strategy is explained in more detail in Note (19). Hedge accounting statement in that fair value fluctuations arising from operating according to IFRS 9 is not applied to the derivatives and hedged antici­patory hedges are not taken into account if they result from items described above, so that fluctuations in the fair values of fair value measurement during the term of the hedging instru­ the outstanding derivatives are recognised through profit or loss ment as specified in IFRS 9. As a result, the following effects must at each balance sheet date. In addition, the exercise/settlement, be eliminated from EBIT II reported in the income statement: sale or expiry of derivatives used for hedging purposes also have ++ Income/expenses arising from changes in the fair value of an effect on profit or loss. outstanding operating anticipatory hedges Until maturity, the hedging transactions must be meas­ Depending on the purpose of the hedge, the effects of hedging ured at fair value as at each balance sheet date. Any differ­ are reported under the following items in the income statement: ence from the carrying amount is recognised as income or expense. ++ Elimination of prior-period changes in the fair value of A) GAINS/(LOSSES) ON OPERATING ANTICIPATORY ­operating anticipatory hedges HEDGES The carrying amount of the hedging instrument is derecog­ All effects on profit or loss arising from anticipatory hedges of nised at the time it is realised. It is realised when the hedging operating transactions to be recognised in profit or loss in f­ uture instrument is exercised/settled, expires or is sold. The differ­ periods are combined in this income statement line item. “Anti­ ence between the realised amount and carrying amount is cipatory” refers to hedged items expected with a high degree of the income or expense recognised in the current period. Since probability, although they have not yet been recognised in the bal­ EBIT I is intended to show earnings that exclude the effects ance sheet or income statement. “Operating” relates to hedged of fair value measurement in accordance with IFRS 9, chang­ items that will have an effect on EBIT. Significant cases of appli­ es in fair value from earlier periods included in the carrying cation are amount are eliminated. ++ hedging forecasted revenues in USD ++ hedging forecasted cash outflows (capital expenditure, oper­ Due to the elimination of all fair value changes during the term, ating expenses) in Canadian dollars the gain or loss on operating anticipatory hedges included in EBIT I corresponds to the value of the hedging transaction at the time of B) OTHER OPERATING INCOME/EXPENSES realisation (difference between the spot rate and hedging rate); This item includes effects on profit or loss from hedging exist­ in the case of options, it is reduced by the premium paid or in­ ing foreign currency receivables (e.g. hedging USD receivables creased by the premium received. against exchange rate fluctuations with a EUR/USD forward ex­ change contract). Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 173 If the currency hedge relates to the expected capital expenditure (1) REVENUES denominated in Canadian dollars for the Bethune plant, EBIT I is The K+S GROUP’s revenues amounted to €4,039.1 million adjusted for not only the above-mentioned items, but all e ­ ffects (2017: €3,627.0 million) and can be broken down as follows: on profit or loss. Since the hedged items (capital ­expenditure TAB. 3.22 in C ­ anadian dollars) affect EBIT I only with a time lag through ­depreciation and amortisation, the fact that the hedged items The chosen breakdown of revenues reflects the influence of ecodo not affect profit or loss means that to report the effect on nomic factors on the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of ­profit or loss of these hedges arising on maturity would not prorevenues and cash flows. duce meaningful information on the profitability figure expressed in EBIT I. TAB. 3.21 The regional breakdown of revenues is shown in the Segment ­Reporting Disclosures under Note (37). RECONCILIATION TO OPERATING EARNINGS (EBIT I) AND EBITDA 2 TAb. 3.21 in € million 2017 2018 Earnings after operating hedges (EBIT II) 327.3 165.3 Income (–)/expenses (+) arising from changes in the fair value of outstanding operating anticipatory hedges –37.2 25.7 Elimination of prior-period changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges –10.3 36.2 Realised gains (–)/losses (+) from currency hedging for capital expenditure in Canada –9.0 – Operating earnings (EBIT I) 270.8 227.2 Depreciation and amortisation (+)/impairment losses (+)/reversals of impairment losses (–) on non-current assets 330.0 385.0 Capitalised depreciation expenses recognised directly in equity 1 (–) –24.1 –5.9 EBITDA 2 576.7 606.3 1 Relates to depreciation of assets used to create other items of property, plant and equipment. Depreciation is capitalised as part of cost and not recognized in profit or loss. 2 The EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation, adjusted by the depreciation and amortisation amount not recognised in profit and loss in the context of own work capitalised, earnings arising from changes in the fair market value of outstanding operating anticipatory hedges, changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges recognised in prior periods and in the prior year profit/loss from currency hedging for capital expenditure in Canada. A reconciliation can be found on page 95. BREAKDOWN OF REVENUES BY SEGMENT/PRODUCT GROUP TAb. 3.22 in € million 2017 2018 Potash and Magnesium Products business unit 1,703.5 1,973.0 – Potassium chloride 733.4 1,004.0 – Fertilizer specialties 710.5 727.4 – Industrial products 259.5 241.6 Salt business unit 1,762.0 1,890.8 – De-icing salt 613.2 739.8 – Consumer products 407.4 411.9 – Industrial salt 318.4 334.4 – Food processing 242.5 217.9 – Salt for chemical use 144.6 144.8 – Other 35.9 42.0 Complementary Activities 159.9 172.4 – Waste management and recycling 85.8 89.1 – Services and trading 74.1 83.3 Reconciliation 1 1.6 2.9 Total 3,627.0 4,039.1 1 Revenues that cannot be allocated to business units are recorded separately and summarised under “Reconciliation”. 174 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below shows the opening and closing carrying amounts 31 December 2018. It is expected that the resulting revenues will of trade receivables, receivables from customer-specific construcbe realised in full within the next reporting period. tion contracts and contract liabilities. TAB. 3.23 In addition, revenues as at 31 December 2018 include prior-period Deferred revenues of €4.3 million recognised in the opening balrevenues of €10.1 million, which result primarily from the r­ eversal ance sheet due to the first-time application of IFRS 15, which reof provisions for sales transactions through profit or loss. late to transport services not yet provided, were reversed in full through profit or loss in the reporting period. Expenses in the same amount accrued in the opening balance sheet for transport (2) OTHER OPERATING INCOME services not yet provided were also reversed through profit or loss Other operating income includes the following material items: in the reporting period. The accumulated transaction price of all TAB. 3.24 performance obligations still to be satisfied was €5.5 million as at OPENING AND CLOSING CARRYING AMOUNTS TAb. 3.23 Opening ­carrying Closing carrying amount as at amount as at in € million 1 January 2018 31 December 2018 Trade receivables 714.9 836.7 Receivables from customer-specific construction contracts 3.2 3.0 Contract liabilities 4.3 5.5 OTHER OPERATING INCOME TAb. 3.24 in € million 2017 2018 Gains on exchange rate differences/currency hedging transactions 37.4 50.0 Reversals of provisions 41.9 37.3 Compensation and refunds received 49.5 17.7 Income from the disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 28.3 5.9 Rental and leasing income 4.6 5.0 – of which from investment properties 1.5 1.3 Reversals of allowances for receivables 0.3 0.5 Other income 25.8 30.4 Other operating income 187.8 146.8 Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 175 (3) OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES (5) GAINS/(LOSSES) ON OPERATING ANTICIPATORY Other operating expenses include the following material items: HEDGES TAB. 3.25 More information on “Gains/(losses) on operating anticipatory hedges” can be found in the “Notes to the Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income” on page 173. TAB. 3.26 (4) NET INCOME FROM EQUITY INVESTMENTS In the financial year under review, investment income of €4.3 million (2017: €4.5 million) was realised; impairment losses amounted to €0.1 million (2017: €0 million). OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES TAb. 3.25 in € million 2017 2018 Losses on exchange rate differences/currency hedging transactions 47.5 56.6 Expenses for consultancy, assessments and attorney’s fees 1.4 23.8 Ancillary capital expenditure costs 16.7 23.4 Losses on the disposal of non-current assets 6.6 12.9 Prior-period expenses 10.7 10.5 Depreciation and amortisation 8.3 3.5 – of which impairment losses 4.9 – Expenses for the Bethune plant until production start 30.4 – Other expenses 64.5 40.9 Other operating expenses 186.1 171.6 GAINS/(LOSSES) ON OPERATING ANTICIPATORY HEDGES TAb. 3.26 in € million 2017 2018 Gain/loss on the realisation of currency hedging transactions (expected USD revenues) 15.0 –23.8 – of which positive contributions to profit or loss 24.0 11.2 – of which negative contributions to profit or loss –9.0 –35.0 Gain/loss on the realisation of currency hedging transactions (expected CAD capital expenditure) 9.0 – – of which positive contributions to profit or loss 16.5 – – of which negative contributions to profit or loss –7.5 – Gain/loss on realised hedging transactions 24.0 –23.8 Changes in the fair value of hedging transactions not yet due (expected USD revenues) 37.2 –25.7 – of which positive fair value changes 38.2 1.5 – of which negative fair value changes –1.0 –27.2 Changes in the fair value of hedging transactions not yet due (expected CAD capital expenditure) – – – of which positive fair value changes – – – of which negative fair value changes – – Gain/loss from fair value fluctuations for hedging transactions not yet due 37.2 –25.7 Gains/(losses) on operating anticipatory hedges 61.2 –49.5 176 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (6) NET INTEREST (7) OTHER FINANCIAL RESULT In determining the borrowing costs to be capitalised, a weighted TAB. 3.29 cost of capital of 2.7% was applied (2017: 2.6%). TAB. 3.27 The “Interest component from measurement of provisions for mining obligations” consists of the net balance of the following items: TAB. 3.28 INTEREST INCOME TAb. 3.27 in € million 2017 2018 Interest and similar income from securities 1.1 1.0 Bank interest 3.7 6.6 Interest income from pension provisions 0.1 0.1 Other interest and similar income 5.7 3.9 Interest income 10.6 11.6 Interest expense on bonds/promissory note loans –71.4 –85.1 Interest component from measurement of provisions for mining obligations –10.1 –25.1 Interest expense on pension provisions –5.8 –5.2 Capitalisation of borrowing costs 51.4 17.5 Other interest and similar expenses –17.5 –22.8 Interest expense –53.4 –120.7 Net interest –42.8 –109.1 INTEREST COMPONENT OF PROVISIONS FOR MINING OBLIGATIONS TAb. 3.28 in € million 2017 2018 Interest rate effect from the change in the discount rate for provisions for mining obligations –0.1 – Increase in provisions for mining obligations due to passage of time (interest cost) –32.0 –32.3 Interest rate effect from the reversal of provisions for mining obligations 22.0 7.2 Interest component from measurement of provisions for mining obligations –10.1 –25.1 OTHER FINANCIAL RESULT TAb. 3.29 in € million 2017 2018 Gain/loss on the realisation of financial assets/liabilities –20.1 28.3 Income from the measurement of financial assets/liabilities 36.5 –31.4 Other financial result 16.4 –3.1 Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 177 (8) INCOME TAX EXPENSE global taxation system to a territorial taxation system, which will Deferred taxes in Germany were calculated using a tax rate of lead to tax being charged on previously untaxed earnings and 30.0% (2017: 29.9%). In addition to an unchanged corporate in­profits generated at the level of foreign companies. Due to recent come tax rate of 15.0% and an unchanged solidarity surcharge of ­legislative findings in the course of 2018, the repatriation tax was 5.5%, an average trade tax rate of 14.2% (2017: 14.1%) was ­taken ­reduced by €4.2 million. into account. Deferred taxes in other countries are calculated applying the r­ espective national income tax rates for profit retenINCOME TAX EXPENSE TAb. 3.30 tion. TAB. 3.30 in € million 2017 2018 The following table reconciles expected to actual tax expense. The Current taxes 130.7 28.8 expected income tax expense was calculated based on a ­domestic – in Germany 24.3 14.5 Group income tax rate of 30.0% (2017: 29.9%). TAB. 3.31 – other countries 106.4 14.3 Deferred taxes –14.4 –17.9 An amount of €–26.0 million included in the effects of tax rate – in Germany 16.4 –12.0 changes related to a special item from the remeasurement of – other countries –30.8 –5.9 ­deferred taxes due to the reduction in the corporate income – of which from loss carryforwards and tax rate in the USA from 35% to 21% in the prior year. The o ­ ther tax credits –2.3 21.4 ­effects of changes in tax laws relates to repatriation tax p ­ ayable – of which attributable to temporary on a ­one-off basis in connection with the US tax reforms. This is differences –12.1 –39.3 ­because, under the reforms, there is a transition from the previous Income tax expense 116.3 10.9 RECONCILIATION OF TAXES ON INCOME TAb. 3.31 in € million 2017 2018 Earnings before tax 300.9 53.1 Expected income tax expense (Group tax rate: 30.0%; previous year: 29.9%) 90.0 15.9 Reduction in tax resulting from tax-free income and other items –11.7 –8.9 – of which tax-free income from investments and gains on disposals –0.9 –1.1 – of which other tax-free income –10.8 –7.8 Trade tax additions/deductions 4.1 5.2 Increases in tax resulting from non-deductible expenses and other items 5.9 6.7 Permanent differences –0.9 –0.1 Increases/reductions in tax resulting from the measurement of deferred tax assets –3.2 –0.3 Effects of tax rate differences 6.4 –5.1 Effects of tax rate changes –25.8 1.1 Effects of other changes in tax law 54.3 –4.2 Taxes for prior years –2.0 0.5 Other effects –0.8 0.1 Actual tax expense 116.3 10.9 Tax rate 1 38.7% 20.5% 1 Based on consolidated profit before tax. 178 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (9) COST OF MATERIALS TAB. 3.33 (10) PERSONNEL EXPENSES/EMPLOYEES TAB. 3.34, 3.35 ‘Employees’, page 53; ‘Remuneration Report’, page 134 (11) EARNINGS PER SHARE Undiluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing consolidated earnings after tax and non-controlling interests by the weighted average number of shares outstanding. Since none of the conditions resulting in the dilution of earnings per share are met in the K+S GROUP at present, undiluted earnings per share are the same as diluted earnings per share. TAB. 3.36 If the authorised capital is utilised or a conditional capital increase is implemented (see Note (20), page 187), earnings per share could be diluted in the future. COST OF MATERIALS TAb. 3.33 PERSONNEL EXPENSES TAb. 3.34 in € million 2017 2018 in € million 2017 2018 Expenses for raw materials and supplies Wages and salaries 854.6 870.4 and for purchased goods 523.6 532.2 Social security costs 221.4 220.7 Cost of purchased services 657.9 835.2 Pension 30.2 31.4 Energy costs 253.3 261.7 Personnel expenses 1,106.2 1,122.5 Cost of materials 1,434.8 1,629.1 EMPLOYEES INCLUDING TEMPORARY EARNINGS PER SHARE 1 TAb. 3.36 EMPLOYEES TAb. 3.35 in € million 2017 2018 Annual average (FTE) 2017 2018 Earnings after tax and non-controlling Germany 10,100 10,405 interests 184.6 42.1 Other countries 4,554 4,499 Average number of shares (in millions) 191.4 191.4 Total 14,654 14,904 Earnings per share in € (basic = diluted) 0.96 0.22 – of which trainees 505 524 1 Adjusted earnings per share as well as its calculation is described on page 96. Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 179 NOTES TO THE BAL ANCE SHEET For the CGU Salt America and the CGU Salt Europe, the mid-term planning is based on the detailed forecast period from 2019 to 2021. For the CGU Potash and Magnesium Products, the detailed The balance sheet is presented on page 146. The balance sheet is forecast period covers the years 2019 to 2030. For years beyond classified according to the maturity of the assets and liabilities. the detailed forecast period, a growth rate of 2.0% has been asThe gross carrying amounts and depreciation, amortisation and sumed for the nominal cash flows (2017: 2.0%) to compensate for impairment losses on individual non-current assets are shown cost and revenue inflation. The forecast period of the CGU Potash separately on page 152. and Magnesium Products, which ends in 2030, reflects the g ­ radual expansion of production capacity at the new Bethune production facility in Canada. (12) INTANGIBLE ASSETS In the consolidated balance sheet, goodwill from business combiFor the CGU Potash and Magnesium Products, the forecast reflects nations is allocated to the following cash-generating units (CGUs): a slight increase in sales volumes, based on the increase in producTAB. 3.37 tion at the new Bethune location in Canada. In addition, a slight increase in the price of potassium chloride has been assumed. The Salt business unit is divided into the cash-generating units Salt America and Salt Europe. The increase in goodwill is due to The price and sales forecasts for the CGUs Salt America and Salt the effects of currency translation as at the reporting date. Europe are based on the assumption of a constant development/ slight increase in sales volumes and slight price increases. While In order to test goodwill for impairment, the net carrying amounts the assumed volume development is based on an anticipated of the respective cash-generating units were compared with ­normalisation of winter weather and on our strategy, the e­ xpected their values in use. Values in use were determined on the basis price trends primarily reflect our participation in the anticipated of the present value of the future cash flows of the cash-genermarket performance. ating units. The CGU Salt America is based on the assumption of ­continuing use. The periods applied to the CGUs Salt Europe and The following discount rates were applied as at the end of the Potash and Magnesium Products are determined by the reserves ­financial year: TAB. 3.38 of raw materials and annual production. The cash flow forecast is based on the latest mid-term planning of the K+S GROUP or the The rates of interest for the cash-generating units correspond to ­respective business units on the basis of plans of the company the weighted cost of capital for the K+S GROUP before and ­after concerned. The mid-term planning is based on internal estimates taxes. of the performance of the operating business, market studies, ‘Calculation of Cost of Capital’, page 97 the latest financial results and the best estimate of drivers such as ­energy and shipping costs or exchange rates. The impairment tests conducted at the end of the 2018 financial year confirmed that the goodwill items were not impaired. ALLOCATION OF GOODWILL BY CASH-GENERATING UNIT TAb. 3.37 in € million 2017 2018 CGU Salt America 642.7 663.8 CGU Potash and Magnesium Products 16.3 15.7 CGU Salt Europe 13.7 13.7 Total goodwill 672.7 693.2 180 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DISCOUNT RATES USED IN THE IMPAIRMENT TEST TAb. 3.38 2017 2018 Interest rates in % before tax after tax before tax after tax CGU Salt America 8.5 6.0 8.4 6.0 CGU Potash and Magnesium Products 8.5 6.0 8.4 6.0 CGU Salt Europe 8.5 6.0 8.4 6.0 According to our assessment, realistic changes in the fundamenThe customer relationships obtained as a result of the acquisital assumptions on which the process of determining the values tion of the MORTON Group are a significant intangible asset. As in use is based would not result in the carrying amount of the parat 31 December 2018, the carrying amount totalled €84.9 million ticular cash-generating unit exceeding its value in use. (2017: €91.8 million), the remaining useful life as at the reporting date was around eight years (2017: nine years). Brand rights totalling €110.3 million (2017: €106.3 million) are, in view of their level of awareness in the relevant sales regions as well as their strategic relevance, classified as assets with indefi(13) INVESTMENT PROPERTIES nite useful lives. These brand rights are allocated to the CGU Salt Investment properties are primarily leased properties. As at 31 DeAmerica. cember 2018, the fair values of investment properties amounted to €16.4 million (2017: €16.8 million). The fair values were esThe impairment test on the brand rights with indefinite useful timated by internal specialist departments on the basis of local lives, which is conducted annually, was carried out by c­ omparing market conditions. In determining the values, particular account the fair values of the brands less costs to sell with their book was taken of local property valuation records and, in part, of ex­values. The fair value less costs to sell was determined using ternal valuation reports. The measurement methods correspond the relief-from-­royalty method, which derives the brand value to Level 3 of the three-level fair value hierarchy set out in IFRS 13. from the licence costs saved. The brand-specific revenues for the years 2019 to 2022 were determined on the basis of the corporate planning, and an annual growth rate of 2.0% (2017: 2.0%) was as(14) NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS sumed for the period from 2023. The applicable licence prices for The financial assets mainly comprise the shares in subsidiaries, the brands were derived from third-party comparisons. The fair joint ventures and associated companies, which were not convalue less costs to sell was then determined by discounting the solidated due to their minor importance. licence costs saved using a risk-adjusted pre-tax interest rate of 12.6% (2017: 12.7%). The impairment test on the brands carried out on this basis at the end of the 2018 financial year did not result in (15) SECURITIES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS any impairment losses. This item includes various investments (e.g. bonds and repo transactions). TAB. 3.39 SECURITIES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS TAb. 3.39 in € million 2017 2018 Securities and other financial investments (non-current) 7.0 7.0 Securities and other financial investments (current) 11.4 11.2 Securities and other financial investments 18.4 18.2 Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 181 (16) DEFERRED TAXES For companies with a negative tax result in the current year or The following deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the in the previous year, there was a surplus of deferred tax assets balance sheet relate to recognition and measurement ­differences of €42.9 million (2017: €2.4 million). The basis for the development for individual balance sheet line items and to tax loss carry­ of these deferred taxes is the assessment that positive tax results forwards: TAB. 3.40 will be achieved in future financial years. Deferred taxes totalling €22.0 million (2017: €21.9 million) were not In the year under review, a deferred tax credit of €3.8 million capitalised as utilisation of the underlying loss carryforwards or (2017: €–5.4 million) was recognised in other comprehensive the realisation of taxable income is considered unlikely. The under­ income. lying loss carryforwards amount to €216.0 million (2017: €216.3 mil­ lion). They expire in the following periods. TAB. 3.41 The amount of deferred taxes recognised in the balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 changed by €–19.9 million (2017: €–32.3 mil­ lion); this change is made up of a decrease in deferred tax assets of €–2.6 million (2017: €–22.2 million) and a decrease in deferred tax liabilities of €–22.5 million (2017: €–54.5 million). DEFERRED TAXES TAb. 3.40 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities in € million 2017 2018 2017 2018 Intangible assets 1.7 2.8 64.3 62.7 Property, plant and equipment 47.6 51.9 468.9 451.7 Inventories 5.7 7.0 3.3 1.8 Trade receivables 0.7 0.5 1.6 4.6 Other assets 5.2 4.6 11.1 10.4 – of which derivative financial instruments – – 0.1 0.4 Provisions 234.1 248.8 3.7 8.1 Trade payables – – 0.1 2.9 Other liabilities 63.6 53.8 35.5 19.9 – of which derivative financial instruments 1.3 1.3 – – Gross amount 358.6 369.4 588.5 562.1 – of which non-current 317.3 336.6 560.0 534.5 Valuation allowances –1.6 –1.0 – – Tax loss carryforwards 58.1 36.5 – – Consolidations 13.9 16.6 –2.1 –3.1 Netting –333.8 –328.9 –333.8 –328.9 Carrying amount (net) 95.2 92.6 252.6 230.1 EXPIRY OF UNRECOGNISED LOSS CARRYFORWARDS TAb. 3.41 in € million 2017 2018 Unrecognised loss carryforwards 216.3 216.0 of which loss carryforwards expiring within one year – 0.1 of which loss carryforwards expiring after between two and five years – 0.4 of which loss carryforwards expiring after five years 159.8 163.8 of which loss carryforwards that do not expire 56.5 51.7 182 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Taking into a account deferred tax credit of €3.8 million (2017: As in the previous year, there were no customer-specific construc€–5.4 million) and currency translation effects of €–1.8 million tion contracts with negative balances as at 31 December 2018. (2017: €23.3 million) recognised in other comprehensive income in the year under review, this results in deferred tax income of Current and non-current financial assets include an amount €17.9 million disclosed in the income statement (2017: €14.4 million). of €23.0 million relating to assets pledged as collateral for obligations (2017: €16.9 million). Temporary differences of €293.7 million (2017: €461.6 million) are related to shares in subsidiaries for which no deferred tax liabiliAlthough allowances on trade receivables are always recogties are recognised in accordance with IAS 12.39. nised in the amount of losses expected over the remaining term, K+S’s strategy is to secure all trade receivables with suitable instruments. As at the reporting date, €676.9 million, or 95%, (17) INVENTORIES (2017: €556.5 million, or 93%) of the Group’s trade receivables that Since inventories are carried at net realisable value, allowances can be secured were protected against default with credit insurof €8.0 million (2017: €9.8 million) were recognised in the period ance and other insurance instruments. Due to the excellent credit under review. TAB. 3.42 ratings of the credit insurers, the risk is largely limited to a small excess. Most of the trade receivables that cannot be s­ ecured were receivables from public-sector customers. Based on past ­default (18) TRADE RECEIVABLES AND OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS rates, no material defaults are expected for these receivables and Other financial assets include receivables recognised in connecthe unsecured portion of trade receivables of €39.0 million, or tion with accounting for customer-specific construction contracts; 5%, (2017: €40.6 million, or 7%) that are in principle s­ ecurable. they have the following components: TAB. 3.43, 3.44 There is no indication that future default rates will significantly differ from past default rates. Expected losses have therefore only been recognised for cases with objective evidence of impairment. INVENTORIES TAb. 3.42 CUSTOMER-SPECIFIC CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS TAb. 3.43 in € million 2017 2018 in € million 2017 2018 Raw materials, consumables and supplies 254.2 275.4 Contract costs incurred and contract ­ Work in progress 23.9 46.4 profit recognised 40.1 49.3 Finished goods and merchandise 412.8 369.7 Advances received 36.9 46.3 Inventories 690.9 691.5 Receivables from customer-specific construction contracts 3.2 3.0 TRADE RECEIVABLES AND OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS TAb. 3.44 of which of which remaining remaining maturity maturity of more than of more than in € million 2017 1 year 2018 1 year Trade receivables 714.9 – 836.7 – Other financial assets 154.0 46.3 122.4 36.2 – of which derivative financial instruments 45.0 3.0 13.0 7.6 – of which claim for reimbursement for Morton Salt bond 19.8 19.6 20.4 20.2 – of which receivables from affiliated companies 6.7 – 6.5 – Further Information Trade receivables and other financial assets 868.9 46.3 959.1 36.2 k+s Annual Report 2018 183 Objective evidence includes e.g. filing for insolvency, significant included in the table. Also for reasons of materiality, there is no financial difficulties of the customer or receivables that are more further information on the default risk and expected credit ­losses than 90 days past due, unless they can be shown not to be imfor the balance sheet items concerned. TAB. 3.46 paired even though they are past due. For insured receivables, the maximum impairment loss recognised is the possible excess. Impairment losses recognised on other financial assets amounted TAB. 3.45 to €0.2 million as at the balance sheet date (2017: €0.2 million). In addition, the other financial assets item includes ­assets already The maximum risk of default on receivables and other­financial impaired on acquisition with a carrying amount of €2.8 million ­assets is reflected in the carrying amount recognised in the (2017: €0 million) and a nominal repayment amount of €5.6 mil­balance sheet. As at 31 December 2018, the maximum amount in lion (2017: €0 million). No allowances were recognised on default in the highly unlikely event of a simultaneous default on ­customer-specific construction contracts (2017: €0 million). all unsecured receivables was €170.8 million (2017: €169.6 million). If receivables have a residual term of more than one year, they are The table below shows the reconciliation of valuation a­ llowances discounted applying interest rates as at the balance sheet date. recognised on the basis of objective evidence at the beginning of the year to the figure at the end of the year. Due to immaterialAs at 31 December 2018, no non-interest-bearing and low-interest ity, expected losses were not recognised and are therefore not receivables were discounted (2017: €0.5 million). BREAKDOWN OF CARRYING AMOUNTS OF VALUATION ALLOWANCES ON TRADE RECEIVABLES TAb. 3.45 TRADE RECEIVABLES TAb. 3.46 in € million 2017 2018 2017 2018 Secured 556.5 676.9 in € million IAS 39 IFRS 9 Securable but unsecured 40.6 39.0 As at 1 January 10.1 11.2 Total securable receivables 597.1 715.9 Additions 2.2 0.4 Not securable 129.0 131.8 Reversals 0.3 0.5 Total gross carrying amounts 726.1 847.7 Utilisation 0.8 0.1 Valuation allowances 11.2 11.0 Other changes – – Net carrying amounts 714.9 836.7 As at 31 December 11.2 11.0 RISK OF DEFAULT TAb. 3.47 of which n ­ either­ o ­ verdue nor impaired as at Carrying the reporting of which not impaired but overdue as at amount date the reporting date for > 31 and > 91 and in € million < 30 days < 90 days < 180 days > 180 days 2018 Trade receivables 836.7 776.0 24.7 7.2 2.1 3.2 2017 Trade receivables 714.9 662.1 21.0 4.8 1.0 2.3 184 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Table 3.47 provides information about the extent of the risk of de­ Derivatives are used in currency hedging in order to limit the fault contained in “Trade receivables”. TAB. 3.47 risks to which operating activities can be exposed as a result of changes in exchange rates. Exchange rate risks exist mainly As at the balance sheet date, an amount of €2.4 million (2017: with ­respect to the US dollar and the Canadian dollar, and, to a €0.7 million) of the unimpaired other financial assets was overdue. ­lesser extent, pound sterling and the Chilean peso. Hedging trans­ actions are e­ ntered into for invoiced receivables and anticipated Receivables management is aimed at collecting all outstanding net ­positions on the basis of projected revenues. In this context, accounts punctually and in full, as well as at avoiding the loss of the net p ­ ositions are determined on the basis of revenue and cost receivables. Invoices are issued on a daily basis and invoice data planning using safety margins and updated continuously to avoid is transferred to debtor accounts online. Accounts receivable are excess hedging or hedging shortfalls. monitored on an ongoing basis with system support, in accord­ ance with the payment terms agreed with the customers. Most The hedging transactions used for hedging of anticipated posi­ payment terms range from 10 to 180 days, with longer terms tions can have maturities of up to three years. The main objective ­being customary in some markets. In the case of late payment, is to hedge a worst-case scenario. Here, futures and plain ­vanilla ­reminders are issued at regular two-week intervals. options are used, although participation in favourable market developments is generally limited by the sale of simple options. This also serves to reduce premium expenses. In principle, it is (19) DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS also possible to use compound options consisting of an option Currency and interest rate management is performed ­centrally on a plain vanilla option, which can be acquired at a later date for all Group companies. This also applies to the use of deriva­ for a fixed amount. tive fi­ nancial instruments, e.g. those aimed at limiting certain costs. The use of derivative financial instruments is regulated by Based on the agreed payment terms, the maturities of instru­ guidelines and procedural instructions. Trading, settlement and ments used to hedge invoiced receivables are less than one year. ­control are strictly segregated. Derivative financial instruments are only traded with banks that have a good credit rating; they The hedges of anticipated net positions described above are used are m­ onitored continually by means of appropriate instruments. in the Potash and Magnesium Products business unit for US dollar As a rule, the entire portfolio of derivative financial instruments positions as well as for Canadian dollar positions for production is distributed among several banks to reduce the risk of default. in Canada. Hedges of invoiced receivables are entered into in the The level of default risk is limited to the amount of derivative Potash and Magnesium Products business unit. ­financial assets. All the above-mentioned derivatives are traded over the c­ ounter The aim of interest rate management is to mitigate the risks aris­ only. Forward exchange and option contracts are always ing from rising interest expense for financial liabilities as well as ­transacted via a trading platform through which quotations are the risks arising from declining interest income from financial as­ ­obtained from several banks, so that a transaction can be entered sets as a result of changes in the general level of interest rates. into with the bank providing the best quotation. Since some of the promissory notes outstanding have floating in­ terest rates, interest rate caps were acquired in order to eliminate Forward exchange contracts are subject to market risk on the the risk of higher interest charges. In the case of the financial as­ ­respective reporting date. This is, however, offset by the opposite sets, there is currently no identifiable need for action because of effects of currency-based measurement of receivables, which uses the short remaining maturities and the low interest rates, mean­ derivatives to hedge foreign currency receivables. ing that there is a minimal risk of declining rates. Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 185 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS TAb. 3.48 2017 2018 Nominal Nominal in € million values 1 Fair values values 1 Fair values GBP/EUR forward exchange contracts – of which maturing in 2018 6.9 – – – – of which maturing in 2019 – – 7.1 – AUD/EUR forward exchange contracts – of which maturing in 2018 1.0 – – – CAD/EUR forward exchange contracts – of which maturing in 2018 231.7 7.5 – – – of which maturing in 2019 – – 124.2 –1.8 USD/EUR forward exchange contracts – of which maturing in 2018 733.4 8.3 – – – of which maturing in 2019 33.4 1.0 1,148.3 –7.7 – of which maturing in 2020 – – 26.3 –0.4 USD/CLP forward exchange contracts – of which maturing in 2018 89.6 –0.2 – – – of which maturing in 2019 – – 62.0 –1.5 – of which maturing in 2020 – – 2.9 –0.1 Plain vanilla currency options purchased (USD/EUR) – of which maturing in 2018 259.8 15.1 – – – of which maturing in 2019 – – 356.0 1.9 – of which maturing in 2020 – – 200.8 6.1 Plain vanilla currency options sold (USD/EUR) – of which maturing in 2018 246.0 –0.3 – – – of which maturing in 2019 – – 383.6 –6.1 – of which maturing in 2020 – – 212.4 –3.5 Plain vanilla currency options purchased (CAD/USD) – of which maturing in 2018 89.4 4.6 – – – of which maturing in 2019 26.5 1.1 275.0 1.1 – of which maturing in 2020 – – 80.9 1.3 Plain vanilla currency options sold (CAD/USD) – of which maturing in 2018 83.6 –0.2 – – – of which maturing in 2019 25.2 –0.4 258.6 –6.4 – of which maturing in 2020 – – 77.1 –2.4 Interest caps purchased – of which maturing in 2019 140.0 – 140.0 – – of which maturing in 2021 118.0 0.9 118.0 0.2 Total derivative financial instruments 2,084.5 37.4 3,473.2 –19.3 1 In euros, translated using weighted average exchange rates. 186 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The fair values determined in this process correspond to the AUTHORISED CAPITAL ­hypothetical value they would have on early transfer on the The Board of Executive Directors was authorised by the Annu­balance sheet date. The values are determined using recognised al General Meeting on 12 May 2015 to increase the Company’s ­financial methods generally used by market participants. These share capital, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, by a ­total calculations were based, in particular, on the following inputs that of up to €19,140,000.00, on one or several occasions, by i­ssuing applied on the balance sheet date: up to 19,140,000 new no-par-value registered shares (­ Authorised ­Capital) until 11 May 2020. The Board of Executive Directors was ++ the spot exchange and forward exchange rates of the further authorised on 11 May 2016 to increase the Company’s share currencies concerned, capital, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, by a ­total of ++ the interest rate level, up to €19,140,000.00, on one or several occasions, by issuing up ++ the agreed hedging level and exercise prices, to 19,140,000 new no-par-value registered shares (Authorised ++ the traded volatilities and ­Capital II) until 10 May 2021. K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT did not make ++ the counterparty risk. use of the authorisations in the 2018 financial year. The following foreign exchange derivative financial instruments CONDITIONAL CAPITAL existed as at 31 December 2018: TAB. 3.48 The share capital is increased by up to €19,140,000.00 by issuing up to 19,140,000 bearer shares with no par value (conditional capital). (20) EQUITY The Board of Executive Directors is authorised until 11 May 2020, The changes in individual equity items are shown separately on with the consent of the Supervisory Board, to issue bearer and/or page 149. registered convertible bonds and/or warrant-linked bonds on one or several occasions and to grant conversion rights to, or ­impose ISSUED CAPITAL conversion obligations on the holders or creditors of bonds or The issued capital of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT is unchanged from to i­ssue warrants on shares in the Company in a proportionthe previous year at €191.4 million, divided into 191.4 million noate amount of the share capital of up to €19,140,000.00 in total. par-value registered shares. The shares are fully paid up. TAB. 3.49 K+S AKTIEN­GESELLSCHAFT did not make use of the authorisation in ‘Disclosures in Accordance with Section 289a(1) and Section 315a(1) the 2018 financial year. of the HGB as well as the Explanatory Report of the Board of Executive Directors in Accordance with Section 176(1) Sentence 1 of the SHARE PREMIUM AktG’ on page 82. The share premium mainly consists of the premium received as part of share issues of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT. SHARE BUY-BACK According to the resolution adopted by the Annual General MeetOTHER RESERVES AND NET RETAINED EARNINGS ing on 12 May 2015, the Board of Executive Directors was authorThis item summarises retained earnings, net retained profits, ised to acquire own shares of up to 10% of the share capital until currency translation differences, measurement of equity instru11 May 2020. K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT did not make use of the auments at fair value and the remeasurement of pensions and thorisation in the 2018 financial year. ­similar obligations. ISSUED CAPITAL TAb. 3.49 Outstanding shares on in € million issue Issued capital 31 December 2016 191.4 191.4 31 December 2017 191.4 191.4 Further Information 31 December 2018 191.4 191.4 k+s Annual Report 2018 187 Net retained profits mainly consist of past earnings of the com(21) PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND SIMILAR panies included in the consolidated financial statements, less OBLIGATIONS dividends paid to shareholders. Currency translation differencThe K+S GROUP has made a number of defined benefit pension es ­mainly comprise differences from the translation of foreign commitments. Most of the commitments relate to Germany and ­business operations from the functional currency into the Group’s Canada. reporting currency (euro). TAB. 3.50 GERMANY NET RETAINED PROFITS REPORTED IN THE SINGLE-ENTITY A significant pension plan in Germany is the K+S pension scheme, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT which consists primarily of a basic pension, supplementary (HGB) ­benefits II as well as vested pension rights. The basic pension The dividend distribution is based on the annual financial stateis based on a modular system under which notional contribuments of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT as prepared in accordance with tions c­ orresponding to a certain percentage of pensionable inthe German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch, HGB). There come are collected annually. The pension entitlement is calculatis an intention to propose to the Annual General Meeting that ed by a­ pplying a fixed percentage to total notional contributions. a dividend of €0.25 per share (2017: €0.35), i.e. €47.9 million in S ­ upplementary benefits II are a final salary plan under which the ­total (2017: €67.0 million), be distributed to the shareholders. entitlement is based on certain percentages of salary compoThe ­remaining amount of €26.6 million will be carried forward nents above statutory and miners’ insurance, multiplied by the to the new account. As at the balance sheet date, the following ­number of pensionable years of service. Fixed euro amounts or net r­ etained profits were reported in the single-entity financial vested rights to final-salary percentages were granted for periods ­statements of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT: TAB. 3.51 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME TAb. 3.50 2017 2018 in € million Before taxes Tax effect Net Before taxes Tax effect Net Items of other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods –532.1 3.7 –528.4 –47.5 –1.5 –49.0 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations –532.1 3.7 –528.4 –47.5 –1.5 –49.0 – of which change in unrealised gains/losses –532.1 3.7 –528.4 –47.5 –1.5 –49.0 Items of other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss 13.0 –5.2 7.8 1.7 3.9 5.5 Measurement equity instruments at fair value – – – 10.7 – 10.7 Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans 13.0 –5.2 7.8 –9.0 3.8 –5.2 Other comprehensive income –519.1 –1.5 –520.6 –45.8 2.3 –43.5 NET RETAINED PROFITS OF K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT (HGB) TAb. 3.51 in € million 2017 2018 Net retained profits of K+S Aktiengesellschaft as at 1 January 76.8 67.0 Dividend distributed for previous year –57.4 –67.0 Appropriation to other revenue reserves (resolution of Annual General Meeting) –19.4 – Earnings for the year of K+S Aktiengesellschaft –112.4 74.5 Withdrawal from other revenue reserves 179.4 – Net retained profits of K+S Aktiengesellschaft as at 31 December 67.0 74.5 188 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of service before the introduction of the basic pension and supplemembers can no longer earn new entitlements, but in return they mentary benefits II. This pension plan has since been discontinued, participate in a defined contribution scheme. The commitment so that no additional employees are eligible to acquire benefits. was switched prospectively, which means that benefits vested up to this date will remain unchanged. Pension plans in Canada Alongside the K+S pension scheme, numerous individual are regulated by law, for example, by the Financial Services Comc­ ommitments were made, especially to members of the Board mission in Ontario and the Canada Revenue Agency. There are of ­Executive Directors and senior management. They are ­generally minimum funding requirements under the Pension Benefits Act based on a modular system under which a certain percentage of (Ontario). To satisfy them, an independent actuarial valuation is pensionable annual income is converted into a lifelong pension generally performed in the middle of the year. The aim is to de­applying an age-related factor. The total entitlement corresponds termine the funded status of the pension plan in accordance with to the sum of the individual year-based modules. In some conlegal requirements. If the plan is underfunded, the shortfall must tracts, a predefined benefit level may not be exceeded. be made up within a period of five to ten years, based on the type of shortfall. The valuation differs from an IFRS valuation in that, In addition, there are other company-specific pension commitfor example, a different discount factor is applied. ments in Germany, which were already discontinued some years ago. Most of the beneficiaries are already drawing pensions. The Canadian plan assets are held by an external company on a trust basis. It is responsible for the payment of pensions to penIn Germany, all the pension obligations described above are covsioners as well as the management of plan assets. The trustee is ered by a contractual trust arrangement (CTA). The vehicle used selected by the Morton Salt, Inc. Employee Benefits Committee, for this is the K+S Vermögenstreuhänder e. V., which manages as which comprises company representatives and external advisors. a trustee the assets dedicated to the servicing of pension obligaIt is also responsible for determining the investment strategy. tions. While the pension payments continue to be made by the ­respective company, the payments are normally reimbursed by the The pension-related benefit commitments cover payments for CTA as they occur. There are no minimum funding requirements. life, dental and medical insurance. The level of payments for the dental and medical insurance depends on the average claims ­ratio Moreover, there are deferred compensation arrangements and of the pensioners, whereas life assurance in principle involves a commitments that will be met through a provident fund. These fixed-sum commitment. No plan assets were established for the obligations are largely covered by reinsurance policies. pension-related benefit commitments and there are no minimum funding requirements. CANADA In Canada, in addition to defined benefit pension commitments, OTHER COUNTRIES there are pension-related plans that entail commitments, for The other pension commitments largely relate to pension-relat­example, to provide medical benefits to eligible beneficiaries ed plans in the United States and the Bahamas, which provide for ­after retirement. payments towards medical and life assurance policies. No plan ­assets were established for these commitments and there are no The pension plans in principle provide for benefits that are calcuminimum funding requirements. In addition, there are pension lated as a percentage of the average five highest annual salaries, commitments of minor significance in other countries. while taking into account length of service. In this context, certain ceilings have to be observed. Since 1 January 2016, active plan Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 189 ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS – MEASUREMENT OF PENSION COMMITMENTS TAb. 3.52 2017 2018 Other Other In % (weighted average) Germany countries Germany countries Pension commitments Discount rate 2.0 3.7 2.0 3.8 Expected annual rise in income 1.8 3.0 1.8 3.0 Expected annual rise in pensions 1.6 1.0 1.6 1.0 Other pension-related benefit commitments Discount rate – 3.9 – 4.6 ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS – PENSION COMMITMENT EXPENSES TAb. 3.53 2017 2018 Other Other In % (weighted average) Germany countries Germany countries Pension commitments Discount rate 1.8 3.9 2.0 3.7 Expected annual rise in income 1.8 3.0 1.8 3.0 Expected annual rise in pensions 1.6 1.0 1.6 1.0 Other pension-related benefit commitments Discount rate – 4.3 – 3.9 The plans described above are subject to a number of risks, in ++ Healthcare cost trend (North America, in particular Canada particular: and the Bahamas): since payments for medical benefit com++ Investment risks: the provisions for pensions and similar oblimitments are adjusted in line with cost trends in healthcare, gations are calculated using a discount rate based on AA-ratan increase in medicine prices, hospital costs, etc. in the reed corporate bonds. If the yield on plan assets is below this spective country will lead to an increase in obligations. interest rate, this will result in underfunding. The invest++ Longevity risks: life expectancy is taken into account in calcuments are spread widely, mainly in bonds and equities, with lating obligation levels by using mortality tables. An increase the latter being particularly exposed to significant market in life expectancy results in a corresponding increase in the price fluctuations. obligations. ++ Inflation risks: In Germany, the German Company P ­ ension ++ Salary risks: if the actual trend in salaries exceeds the anticiPlan Act (Gesetz zur Verbesserung der betrieblichen pated trend, this will result in an increase in obligation levels. ­Altersvorsorge, BetrAVG) requires a review of pension levels every three years, and this generally results in pensions The K+S GROUP strives to mitigate the risks by, for example, chang­being adjusted for inflation. Pension commitments in Canada ing over from defined benefit plans to defined contribution plans. are adjusted annually at a rate of 50% of the consumer price For this reason, most of the workforce in Germany now receives ­index (CPI). As a rule, an increase in the respective rates of defined contribution commitments only. In North America, too, ­inflation will therefore lead to a corresponding increase in benefit commitments have been either settled or frozen and the respective obligations. transferred to a defined contribution system. ++ Interest rate risks: a decrease in yields on corporate bonds and, consequently, in the discount rate leads to an increase in obligations, which is only partially offset by a corresponding change in the value of plan assets. 190 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The assumptions in table 3.52 have been made in calculating pro++ USA/Bahamas: RP 2014 Scale MP-2018 (2017: RP 2014 Scale visions for pensions and similar obligations as at the balance sheet MP-2017) date. TAB. 3.52 In the case of pension-related commitments for healthcare To determine the pension expenses for 2018, the actuarial assump­benefits, the following annual cost increases were assumed: tions in table 3.53 – defined at the end of financial year 2017 – ++ Canada (medicines): 6.1%, declining to 4.0% from 2040 (2017: were used. TAB. 3.53 6.3%/5.0% from 2024) ++ Bahamas: 5.5% (2017: 5.5%) As at 31 December 2018, the following mortality tables were applied: The following tables show the changes in the projected benefit ++ Germany: Heubeck mortality tables 2018 G (2017: Heubeck obligation and plan assets: TAB. 3.54, 3.55 mortality tables 2005 G) ++ Canada: CPM 2014 Private Scale B with adjustment factor (2017: CPM 2014 Private Scale B with adjustment factor) CHANGES IN PROJECTED BENEFIT OBLIGATION TAb. 3.54 2017 2018 Other Other Other Other Total Germany countries countries Total Germany countries countries PensionPensionrelated related in € million Pensions Pensions obligations Pensions Pensions obligations Projected benefit obligation on 1 January 617.3 277.4 228.8 111.1 602.9 276.1 217.4 109.4 Changes to the scope of consolidation –0.5 – –0.5 – – – – – Service costs 13.9 9.9 1.2 2.8 11.2 7.5 0.4 3.3 Past service costs –9.9 – 0.1 –10.0 0.1 0.3 0.1 –0.3 Interest expense 17.7 4.9 8.3 4.5 17.3 5.4 7.6 4.3 Remeasurement 1 14.1 –2.0 3.2 12.9 –16.1 2.8 –0.3 –18.6 – of which actuarial gains (–)/ losses (+) from changes in demographic assumptions –2.9 – – –2.9 2.4 2.8 – –0.4 – of which actuarial gains (–)/losses (+) from changes in financial assumptions 17.4 –3.2 5.6 15.0 –20.2 –1.5 –2.5 –16.2 – of which actuarial gains (–)/ losses (+) based on experience-based adjustments –0.4 1.2 –2.4 0.8 1.7 1.5 2.2 –2.0 Pension payments –27.0 –14.1 –10.7 –2.2 –26.7 –13.8 –10.5 –2.4 Plan amendments/settlements – – – – –0.3 – –0.3 – Changes in exchange rates –22.7 – –13.0 –9.7 –6.4 – –7.5 1.1 Projected benefit obligation on 31 December 602.9 276.1 217.4 109.4 582.0 278.3 206.9 96.8 Further Information 1 The actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions in Germany include effects of the initial recognition of deferred compensation in an amount of €4.3 million. k+s Annual Report 2018 191 For reconciliation to the carrying amounts, the projected benefit The fair value of plan assets is distributed across the following obligation must be offset against plan assets: TAB. 3.56 ­investment classes: TAB. 3.58 The amounts in table 3.57 were recognised in the statement of Investments held through investment funds were allocated to comprehensive income. TAB. 3.57 the individual investment classes in the list above. A majority of the bonds are rated as investment grade. The shares are regularly The service costs (including past service costs) are reported actraded on an active market. While the same generally applies to cording to the allocation of employees to the respective EBIT functhe bonds, the item includes promissory note loans with a carrytional area. Net interest expense or income is reported in net ining amount of €17.7 million (2017: €18.3 million) that are not tradterest. Positive past service cost for pension-related obligations ed on an active market. There is no active market for reinsurance in other countries reported in the previous year is attributable arrangements. Own financial instruments are held in an amount to the introduction of minimum periods of service as an eligibilof €3.0 million (2017: €3.0 million). ity criterion. CHANGES IN PLAN ASSETS TAb. 3.55 2017 2018 Other Other Total Germany countries Total Germany countries in € million Pensions Pensions Pensions Pensions Plan assets on 1 January 434.7 220.9 213.8 441.3 230.5 210.8 Interest income 11.9 4.0 7.9 12.1 4.6 7.5 Employer contributions 3.6 3.0 0.6 2.2 1.9 0.3 Gains (–)/losses (+) from remeasurement of plan assets (excluding amounts recognised in interest income) 1 27.1 16.7 10.4 –25.3 –15.9 –9.4 Pension payments –23.9 –14.1 –9.8 –23.8 –13.8 –10.0 Changes in exchange rates –12.1 – –12.1 –7.5 – –7.5 Plan assets on 31 December 441.3 230.5 210.8 399.0 207.3 191.7 1 The remeasurement gain recognised in Germany includes effects of the initial recognition of deferred compensation in an amount of €4.3 million. RECONCILIATION TO CARRYING AMOUNTS OF PENSIONS AND SIMILAR OBLIGATIONS TAb. 3.56 2017 2018 Other Other Other Other Total Germany countries countries Total Germany countries countries PensionPensionrelated related in € million Pensions Pensions obligations Pensions Pensions obligations Projected benefit obligation on 31 December 602.9 276.1 217.4 109.4 582.0 278.3 206.9 96.8 Plan assets on 31 December 441.3 230.5 210.8 – 399.0 207.3 191.7 – Carrying amounts on 31 December 161.6 45.6 6.6 109.4 183.0 71.0 15.2 96.8 – of which provisions for pensions and similar obligations (+) 166.4 50.4 6.6 109.4 187.0 75.0 15.2 96.8 – of which assets (–) –4.8 –4.8 – – –4.0 –4.0 – – 192 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EFFECTS ON THE STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME TAb. 3.57 2017 2018 Other Other Other Other Total Germany countries countries Total Germany countries countries PensionPensionrelated related in € million Pensions Pensions obligations Pensions Pensions obligations Service costs 13.9 9.9 1.2 2.8 11.2 7.5 0.4 3.3 Past service costs –9.9 – 0.1 –10.0 0.1 0.3 0.1 –0.3 Net interest expenses (+)/income (–) 5.8 0.9 0.4 4.5 5.2 0.8 0.1 4.3 Expenses (+)/income (–) from plan amendments/settlements – – – – –0.3 – –0.3 – Amounts recognised in the income statement 9.8 10.8 1.7 –2.7 16.2 8.6 0.3 7.3 Gains (–)/losses (+) on remeasurement of plan assets (excluding amounts recognised in interest income) –27.1 –16.7 –10.4 – 25.3 15.9 9.4 – Actuarial gains (–)/losses (+) from changes in demographic assumptions –2.9 – – –2.9 2.4 2.8 – –0.4 Actuarial gains (–)/losses (+) from changes in financial assumptions 17.4 –3.2 5.6 15.0 –20.2 –1.5 –2.5 –16.2 Actuarial gains (–)/losses (+) based on ­experience-based adjustments –0.4 1.2 –2.4 0.8 1.7 1.5 2.2 –2.0 Amounts recognised in other ­comprehensive income 1 –13.0 –18.7 –7.2 12.9 9.2 18.7 9.1 –18.6 Total (amounts recognised in statement of comprehensive income) –3.2 –7.9 –5.5 10.2 25.4 27.3 9.4 –11.3 1 As a result of the initial recognition of deferred compensation, the prior-year figures for Germany include actuarial losses from changes in financial assumptions and a ­remeasurement gain on plan assets in an amount of €4.3 million each. BREAKDOWN OF PLAN ASSETS BY ASSET CLASS TAb. 3.58 2017 2018 Other Other Total Germany countries Total Germany countries in € million Pensions Pensions Pensions Pensions Bonds 190.9 102.6 88.3 220.4 89.9 130.5 – Government bonds 66.5 1.7 64.8 96.3 2.3 94.0 – Corporate bonds 124.4 100.9 23.5 124.1 87.6 36.5 Shares 191.1 75.1 116.0 127.8 73.6 54.2 Reinsurance arrangements 29.0 29.0 – 31.3 31.3 – Cash and cash equivalents 21.5 16.4 5.1 10.6 5.2 5.4 Other 8.8 7.4 1.4 8.9 7.3 1.6 Further Information Plan assets on 31 December 441.3 230.5 210.8 399.0 207.3 191.7 k+s Annual Report 2018 193 The sensitivity analysis shows how the present value of the obThe following maturities of undiscounted payments of pensions ligation would change in the event of a change in actuarial asand similar obligations are expected in subsequent years: TAB. 3.61 sumptions. No correlation between individual assumptions was taken into account, which means that in the event of one assumpAs at 31 December 2018, the weighted average duration of obtion being changed, the other assumptions remained unchanged. ligations in Germany was 14 years (2017: 14 years), for pension The projected unit credit method used to determine the carryobligations outside Germany it was 13 years (2017: 13 years), and ing amounts was also used in the sensitivity analysis. TAB. 3.59 for pension-related obligations outside Germany it was 18 years (2017: 20 years). The duration and maturity profile of the obligaThe previous year’s analysis identified the following values: tions differ between individual companies, significantly so in some TAB. 3.60 cases. The asset allocation generally takes this circumstance into SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF 31 Dec 2018 TAb. 3.59 Change in present value of obligations Total Germany Other countries Other countries Change in Pension-related in € million assumption Pensions Pensions obligations Discount rate + 100 basis points –73.3 –33.8 –24.3 –15.2 Discount rate – 100 basis points 91.7 42.9 30.0 18.8 Expected annual rise in income + 50 basis points 1.6 0.5 1.1 – Expected annual rise in income – 50 basis points –1.6 –0.5 –1.1 – Expected annual rise in pensions + 50 basis points 26.4 15.2 11.2 – Expected annual rise in pensions – 50 basis points – 23.5 –13.8 –9.7 – Medical cost trend + 50 basis points 7.9 – – 7.9 Medical cost trend – 50 basis points –7.0 – – –7.0 Life expectancy + 1 year 21.2 10.9 5.7 4.6 Life expectancy – 1 year –21.1 –10.7 –5.8 –4.6 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF 31 Dec 2017 TAb. 3.60 Change in present value of obligations Total Germany Other countries Other countries Change in Pension-related in € million assumption Pensions Pensions obligations Discount rate + 100 basis points –78.0 –34.0 –25.7 –18.3 Discount rate – 100 basis points 98.0 43.1 31.8 23.1 Expected annual rise in income + 50 basis points 2.4 1.0 1.4 – Expected annual rise in income – 50 basis points –2.5 –1.0 –1.5 – Expected annual rise in pensions + 50 basis points 26.6 14.9 11.7 – Expected annual rise in pensions – 50 basis points –23.7 –13.5 –10.2 – Medical cost trend + 50 basis points 9.8 – – 9.8 Medical cost trend – 50 basis points –8.7 – – –8.7 Life expectancy + 1 year 19.7 8.6 5.9 5.2 Life expectancy – 1 year –19.3 –8.4 –5.7 –5.2 194 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EXPECTED PAYMENTS OF PENSIONS AND SIMILAR The pension benefits provided via the BASF pension fund are to OBLIGATIONS TAb. 3.61 be classified as a multi-employer plan within the meaning of in € million 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 IAS 19.32 et seq. In principle, the plan is a defined benefit plan. Since Up to 1 year 28.4 28.6 reliable information, in particular on plan assets, is only availaBetween 1 and 5 years 115.2 114.6 ble for the pension fund as a whole and not specifically for the Between 5 and 10 years 148.2 145.0 units attributable to the K+S GROUP, insufficient information is More than 10 years 984.8 946.2 ­available for reporting the plan on the balance sheet. That is why Total 1,276.6 1,234.4 the plan is accounted for as a defined contribution plan in accordance with IAS 19.34. account, especially in Germany. The aim is to service the pension As a result of the termination of regular memberships, no furpayments from current plan asset income. ther contributions are to be paid into the BASF pension fund. Due to a decrease in the discount rate at the BASF pension fund, the In the 2019 financial year, a cash outflow of €2.9 million (2018: need for a special contribution was identified in 2017; under the €3.5 million) is expected from pension and similar commitments. t­ echnical business plan, the proportionate share attributable to This outflow comprises allocations to plan assets and pension payK+S is €5.7 million. This amount was recognised through ­profit or ments that are not covered by corresponding reimbursements loss and charged to the appropriate functional area in the p ­ revious from plan assets. year. Further special contributions in the future cannot be ruled out. In addition, there are other pension plans for which no provisions need to be recognised, since there are no obligations other than Moreover, the secondary liability governed by the German Comcontribution payments (defined contribution plans). These company Pension Plan Act (Gesetz zur Verbesserung der betriebliprise both benefits funded solely by the employer and deferred chen Altersversorgung, BetrAVG) may give rise to an obligation to compensation subsidies for employees. assume liabilities for K+S, especially for inflation adjustments to current pension payments. Pension adjustments not covered by Employers and employees made contributions under the – now the BASF pension plan must be assumed by K+S. closed – pension plan operated via the BASF pension fund. In 2011, the BASF pension fund terminated the regular memberships for No contribution payments are expected to be made to the BASF K+S employees, so that, since then, only extraordinary memberpension fund in 2019. ship is available for the employees concerned and those memberships are continued as vested pension rights. In addition, the In total, pension expenses are as follows for the period under reBASF pension fund makes regular pension scheme payments to view: TAB. 3.62 (former) K+S employees. K+S Group company employees with vested pension rights and pensioners account for less than 10% of the total BASF pension fund. PENSION EXPENSE TAb. 3.62 2017 2018 Other Other in € million Total Germany countries Total Germany countries Defined contribution expenses 26.2 7.7 18.5 20.4 2.1 18.3 Further Information Defined benefit expenses 4.0 9.9 –5.9 11.0 7.8 3.2 Pension expense (recognised in EBIT) 30.2 17.6 12.6 31.4 9.9 21.5 k+s Annual Report 2018 195 PROVISIONS FOR MINING OBLIGATIONS TAb. 3.63 2017 2018 in € million Total of which current Total of which current Mine and shaft backfilling 361.1 16.2 373.9 0.6 Maintenance of tailings piles 565.2 – 563.8 – Mining damage 39.1 6.1 35.0 6.4 Renaturation 41.0 – 42.1 – Other 16.0 0.1 7.6 0.3 Provisions for mining obligations 1,022.4 22.4 1,022.4 7.3 In addition, contributions of €88.2 million (2017: €85.8 million) Provisions for mining obligations are mainly non-current proviwere paid to government pension funds. sions, which are recognised at the settlement amount determined on the basis of expenses expected to be incurred in the future and discounted to the balance sheet date. In this process, a future price (22) PROVISIONS FOR MINING OBLIGATIONS increase of 1.5% is assumed (2017: 1.5%). The discount rate for minProvisions for mining obligations are recognised as a result of legal ing obligations in EU countries is 3.3% (2017: 3.3%). The discount and contractual requirements as well as conditions imposed by rate used for mining obligations in North America is 5.0% in the the authorities; details are primarily provided in operating plans USA (2017: 4.7%) and 4.1% in Canada (2017: 4.2%). The expected and water permit decisions. These obligations, most of which are settlement dates largely depend on the remaining useful lives of subject to public law, require surface securing and renaturation the locations. Some of the obligations extend well beyond 2050. measures. Mining damage can result from underground extraction and any resulting subsidence, or from damage in the producThe additions to mining provisions totalled €77.8 million tion process in the form of dust or saltwater intrusion. Any ob(2017: €46.5 million) for the year under review. They were largely ligations arising as a result are covered by provisions. TAB. 3.63 attributable to interest cost added to provisions and the remeasurement of existing provisions. The amount of the provisions to be recognised is based on expected expenditure or estimated compensation. It is determined Mining provisions were used in an amount of €16.9 million by internal experts and – where necessary – with the help of (2017: €8.8 million), mainly to settle obligations to pay for subsidthird-party reports prepared using state-of-the-art techniques ence damage and to secure mines. and in compliance with current legal requirements. Since some of the settlement dates are in the future, there may be differences Provisions totalling €60.2 million (2017: €30.3 million) were rebetween actual and estimated expenses, even though great care versed, largely from provisions for maintaining tailings piles and is taken in applying these techniques. These differences may arise, mine and shaft backfilling. for example, from different cost trends, technological advances or changes in legal requirements. These circumstances are taken into account by regularly recalculating the provisions required. (23) NON-CURRENT PERSONNEL OBLIGATIONS The carrying amount of provisions for anniversary bonuses is €31.4 million (2017: €30.7 million) and therefore represents a significant item under non-current personnel obligations. They 196 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS are recognised for future payments in connection with 25, 40 and (24) CURRENT PROVISIONS 50-year service anniversaries. They are measured using the proObligations arising from sales transactions relate primarily to disjected unit credit method. Calculations are based on a d ­ iscount counts and price concessions; provisions for outstanding invoices rate of 2.0% (2017: 2.0%) with an anticipated annual ­increase in are recognised on the basis of purchase contracts. Current person­salaries and wages of 1.8% (2017: 1.8%). In addition, plan a ­ ssets for nel obligations mostly consist of provisions for performance-reobligations from working lifetime accounts amounted to €20.1 millated remuneration and provisions for untaken vacation leave lion (2017: €9.4 million), which are largely financed by plan ­assets and non-working shifts. amounting to €19.3 million (2017: €0 million). As at the bal‘Employees’, page 53 ; ance sheet date, the provision recognized as a total amounted ‘Remuneration Report’, page 134 to €0.8 million (2017: €9.4 million). (25) FINANCIAL LIABILITIES The following tables show the liquidity analysis of financial ­liabilities in the form of contractually agreed, undiscounted cash flows: TAB. 3.64, 3.65 LIQUIDITY ANALYSIS OF NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES IN 2018 TAb. 3.64 Cash flows Remaining Remaining maturity Remaining 2018 carrying maturity > 1 year and maturity in € million amount 2018 total < 1 year < 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 3,283.5 3,603.9 623.8 2,370.3 609.8 – of which bonds 2,240.5 2,539.5 73.6 1,856.1 609.8 – of which promissory note loans 764.3 784.2 332.7 451.5 – – of which commercial paper 179.0 179.0 179.0 – – – of which liabilities to banks 99.7 101.2 38.5 62.7 – Trade payables 239.7 239.7 238.6 0.5 0.6 Liabilities from finance leases 164.2 187.7 16.9 119.7 51.1 Other non-derivative financial liabilities 70.5 70.5 70.5 – – Non-derivative financial liabilities 3,757.7 4,101.8 949.8 2,490.5 661.5 LIQUIDITY ANALYSIS OF NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES IN 2017 TAb. 3.65 Cash flows Remaining Remaining maturity Remaining 2017 carrying maturity > 1 year and maturity in € million amount 2017 total < 1 year < 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 3,021.7 3,310.0 648.4 1,991.9 669.7 – of which bonds 2,142.4 2,401.1 569.6 1,202.4 629.1 – of which promissory note loans 763.8 791.9 7.7 743.6 40.6 – of which liabilities to banks 115.5 117.0 71.1 45.9 – Trade payables 288.4 288.4 286.8 1.0 0.6 Further Information Liabilities from finance leases 173.0 202.0 21.8 119.2 61.0 Other non-derivative financial liabilities 62.9 62.9 62.9 – – Non-derivative financial liabilities 3,546.0 3,863.3 1,019.9 2,112.1 731.3 k+s Annual Report 2018 197 The bonds and promissory note loans issued break down as folTables 3.67 and 3.68 show the Group’s liquidity analysis for delows: TAB. 3.66 rivative financial liabilities. The table is based on non-discounted gross cash which are settled on a gross basis. TAB. 3.67, 3.68 ISSUED BONDS 1 AND PROMISSORY LOAN NOTES TAb. 3.66 2017 2018 Nominal Nominal Nominal Nominal amount ­interest rate amount ­interest rate in € million p. a. in € million p. a. 2012/22 bond 500 3.000% 500 3.000% 2013/18 bond 500 3.125% – – 2013/21 bond 500 4.125% 500 4.125% 2017/23 bond 625 2.625% 625 2.625% 2018/24 bond – – 600 3.250% Average around Average around Promissory note loans (fixed, mature 2019 – 23) 482 ca. 1% 482 ca. 1% Promissory note loans (floating, mature 2019 – 22) 283 Basis EURIBOR 283 Basis EURIBOR 1 In addition, there is a USD bond taken over in 2009 as part of the acquisition of MORTON SALT with a nominal value of USD 22.6 million and a maturity date in 2020. Interest and principal payments resulting from this bond are to be paid by ROHM & HAAS and are covered by a contractual bank guarantee. Reimbursement claims for payments of interest and principal resulting from this legal construct are reported under “Other financial assets”, both current and non-current. LIQUIDITY ANALYSIS OF DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES IN 2018 TAb. 3.67 Cash flows Remaining 2018 Remaining maturity Remaining carrying 2018 maturity > 1 year and maturity in € million amount total < 1 year < 5 years > 5 years Currency derivatives –26.6 –7.8 –7.7 –0.2 – Payment obligation 1 –1,623.1 –1,546.0 –77.1 – Payment claim 1 1,615.3 1,538.4 76.9 – 1 Translation of payment transactions in foreign currency at the spot rate. LIQUIDITY ANALYSIS OF DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES IN 2017 TAb. 3.68 Cash flows Remaining 2017 Remaining maturity Remaining carrying 2017 maturity > 1 year and maturity in € million amount total < 1 year < 5 years > 5 years Currency derivatives –7.6 –31.6 –31.6 – – Payment obligation 1 –539.8 –539.8 – – Payment claim 1 508.2 508.2 – – 1 Translation of payment transactions in foreign currency at the spot rate. 198 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (26) FURTHER DISCLOSURES ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments: TAB. 3.69 CARRYING AMOUNTS AND FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS TAB. 3.69 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 Measurement Measurement category category in accordance Carrying in accordance Carrying in € million with IAS 39 amount Fair value with IFRS 9 amount Fair value Fair value through ­other Shares in affiliated companies ­comprehensive and other equity investments Available for sale 20.6 20.6 income 88.8 88.8 Loans and Loans receivables 0.4 0.4 Amortised cost 0.3 0.3 Financial investments 21.0 21.0 89.1 89.1 Loans and Trade receivables receivables 714.9 714.9 Amortised cost 836.7 836.7 Held Fair value through Derivatives with positive fair values for trading 45.0 45.0 profit or loss 13.0 13.0 Loans and Other non-derivative financial assets receivables 109.0 109.0 Amortised cost 109.4 109.4 Other financial assets 154.0 154.0 122.4 122.4 Loans and Securities and other financial investments receivables 11.4 11.4 Amortised cost 11.2 11.2 Fair value through ­other Available ­comprehensive Securities and other financial investments for sale 7.0 7.0 income 7.0 7.0 Loans and Cash and cash equivalents receivables 182.6 182.6 Amortised cost 167.6 167.6 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost 3,021.7 3,153.6 Amortised cost 3,283.3 3,315.2 Financial liabilities Trade payables at amortised cost 288.4 288.4 Amortised cost 239.7 239.7 Held Fair value through Derivatives with negative fair values for trading 7.6 7.6 profit or loss 32.3 32.3 Financial liabilities Other non-derivative financial liabilities at amortised cost 62.9 62.9 Amortised cost 70.6 70.6 Liabilities from finance leases IFRS 7 173.0 173.0 IFRS 7 164.2 164.2 Other financial liabilities 243.5 243.5 267.1 267.1 Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 199 The carrying amounts of the financial instruments, aggregated cost of capital has been used for discounting purposes. Changes according to IAS 39/IFRS 9 measurement categories, are as folin future results or the cost of capital will have a corresponding lows: TAB. 3.70 ­effect on the present value calculation. The table below shows the changes in fair values in the financial year under review. TAB. 3.73 The fair values of the financial instruments are mostly based on the market information available on the balance sheet date. They The fair values of shares in affiliated companies and other longcan be allocated to one of the three levels of the fair value hierterm equity investments break down as follows (2017: valuation archy of IFRS 13. at cost): TAB. 3.74 Level 1 financial instruments are measured on the basis of quoted The derivative financial instruments primarily consist of currency prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level derivatives (forward exchange contracts, options). The fair value 2 financial instruments are measured on the basis of inputs that of forward exchange contracts is calculated by estimating future can be derived from observable market data, or on the basis of cash flows based on the quoted forward exchange rates as at the market prices for similar instruments. Level 3 financial instruments reporting date and the agreed forward exchange rates, which are are measured on the basis of inputs that cannot be derived from subsequently discounted at an interest rate matching the respecobservable market data. tive maturities and currencies. Recognised option pricing ­models are applied when determining the fair value of currency options, Tables 3.71 and 3.72 show the assets and liabilities measured at using inputs observed in the market on the reporting date (in fair value: TAB. 3.71, Tab. 3.72 particular exchange rate, interest rate, volatility). In addition, the risk of counterparty default is taken into account when performThe shares in affiliated companies and other long-term equity ing the calculations. investments shown in the table have not been consolidated due to immateriality. They are always held for the long term and not In the case of trade receivables, other non-derivative financial for trading. For this reason, the OCI option was exercised, which assets and cash and cash equivalents, the carrying amounts allows changes in fair value to be recognised in other compre­correspond to their fair values, because these instruments mosthensive income without reclassifying them to the income stately have short maturities. ment on disposal. Fair value was calculated as the present value of the figures in the latest three-year results planning (mid-term The fair values of securities and other financial investments planning) and a subsequent perpetual annuity. The Company’s ­correspond to the present values of the cash flows associated with these balance sheet items (Level 2). Carrying amounts of financial instruments aggregated by measurement category TAB. 3.70 Measurement category in accordance with IAS 39 Measurement category in accordance with IFRS 9 in € million 2017 in € million 2018 Fair value through other Available-for-sale financial assets 27.6 comprehensive income 95.8 Amortised cost Loans and receivables 1,018.3 (financial assets) 1,125.2 Fair value through profit or loss Financial assets held for trading 45.0 (financial assets) 13.0 Amortised cost Financial liabilities at amortised cost 3,373.1 (financial liabilities) 3,593.6 Fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities held for trading 7.6 (financial liabilities) 32.3 200 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASSETS AND LIABILITIES MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE TAb. 3.71 Measurement category in accordance with IFRS 9 2018 in € million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets – 20.0 88.8 108.8 Shares in affiliated companies and other Fair value through other long-term equity investments comprehensive income – – 88.8 88.8 Derivative financial instruments Fair value through profit or loss – 13.0 – 13.0 Fair value through other Securities and other financial investments comprehensive income – 7.0 – 7.0 Equity and liabilities – 32.3 – 32.3 Derivative financial instruments Fair value through profit or loss – 32.3 – 32.3 ASSETS AND LIABILITIES MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE TAB. 3.72 Measurement category in accordance with IAS 39 2017 in € million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets – 52.0 – 52.0 Derivative financial instruments Held for trading – 45.0 – 45.0 Securities and other financial investments Available for sale – 7.0 – 7.0 Equity and liabilities – 7.6 – 7.6 Derivative financial instruments Held for trading – 7.6 – 7.6 RECONCILIATION OF SHARES IN BREAKDOWN OF NON-CONSOLIDATED NON-CONSOLIDATED AFFILIATED COMPANIES SHARES IN AFFILIATED COMPANIES AND OTHER EQUITY ­I NVESTMENTS (LEVEL 3) TAB. 3.73 AND OTHER EQUITY INVESTMENTS TAB. 3.74 in € million 2018 in € million 2017 2018 As at 1 January (adjusted to IFRS 9) 72.2 Subsidiaries in Germany 5.9 8.1 Additions 6.7 Subsidiaries in Europe Disposals 0.8 (excluding Germany) 2.5 49.5 Measurement gains/losses (other comprehensive income) 10.7 Subsidiaries in rest of world 12.1 25.8 Disposal gains/losses (other comprehensive income) – Joint ventures and associates 0.1 5.5 Currency translation differences – Total 20.6 88.8 Transfers (from/to Level 3) – As at 31 December 88.8 Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 201 Net gains/losses on financial instruments TAB. 3.75 Measurement category in accordance with IAS 39 Measurement category in accordance with IFRS 9 in € million 2017 in € million 2018 Fair value through other Available-for-sale financial assets 4.5 comprehensive income 14.9 Loans and receivables –39.8 Amortised cost (financial assets) 4.5 Financial assets and liabilities held for trading 28.9 Fair value through profit or loss –36.7 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 71.8 Amortised cost (financial liabilities) –29.6 In the case of financial liabilities, fair value is based on market trading consist mainly of effects arising from the fair value measprices, if active markets exist (Level 1); if not, the present value urement and realisation of derivative financial instruments. Net of f­ uture cash flows is used (Level 2). They are discounted using gains/losses on financial liabilities measured at ­amortised cost ­market interest rates with matching maturities. come mainly from the effects of currency translation. In the case of trade payables and other non-derivative financial Total interest income and expenses for financial assets and liabilliabilities, it is assumed that the carrying amounts correspond to ities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income the fair values of these instruments, because these instruments were as follows: TAB. 3.76 mostly have short maturities. LIQUIDITY RISK For loans and liabilities from finance leases, we assume that A liquidity risk entails the failure to procure the financial means ­carrying amounts correspond to fair values, because differences needed to meet payment obligations or the inability to do so in between market interest rates and discount rates are not material. a timely manner. External factors, especially a general financial crisis, could make it impossible to replace credit lines or bonds on The table 3.75 shows the net gains or losses on financial instruacceptable commercial terms should the need arise. There would ments: TAB. 3.75 also be a risk that the cost of procuring liquidity would rise. For this reason, the principal objective of our liquidity management Net gains/losses on available-for-sale or fair value of other­­income activities is to ensure the ability to make payments at any givfinancial assets primarily comprise gains or losses on dividend en time. Liquidity is managed by the Central Treasury unit using distributions and from 2018 measurement gains or losses on a Group-wide cash pooling system. The liquidity requirement is non-consolidated shares in affiliated companies and other ­equity investments. Net gains/losses on loans and receivables or ­financial assets recognized at amortized cost mainly include the effects of Interest result from financial instruments TAB. 3.76 currency translation and changes in allowances. Net gains/lossin € million 2017 2018 es on fair value measured financial assets and liabilities held for Interest income 10.5 11.4 Interest expenses before capitalization of borrowing interest 85.5 104.3 Capitalized borrowing costs 51.7 17.5 Interest expenses after Capitalization of borrowing interest 33.8 86.8 202 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS determined in our liquidity planning. Available liquidity amountThere were floating-rate liabilities as at the reporting date. ed to €1,187.0 million as at 31 December 2018 (2017: €1,141.0 million); it ­consisted of short-term investments and cash and cash An increase in the reference interest rate by one percentage ­equivalents as well as the undrawn part of our syndicated credit point would have led to further interest charges of €2.2 million line, which matures in 2020. for non-current floating-rate liabilities as at the balance sheet ‘Financial Risks and Opportunities’, page 123 date (2017: €2.1 million). The purchased interest rate caps would have reduced this effect to an interest charge of €0.2 million. As RISK OF DEFAULT in the previous year, a decrease in the reference interest rate by The vast majority of customer receivables are hedged against one percentage point would have had no impact on the interest ­default risk with appropriate insurance coverage and o ­ ther expenses for non-current floating-rate liabilities. ­hedging instruments. We only waive a security against non-­ payment following a critical review of the customer relationship In addition to receivables and liabilities denominated in Group and specific approval. The vast majority of unsecured receivables currency, there are also items in foreign currency. Under IFRS 7, are ­receivables from public-sector customers. exchange rate risks must be presented using sensitivity analysis. ‘Financial Risks and Opportunities’, page 123 If the euro had been 10% stronger or weaker against foreign currencies (mainly US dollar), the carrying amount of the net posiDefault risks also exist with regard to partners with which we have tion of foreign currency receivables and liabilities would have inconcluded hedging transactions, credit lines exist or money was creased or decreased by €32.1 million (2017: €16.8 million) through invested. A potential default of a bank or other party could have profit or loss. an adverse effect on the financial position. As at the balance sheet date, there were also investments for MARKET RISKS which collateral had been provided by the counterparties, normalInterest rate risk arises from a change in market interest rates, ly banks. They relate to repo transactions that have the features of which may have an impact on interest payable or receivable, and secured term investments. The terms and limits for the collateral, also on the fair values of financial instruments. This may also which cannot be appropriated for any other purpose, are agreed ­impact on earnings or equity. Under IFRS 7, interest rate risk must with the counterparty on the basis of a collateral basket, which be presented using sensitivity analysis. This analysis is based on is primarily defined by asset class, rating, country and currency. the following assumptions: The lending value up to which the collateral is taken into account ++ The effect on earnings or equity identified by way of sensi­depends on the above criteria, i.e. if the rating or ­tradability of the tivity analysis relates to the total as at the balance sheet date collateral declines, the lending value decreases, and a ­ dditional and demonstrates the hypothetical effect over one year, collateral has to be provided. The appropriate terms and limits of ++ Changes in market interest rates for primary financial the eligible collateral are based on our internal monitoring, which ­instruments with variable interest rates have an impact on always takes the rating and the level of credit default insurance net ­interest and are taken into account in an earnings-based (using credit default swaps) into account. ­sensitivity analysis, ++ Changes in market interest rates for primary financial instruments with fixed interest rates that are measured at amor(27) INFORMATION ON CAPITAL MANAGEMENT tised cost do not have an impact on earnings or equity and The aim of capital management in the K+S GROUP is to ensure and are therefore not taken into account during the sensitivity efficiently control liquidity across the Group, maintain and optianalysis. While these instruments are subject to interest rate mise financing capability and reduce financial risk. risk on reinvestment, this is not taken into account in the sen‘Financial position’, page 98 sitivity analysis carried out as at the balance sheet date. ‘Financial Risks and Opportunities’, page 123 Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 203 Key indicators of the capital structure 1 TAB. 3.77 in € million 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Net debt/EBITDA 2, 3 ratio 1.8 2.3 6.9 7.2 7.3 Net debt/equity (%) 40.9 55.9 78.7 99.5 107.2 Equity ratio (%) 50.6 51.9 47.2 42.7 41.6 1 See “Definition of financial indicators used” on page 234. 2 EBITDA is derived in “Notes to the Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income” on page 174. 3 The EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation, adjusted by the depreciation and amortisation amount not recognised in profit and loss in the context of own work capitalised, earnings arising from changes in the fair market value of outstanding operating anticipatory hedges, changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges recognised in prior periods and in the prior year profit/loss from currency hedging for capital expenditure in Canada. The financial policy instruments for meeting these aims include exclusively to uncompleted capital expenditure projects in propfinancing measures that involve both equity and borrowings. All erty, plant and equipment. For additional financial liabilities due financing measures in the Company, which also include cash, curto leasing, see the disclosures in Note (29). rency and interest rate management, are coordinated and managed by the Central Treasury unit. (29) LEASES Capital management is guided by financial indicators such as net Certain technical equipment and machinery, such as supply netdebt/EBITDA ratio, net debt/equity and the equity ratio. TAB. 3.77 works, dedicated railway sidings, railway goods carriages, is used in the context of finance leases; it is capitalised because benefiThe managed capital is as follows as at the reporting date: cial ownership of the leased asset is attributable to the K+S GROUP. TAB. 3.78 Specifically, this applies to the following items: TAB. 3.79 The relevant payment obligations from finance leases are due as (28) CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND OTHER shown in table 3.81. TAB. 3.81 FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS In the K+S GROUP, general business activities are associated with a The K+S GROUP only acts as lessor to an insignificant extent. number of risks, for which provisions have been recognised, provided that the conditions for recognition according to IAS 37 have been met. In addition, there is an obligation to disclose contingent liabilities. Contingent liabilities are possible obligations, which LEASE ASSETS TAB. 3.79 are not recognised in the balance sheet, because it is less probain € million 2017 2018 ble that they will be used. In 2018, contingent liabilities amountLand, land rights and buildings 0.2 0.1 ed to around €20.6 million (2017: around €16.0 million), resulting Technical equipment and machinery 235.5 216.9 mainly from legal risks. Ships 0.8 0.7 ‘Financial Risks and Opportunities’, page 123 Prepayments and assets under construction – – In 2018, liabilities from uncompleted capital expenditure projects Total 236.5 217.7 totalled €178.3 million (2017: €148.1 million). They related almost OBLIGATIONS FROM OPERATING LEASES MANAGED CAPITAL TAB. 3.78 (NOMINAL VALUES) TAB. 3.80 in € million 2017 2018 in € million 2017 2018 Equity 4,160.7 4,144.1 – due in the following year 45.2 40.0 Non-current liabilities 4,240.2 4,528.4 – due within 2–5 years 102.7 101.3 Current liabilities 1,353.5 1,293.7 – due after 5 years 92.3 78.8 Total 240.2 220.0 204 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS LEASE Obligations TAB. 3.81 Minimum lease payments Included interest share Leasing obligations in € million 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Maturity < 1 year 21.8 16.9 2.6 1.2 19.2 15.7 Maturity 2–5 years 119.2 119.7 11.2 12.0 108.0 107.7 Maturity > 5 years 61.0 51.1 15.2 10.3 45.8 40.8 Total 202.0 187.7 29.0 23.5 173.0 164.2 The K+S GROUP is also a lessee in operating leases. Given the relNOTES TO THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT evant contractual arrangements, these assets are not recognised as non-current assets. Operating lease expenses incurred in 2018 amounted to €53.2 million (2017: €54.2 million). The nomThe cash flow statement is presented on page 148. No cash transinal amount of future minimum lease payments from non-canactions from discontinued operations had to be included. cellable operating leases is allocated to future periods as follows: ‘Financial position’, page 98 TAB. 3.80 The main operating leases relate to vehicles, office premises, storage capacity, technical equipment and machinery and railway NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS TAB. 3.82 goods carriages. in € million 2017 2018 Cash and cash equivalents Both finance and operating leases sometimes contain lease re(as recognised in balance sheet) 182.6 167.6 newal and/or purchase options and price adjustment clauses. In Cash deposits received from the case of operating leases, the price of exercising the purchase affiliated companies –6.9 –5.4 option is not significantly lower than the fair value of the assets Net cash and cash equivalents 175.7 162.2 concerned at the time the option can be exercised. RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES TAB. 3.83 Carrying Cash flows Changes Carrying amount from financing to the scope of Additions to Changes in amount in € million 1 Jan 2018 activities (net) consolidation ­finance leases exchange rates Other effects 31 Dec 2018 Bonds 2,142.4 101.1 – – 0.9 –3.9 2,240.5 Promissory note loans 763.8 – – – – 0.5 764.3 Commercial Paper – 179.0 – – – – 179.0 Liabilities to banks 115.5 –15.9 – – 0.1 – 99.7 Total financial liabilities (as recognized in balance sheet) 3,021.7 264.2 – – 1.0 –3.4 3,283.5 Liabilities from finance leases 173.0 –9.8 – 0.5 –6.1 6.6 164.2 Reimbursement claim Morton Salt bond –19.6 – – – –0.9 0.3 –20.2 Total 3,175.1 254.4 – 0.5 –6.0 3.5 3,427.5 Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 205 RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES TAB. 3.84 Carrying Cash flows Changes Carrying amount from financing to the scope of Additions to Changes in amount in € million 1 Jan 2017 activities (net) consolidation ­finance leases exchange rates Other effects 31 Dec 2017 Bonds 1,516.1 625.0 – – –2.7 4.0 2,142.4 Promissory note loans 698.6 65.0 – – – 0.2 763.8 Liabilities to banks 319.8 –204.3 – – – – 115.5 Total financial liabilities (as recognized in balance sheet) 2,534.5 485.7 – – –2.7 4.2 3,021.7 Liabilities from finance leases 50.7 –16.6 – 139.6 –6.2 5.4 173.0 Reimbursement claim Morton Salt bond –22.6 – – – 2.7 0.3 –19.6 Total 2,562.6 469.1 – 139.6 –6.2 9.9 3,175.1 (30) OTHER CASH FLOW STATEMENT DISCLOSURES SEGMENT REPORTING DISCLOSURES Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and balances with banks, as well as financial investments with a maturity that generally does not exceed three months from the date of acquisiSegment reporting is presented on page 150. tion. These financial investments consist predominantly of shortterm deposits at credit institutions and other cash-equivalent investments. (31) DEFINITION OF SEGMENTS Segments are defined according to products. This corresponds The inflows and outflows from securities transactions in the cash to the internal organisational and reporting structure of the K+S flow from investing activities result from the investment during GROUP in the financial year 2018. the year or the repayment of cash deposits with residual maturity > three months. The Potash and Magnesium business unit combines the production and marketing of potash fertilizers and fertilizer specialties Cash deposits with affiliated companies are reported under “Other as well as potash and magnesium compounds for technical, infinancial assets” (current) and cash deposits received from affiliated dustrial and pharmaceutical applications. companies are reported under “Other financial liabilities” (current). The Salt business unit encompasses the production and marketDividend payments and profit transfers from non-­consolidated ing of consumer products, salt for food processing, industrial salt companies totalled €4.4 million in the reporting period (2017: and salt for chemical use, de-icing salt and sodium chloride brine. €3.9 million). The Complementary Activities bundle together not only ­recycling As at the balance sheet date, there were liabilities from finance activities and waste disposal and/or reutilisation in potash and leases as well as trade payables and short-term provisions totalrock salt mines and CATSAN® and THOMAS® granulation, but also ing €224.0 million (2017: €300.7 million) resulting from non-cash other activities important for the K+S GROUP. The K+S GROUP additions to property, plant and equipment. These are mainly due has its own logistics service provider: K+S Transport GmbH. to the new Bethune plant. ­Chemische Fabrik Kalk GmbH trades in different basic chemicals. The accounting policies applied to determine the segment ­information are the same as those of the K+S GROUP. 206 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (32) PRINCIPLES OF SEGMENT ASSET EBITDA 1 is used by the K+S GROUP as the most important interAND LIABILITY ALLOCATION nal profitability variable and performance indicator. The calculaAssets, provisions and liabilities are allocated to a segment tion of EBITDA is based on EBIT I. Net interest and tax expense as ­according to their use or origin. If they are used by or originate well as other income and expenses affecting the financial result in more than one segment, they are allocated based on approare not included in the calculation. In addition, certain gains or priate formulas. ­losses arising from operating anticipatory hedging transactions are eliminated, taking tax effects into account (see “Notes to the Financial assets (with the exception of equity interests) and Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income” on non-current financial liabilities are not allocated to segments. page 173). EBITDA is calculated by adding the included depreciation and amortisation to EBIT I, but adjusted for the depreciation and amortisation recognised directly in equity for own work capital(33) PRINCIPLES OF SEGMENT PROFIT ised. In the year under review, the adjusted depreciation and amOR LOSS ALLOCATION ortisation amount recognised directly in equity was €5.9 million The data for determining segment profit or loss is based on in(2017: €24.1 million). come statements produced according to the internal reporting structure of the K+S GROUP. Income statements of the compa1 The EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation, adjusted by the depreciation and amortisation amount not recognised in profit nies included in segment profit or loss are allocated to segments and loss in the context of own work capitalised, earnings arising from changes in the in accordance with profit centre accounting. fair market value of outstanding operating anticipatory hedges, changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges recognised in prior periods and in the prior year profit/loss from currency hedging for capital expenditure in Canada. A reconciliation can be found on page 95. Reconciliation OF SEGMENTS TAB. 3.85 in € million 2017 2018 Reconciliation of segment profit or loss (EBITDA) 1, 2 –47.6 –58.8 EBIT I before consolidation 20.7 214.8 Consolidation effects –77.7 –280.3 Depreciation 9.4 6.7 Reconciliation of segment assets 247.9 255.8 Non-current assets 88.3 110.6 Deferred tax assets 95.2 92.6 Fair values of derivatives 29.0 –12.0 Income tax refund claims 31.7 77.3 Other receivables 91.4 110.5 Cash and cash equivalents 67.3 98.7 Consolidation effects –155.0 –221.8 Reconciliation of segment liabilities 3,510.1 3,607.2 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 28.5 44.7 Other provisions 40.2 42.1 Deferred tax liabilities 252.6 230.1 Fair values of derivatives –5.8 15.3 Financial liabilities 3,021.7 3,283.4 Other liabilities 256.6 241.8 Income tax liabilities 54.6 35.3 Further Information Consolidation effects –138.3 –285.5 1 The reconciliation of EBIT II to operating earnings (EBIT I) and EBITDA is presented in the notes (see “Notes to the Income Statement and the Statement of Comprehensive Income” on page 174). 2 The EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation, adjusted by the depreciation and amortisation amount not recognised in profit and loss in the context of own work capitalised, earnings arising from changes in the fair market value of outstanding operating anticipatory hedges, changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges recognised in prior periods and in the prior year profit/loss from currency hedging for capital expenditure in Canada. k+s Annual Report 2018 207 Business unit profit or loss is presented on a consolidated basis. REVENUES BY REGION TAB. 3.86 Intrasegment supplies of goods and services are consolidated. in € million 2017 2018 Europe 1,586.6 1,655.7 – of which Germany 592.7 602.8 (34) PRINCIPLES OF INTERSEGMENT TRANSFER PRICING North America 1,286.2 1,398.3 Transfer prices for supplies of goods and services between seg– of which USA 998.1 1,031.6 ments are set on an arm’s length basis, as they would be payable by South America 388.5 523.4 an unrelated third party. Transfer pricing methods are documentAsia 291.8 364.6 ed on a timely basis and retained continuously. The comparable Africa, Oceania 73.9 97.1 uncontrolled price method, the resale price method, the cost plus Total revenues 3,627.0 4,039.1 method or a combination of all three may be used when determining transfer prices for goods and services. We select the method that best reflects the way external prices are determined in comparable markets. The allocation is based on the registered office of customers. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in the 2018 and 2017 financial years. (35) ADDITIONAL SEGMENT DISCLOSURES POTASH AND MAGNESIUM PRODUCTS BUSINESS UNIT Provisions amounting to €30.6 million (2017: €23.1 million) were (38) NON-CURRENT ASSETS BY REGION reversed in the reporting period for unused obligations. Insurance The non-current assets of the K+S GROUP comprise intangible pay-outs of €8.7 million (2017: €33.4 million) were recognised as ­assets, property, plant and equipment and investment ­properties. income during the year under review. They break down into regions as follows: TAB. 3.87 SALT BUSINESS UNIT The allocation is based on the location of the relevant assets. Provisions amounting to €4.8 million (2017: €13.6 million) were reversed in the reporting period for unused obligations. Insurance pay-outs of €8.1 million (2017: €13.4 million) were recognised as income during the year under review. The disposal of items of property, plant and equipment resulted in a profit of €28.1 million in 2017. No impairment charges were recognized in the year u ­ nder NON-CURRENT ASSETS BY REGION TAB. 3.87 review (2017: €4.9 million). in € million 2017 2018 Europe 1,760.2 1,861.2 – of which Germany 1,700.4 1,803.4 (36) NOTES TO THE RECONCILIATION ITEMS The reconciliation of segment figures to the corresponding items North America 5,392.0 5,284.4 in the consolidated financial statements of the K+S GROUP includes – of which USA 1,017.1 1,078.8 items allocated to central functions as well as consolidation ef– of which Canada 4,340.0 4,169.7 fects. The main items are: TAB. 3.85 South America 493.8 515.7 – of which Chile 485.6 502.8 Asia 10.9 10.6 (37) REVENUES BY REGION Africa, Oceania 3.8 4.7 The breakdown of the K+S GROUP’s revenues by region is as ­follows: Total assets 7,660.7 7,676.6 TAB. 3.86 208 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER DISCLOSURES For cash-settled share-based payment (LTI II), provisions of €3.8 million (2017: €0 million) were recognised as at 31 December 2018. Personnel expenses from additions to provisions in 2018 amounted Government grants to €3.8 million (2017: €0 million). The investment grants/subsidies reported here relate to amounts received for developing areas in the Federal Republic of ­Germany and North America. For investment grants/subsidies amountRelated Parties ing to €0.5 million (2017: €0 million) the conditions for the Related companies ­appropritation are not (fully) met as of the reporting date. In addition to the subsidiaries included in the consolidated finanTAB. 3.88 cial statements, the K+S Group has relations with other related companies; these include non-consolidated subsidiaries, joint ventures and companies over which the K+S Group can exercise sigGovernment grants TAB. 3.88 nificant influence (associates). A complete summary of all related in € million 2017 2018 companies can be found in the list of shareholdings on page 212. Investment grants/subsidies 1.7 0.7 Government grants 1.7 0.7 Table 3.89 shows K+S Group transactions with non-consolidated subsidiaries in the reporting period. The transactions were conducted at arm’s length. TAB. 3.89 Share-based payment programme (IFRS 2) The K+S Group’s share-based payment programme is a cash-setTrade revenues are mostly the result of goods sold by consolidated tled share-based payment plan that forms a component of perforcompanies to foreign distribution companies. Goods and ­services mance-related pay (LTI II programme). The share-based payment received largely consist of supplies of explosives and chemical programme (LTI II) went live on 1 January 2018. A new programme products by a German subsidiary as well as commissions invoiced begins on 1 January of each year. Eligible to join the programme by foreign distribution companies. are non-payscale managers and specialists who have an active contract of employment as at 1 January of the year concerned, as On 31 December 2018, the outstanding balances in table 3.90 with well as all members of the Board of Executive Directors. non-consolidated subsidiaries were reported: TAB. 3.90 ‘Remuneration report’, page 134 As in the previous year, there were no allowances on receivables The programme has a three-year observation period. Decisive for from affiliated companies as at the balance sheet date. There are the LTI II is the performance of K+S shares (incl. dividends) as comno contingency insurance policies for receivables from non-conpared to the performance of the MDAX (performance index). If the solidated subsidiaries. Banking receivables are the result of centralK+S share price performance is equal to the performance of the ised withdrawals and deposits of cash at K+S Aktiengesellschaft MDAX during the reference period, target achievement is 100%. (cash pooling). As at the balance sheet date, there were no loans If the price performance of the K+S share exceeds or falls short to non-consolidated subsidiaries. of the performance of the MDAX, the percentage rate of target achievement increases or decreases on a linear basis by the same Long-term loans with a book value of €2.8 million (2017: €0 million) percentage. Maximum target achievement is 200% and minimum exist at the reporting date for joint ventures and associated achievement is 0%. The amount to be paid is determined by mulcompanies. tiplying the individual target amount of the eligible beneficiary at the start of the programme by the degree of target achievement of the respective completed programme. Payment is made in April of the year following the end of the proFurther Information gramme. In the event of termination of an employment contract or reaching retirement age, a discounted pro-rata payment for all current tranches is generally made in April of the following year. k+s Annual Report 2018 209 Related persons Transactions with non-consolidated subsidiaries TAb. 3.89 Related persons are defined as persons who are responsible for the planning, management and monitoring of a company. They inin € million 2017 2018 clude the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board. Trade revenues 29.8 24.4 Goods and services received 20.5 25.7 The remuneration of related persons is presented in the followIncome from dividend payments and profit transfers 4.6 4.3 ing section as well as in the Remuneration Report section in the combined Management Report. There were no other material Other income 0.2 0.2 transactions with related persons. Other expenses 1.4 1.4 The remuneration system for the Board of Executive Directors has the following elements: Balances with non-consolidated subsidiaries TAb. 3.90 ++ regular monthly payments (fixed salary) to which in € million 2017 2018 non-cash benefits are added Receivables from affiliated companies 6.7 6.5 ++ performance-related one-off payment – of which banking receivables – – (STI incl. performance factor) Liabilities to affiliated companies 11.0 10.6 ++ long-term incentive (LTI) programme – of which banking receivables 6.9 5.4 The total remuneration of the Executive Board in the year under review was made up of four members, three of whom were in office year-round. In the previous year, the board consisted of five Related party disclosures (IAS 24) TAB. 3.91 members, three of whom were in office year-round. in € million 2017 2018 Short-term benefits 4.7 3.6 The individual remuneration received by the members of the Post-employment benefits 3.1 2.3 Board of Executive Directors in the 2018 financial year is disclosed Other long-term benefits — — in the Remuneration Report section of the combined ManageTermination benefits ment Report on page 138. of the employment relationship 3.1 — Share-based payment — 0.6 The remuneration system for the Supervisory Board has the folOther transactions with lowing elements: related persons 2.0 2.0 ++ Fixed remuneration ++ Additional fixed remuneration, depending on membership of one or more committees ++ Attendance fees A member of the family of a Supervisory Board member is employed by the K+S Group. Remuneration is in accordance with In addition to the Supervisory Board remuneration, employee the internal remuneration guidelines of the K+S Group and correpresentatives who are employees of the K+S Group receive responds to the usual remuneration of persons in comparable ­remuneration that is not related to activities performed for the positions. ­Supervisory Board. The individual remuneration received by the members of the ­Supervisory Board in the 2018 financial year is disclosed in the Remuneration Report section of the combined Management ­Report on page 142. 210 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Disclosures on remuneration in accordance with section 314 (1) no. 6a of the HGB TAb. 3.92 in € million 2017 2018 Total remuneration of the Supervisory Board 2.1 2.0 – of which fixed 2.1 2.0 Total remuneration of the Board of Executive Directors 4.7 5.1 – of which fixed 2.4 2.2 – of which performance-related 2.1 1.4 – of which share-based payments — 1.6 Total remuneration of former members of the Board of Executive Directors and their surviving dependants 2.1 2.1 Members of the Board of Executive Directors List of Shareholdings in Accordance A list of members of the Board of Executive Directors and its rewith Section 313 of the HGB sponsibilities can be found in the Management Report on page 74; The figures in the following tables also apply to the previous year. this list is also part of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial If there are any deviations, these are commented on in a footnote Statements. on the company concerned. TAB. 3.93 Members of the Supervisory Board A list of members of the Supervisory Board and its committees can be found in the Management Report on page 69; this list is also part of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Shares held in K+S Aktiengesellschaft On 27 December 2018, Dimensional Holdings Inc., Austin (USA), notified us that its share of the voting rights had exceeded the threshold of 3% and that it now holds 3.005% of the company. On 31 December 2018, DWS Investment GmbH, Frankfurt (­Germany), now holds 5.69% of the company. Until the end of February, no other shareholder notified us of shareholdings above the l­egal ­reporting threshold of 3%. Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 211 List of Shareholdings in Accordance with Section 313 of the HGB TAB. 3.93 Interest Share of in % Company’s registered office held ­voting rights Fully consolidated German companies (16 companies) K+S Aktiengesellschaft Kassel Germany – – Chemische Fabrik Kalk GmbH Cologne Germany 100.00 100.00 Deutscher Straßen-Dienst GmbH Hanover Germany 100.00 100.00 esco – european salt company GmbH & Co. KG 1, 2 Hanover Germany 100.00 100.00 esco international GmbH 2 Hanover Germany 100.00 100.00 K+S Bahamas Salt Asset Management GmbH & Co. KG 1, 7 Kassel Germany 100.00 100.00 K+S Baustoffrecycling GmbH 3 Sehnde Germany 100.00 100.00 K+S Beteiligungs GmbH 2, 3 Kassel Germany 100.00 100.00 K+S Entsorgung GmbH 2, 3 Kassel Germany 100.00 100.00 K+S Kali GmbH 2, 3 Kassel Germany 100.00 100.00 K+S North America Asset Management GmbH 2 Kassel Germany 100.00 100.00 K+S North America Salt Asset Management GmbH & Co. KG 1, 7 Kassel Germany 100.00 100.00 K+S Salz GmbH 2, 3 Hanover Germany 100.00 100.00 K+S Transport GmbH 2, 3 Hamburg Germany 100.00 100.00 K+S Versicherungsvermittlungs GmbH Kassel Germany 100.00 100.00 Kali-Union Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH 2, 3 Kassel Germany 100.00 100.00 Fully consolidated foreign companies (42 companies) Canadian Brine, Ltd. Pointe-Claire Canada 100.00 100.00 Compania Minera Punta de Lobos Ltda. Santiago de Chile Chile 100.00 100.00 Empresa de Servicios Ltda. Santiago de Chile Chile 100.00 100.00 Empresa Maritima S.A. Santiago de Chile Chile 99.59 99.59 esco benelux N.V. Diegem Belgium 100.00 100.00 esco france S.A.S. Levallois-Perret France 100.00 100.00 esco Spain S.L. Barcelona Spain 100.00 100.00 Frisia Zout B.V. Harlingen Netherlands 100.00 100.00 Glendale Salt Development, LLC Chicago USA 100.00 100.00 Inagua General Store, Ltd. Nassau Bahamas 100.00 100.00 Inversiones Columbus Ltda. Santiago de Chile Chile 100.00 100.00 Inversiones Empremar Ltda. Santiago de Chile Chile 100.00 100.00 Inversiones K+S Sal de Chile SpA Santiago de Chile Chile 100.00 100.00 K plus S Salt Australia Pty Ltd Perth Australia 100.00 100.00 K+S Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 100.00 100.00 K+S Belgium Holding B.V.B.A. Diegem Belgium 100.00 100.00 K+S Canada Holdings Ltd. Vancouver Canada 100.00 100.00 K+S Chile S.A. Santiago de Chile Chile 99.64 99.64 K+S Czech Republic a.s. Prague Czech Republic 100.00 100.00 K+S Finance Belgium BVBA Diegem Belgium 100.00 100.00 K+S Finance Ltd. St. Julians Malta 100.00 100.00 K+S France S.A.S. DombasleFrance 100.00 100.00 sur-Meurthe K+S (Huludao) Magnesium Products Co. Ltd. Huludao China 100.00 100.00 K+S Investments Ltd. St. Julians Malta 100.00 100.00 212 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS List of Shareholdings in Accordance with Section 313 of the HGB TAB. 3.93 Interest Share of in % Company’s registered office held ­voting rights K+S KALI France S.A.S. Reims France 100.00 100.00 K+S KALI Wittenheim S.A.S. Wittenheim France 100.00 100.00 K+S Montana Holdings, LLC Chicago USA 100.00 100.00 K+S Netherlands Holding B.V. Harlingen Netherlands 100.00 100.00 K+S North America Corporation Chicago USA 100.00 100.00 K+S Perú S.A.C. Lima Peru 100.00 100.00 K+S Potash Canada General Partnership Vancouver Canada 100.00 100.00 K+S Salt LLC Chicago USA 100.00 100.00 K+S Windsor Salt Ltd. Vancouver Canada 100.00 100.00 Montana US Parent Inc. Chicago USA 100.00 100.00 Morton Bahamas Ltd. Nassau Bahamas 100.00 100.00 Morton Salt, Inc. Chicago USA 100.00 100.00 Salina Diamante Branco Ltda. Rio de Janeiro Brazil 100.00 100.00 Salines Cérébos S.A.S. Levallois-Perret France 100.00 100.00 Servicios Maritimos Patillos S.A. Santiago de Chile Chile 100.00 100.00 Servicios Portuarios Patillos S.A. Santiago de Chile Chile 99.89 99.89 VATEL Companhia de Produtos Alimentares S.A. Alverca Portugal 100.00 100.00 Weeks Island Landowner, LLC Chicago USA 100.00 100.00 Non-consolidated German companies (7 companies) 4 4. K+S Verwaltungs GmbH Kassel Germany 100.00 100.00 Beienrode Bergwerks-GmbH Kassel Germany 89.81 89.81 esco Verwaltungs GmbH Hanover Germany 100.00 100.00 Ickenroth GmbH Staudt Germany 100.00 100.00 K+S An-Instituts Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH Kassel Germany 100.00 100.00 MSW-Chemie GmbH Langelsheim Germany 100.00 100.00 Wohnbau Salzdetfurth GmbH Bad Salzdetfurth Germany 100.00 100.00 Non-consolidated foreign companies (17 companies) 4 Al Biariq for Fertilizer Plant Co. Ltd. 8 Riyadh Saudi Arabia 30.00 30.00 Imperial Thermal Products, Inc. Chicago USA 100.00 100.00 ISX Oil & Gas Inc. Calgary Canada 100.00 100.00 K plus S Africa (Pty) Ltd. Johannesburg South Africa 100.00 100.00 K plus S Middle East FZE Jebel Ali, Dubai United Arab 100.00 100.00 Emirates K+S Brasileira Fertilizantes e Produtos Industriais Ltda. São Paulo Brazil 100.00 100.00 K+S Denmark Holding ApS Hellerup Denmark 100.00 100.00 K+S Entsorgung (Schweiz) AG Delémont Switzerland 100.00 100.00 K+S Fertilizers (India) Private Limited New Delhi India 100.00 100.00 K+S Italia S.r.L. Verona Italy 100.00 100.00 K+S Legacy GP Inc. Vancouver Canada 100.00 100.00 K+S Mining Argentina S.A. Buenos Aires Argentina 100.00 100.00 K+S Polska Sp. z o.o. Poznan Poland 100.00 100.00 K+S UK & Eire Ltd. Hertford United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 213 List of Shareholdings in Accordance with Section 313 of the HGB TAB. 3.93 Interest Share of in % Company’s registered office held ­voting rights Kali AG Frauenkappelen Switzerland 100.00 100.00 OOO K+S Rus Moscow Russian Federation 100.00 100.00 Shenzhen K+S Trading Co. Ltd. Shenzhen China 100.00 100.00 Associates and joint ventures (4 companies) 5 Börde Container Feeder GmbH Haldensleben Germany 33.30 33.30 Grainpulse Limited Kampala Uganda 44.00 44.00 Morton China National Salt (Shanghai) Salt Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 45.00 45.00 Werra Kombi Terminal Betriebsgesellschaft mbH Philippsthal Germany 50.00 50.00 Other equity investments (6 companies) 6 Fachschule f. Wirtschaft und Technik Gem. GmbH Clausthal Germany 9.40 9.40 Lehrter Wohnungsbau GmbH Lehrte Germany 6.67 6.67 Nieders. Gesellschaft zur Endablagerung von Sonderabfall mbH Hanover Germany 0.10 0.10 Poldergemeinschaft Hohe Schaar Hamburg Germany 8.66 8.66 Pristav Pardubice a.s. Pardubice Czech Republic 0.41 0.41 Zoll Pool Hamburg AG Hamburg Germany 1.43 1.43 1 Exemption of section 264b of the HGB applied. 2 Exemption of section 291 of the HGB applied. 3 Exemption of section 264(3) of the HGB applied. 4 Not consolidated due to immateriality. 5 Not equity-accounted due to immateriality. 6 Amount of equity and prior-year profit/loss not disclosed due to immateriality. 7 Unlimited liability of the parent company or another consolidated company. 8 Control assumed on the basis of potential voting rights. Auditor’s fees Declaration of Conformity with the German The audit services include the audit of the consolidated financial Corporate Governance Code statements and annual financial statements of all consolidated The declaration of conformity pursuant to section 161 of the German companies. The other assurance services relate primarily ­German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz, AktG) with the recto the issuance of comfort letters, energy law compliance audits ommendations of the Government Commission on the German and the EMIR audit. The auditor provided tax advisory of €20,000 Corporate Governance Code was issued by the Board of Executive as well as other consultancy services amounting to €10,000. Directors and the Supervisory Board of K+S Aktiengesellschaft for 2018/2019. It is available to shareholders on the K+S Group webAuditor’s fees TAB. 3.94 site (www.k-plus-s.com) and also published on page 77 of the comin € million 2017 2018 bined Management Report. Audit services 0.7 0.8 Other assurance services 0.4 0.4 Auditor's fees 1.1 1.2 Events after the Balance Sheet Date No significant changes have occurred in the general economic environment or in the situation of the industry since the end of the financial year under review. Kassel, 5 March 2019 K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 214 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To K+S Aktiengesellschaft, Kassel REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED with the consolidated financial statements, ­complies with FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE COMBINED German legal requirements and suitably ­presents the oppor­ MANAGEMENT REPORT tunities and risks of future development. Our audit opinion on the combined management report does not extend to the content of the parts of the combined ­management report detailed in the Annex to the independent auditor’s report. Audit opinions We audited the consolidated financial statements of K+S AKTIEN­ Pursuant to Section 322(3) Sentence 1 of the HGB, we state that GESELLSCHAFT, Kassel, and its subsidiaries (the Group), which our audit has not led to any reservations with respect to the ­comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018, ­propriety of the consolidated financial statements and the com­ the consolidated income statement and statement of compre­ bined ­management report. hensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in ­equity and the consolidated statements of cash flows for the financial year from 1 January 2018 through 31 December 2018 as well as the BASIS FOR THE AUDIT OPINIONS notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a sum­ mary of significant accounting policies. In addition, we ­audited the group management report of K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT, K ­ assel, We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements which is combined with the company’s management report, for and the combined management report in accordance with Sec­ the financial year from 1 January 2018 through 31 December 2018. tion 317 of the HGB and the EU Audit Regulation (No. 537/2014; In c­ onformity with German legal regulations, we have not au­ hereinafter referred to as “EU Audit Regulation”), and generally dited the parts of the combined management report specified accepted German standards for the audit of financial statements in the Annex to the independent auditor’s report with regard to promulgated by the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany (Insti­ their content. tut der Wirtschaftsprüfer, IDW). Our responsibilities under these ­requirements and principles are further described in the Section In our opinion, based on our knowledge obtained during the “Auditor’s responsibility for the audit of the consolidated finan­ audit, cial statements and the combined management report” of our ++ the accompanying consolidated financial statements com­ report. We are independent of the group companies in accord­ ply with IFRS as adopted by the EU and the supplementary ance with European and German commercial law and rules of ­German legal regulations to be applied in accordance with professional conduct and we have fulfilled our other ethical re­ Section 315e(1) of the HGB (German Commercial Code) in all sponsibilities applicable in Germany in accordance with these material respects and give a true and fair view of the Group’s requirements. In addition, pursuant to Article 10(2) lit. f EU Audit net assets and financial position as of 31 December 2018 as Regulation, we d ­ eclare that we have not provided any prohibited well as its results of operations for the financial year from non-audit s­ ervices pursuant to Article 5(1) EU Audit Regulation. We 1 January 2018 through 31 December 2018 in accordance with believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and these requirements and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions on the consol­ ++ the accompanying combined management report as a whole idated financial statements and combined management report. Further Information provides a suitable view of the Group’s position. In all materi­ al respects, this combined management report is ­consistent k+s Annual Report 2018 215 KEY AUDIT MATTERS IN THE AUDIT OF THE The disclosures about the mining provisions are contained in CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ­Section 22 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements b) In the course of our audit, we critically assessed the devel­ Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judg­ opment of the liabilities reported in the previous year and ment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated ­analysed the measures taken by the legal representatives to financial statements for the financial year from 1 January 2018 assess the completeness and valuation of the mining obli­ through 31 December 2017. These matters were addressed in the gations. In this connection, we examined the structures and context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as ­procedures of the process for establishing mining provisions a whole and in forming our opinion thereon but we do not pro­ with regard to their appropriateness and the effectiveness of vide a separate opinion on these issues. the audit-relevant controls. In doing so, we have prepared our analysis based on our knowledge of the legal, contractual and In the following we present the key audit matters in our view: regulatory r­ equirements, the up-to-dateness of the respective mine stabilisation concepts and cost rates, and our audit results 1. Provisions for mining obligations from the previous year, and examined the current level of the 2. Impairment of goodwill for “Salt America” financial obligations resulting from regulatory requirements 3. Impairment of goodwill for “Potash and Magnesium Products” and mine sealing concepts by means of evidence in the form of correspondence with the mining authorities and individual Our presentation of these key audit matters is structured as audit reports. In examining the discount rate, we received ver­ follows: ification of the applied parameters. a) Description (including reference to corresponding information in the consolidated financial statements) 2. Impairment of goodwill for “Salt America” b) Auditor’s response a) In the consolidated financial statements of K+S Aktienge­ c) Important findings, if applicable sellschaft as of 31 December 2018, goodwill of EUR 663.8 mil­ lion (equivalent to 6.7% of total Group assets) from the cash-generating unit (CGU) “Salt America” is recognised under 1. Mining provisions the balance sheet item “Goodwill from acquisitions of com­ a) In the consolidated financial statements of K+S Aktien­ panies.” The company subjects this material item of good­ gesellschaft as of 31 December 2018, mining provisions will to an impairment test at the CGU level on the closing date of €1,015.1 million (equivalent to 10.2% of total Group assets) are of the financial year. The value in use to be compared to the reported under non-current provisions (€7.3 million is ­reported respective carrying amount is determined according to the under current provisions). Changes in interest rates can signif­ discounted cash flow method using a valuation model. The icantly impact the measurement of this major balance sheet expected future cash flows are discounted using the weight­ item. Due to their long-term nature, furthermore, the provi­ ed cost of capital of the respective cash-generating unit. sions are heavily based on estimates and assumptions by the legal representatives with regard to future cost developments As the result of this valuation depends heavily on the estimates and technological innovations. As estimated values result in of the legal representatives with regard to the future cash flows an increased risk of incorrect information in financial report­ and the applied discount rate and growth rate, this matter was ing and measurement decisions by the legal representatives a special focus of our audit. have a direct and significant impact on the consolidated finan­ cial statements, we rated this matter as particularly significant. The disclosures about goodwill are contained in Section 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 216 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS b) In the course of our audit, we examined the structures and 3. I mpairment of goodwill for “Potash and ­procedures of the process for measuring goodwill with regard Magnesium Products” to their appropriateness and the effectiveness of the audit-­ a) In the consolidated financial statements of K+S Aktien­ relevant controls with the help of valuation specialists. To exgesellschaft as of 31 December 2018, goodwill of EUR 15.7 milamine the appropriateness of the future cash flows used in the lion (equivalent to 0.2% of total Group assets) allocated to the calculation, we, for example, compared these figures with the CGU “Potash and Magnesium Products” is recognized under the ­current budgets from the three-year planning adopted by the balance sheet item “Goodwill from acquisitions of companies.” legal representatives and approved by the supervisory board, as The company subjects this item of goodwill to an impairment well as with general and industry-specific market expectations. test at the CGU level on the closing date of the financial year. The value in use to be compared to the respective carrying amount As even relatively small changes in the applied discount rate can is determined according to the discounted cash flow method have significant effects on the determined value in use, we also using a measurement model. received verification of the parameters applied to d ­ etermine the discount rate, including particularly the risk-free interest The result of this valuation depends heavily on uncertainties rate, the market risk premium and the beta factor, including with regard to the future cash flows and the applied discount the weighted average cost of capital, as well as the assumprate. The uncertainties with regard to the cash flows result from tions on which the model is based, and reconstructed the calthe current state of the potash market and the price developculation scheme for value in use. ment, the legal uncertainties with regard to the discharge of saline wastewater from the Werra plant and the risks pertainDue to the materiality of the goodwill allocated to the CGU “Salt ing to the startup phase of the new potash mine in Bethune. America” and to the fact that the measurement of this goodThis matter was therefore a special focus of our audit. will also depends on the general price development and economic conditions, which cannot be influenced by the Group, we The disclosures about goodwill are contained in Section 12 of ­carried out sensitivity analyses to audit whether the goodwill the notes to the consolidated financial statements. is sufficiently covered by the discounted cash flow surpluses. b) To examine the appropriateness of the future cash flows used We also examined the completeness and accuracy of the inforin the calculation of goodwill, we, for example, compared these mation required to be disclosed in the notes to the consolidatfigures with the current budgets from the planning adopted ed financial statements pursuant to IAS 36. by the legal representatives and approved by the supervisory board, as well as with general and industry-specific market exc) An increase in the discount factor by 1 percentage point to 7.0% pectations, against the background of the current state of the does not cause the carrying amount of the goodwill allocated to potash market and the price development. We also critically “Salt America” to exceed its value in use according to the conevaluated the legal representatives’ assessment of the conseducted sensitivity analysis. quences that the disposal of saline wastewater could have for the Group. With regard to the Bethune site, we compared the projected cash flow surpluses of the CGU through 2030, which take into account the successive establishment of production capacities, with market expectations. Considering that even ­relatively small changes in the applied discount rate can have significant effects on the determined value in use, we also received verification of the parameters applied to determine the discount rate, including particularly the risk-free interest rate, the market risk premium and the beta factor, including the weighted average cost of capital, as well as the assumptions Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 217 on which the model is based, and reconstructed the calcula­ Responsibilities of the legal representatives tion scheme for value in use with regard to consistency and and the Supervisory Board for the consolidated the c­ alculation system. Due to the uncertainties related to the financial statements and the combined goodwill allocated to the CGU “Potash and Magnesium Prod­ management report ucts” and to the fact that the measurement of this goodwill The legal representatives are responsible for the preparation of also depends on the general price development and econom­ the consolidated financial statements which comply with IFRS as ic conditions, which cannot be influenced by the Group, we adopted by the EU and the supplementary requirements of the used sensitivity analyses to determine whether the goodwill German legal regulations pursuant to Section 315e(1) of the HGB is ­sufficiently covered by the discounted cash flow surpluses. in all material respects, so that the consolidated financial state­ ments give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial posi­ We also examined the completeness and accuracy of the infor­ tion, and results of operations of the Group in accordance with mation required to be disclosed in the notes to the consolidat­ these ­requirements. In addition, the legal representatives are ed financial statements pursuant to IAS 36. ­responsible for the internal controls they have identified as nec­ essary in order to enable the preparation of consolidated financial c) An increase in the discount factor by 1 percentage point to statements that are free from material misstatements, whether 7.0 percent does not cause the carrying amount of the good­ intentional or unintentional. will allocated to “Potash and Magnesium Products” to exceed its value in use according to the conducted sensitivity analysis. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the legal ­representatives are responsible for assessing the Group’s a ­ bility to continue as a going concern. Furthermore, they have the Other information ­responsibility to disclose matters relating to the Group’s ability The legal representatives are responsible for the other informa­ to continue as a going concern, if relevant. In addition, they are tion. The other information comprises: ­responsible for using the going concern basis of accounting, ­unless ++ the unaudited sections of the combined management report the intention is to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or mentioned in the Annex to the independent Auditor’s report, there is no realistic alternative but to do so. ++ assurance pursuant to Sections 297(2) Sentence 4 of the HGB to the consolidated financial statements and assurance pur­ In addition, the legal representatives are responsible for the prepa­ suant to Section 315(1) Sentence 5 of the HGB to the group ration of the combined management report, which as a whole management report, and ­provides a suitable view of the Group’s position, is consistent with ++ the remaining components of the annual report, with the ex­ the consolidated financial statements in all material respects, ception of the audited consolidated financial statements and complies with German legal regulations and suitably presents the the combined management report and our Auditor’s Report. opportunities and risks of future development. Furthermore, the legal representatives are responsible for such arrangements and Our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and measures (systems) which they have deemed necessary in order the combined management report do not extend to cover the oth­ to enable the preparation of a combined management report in er information, and accordingly we do not issue an audit opinion accordance with the applicable German legal regulations and to or any other form of assurance conclusion thereon. furnish sufficient and appropriate evidence for the statements in the combined management report. In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial state­ ments, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the Group’s doing so, to consider whether the other information financial reporting process for the preparation of the consolidat­ ++ is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial ed financial statements and the combined management report. statements, the combined management report or our know­ ledge obtained in the audit, or ++ otherwise appears to be substantially misstated. 218 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the ++ evaluate the appropriateness of the accounting policies consolidated financial statements and the used by the legal representatives and the reasonableness of combined management report ­accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about w ­ hether ­legal representatives. the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from ma++ form a conclusion on the appropriateness of the legal repreterial misstatements, whether due to fraud or error, and whether sentatives’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, the combined management report as a whole provides an approbased on the audit evidence obtained, whether a ­material priate view of the Group’s position and, in all material r­ espects, uncertainty exists relating to events or conditions that may is consistent with the findings of the audit, is in ­accordance with cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to c­ ontinue the German legal regulations, and appropriately presents the opas a going concern. If we conclude that there is a materiportunities and risks of future development, as well as to issue an al ­uncertainty, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report that includes our audit opinions on the consolidat­auditor’s r­ eport to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report. ed ­financial statements and combined management report, or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a Our ­conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Section to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events 317 of the HGB and the EU Audit Regulation and generally a ­ ccepted or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a ­German standards for the audit of financial statements promul­going concern. gated by the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany (IDW) will ++ evaluate the overall presentation, structure, and content of always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatethe consolidated financial statements, including the discloments can arise from fraud or error and are considered ­material if, sures, and whether the consolidated financial statements individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be ­expected represent the underlying transactions and events in a manto influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis ner such that the consolidated financial statements give a of these consolidated financial statements and this combined true and fair view of the net assets and financial position management report. as well as the results of operations of the Group in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and the ­supplementary As part of an audit, we exercise professional judgement and main­requirements of German law pursuant to Section 315e(1) of tain professional scepticism. We also the HGB. ++ identify and assess the risks of material misstatements in ++ obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the the consolidated financial statements and in the combined ­financial information of the entities or business activities management report, whether due to fraud or error, design within the Group to express opinions on the consolidated­ and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and ­financial statements and the combined management report. ­obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to We are responsible for the direction, supervision, and perforprovide a basis for our audit opinions. The risk of not detectmance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for ing a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher our audit opinions. than one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, ++ evaluate the consistency of the combined management forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the ­report with the consolidated financial statements, its legal overriding of internal controls. consistency, and the view provided of the Group’s position. ++ obtain an understanding of internal controls relevant to ++ perform audit procedures on the forward-looking informathe audit of the consolidated financial statements and the tion presented by the legal representatives in the combined ­arrangements and measures relevant to the audit of the management report. On the basis of sufficient appropriate combined management report in order to design audit audit evidence, we particularly evaluate the significant as­procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but sumptions underlying the forward-looking information by not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectivethe legal representatives and evaluate the correct derivation Further Information ness of these systems. of forward-looking information from these assumptions. We do not issue an independent opinion on the forward-looking k+s Annual Report 2018 219 information or on the underlying assumptions. There is a OTHER LEGAL AND REGUL ATORY REQUIREMENTS ­significant unavoidable risk that future events will differ ­materially from the forward-looking information. Other information pursuant to Article 10 EU We communicate with those charged with governance among Audit Regulation other matters, on the planned scope and timing of the audit and We were appointed by the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2018 significant audit findings, including any deficiencies in internal to audit the consolidated financial statements. We were engaged control, which we identify during our audit. by the Supervisory Board on 23 August 2018. We have been engaged continuously as the auditors of K+S Aktiengesellschaft, We also provide those charged with governance with a state­Kassel, since the financial year 1972. ment that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements ­regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationWe confirm that the audit opinions contained in this auditor’s reships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear port are consistent with the additional report to the audit commiton our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. tee pursuant to Article 11 EU Audit Regulation (“Prüfungsbericht”). From the matters communicated with those charged with ­governance we determine those matters that were of most ­significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current reporting period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report on the consolidated financial statements unless law or regulation ­precludes public disclosure about the matter. 220 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESPONSIBLE AUDITOR The auditor responsible for the audit is Dr Christian H. Meyer. Hanover, 5 March 2019 Deloitte GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (Heiner Kompenhans) (Dr Christian H. Meyer) Auditor Auditor ANNEX TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT: UNAUDITED PARTS OF THE COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT The content of the following parts of the combined management report has not been audited by us: ++ the Non-Financial Statement contained in the chapter “Non-financial statement” as well as in the chapter “Corporate strategy” in the sections “Sustainability programme”, “K+S Group action areas”, “Concrete sustainability targets through 2030” and “Stakeholder dialogue” as well as in the chapter “Declaration on corporate governance” in the section “Sustainability management” in accordance with Sections 289b-289e of the HGB as well as Sections 315b and 315c of the HGB, ++ the declaration on corporate governance contained in the section “Declaration on Corporate Governance” of the ­combined management report in accordance with Sections 289f and 315d of the HGB. Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 221 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON A LIMITED ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT To the Supervisory Board of the K+S Aktiengesellschaft, Kassel/Germany Our engagement Practionier’s responsibility According to our engagement, we have performed a limited asOur responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on surance engagement on the non-financial Group Report of K+S the Non-Financial Group Report, based on the assurance engage­Aktiengesellschaft, Kassel/Germany, (hereinafter: “the ­Company”) ment we have performed. in accordance with Section 315b German Commercial Code (HGB), for the period from January 1 to 31 December 2018 (hereinafter: We are independent of the Company in accordance with the pro“Non-Financial Group Report”). visions under German commercial law and professional requirements, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in Our engagement has not covered the references on websites of accordance with these requirements. the Company. Our audit company applies the German national legal requirements and the German profession’s pronouncements for quality Responsibility of the executive directors control, in particular the by-laws governing the rights and duties The executive directors of K+S Aktiengesellschaft are responsiof public auditors and chartered accountants (Berufssatzung für ble for the preparation of the Non-Financial Group Report in acWirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer) as well as the IDW cordance with Sections 315b, 315c German Commercial Code (HGB) Standard on Quality Control 1: Requirements for Quality Control in connection with Sections 289b to 289e as well as 315b, 315c in Audit Firms [IDW Qualitätssicherungsstandard 1: Anforderunin connection with Sections 289c to 289e German Commercial gen an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis (IDW Code (HGB). QS 1)], which comply with the International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC 1) issued by the International Auditing and AssurIn preparing the Non-Financial Group Report, the executive ance Standards Board (IAASB). ­directors used the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global ­Reporting Initiative (GRI) stated under the “Core” option and have We conducted our assurance engagement in compliance with the indicated these within the Non-Financial Group Report. International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 ­(Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews The responsibility of the Company’s executive directors includes of Historical Financial Information” issued by the IAASB. This standthe selection and application of appropriate methods for preparard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement ing the Non-Financial Group Report as well as making assumpin a form that enables us to conclude with limited assurance that tions and estimates related to individual non-financial disclosures, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that which are reasonable in the circumstances. In addition, the exthe information disclosed in the Non-Financial Group Report has ecutive directors are responsible for such internal control they not complied, in all material respects, with Sections 315b, 315c in have determined necessary to enable the preparation of the Non-­ connection with Sections 289c to 289e German Commercial Code Financial Group Report that is free from material misstatements, (HGB). In a limited assurance engagement the assurance procewhether intentional or unintentional. dures are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement and, therefore, a substantially lower level of assurance is obtained. The assurance procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s professional judgment. 222 k+s Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Within the scope of our limited assurance engagement, which Purpose of the assurance statement was performed from September 2018 to March 2019, we conductWe issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with ed, amongst others, the following audit procedures and other the Supervisory Board of K+S Aktiengesellschaft. The limited activities: ­assurance engagement has been performed for purposes of the ++ Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustainaCompany’s Supervisory Board and the report is solely intended bility organisation and of the stakeholder engagement to inform the Company’s Supervisory Board on the results of the ++ Interview of the executive directors and relevant employassurance engagement. ees that participated in the preparation of the Non-Financial Group Report about the process of preparation, the measures on hand and precautionary measures (system) for the prepaLiability ration of the Non-Financial Group Report as well as about the The report is not intended to provide third parties with support in information within the Non-Financial Group Report making (financial) decisions. Our responsibility exclusively refers to ++ Identification of the possible risks of material misstatement the Company and is also restricted under the engagement agreed within the Non-Financial Group Report with the Company on 21 December 2018 as well as in ­accordance ++ Analytical assessment of disclosures within the Non-Financial with the “General engagement terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Group Report Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (German public auditors and ++ Review of selected internal and external documents German public audit firms)” from 1 January 2017 of the Institut ++ Assessment of the data collection, validation and reportder Wirtschaftsprüfer in Deutschland e.V. We do not assume any ing processes as well as the relia-bility of the reported data ­responsibility to third parties. through sample surveys ++ Reconciliation of the disclosures within the Non-Financial Hanover/Germany, 5 March 2019 Group Report with the respective data within the consolidated financial statements as well as the combined management report ++ Evaluation of the presentation of the disclosures DELOITTE GMBH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Practitioner’s conclusion Signed: Heiner Kompenhans Based on the assurance work performed and evidence obtained, (German Public Auditor) nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information disclosed in the Non-Financial Group Report of Signed: Christian Meyer the Company, for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 (German Public Auditor) has not complied, in all material aspects, with Sections 315b, 315c German Commercial Code (HGB) in connection with Sections 289c to 289e German Commercial Code (HGB). Our audit opinion does not refer to the references on websites of the Company. Further Information k+s Annual Report 2018 223 FURTHER INFORMATION 04 225 About this report 228 GRI content Index and UN GLOBAL COMPACT Principles 234 Definitions of Key Financial Indicators 236 Glossary 240 Index 243 Units at a glance 244 Ten-year summary Financial Calendar, Online Service, Imprint 224 k+s Annual Report 2018 further information About this report The K+S Annual Report combines the financial and sustainability reporting. The information relates to the reporting period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 and is currently reported on a yearly basis. NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT principles of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Statements on relevant sustainability issues are contained in the The published sustainability information is based on the internanon-financial statement of the combined management report in tionally recognised guidelines of the GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE accordance with the CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR-RUG) (GRI). This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI and are supplemented by references to other sections in the manstandards: Option ‘Core’. In addition, K+S takes into account the agement report. References to information outside of the comGRI G4 Sector Disclosures: Mining and metals. bined management report are additional information and are not GRI Index and UN GLOBAL COMPACT Principles, pages 228–233 part of the non-financial statement. The following table presents the key topics of K+S, the associated GRI standards and the respective distinction of the topic with AUDIT regard to its economic, ecological and social impact according to DELOITTE GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (Hanover) has GRI 103-1. tab. 4.1 issued the non-financial statement in accordance with §§ 315b, 315c in conjunction with §§ 289c to 289e HGB of K + S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) 2018 according to ISAE 3000 with limited assurance. The results of the audit were presented to and discussed by the For achieving the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) comSupervisory Board. The Supervisory Board included the vote of panies are important partners. And K+S is also actively committed the auditor in its independent audit and approved the non-finanto these. This involves “Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda cial statement. for Sustainable Development”. The K+S GROUP assesses its current operations with the SDGs and considers these strategically as part of its sustainability management activities. REPORTING STANDARDS K+S recognises that the SDGs and targets are integrated and indivisible. For transparency reasons, we have used the level of 169 At the same time, the 2018 Annual Report is the so-called “Comtargets (and somehow the level of 230 indicators) as reference munication on Progress” (CoP) for the UN GLOBAL COMPACT, to point for the SDGs. With its products for the customer segment which the Board of Executive Directors is explicitly committed. Agriculture, K+S contributes to SDG2 “Zero Hunger”, especially to As a member of the UN GLOBAL COMPACT, K+S supports the ten targets 2,1; 2,3 and 2,4. Further information k+s Annual Report 2018 225 Boundaries of k+s action areas related to value chain (GRI 103-1) TAb 4.1 Boundaries Sales/ SDGs K+S Action area GRI Standards Exploration Mining Production Logistics Marketing Application targets Health & Safety GRI 403: Occupational Health x x x x x 8.8 and Safety 2018; GRI 416: Customer Health Safety 2016 Diversity & Inclusion GRI 405: Diversity and Equal x x x x x 5.1 Opportunity 2016; 5.5 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 8.5 2016 Human Rights GRI 407: Freedom of x x x x x x 8.7 Association and Collective Bargaining 2016; GRI 408: Child Labor 2016; GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016; GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 Water GRI 303: Water and Effluents x x x 12.2 2018 15.1 Waste Management GRI 306: Effluents and Waste x 12.5 2016 Energy & Climate GRI 302: Energy 2016; x x x x 12.2 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 13.1 Sustainable Supply GRI 308: Supplier Environmenx x x x x 8.7 Chains tal Assessment 2016; GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 Compliance & GRI 102: General Disclosures; x x x x x x 16.5 Anti-Corruption GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016; GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016; GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016; GRI 415: Politische Einflussnahme 2016; GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 Stakeholder Dialogue GRI 102: General Disclosures x x x x x x 16.7 (40-44) 226 k+s Annual Report 2018 further information DATA RECORDING AND REPORTING LIMITS The consolidated financial statements not only include K+S ­A KTIENGESELLSCHAFT, but also all major Group companies. ­Subsidiaries of minor significance are not consolidated. For the worldwide collection of financial data, SAP systems are widely used. In the present Annual Report, these are disclosed for all ­fully consolidated Group companies. We also collect most of our personnel key figures worldwide with SAP systems. They cover all fully consolidated companies. Key ­figures concerning human rights due diligence are currently recorded centrally with individual data sheets and for all fully consolidated and non-consolidated companies of the K+S GROUP. The majority of HSE key figures are recorded using an SAP system for all fully consolidated and non-consolidated companies in which K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT directly or indirectly holds a majority interest or in which K+S AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT exercises direct or indirect joint control or takes influence in decisions by Articles of Association or by-laws. We record the environmental key figures of all fully consolidated production sites. For uniform recording, K+S uses the site information system SoFi. Performance indicators in terms of CSR-RUG are calculated based on measured and extrapolated values using individual data sheets. Reporting limits other than the scope of consolidation are presented accordingly in the section “Environment”. The purchase volume ordered by the purchasing department is mainly entered into the SAP system for all fully consolidated companies. At present, we record our compliance key figures using individual data sheets for fully consolidated and non-consolidated companies. ‘List of shareholdings’, page 211–214. k+s Annual Report 2018 227 GRI Content INDEX AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINcIPles GRI content INDEX AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINcIPles tab. 4.2 UN Global GRI-Standard Page Comment and online addition Compact GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Back cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 31–42 102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover 102-4 Location of operations Front cover 102-5 Ownership and legal form 28, 36, 212–214 102-6 Markets served 32–36 102-7 Scale of the organization 243–244 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 53–54 For legal reasons we are not allowed to report on 6 the not published information required by GRI. 102-9 Supply chain 40–41 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 36-37, 212–214 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 110–125 102-12 External initiatives 66, 225 102-13 Membership of associations Available at: http://www.k-plus-s.com/en/nachhaltigkeitsstrategie/stakeholder/verbaende.html Strategy and Analysis 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2–5 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 45–47, 110–125 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 76 10 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 65–66, 77 10 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 67–77 102-19 Delegating authority 78–79 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, 78–79 and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, ­­ 48–49 and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its 67–77 committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 18–25, 69 228 k+s Annual Report 2018 further information GRI content INDEX AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINcIPles tab. 4.2 UN Global GRI-Standard Page Comment and online addition Compact 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 67–77 102-25 Conflicts of interest 67–77 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, 18–25, 43–49 and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 67–77 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 67–77 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and so45–49, 78–79 cial impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 78, 110–125 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 55–66 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 21–25, 222–223 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 77 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 77 102-35 Remuneration policies 134–143 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 134–143 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 134–143 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 53, 134–143 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 134–143 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 49 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 53–54 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 48–49 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 48–49 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 48–49 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 156–158, 212–214 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 45–49, 225–227 102-47 List of material topics 45–47 102-48 Restatements of information 225–227 102-49 Changes in reporting 225–227 102-50 Reporting period 225 102-51 Date of most recent report 15 March 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle 225 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Back cover 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 55, 225 102-55 GRI content index 228–233 102-56 External assurance 55, 222–223, 225 k+s Annual Report 2018 229 GRI content INDEX AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINcIPles tab. 4.2 UN Global GRI-Standard Page Comment and online addition Compact GRI 200: Economic Standards GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 31–42, 45–49, 55–66, 78–79, 225–227 103-2 The management approach and its components 45–49, 55–66, 78–79 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45–47, 78–79 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 42 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due We provide additional information via our partici7 to climate change pation in CDP https://www.cdp.net/en/saml/new 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 188–196 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 209 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 47, 65–66, 77 10 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 47, 65–66 10 and procedures GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 77 10 monopoly practices GRI 300: Environmental Standards GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 45–49, 55–66, 78–79, 225–227 103-2 The management approach and its components 45–49, 55–66, 78–79 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45–47, 78–79 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 63–65 7, 8 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 64 7, 8 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 60–62 The determination of wasteand process-water-re7, 8 lated effects takes place in the context of the water permit procedure. 230 k+s Annual Report 2018 further information GRI content INDEX AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINcIPles tab. 4.2 UN Global GRI-Standard Page Comment and online addition Compact 303-2 Management of water discharge related impacts 60–62 We comply with the applicable laws and operating 7, 8 permits. Information on water protection can be found here: http://www.k-plus-s.com/en/gewaesserschutz/index-uebersicht.html 303-3 Water withdrawal 60–62 7, 8 303-4 Water discharge 60–62 7, 8 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 63–65 7, 8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 63–65 7, 8 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 63–65 We record our Scope 3 emissions for upstream 7, 8 transport and distribution. GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges an 62–63 their associated risks GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 77 7, 8 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental 66 One of the goals of the K+S GROUP is to cover more 7 criteria than 90 percent of its procurement spend with the K+S Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) by 2025. In the long term, this will also include our new suppliers. The SCoC contains extensive requirements in the environmental area. GRI 400: Social Standards GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 45–49, 55–66, 78–79, 225–227 103-2 The management approach and its components 45–49, 55–66, 78–79 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45–49, 78–79 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 53 For legal reasons we are not allowed to report on 6 the not published information required by GRI. GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 53 3 MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week's In 2018, there were no strikes and lock-outs at the 3 ­duration, by country K+S Group facilities. k+s Annual Report 2018 231 GRI content INDEX AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINcIPles tab. 4.2 UN Global GRI-Standard Page Comment and online addition Compact GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 55–57 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 55–57 investigation 403-3 Occupational health services 56–57 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 55–57 occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 55–57 403-6 Promotion of worker health 55–57 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety 55–57, 66 impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety The future implementation of ISO 45001 covers all management system employees of the K+S Group as well as contractor employees whose workplaces are controlled by the K+S Group. 403-9 Work-related injuries 56 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 54 6 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assis53–54 tance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 54 6 career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 57–58, For legal reasons we are not allowed to report on 6 68–69, 76 the not published information required by GRI. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 53 6 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 57–58, 76 1, 2, 6 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 76, 225 As part of our compliance management, no vio3 ­association and collective bargaining may be at risk lation of trade union freedom of association was reported. GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 76, 225 No case of child labour was reported as part of our 1,2,5 child labor compliance management. 232 k+s Annual Report 2018 further information GRI content INDEX AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINcIPles tab. 4.2 UN Global GRI-Standard Page Comment and online addition Compact GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 76, 225 No case of forced or compulsory labour was report1,2,4 forced or compulsory labor ed as part of our compliance management. GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 47, 58 1,2 impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 58, 65–66 1,2 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 66 One of the goals of the K+S Group is to cover more 1,2 than 90 percent of its procurement spend with the K+S Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) by 2025. In the long term, this will also include our new suppliers. The SCoC contains extensive requirements in the social area. GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions 66 10 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and 41 service categories GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and 41 labeling GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer No violation was reported as part of our compliprivacy and losses of customer data ance management. K+S strictly observes the General Data Protection Regulation (DSGVO). GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 77 economic area GRI MM: Closure Planning MM10 Closure Planning 38–39, 53, 107–108, 165 k+s Annual Report 2018 233 DEFINTIONS OF KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS BOOK VALUE PER SHARE = Equity Total number of shares as of 31 Dec EBIT I Margin = Operating Earnings (EBIT I) Revenues EBITDA Margin = EBITDA Revenues ENTERPRISE VALUE = Market capitalisation + net debt DEBT I = Bank loans and overdrafts Equtiy DEBT II = Net Debt Equtiy GROSS CASH FLOW = EBIT I + write-downs/– write-ups on intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and financial assets + increase/– decrease in non-current provisions (without interest rate effects) + interests and dividends received and similar income + gains/– losses from the realisation of financial assets/ liabilities – interest paid – income taxes paid + other non-cash expenses – other non-cash income NET FINANCIAL LIABILITIES = Financial liabilities – cash on hand and balances with banks – securities and other financial investments NET DEBT = Financial liabilities + provisions for pension and similar obligations + non-current provisions for mining obligations – cash on hands and balances with banks – securities and other financial investments OPERATING ASSETS = Intangible assets 4 + property, plant and equipment + shares in affiliated companies + participating interests RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE) = Operating Earnings (EBIT I) Operating assets 2 + working capital 2, 4 234 k+s Annual Report 2018 further information RETURN ON EQUITY = Adjusted Group earnings after tax 1 Adjusted equity 1, 2 RETURN ON REVENUES = Adjusted Group earnings after tax 1 Revenues RETURN ON TOTAL INVESTMENT = Adjusted earnings before tax 1 + interest expenses Adjusted balance sheet total 1, 2, 3 VALUE ADDED = (ROCE – weighted average cost of capital before taxes) × (operating assets 2 + working capital 2, 4) WORKING CAPITAL = Inventories + accounts receivable trade + other assets 5 – current provisions – accounts payable trade – other payables 5 1 Adjusted for the effects of market value changes of operating forecast hedges; for adjusted Group earnings, the related effects on deferred and cash taxes are also eliminated. ² Annual average. 3 Adjusted for reimbursement claims and corresponding obligations. 4 Adjusted by deferred tax influencing goodwill from initial consolidation. 5W  ithout the market value of operating forecast hedges still outstanding as well as derivatives no longer in operation, but including premiums paid for derivatives used for operating purposes; without receivables and liabilities from financial investments; adjusted for reimbursement claims as well as the surplus of the CTA plan assets. k+s Annual Report 2018 235 GLOSSARy Bulk Blenders Complex Fertilizers Operators of bulk fertilizer equipment, in which various nutriComplex fertilizers contain more than one nutrient, as a rule nitroents are combined. gen, phosphorus and potassium as well as – depending on need and application – magnesium, sulphur or trace elements. As a reBrine sult of the combination of raw materials in the production proAqueous rock salt solution. Natural brine is obtained through drillcess and subsequent granulation, every single grain of the fertiing underground deposits of brine or through the controlled drilllizer contains precisely the same combination of nutrients; this hole solution mining procedure and also produced through the allows for even spreading of the nutrients on the field. dissolution of mined rock salt. Compliance Carbon Dioxide Compliance (conforming with regulations) denotes adherence to Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a chemical compound comprising carbon mandatory laws, internal regulations and regulatory standards and oxygen. It is produced during the combustion of fuels conrecognised by the company. A compliance management system taining carbon or fossil fuels. is intended to ensure compliance and avoid penalties and fines resulting from breaches of compliance and claims for damages as Cash flow well as other direct or indirect negative influences (caused parNet balance of incoming and outgoing payments during a reportticularly as a result of damage to image), by identifying and evaling period. The cash flow provides information about the earning uating compliance risks promptly and taking steps to reduce the and financial power of a company. likelihood of materialisation and their loss potential. Moreover, structured internal compliance reporting should be ensured. Cavern In mining, a cavern is a large, artificially created underground Cost of Capital cavity. also WACC (weighted average cost of capital); denotes the opportunity costs arising for equity providers and/or lenders through Chlorine-alkaline electrolysis capital made available to the company. The weighted average cost In chlorine-alkaline electrolysis, chlorine, caustic soda solution of capital rate is calculated from the aggregate of the expected and hydrogen are produced as a result of the decomposition of returns of equity providers in terms of their equity share as well the basic substance sodium chloride with the aid of electricity. Alas the interest on debt in respect of the share of interest-bearternatively, potassium hydroxide solution is produced by the aping debt in total capital. As this is considered from an after-tax plication of potassium chloride. The important basic chemicals perspective, the average interest on debt is reduced by the corof chlorine, caustic soda solution, hydrogen and potassium hyporate tax rate. droxide solution form the basis of numerous chemical products. Crystallised Salt Cogeneration In contrast to liquid brine, crystallised salt exists in solid form, Cogeneration is a method enabling the generation of useful heat such as food grade salt and de-icing salt. at the same time as producing electricity. Compared with separate production facilities, cogeneration plants use the respective fuel, for example, natural gas, more efficiently. The heat generated during the cogeneration process is available in the form of hot water or high-pressure steam. 236 k+s Annual Report 2018 further information EBIT I Flotation (Earnings before interest and taxes) In production, the flotation process separates rock salt and potDue to the elimination of all market value fluctuations during the ash or kieserite from the crude salt without heat supply. During term, the earnings from operating forecast hedges included in the process, the minerals are separated into their components in EBIT I correspond to the value of the hedging transaction at the a saturated saline solution as air is supplied. With the addition of time of realisation (difference between the spot rate and hedgflotation agents, the reusable substances adhere to the air bubing rate), less the premium paid or plus the premium received in bles and can thus be skimmed off after floating to the surface. the case of options. Free Float EBIT II The number of shares not held by major shareholders owning In accordance with IFRS, fluctuations in market value from hedgmore than 5% of the shares of a company (with the exception ing transactions are reported in the income statement. EBIT II inof shares held by investment companies and asset managers). cludes all earnings from hedging transactions, i.e., both valuation effects as at the reporting date and earnings from realised operGranulate Production ating hedging derivatives. Earnings effects arising from the hedgGranulate production describes the production of spreadable fering of underlying transactions with a financing character, whose tilizer granules that can be distributed using an agricultural fereffects impact on EBIT neither in the current financial year nor in tilizer spreader. future financial years, are stated in the financial result. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol EBITDA The Greenhouse Gas Protocol is a tool for calculating and man(Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation aging the greenhouse gas emissions of companies and organiand amortisation) sations. It includes direct emissions from core corporate areas is intended to enable comparisons of operational earnings pow(Scope 1), indirect emissions from the use of purchased electricier between companies and describes the profitability of compaty, heat and steam (Scope 2) and indirect emissions, which are upnies. K+S calculates EBITDA based on operating earnings EBIT I plus stream or downstream of corporate activities (Scope 3). To comdepreciation and amortisation of property, plant and equipment pare the global warming potential of different greenhouse gases, and intangible assets; EBITDA is adjusted by the depreciation and each greenhouse gas is converted in CO2 equivalents. A CO2 equivamortisation amount not recognised in profit and loss in the conalent has the same global warming potential as one unit of CO2. text of own work capitalised, earnings arising from changes in the fair market value of outstanding operating anticipatory hedges, GRI – Global Reporting Initiative changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory hedges recogThe Global Reporting Initiative is an independent i­nternational nised in prior periods and in the prior year profit/loss from curmulti-stakeholder organisation that develops cooperatively a rency hedging for capital expenditure in Canada. framework for global sustainability reporting. The GRI reporting guideline specifies principles and indicators for organisations to Enterprise Value measure their economic, environmental and social performance. Enterprise value is an indicator frequently used to determine the The purpose is to promote transparency and comparability for value of a company. It is often related to other indicators (for exsustainability reports. ample, revenues, EBIT). Integrated Reporting Evaporated salt Integrated reporting is a standard concept that combines tradiis produced by evaporating saturated brine, whereby sodium chlotional financial reporting with non-financial reporting elements. ride crystallises. The focus should be the company’s business model and its strategy. The aim is reporting which considers all the stakeholders’ inElectrostatic Separation Process (ESTA®) terests. The goal is to reflect the interdependencies between enThe ESTA® process is a dry processing method for potash crude vironmental, social, governance and financial factors of decisions, salts, patented by K+S. With this process, the individual crude salt which influence a company’s long-term financial performance elements are charged differently, to ultimately be separated into and position, by clarifying the connection between sustainabilithe components sodium chloride and potassium chloride with ty and economic values. the aid of an electric field. In comparison with classical, wet processing methods, energy inputs and production residues are significantly reduced. k+s Annual Report 2018 237 Kainite Crystallisation and Flotation Facility Planning Approval Procedure (KCF) The planning approval procedure is an approval process for specifThe KCF (kainite crystallisation and flotation) facility represents ic construction/infrastructure projects to reach planning approva new process to significantly reduce saline wastewater and at al decisions. As an administrative act, this decision is a planning the same time to increase the yield of valuable substances. By uspermission with a concentration effect. Therefore, a permission ing heat energy, water is evaporated. Thereby crystallises a salt includes many others. The process of the procedure is formalmixture, which also includes kainite – a salt containing potassiised in the Administrative Procedure Act. The procedure always um and magnesium salt. The kainite is separated by using a sortincludes an involvement of concerned parties in consultations to ing technique (flotation) and is subsequently used for potassium consider their interests. sulfate production. Plate Dolomite (Leine Carbonate) Kieserite The plate dolomite (Leine carbonate) is above the salt deposits Mg[SO4]·H2O, Kieserite is a mineral component of crude salt, at a depth of approximately 400 to 500 metres and is covered by which is composed of the water-soluble minerals magnesium clay layers on both sides. It is approximately 10 metres thick and and sulphur. From a chemical perspective, it is aqueous magneconsists of limestone and dolomite rock, which already contains sium sulphate. Kieserite is used as a basic raw material in the pronaturally mineralised water. duction of plant nutrients. Potassium Chloride (KCi) OECD Guidelines for multinational companies Potassium chlrode (KCl) is a potassium salt used as fertilizer. In The OECD guidelines for multinational companies are government addition, it is the basic raw material for all inorganic and organic recommendations for the multinational companies which operpotassium compounds. ate in or from the member states. They contain non-legally binding principles and benchmarks in the areas of basic obligations, Potassium Sulphate (SOP) information policy, human rights, employment policy, environPotassium sulphate is used as a fertilizer. It can be produced from mental protection, anti-corruption, consumer interests, science mined mineral raw materials as well as using a chemical process and technology, competition and taxation. that involves the reaction of potassium chloride with sulphuric acid. Open–cast Mining Open–cast mining is a form of mining for raw material deposits Rating that takes place close to the surface. In contrast to other forms of Rating agencies award ratings of a company’s ability to meet its mining, no underground tunnels or shafts are created. future interest and repayment obligations in a timely manner in the form of standard categories. Operating forecast hedges To hedge future currency positions (mainly in US dollars), we use Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) operating derivatives in the form of options and futures (see also Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) is a financial ratio that meastransaction risks). ures a company’s profitability and the efficiency with which its capital is employed. Pads A solution mining operation typically consists of a wellfield and a Sodium Chloride processing facility. The wellfield thereby is organized into so called Sodium chloride (NaCl) or table salt is a crystalline mineral expads. Each pad is a relatively flat surface location with a surface tracted from rock salt and sea salt. As food grade salt, sodium of approximately 100x100m, that is used for drilling wells, creatchloride is an indispensable mineral supplier to the human body. ing caverns and has additional above ground facilities used for Sodium chloride is also used to maintain road safety and as an pumping water into the deposit and handling brine which is then important element in the production of glass, paper and plastic. send via a pipeline system to the processing facility. 238 k+s Annual Report 2018 further information Solar Salt Value Added Sea water flows through large, open evaporation ponds for the This key figure is based on the assumption that a company creates production of solar salt. After several months of sunshine, the salt added value for the investor when the return on the average capcrystallises in the final pond. ital employed exceeds the underlying cost of capital. This excess return is multiplied by the average capital employed (annual avSolution Mining erage for operating assets and working capital) to give the comIn solution mining, fresh water is brought into solvant (salt) rock pany’s added value for the year under review. through a drill hole, thus creating chambers filled with a water-salt solution, so-called caverns. In a subsequent step, the saturated Water–softening Salts brine is brought to surface level along a further pipeline. Water–softening salts remove hardeners such as calcium and magnesium from the water through an ion exchange process. Stakeholder Soft water is necessary or advantageous for numerous industriStakeholders are interest groups in the working environment or al processes, but also in private households. in an organisation, who are directly or indirectly affected by corporate activities, currently or in the future, and are thus in an interdependent relationship. They include employees, customers, investors, suppliers, local residents and policymakers. Synthetic magnesium sulphate (SMS) Synthetic magnesium sulphate is soluble in water and, among others, has a positive influence on root development, water absorption, crop yield and plant quality parameters. Transaction risk A transaction risk is a currency risk that may arise in connection with existing receivables or liabilities in a foreign currency if a transaction in a foreign currency is to be converted to the Group currency and thus represents a risk in terms of payment. Translation risk A translation risk is a currency risk, which may arise as a result of translating profit, cash flow or balance sheet items to other periods or reporting dates, which are accrued in a currency other than the Group currency. This is therefore a non-cash risk. United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary strategic initiative for companies designed to promote sustainable development and social commitment. The participating companies acknowledge the ten principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, working standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. k+s Annual Report 2018 239 Index A Customers 31, 41, 49 Administrative expenses 145 Customer segments 9, 33, 43, 127 Agriculture 10, 33, 43, 127 Agricultural prices 88, 114, 127 Americas 33, 44, 126 D Animal hygiene products 32, 108 Declaration of conformity 77 Annual General Meeting 67 Declaration on corporate governance 67 Anti-Corruption 47, 55, 65, 79 Deep-well injection 47, 61, 117 Application advice 41 De-icing salt 35, 36, 90, 92, 107, 118, 127 Auditor’s Report 215 Depreciation and amortisation 94, 95, 100, 151, 159, 160 Derivative financial instruments 99, 123, 162, 185 Directors’ Dealings 75 B Diversity 57, 68, 73 Balance Sheet 130, 146, 180 Dividend 26, 128, 132, 188 Bethune 38, 88, 106, 119, 126, 165 Donations and sponsorship 66 Brands 41 Board of Executive Directors 2, 6, 73, 134 Bonds 28, 198 E Business ethics 47, 65 Earnings per share 26, 95, 179 Business model 31 EBITDA 43, 80, 90, 93, 127, 174 EBITDA margin 96, 234 EBIT I margin 96, 234 C EITI – German Extractive Industries Capital expenditure 100, 128 Transparency Initiative 66 Capital structure 99, 204 Employees 49, 53, 55, 122, 132 Cash flow 80, 91, 101, 128, 148, 205 Energy costs 88, 120 Cash flow statement 148, 205 Environment 47, 58 CFK (Trading) 34, 108 Environmental management 59 Climate 47, 63, 79 Equity 97, 101, 149, 187 Continuing education 54 Equity ratio 99, 131, 204 Committees 22, 68, 73, 140 ESCO 35, 36, 37 Communities 16, 36, 43, 127 Europe+ 31, 43, 126 Complementary Activities 34, 108 Compliance 47, 65, 77, 79, 121 Consumers 14, 35, 43, 127 F Consumer products 90, 107, 127 Fertilizer specialties 33, 89, 104 Core values and principles (Code of Conduct) 57, 66, 76 Financial result 95, 145, 173 Corporate Governance 67 Food processing industry 34, 35, 90, 107, 127 Cost of capital 97 Freight costs 93, 108, 120 Cost of materials 42, 93, 179 Further training 54 Cost of sales 93, 145 240 k+s Annual Report 2018 further information G N Global Compact 66, 228 Net debt 44, 99, 104, 204, 234 Goals 43, 46, 79 Net debt/EBITDA ratio 43, 80, 103 GRI Index 228 Non-financial statement 55 Group earnings 80, 95, 128 Group tax rate 97 O Occupational safety 47, 55, 79 H Opportunities 78, 110 Health 47, 55, 79 Outlook 126 Human rights 47, 58, 79 OECD guidelines for multinational companies 58 Operating earnings (EBIT I) 94, 136, 174 I Operating units 31, 43, 126 Income Statement 130, 145, 173 Organisation structure 31, 44 Industry 12, 34, 43, 127 Industrial products 34, 105 Industrial salt 107 P Industry situation 89, 127 Pension provisions 102, 188 Internal control system (ICS) 78, 80 Pension scheme 54 People 47, 55 Potash and magnesium products 31, 89, 104, 127, 150 K Potassium chloride 33, 38, 89, 104, 127 K+S Chile 35, 36, 40 Potassium sulphate 127 K+S Transport GmbH 34, 40, 108 Provisions 102, 147, 156, 188, 196 KCF (Kainite crystallisation and Provisions for mining obligations 102, 164, 196 flotation facility) 52, 61, 105 Personnel expenses 53, 93, 179 L Q Liquidity 101, 124 Quality management 41 Litigations 119 Logistics 40, 65 Long-term incentive programme 134 R Rating 28, 44, 98, 124 Remuneration 134 M Research coverage 28 Market capitalisation 26 Research and development 50 Matrix organisation 31, 44 Reserves and resources 37 Mission 43 Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) 80, 97, 128, 234 Morton Salt 35, 36, 50 Return on equity 98, 235 Return on revenues 96, 235 Return on total investment 98, 235 Revenues 33, 34, 35, 36, 92, 127, 145, 174 Risk and opportunities management system 78 Risks 110 k+s Annual Report 2018 241 S Sales regions 33, 34, 35, 36, 105, 107, 109 Salt 31, 38, 90, 107, 127, 150 Salt for chemical use 107 Seasonality 92 Securities and other financial investments 103, 146, 181 Segment reporting 150, 206 SHAPING 2030 9, 31, 43 Share 26 Shareholder structure 28 Sites front cover Supervisory board 18, 67, 140, 211 Suppliers 40, 47, 66, 121 Sustainability 45, 55, 78, 110, 225 Sustainable supply chains 47, 66, 79 Staff development 54 Stakeholders 48, 55 Strategy 43 T Tailings pile management 62 Trade unions 53 Training 54 U US dollar 88, 99, 123, 166 V Value Added 98, 134, 235 Vision 43 W Waste 47, 62, 79 Waste Management and Recycling 32, 108 Wastewater 47, 60, 90, 105, 116, 128 Water protection 59 Working capital 97, 128, 235 Works council 53 242 k+s Annual Report 2018 further information Units at a glance Potash and Magnesium Products business unit Q1/18 Q2/18 H1/18 Q3/18 9M/18 Q4/18 FY/18 Revenues € million 488.7 440.5 929.2 422.2 1,351.4 621.6 1,973.0 EBITDA 1 € million 120.8 90.6 211.4 3.4 214.8 144.5 359.3 EBIT I € million 52.5 21.1 73.6 –68.5 5.1 64.5 69.6 Capital expenditure € million 48.1 70.0 118.1 89.4 207.5 109.2 316.7 1 Adjusted for the depreciation and amortisation amount not recognised in profit and loss in the context of own work capitalised. Salt business unit Q1/18 Q2/18 H1/18 Q3/18 9M/18 Q4/18 FY/18 Revenues € million 635.6 326.9 962.5 375.0 1337.5 553.3 1,890.8 EBITDA € million 120.9 23.3 144.2 41.5 185.7 88.9 274.5 EBIT I € million 102.1 4.0 106.1 21.7 127.9 69.0 196.8 Capital expenditure € million 13.5 18.9 32.3 31.1 63.4 47.7 111.2 Complementary Activities Q1/18 Q2/18 H1/18 Q3/18 9M/18 Q4/18 FY/18 Revenues € million 44.9 43.9 88.7 41.7 130.4 41.9 172.4 EBITDA € million 9.8 8.0 17.9 6.2 24.1 7.2 31.3 EBIT I € million 8.7 6.8 15.4 5.0 20.4 5.9 26.4 Capital expenditure € million 0.3 1.1 1.4 1.1 2.5 4.3 6.8 Reconciliation Q1/18 Q2/18 H1/18 Q3/18 9M/18 Q4/18 FY/18 Revenues € million 0.6 0.6 1.2 1.2 2.4 0.5 2.9 EBITDA € million –14.7 –16.8 –31.5 –14.7 –46.2 –12.6 –58.8 EBIT I € million –16.3 –18.5 –34.8 –16.3 –51.1 –14.4 –65.5 Capital expenditure € million 0.6 1.2 1.9 2.8 4.7 4.0 8.6 K+S Group Q1/18 Q2/18 H1/18 Q3/18 9M/18 Q4/18 FY/18 Revenues € million 1,169.8 811.9 1981.7 840.1 2,821.8 1,217.3 4,039.1 EBITDA € million 236.8 105.1 341.9 36.4 378.3 228.0 606.3 EBIT I € million 147.0 13.4 160.4 –58.1 102.3 124.9 227.2 Capital expenditure € million 62.5 91.2 153.7 124.4 278.1 165.1 443.2 k+s Annual Report 2018 243 Ten-year summary K+S Group 1 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Profit and Loss Revenues € million 3,573.8 4,632.7 3,996.8 3,935.3 3,950.4 3,821.7 4,175.5 3,456.6 3,627.0 4,039.1 – thereof Potash and Magnesium Products business unit € million 1,421.7 1,867.0 2,133.6 2,290.6 2,037.6 1,884.0 2,091.3 1,531.6 1,703.5 1,973.0 – thereof Salt business unit € million 1,014.6 1,728.8 1,710.1 1,484.8 1,751.4 1,778.5 1,925.2 1,762.2 1,762.0 1,890.8 EBITDA 2 € million 411.8 953.0 1,146.0 1,033.3 907.2 895.5 1,057.5 519.1 576.7 606.3 – thereof Potash and Magnesium Products business unit € million 317.2 567.1 833.8 867.2 667.5 618.5 689.2 184.8 268.8 359.3 – thereof Salt business unit € million 200.3 369.7 337.9 179.5 235.9 276.0 381.0 322.3 325.2 274.5 EBITDA-Marge % 11.5 20.6 28.7 26.3 23.0 23.4 25.3 15.0 15.9 15.0 – Potash and Magnesium ­Products business unit Mio. € 22.3 30.4 39.1 37.9 32.8 32.8 33.0 12.1 15.8 18.2 – Salt business unit Mio. € 19.7 21.4 19.8 12.1 13.5 15.5 19.8 18.3 18.5 14.5 Depreciation 3 € million 173.8 238.5 239.8 229.2 251.3 254.3 275.9 289.8 305.9 379.1 Operating earnings (EBIT I) € million 238.0 714.5 906.2 804.1 655.9 641.3 781.6 229.3 270.8 227.2 – thereof Potash and Magnesium Products business unit € million 231.7 475.9 739.5 770.9 552.5 488.8 546.1 33.6 81.4 69.6 – thereof Salt business unit € million 140.4 238.1 211.4 61.6 117.8 172.9 266.3 203.7 223.0 196.8 EBIT I margin % 6.7 15.4 22.7 20.4 16.6 16.8 18.7 6.6 7.5 5.6 Group earnings from continued operations, adjusted 4 € million 93.6 453.8 625.6 538.1 437.1 366.6 542.3 130.5 145.0 85.4 Earnings per share from continued operations, adjusted 4 € 0.56 2.37 3.27 2.81 2.28 1.92 2.83 0.68 0.76 0.45 Cash flow Operating Cash flow € million 534.8 826.4 633.4 607.2 755.7 719.1 669.4 445.4 306.8 308.7 Capital expenditure 3 € million 177.6 188.6 293.1 465.5 742.5 1,153.2 1,278.8 1,170.8 810.8 443.2 Adjusted Free Cash flow € million -811.1 667.3 216.6 199.1 48.7 -306.3 -635.9 -776.8 -389.8 -206.3 Balance Sheet Balance sheet total € million 5,217.1 5,573.7 6,056.9 6,596.6 7,498.2 7,855.2 8,273.6 9,645.5 9,754.4 9,966.2 Equity € million 2,094.6 2,651.6 3,084.6 3,393.9 3,396.6 3,974.5 4,295.6 4,552.2 4,160.7 4,144.1 Equity ratio % 40.1 47.6 50.9 51.4 45.3 50.6 51.9 47.2 42.7 41.6 Net debt as of 31 Dec € million 1,351.3 732.5 610.8 827.3 1,037.0 1,626.2 2,399.8 3,583.8 4,140.5 4,443.6 Net debt/EBITDA x 3.3 0.8 0.5 0.8 1.1 1.8 2.3 6.9 7.2 7.3 Working capital € million 970.5 959.4 840.9 1,025.7 844.9 768.1 945.9 894.6 968.1 1,126.7 Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) % 9.3 22.0 25.2 19.9 15.2 12.7 12.5 3.0 3.2 2.6 Employees Employees as of 31 Dec 5 number 15,208 14,186 14,338 14,362 14,421 14,295 14,383 14,530 14,793 14,931 Average number of employees 5 number 13,044 14,091 14,155 14,336 14,348 14,295 14,276 14,446 14,654 14,904 The Share Book value per share € 10.94 13.85 15.86 17.73 17.75 20.77 22.44 23.78 21.74 21.65 Dividend per share 6 € 0.20 1.00 1.30 1.40 0.25 0.90 1.15 0.30 0.35 0.25 Dividend yield 6 % 0.5 1.8 3.7 4.0 1.1 3.9 4.9 1.3 1.7 1.6 Closing price as of 31 Dec 7 XETRA, € 39.99 56.36 34.92 35.00 22.38 22.92 23.62 22.69 20.76 15.72 Market capitalisation € billion 7.7 10.8 6.7 6.7 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.3 4.0 3.0 Enterprise value as of 31 Dec € billion 9.0 11.5 7.3 7.5 5.3 6.1 6.9 7.9 8.1 7.4 Average number of shares 8 million 166.15 191.34 191.33 191.40 191.40 191.40 191.40 191.40 191.40 191.40 1 Unless stated otherwise, information refers to the continued operations of the K+S Group. 4 The adjusted key figures only include the result from operating forecast hedges of the The discontinued operations of the COMPO business are also included up to 2009, and also ­respective reporting period reported in EBIT I (see also ‘Notes to the income statement and the discontinued operations of the nitrogen business up to 2010. The balance sheet and thethe statement of comprehensive income’ on page 173). In addition, related effects on deferrefore the key figures working capital, net indebtedness, net indebtedness/EBITDA and book red and cash taxes are eliminated; tax rate for 2018: 30.0% (2017: 29.9%). value per share also include in 2010 the discontinued operations of the COMPO business and 5 F TE: Full-time equivalents; part-time positions are weighted in accordance with their in 2011 also the discontinued operations of the nitrogen business. ­respective share of working hours. 2 The EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation, 6 The figure for 2018 corresponds to the dividend proposal; the dividend yield is based on the ­adjusted by the depreciation and amortisation amount not recognised in profit and loss in year-end closing price. the context of own work capitalised, earnings arising from changes in the fair market value of 7 The price of the K+S share since the capital increase in December 2009 has been traded ex outstanding operating anticipatory hedges, changes in the fair value of operating anticipatory subscription right. Historical values were not adjusted. hedges recognised in prior periods and in the prior year profit/loss from currency hedging for 8 Total number of shares less the average number of own shares held by K+S. capital expenditure in Canada. A reconciliation can be found on page 95. 3 Concerns cash investments as well as depreciation of property, plant and equipment and In this Annual Report rounding differences may arise in percentages and numbers. ­amortisation of intangible assets, taking claims for reimbursement from claim management into account. 244 k+s Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL CALENDAR, Online Service, Imprint FINANCIAL CALENDAR Online Service Quarterly Report, 31 March 2019 14 May 2019 Annual report (PDF) www.k-plus-s.com/fy2018 Annual General Meeting, Kassel 15 May 2019 Annual General Meeting www.k-plus-s.com/agm Dividend payment 20 May 2019 Other publications www.k-plus-s.com/publications Half-Yearly Financial Report, 30 June 2019 15 August 2019 Quarterly Report, 30 September 2019 14 November 2019 2019 Annual Report 12 March 2020 IMPRINT Publisher Contact K+S Aktiengesellschaft K+S Aktiengesellschaft Bertha-von-Suttner-Str. 7 Investor Relations 34131 Kassel, Germany Phone: +49 (0)561/9301-1100 www.k-plus-s.com Fax: +49 (0)561/9301-2425 E-mail: investor-relations@k-plus-s.com Company’s registered office: Kassel Website: www.k-plus-s.com/ir Companies‘ Register: Kassel HRB 2669 Sustainability Editorial Team/Text Phone: +49 (0)561/9301-1218 K+S Investor Relations E-mail: sustainability@k-plus-s.com K+S Sustainability Website: www.k-plus-s.com/sustainability Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany © Copyright K+S Aktiengesellschaft, Kassel, Germany. Concept and design Reproduction, even in extracts, only with written approval from Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany the publisher and with specific reference to K+S Aktiengesellschaft. Photography Errors and omissions excepted. Daniel George, Hanover Printing Beisner Druck GmbH & Co. KG, Buchholz, Germany
