2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Enabling sustainable progress Cover Through our re/insurance solutions we offer protection for the risks of renewable energy projects. In 2018, for example, we helped develop the first solar revenue “put” insuring most of the output risk of a solar farm. You More information online: can learn more about our solutions supportreports.swissre.com/corporateing sustainable progress on pages 18–25. responsibility-report/2018/ In this report We describe our commitment as a responsible company and the actions we have taken. Contents Executive statement  2 Who we are and what we do  4 Our approach to corporate responsibility  8 Creating solutions for sustainability 18 Extending our risk intelligence  26 Being a responsible investor 34 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape 40 Reducing our footprint 46 Engaging our people 54 Ensuring good corporate governance and compliance  63 Providing transparency  69 The Swiss Re Foundation 70 Independent assurance report to the management of Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich 72 Memberships, commitments and index listings 74 Executive statement Dear stakeholders, We are pleased to share the 2018 edition of our Corporate Responsibility Report with you. In this annual publication, we explain what we want to achieve as a responsible company and describe the actions we have taken. As we clearly state in our value Walter B. Kielholz, Chairman of the Board of Directors framework, “playing our part in enabling sustainable progress” has long been an overarching objective. For our business this translates into managing and monitoring risks and opportunities associated with environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. To stay competitive, we need to adapt to the changing risk landscape and address such issues consistently in all aspects of our business. This creates long-term value for Swiss Re as well as for society in Christian Mumenthaler, Group Chief Executive Officer general. 2 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report On the following pages you can read At the same time as we help develop public sector. For this reason, we place in detail about the sustainability topics solutions against certain environmental emphasis on ongoing dialogue with our we regard as the most relevant. The and social risks, we put a strong focus on stakeholders, true to our motto that overview includes links to the UN addressing risks that may undermine “we’re smarter together”. After carefully Sustainable Development Goals and sustainable progress, raise ethical reviewing our dialogue priorities, we shows what actions we have taken to questions and/or increase long-term loss introduced a streamlined set of three Top meet the internal goals we have set potential. In 2018, we introduced our Topics in 2018: “Mitigating climate risk”, for the topics. thermal coal policy, pledging not to “Building societal resilience” and “Driving provide re/insurance to businesses with digital insurance solutions”. The Swiss Re Our Corporate Responsibility Report also more than 30% exposure to thermal coal Institute has continued to support our meets important external requirements. utilities or mining. The policy has been stakeholder dialogue by combining our It is our official disclosure document fully integrated into our Sustainability own expertise with world-class external for two voluntary commitments we have Risk Framework and marks a further research. made to the United Nations: important step in our efforts to support the UN Global Compact and the UNEP FI the transition to a low-carbon economy. Our efforts to enable sustainable Principles for Sustainable Insurance. To share our latest insights on emerging progress include our own operations. You can view the two reference tables in risks, we again published our SONAR Mitigating climate change and reducing the online version of the report. We will report. One of the risks it describes is energy consumption have long been our continue to honour both commitments “algorithmic decision-making”, on which priorities. Through our Greenhouse and report on our activities to meet their you can read a case study in the present Neutral Programme we have cut our total principles. publication. CO2 emissions per employee by 8% since 2013, after almost halving them in the Among the sustainability topics we In our asset management we continued ten years before. As part of our address, climate change continues to to integrate ESG criteria consistently commitment to the RE100 initiative, we be a key issue. Reflecting this, we also across our investment portfolio. A year have built several solar plants on our own made a voluntary commitment three after having switched to ESG premises in recent years and, in 2018, years ago to publish Climate-related benchmarks, we remain convinced that entered into a large “virtual power Financial Disclosures as recommended this improves the risk-adjusted returns purchase agreement” in the US. This by the Financial Stability Board. We have of our investment portfolio, especially innovative mechanism provides funding included these detailed disclosures in in the long run. To share our experience for the construction of a new wind farm our 2018 Financial Report and invite you on the switch, we launched a second while at the same time offering us a to read them in parallel with the present publication “Responsible investments: financial hedge against potential swings publication. The next steps in our journey”. Besides in the price of electricity in the region. having achieved our target of holding Below we would like to highlight some at least USD 1.5 billion of green bonds, Last but not least, we would like to take major achievements across the different we actively contributed to the global this opportunity to say thank you to our areas where we implement our policy dialogue by being part of the employees for the great work they have commitment to corporate responsibility. European Commission’s Technical Expert delivered for Swiss Re. As the highlights Group on Sustainable Finance, for above illustrate, we constantly strive to In our core re/insurance business, we instance. create smart solutions that help improve continued to offer our clients protection the wellbeing of society and prepare for against various environmental and social Most risks potentially undermining the changing needs of the future. For this risks by creating tailor-made, innovative sustainable progress are by nature we rely on people from many different solutions. They range from large covers complex, and finding effective responses backgrounds who bring together fresh for hurricane damage in Florida and requires the involvement of different perspectives and innovative thinking in other southern US states to pioneering players both from the private and the a spirit of collaboration. In the present solutions for low-income women report you can learn more about what entrepreneurs in Egypt and small-scale we have been doing to foster a flexible, farmers in Zambia. We also completed inclusive and open culture throughout the industry’s first-ever solar energy our company. “put”, which offers protection against shortfalls in power output due to lack of sunshine. In the life and health segment, Zurich, 14 March 2019 we continued our efforts to improve access to affordable insurance solutions through our digital-based iptiQ programme. Walter B. Kielholz Christian Mumenthaler Chairman of the Board of Directors Group Chief Executive Officer Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 3 Who we are and what we do Our vision: We make the world more resilient. Swiss Re at a glance we deploy our capital strength, expertise and innovation power to enable the The Swiss Re Group is a leading risk-taking upon which enterprise and wholesale provider of reinsurance, progress in society depend. insurance and other insurance-based forms of risk transfer. Dealing directly Working with our clients and partners, and working through brokers, our we help to protect assets and lives global client base consists of insurance around the globe – for a resilient future. companies, midto large-sized corporations and public-sector clients. Headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, From standard products to tailor-made Swiss Re has operations across the coverage across all lines of business, OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE Europe (including Middle East and Africa) Net premiums earned and fee income in 2018 (USD billions) 11.0 (USD 10.5 billion in 2017) Number of office locations* as of 31 December 2018 33 (35 in 2017) Number of employees (regular staff) as of 31 December 2018 9 099 (8 630 in 2017) * Counting each location with offices once; not counting data centres 4 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Allocate Broaden Optimise Emphasise capital client base resource differentiation allocation world. At the end of 2018, we had Swiss Re Ltd, the Group’s holding Our strategy over 80 office locations in 30 countries. company, is a joint stock company, listed Our Group strategy helps us meet our Based on “net premiums earned and fee in accordance with the International financial targets and to make the world income from policy-holders”, our ten Reporting Standard on SIX Swiss more resilient. biggest markets in 2018 were: the US, Exchange, domiciled in Zurich, and the UK, Australia, China, Japan, organised under the laws of Switzerland. You can get more information on our Germany, Canada, Ireland, Switzerland No other Group companies have strategy in the 2018 Business Report at: and the Netherlands. They accounted for shares listed. reports.swissre.com/2018/business78% of the Group’s total business over report/our-strategy.html the year. Americas Asia-Pacific Total 16.1 7.3 34.5 (USD 16.1 billion in 2017) (USD 7.1 billion in 2017) (USD 33.7 billion in 2017) 34 15 82 (37 in 2017) (15 in 2017) (87 in 2017) 3 624 2 220 14 943 (3 740 in 2017) (2 115 in 2017) (14 485 in 2017) Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 5 Who we are and what we do THE SWISS RE GROUP Reinsurance Corporate Solutions Life Capital Reinsurance provides clients and Corporate Solutions provides risk Life Capital manages closed and open brokers with reinsurance products, transfer solutions to large and mid-sized life and health insurance books. insurance-based capital market corporations around the world. Its It provides alternative access to the instruments and risk management innovative, highly customised products life and health risk pool, helping services. Reinsurance operates and standard insurance covers help to to generate stable returns and seize globally through two segments – make businesses more resilient, while attractive new opportunities. Property & Casualty and Life & Health. its industry-leading claims service provides additional peace of mind. Operational Group structure Group CEO Group CFO Group Finance Group CRO Group Risk Management Americas Group CUO Group Underwriting EMEA Group CIO Group Asset Management Asia Group COO Group Operations Regional Presidents Group Functions Corporate Reinsurance Life Capital Solutions Business Units 6 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report The financial figures in the table at the The information in the lower table shows top provide information on the scale the distribution of Group income to key of the Swiss Re Group and income stakeholders (employees, government generated: total capitalisation broken and shareholders). down in terms of debt and equity, sales/revenues, operating costs and net income. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS USD millions 2017 2018 Total assets 222 526 207 570 Total investments 161 897 147 302 Total liabilities 188 232 178 843 Total debt 10 581 10 135 Common shareholders’ equity 33 374 27 930 Total revenues 42 487 37 047 Premiums earned and fee income 33 705 34 461 P&C Reinsurance 16 667 16 095 L&H Reinsurance 11 980 12 835 Corporate Solutions 3 651 3 925 Life Capital 1 407 1 606 Net investment income – non-participating business 3 708 4 075 Total expenses –41 962 –36 497 Claims and claim adjustment expenses –16 730 –14 855 Life and health benefits –11 083 –11 769 Net income 331 421 ATTRIBUTION OF GROUP INCOME TO KEY STAKEHOLDERS USD millions (unless otherwise stated) 2017 % 2018 % Income before tax and variable compensation 814 100% 863 100% Variable compensation1 351 43% 373 43% Income tax expense 132 16% 69 8% US GAAP net income attributable to shareholders 331 421 of which paid out as dividend2 1 592 196% 1 692 196% of which share buy-back 1 032 127% 1 0223 118% of which added to retained earnings within shareholders’ equity –2 293 –2 293 1Aggregate compensation for all employees was CHF 2 208 million in 2018. See 2018 Financial Report, page 146. 2 FY  2018 is estimated based on average year-to-date CHF/USD FX rates as of February 2019. The dividend is subject to AGM approval and the amount depends on the final number of dividend eligible shares and FX rates upon dividend payout. 3 Includes  shares bought back between 7 May 2018 and 15 February 2019 as part of the buy-back programme authorised at the AGM 2018. The total amount represents an estimate translated at the 2018 average CHF/USD FX rate. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 7 Our approach to corporate responsibility We are committed to being a responsible company. Playing our part in enabling sustainable progress serves as a guiding principle for our actions. Our commitment to corporate OUR EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS responsibility Based on our commitment to Swiss Re has a long-standing corporate responsibility and enabling commitment to being a responsible sustainable progress, we have signed company. A key element in our up to a number of external charters understanding of what this means is and initiatives: the desire to play our part in enabling sustainable progress, for the benefit of ̤̤ EP100: see page 48 our clients and society at large. Taking ̤̤ Principles for Responsible this long-term view helps us pursue Investment (PRI): see page 39 our vision of making the world more resilient and is embedded in our value ̤̤ RE100: see page 48 framework, which means “doing ̤̤ Task Force on Climate-related business the Swiss Re way”. Financial Disclosures (FSB-TCFD): see 2018 Financial Report, pages Importantly, this commitment is also 172–189 in our own best interest: it strengthens our capabilities to address both risks ̤̤ UNEP FI Principles for Sustainable and opportunities created by longerInsurance (PSI): for our Public term environmental and social Disclosure of Progress, see online challenges and, as a consequence, report to retain our licence to operate. ̤̤ UN Global Compact: for our Communication on Progress,  EBSITE W see online report Learn more about our values at: www.swissre.com/about-us/ ̤̤ Carbon Disclosure Project our-vision-mission-and-values.html (www.cdp.net) ̤̤ ClimateWise (www.cisl.cam.ac.uk/) 8 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report OUR VISION We make the world more resilient Our values mean doing business the Swiss Re way: Being open, honest and transparent in everything we do. Treating everyone with respect – both inside and outside the company. Taking the long-term view and playing our part in enabling sustainable progress – for stakeholders and society in general. Creating an inclusive culture that encourages diversity of thought and opinion. Our commitment to corporate responsibility: “Corporate responsibility” expresses Swiss Re’s commitment to being an open, honest and transparent organisation that treats all its stakeholders – employees, shareholders, clients, government agencies and the general public – with respect and integrity. In particular, we aim to take the long-term view and to play our part in enabling sustainable progress. You can download our full commitment at www.swissre.com/about-us/corporateresponsibility/approach.html Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 9 Our approach to corporate responsibility Board and senior management ̤̤ The Group Chief Risk Officer (CRO) Implementation responsibility is responsible for providing the BoD On an operational level, various and Group EC with independent divisions, departments and units across Board of Directors assurance that all of Swiss Re’s risks the Business Units and corporate At Swiss Re’s highest governance level, are being appropriately modelled, functions are involved in implementing the task of overseeing implementation of governed and managed, and that Swiss Re’s commitment to corporate our commitment to corporate responsibility adequate controls are in place. As responsibility in daily business. has been assigned to a committee of the part of executing these Board of Directors (BoD): It is one of the responsibilities, the Group CRO is The Sustainability, Emerging and responsibilities of the Chairman’s and charged with establishing the Group’s Political Risk Management unit drives Governance Committee to monitor the Risk Management Framework for all the development of Group risk policies Group’s strategic priorities with regard risk categories, including and related strategic projects and to enabling sustainable progress. sustainability and emerging risks. coordinates communication, dialogue ̤̤ The Group Chief Investment Officer and engagement efforts across the More specifically, the Board’s (CIO) has overall responsibility for Group in close coordination with the Investment Committee reviews Group Asset Management and its respective units. In addition, the unit is Swiss Re’s Asset Management related investment result, and with that also responsible for producing Swiss Re’s activities and, as part of this, receives for the consistent integration of Corporate Responsibility Report, which regular updates on Group Asset environmental, social and governance is reviewed by senior management and Management’s responsible investing (ESG) aspects along the investment approved by the BoD. approach. The Board’s Finance and process. The Group CIO is responsible Risk Committee defines the Group Risk for investment decisions within the Enhanced Group Sustainability Policy, reviews risk capacity limits, strategic asset allocation Strategy monitors adherence to risk tolerance, implementation, including those Recently, we have reviewed our and reviews all top risk issues and related to responsible investing and is approach to corporate responsibility exposures, including those with a informed of ESG updates through and formulated an enhanced Group specific sustainability dimension. various channels including the Asset Sustainability Strategy. This will also be Management Investment Committee. reflected by Swiss Re’s sustainability Group Executive Committee ̤̤ The Group Chief Financial Officer governance and future reporting. While the BoD is responsible for (CFO) is responsible for the Groupdefining overall strategic direction and wide Finance function with a focus CONTENT IN THE overseeing its implementation, the on steering and achieving the 2018 FINANCIAL REPORT Group Executive Committee (Group EC) company’s financial targets. He also You can find a short introduction to the owns and approves sustainabilityhas accountability for Swiss Re’s enhanced Sustainability Strategy in the relevant policies, action plans etc. investor relations and public “Corporate governance” chapter of the 2018 Financial Report, on page 102. disclosures, including the Group The Group EC sets and monitors risk Annual Report (including eg Climatecapacity limits (including for natural related Financial Disclosures). catastrophes), and determines product ̤̤ The Group Chief Underwriting Officer policy and underwriting standards. As (CUO) is responsible for steering part of its mandate, it approves Swiss Re’s capital to the most attractive areas sustainability policies – eg the thermal in underwriting that are of strategic coal policy introduced in 2018 – and importance for the Group’s owns the further development of underwriting, and providing research Swiss Re’s sustainability strategy. The and development that improves both Group EC members have explicit tasks capital allocation and risk selection. related to sustainability, which include ̤̤ The Group Chief Operating Officer but are not limited to the following: (COO) is responsible for the Groupwide Operations functions. This responsibility includes overseeing, besides Communication and Human Resources, the Corporate Real Estate & Services (CRES) division, Global Sourcing and IT. CRES steers and monitors the reduction of Swiss Re’s environmental footprint and is in charge of Swiss Re’s Greenhouse Neutral Programme to reduce our own CO2 emissions. 10 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Corporate Responsibility Currently, we focus on a total of Priority: Topics with high stakeholder Map twelve such topics and display them in expectations as well as high internal a Corporate Responsibility Map. relevance. Require continuous high A key question for any company that attention and effort. understands corporate responsibility as Reflecting our two main insight sources taking a long-term view and enabling and in line with current best practice, Management: Topics recognised sustainable progress is what this means eg the recommendations of the Global as being relevant and for which we in the context of its own business and Reporting Initiative (www. have well-established management industry: which topics are “material” globalreporting.org), this map is procedures. Stakeholder interest in to achieving this goal? structured along the two axes of them varies, though. “Stakeholder expectations” and In order to identify these material “Relevance for Swiss Re” – in terms of Exploration: Topics with increasing Corporate Responsibility Topics, we use risks as well as opportunities. The topics relevance from an internal perspective both our internal risk expertise and are positioned within three areas and an expected increase in stakeholder ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. expressing different stages of relevance inquiries. Warrant further analysis. and maturity:  NLINE CONTENT O You can learn more about the insight sources and process we use to identify material topics in the online version of the report: reports.swissre.com/corporateresponsibility-report/2018/cr-report/ introduction/our-approach-to-corporateresponsibility/our-cr-map-and-how-wedetermine-materiality.html OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MAP * * * * Environment Society Swiss Re governance Stakeholders’ governance * These Corporate Responsibility Topics are also covered by the risk knowledge topics of our stakeholder dialogue. See pages 40–43. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 11 Our approach to corporate responsibility For all our Corporate Responsibility Topics we have set goals – some of them quantitative, others qualitative. On the following four pages, we briefly describe why these topics are important OVERVIEW: OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOPICS, SDG LINKS, GOALS AND KEY ACHIEVEMENTS LINKS TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOPICS DEVELOPMENT GOALS* Advancing the climate transition In December 2015, nearly 200 governments agreed to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change in the Paris Agreement. The private sector plays a key role in reaching the goals defined in Paris. Swiss Re advances the transition to a low-carbon economy from two angles: 1. Managing climate and natural disaster risk is at the core of what we do. Losses from floods, storms, earthquakes and other natural catastrophes impact the economies of entire countries and are therefore a key driver of the re/insurance business. Such losses are becoming more frequent and severe due to higher insurance penetration and the concentration of assets in exposed areas as well as climate change. By financing disaster risk mitigation and climate adaptation, we can strengthen the resilience of citizens, businesses, local and national economies and societies. 2. Advancing sustainable energy solutions is essential to combat global warming. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions while at the same time satisfying the energy needs of a growing population will be one of the great challenges we face in the coming decades. We continuously invest in our renewable energy research and solutions to help our clients and the global community to develop and establish secure energy supplies for the future. Partnering for food security Meeting the demand for food for the growing world population – estimated to reach 9 billion by 2050 – will be challenging, as supply is constrained by such factors as climate change, depleted agricultural soils and the distribution of land, water and energy. Today, about 800 million people – one in 11 – are chronically hungry and malnourished. Swiss Re is a leader in agricultural insurance markets. We use our experience, expertise and financial strength to provide cutting-edge solutions to all stakeholders of the agricultural value chain. By insuring the agricultural sector, we play a vital role in combatting hunger and poverty. Offering solutions for longevity risk People are living longer today than ever before, but the share of the working population is shrinking. The costs of funding retirement income, healthcare and long-term care in old age will increase dramatically. This could have significant financial consequences for individuals, insurers, employer pension funds and society in general. Swiss Re is the world’s largest reinsurer of mortality, and life and health reinsurance is part of our core business. We help clients create solutions that better support people across the different phases of ageing and retirement. Managing sustainability risks Sound risk management is essential for a re/insurer. Besides the core categories of our risk landscape (insurance, financial market and credit risk), we also pay attention to further significant risks we may be exposed to, including sustainability risks. We define sustainability risks as ethical concerns related to potential environmental and socio-economic impacts of our business transactions, and the reputational risks they may entail. The risk assessments we make through our Sustainability Risk Framework, an advanced risk management instrument, flow directly into our re/insurance and investment decisions. * Note: SDG 17 “Partnerships for the Goals” is important for most of our CR Topics. 12 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report for Swiss Re, their principal links to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, the internal goals we have set for them and what we achieved during the reporting year. OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOALS PROGRESS ON OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOALS F  or general strategic objectives, see special section on our climate change strategy on page 16. B  ased on our commitment made to the UN, advise 50 sovereigns By the end of 2018, had advised 96 sovereigns and and sub-sovereigns on climate risk resilience by 2020 and offer USD sub-sovereigns on climate risk resilience, offering protection 10 billion of re/insurance protection against this risk. of USD 8.2 billion in total (page 23). U  se our capacity and technical expertise to provide effective We were involved in further offshore wind projects, some risk covers for complex offshore wind farm projects. of them supporting new trends: accelerated development in Asia and the advent of floating technology (page 24–25). In cooperation with key stakeholders, create solutions to improve Helped develop a government-run e-voucher scheme in Zambia, food security by giving farmers protection against natural perils. which gives smallholder farmers more flexibility to buy the most suitable agricultural inputs and insures these inputs (page 22). U se our capacity, technical expertise and natural offset of our Completed a number of landmark longevity transactions mortality business to offer our clients risk transfer solutions for their in recent years (page 25). longevity risk. C onsistently identify potential sustainability risks in our business Introduced a thermal coal policy for our underwriting and transactions and abstain from them if warranted. integrated it in our Sustainability Risk Framework (page 28). Increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the Sensitive Business Due to continuous fine-tuning of the SBR Assessment Tool and Risk (SBR) process by advancing automation of sustainability risk increasing underwriter awareness, achieved a decrease of screening with our proprietary SBR Assessment Tool. transactions referred for an individual assessment between 2015 and 2017. In 2018, referrals rose, partly due to the introduction of our thermal coal policy (page 30). E  ngage with clients and industry partners on how to address and Had several dialogue engagements with industry peers and reduce sustainability risks in business transactions, especially in civil society groups, in particular focusing on the topic of thermal high growth markets. coal and the policy we introduced in 2018 (page 31). Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 13 Our approach to corporate responsibility OVERVIEW: OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOPICS, SDG LINKS, GOALS AND KEY ACHIEVEMENTS LINKS TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOPICS DEVELOPMENT GOALS* Investing responsibly Institutional investors such as re/insurers are naturally suited to invest responsibly because of their long-term view. Swiss Re systematically integrates environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations into the investment process through its three-pillars approach: Enhancement (eg by applying ESG benchmarks), Inclusion (ie thematic investments) and Exclusion. Engaging our people We want to be an organisation where diverse talents come together globally to apply fresh perspectives and knowledge to “make the world more resilient”. Once a year, we seek feedback from our employees through the Employee Engagement Survey (EES). The EES is an opportunity to hear from our employees what engages them and what ideas they have to improve their experience at Swiss Re. Ensuring good corporate governance and compliance We consider good corporate governance as a key precondition to ensure sustainability throughout the Group’s activities and indispensable to maintaining long-lasting, valuable relationships with our stakeholders. We conduct business in a legal, fair, ethical and transparent way by adhering to best practices at all times, and apply the principles of our Code of Conduct across all company lines and regions. Reducing our environmental footprint As a knowledge company in the financial services sector, our environmental impacts through our own operations are limited. Nonetheless, we firmly believe it is important for a responsible company to minimise its environmental footprint, thus leading by example. Tackling our CO2 emissions and reducing energy consumption are key targets across the Group. Our pioneering initiatives include the Greenhouse Neutral Programme and the COyou2 Programme. Advancing access to insurance Access to insurance is an important contributor to economic development. However, 60% of the world’s population still remains excluded from appropriate insurance products. We work on advancing public awareness of the societal value of insurance and the role insurance plays in achieving sustainable economic development. We further evaluate our contribution on selected Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Navigating the digital transformation The digital transformation has the potential to radically transform the insurance industry. New analytical techniques such as smart analytics, Big Data and FinTech boost innovation and modernisation in product design, distribution, claims management and fraud detection. As Swiss Re develops its “digital DNA”, we are also advancing industry awareness of ethical challenges surrounding the digital transformation. Empowering communities The Swiss Re Foundation reflects the social and humanitarian values of Swiss Re. It partners with social entrepreneurs, aid organisations, researchers, Swiss Re employees and clients to help communities increase their resilience. The Foundation’s initiatives address the causes and effects of risks in four areas – climate, natural hazards, water and society – both in emerging and developing countries and in regions where Swiss Re has offices. * Note: SDG 17 “Partnerships for the Goals” 14 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report is important for most of our CR Topics. OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOALS PROGRESS ON OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOALS Integrate ESG criteria systematically along our overall Close to 100% of our assets under management consider investment process. ESG criteria (pages 34–38). M eet our investment target for green bonds of at least Reached our green bond target during 2018, holding USD 1.5 billion. USD 1.6 billion in green bonds at the end of the year (page 37). C ontinue to build an organisation of diverse people that have a According to EES scores, 78% of our employees appreciate passion to make the world more resilient. Swiss Re valuing diversity and having a collaborative, inclusive and friendly culture with high integrity (page 55). A chieve a top-quartile employee engagement score (EES>74%). Per 2018, achieved an employee engagement score of 66% (page 55). C ontinuously assess our corporate governance against regulatory For an overview of key focus areas and highlights in 2018, see our developments, best practice and new stakeholder demands. 2018 Financial Report, pages 102–103. M anage compliance risks through maintaining adequate frameL aunched global internal Compliance tool to simplify employee works, delivery of effective training and awareness to our employees access to compliance risk framework and governance information. and oversee effective implementation within the business. Delivered mandatory compliance trainings. Risk-based tailored training activities for targeted employees continued (page 68). K eep per-capita CO2 emissions from our own operations at 2013 Achieved a reduction of our per-capita CO2 emissions by levels, which we had reduced by 49.3% in the ten years since 2003. 8.1% compared with 2013 (page 47–48). R educe our energy intensity by an average 2% per year. Since 2013, achieved a total reduction of 28.9% (page 47–48). O btain 100% of power used for our own operations from renewable At the end of 2018, covered 94% of our total power consumption sources by 2020. from renewable sources (page 48). Include our tier 1 and tier 2 vendors in the EcoVadis platform by Implementation completed for 30% of our tier 1 and 2 vendors 2020. (page 52). A dvance our understanding of the societal impact of insurance and Based on our dedicated sigma study of 2017, continued in-house develop metrics to measure our impact on stakeholders. work towards developing a suitable methodology. No reportable results yet as per end of 2018. R efine our understanding of societal challenges related to the digital Engaged with regulators on the topic of big data/digital ethics, transformation. continued a research partnership on “Ethical and Legal Big Data Challenges in the Insurance Industry” with academic partners and contributed to a publication produced by the Geneva Association (page 43). C ontribute to resilient societies by increasingly engaging Swiss Re Continuing to create new opportunities for our employees employees with their skills and expertise. to support the Swiss Re Foundation’s partners with their expertise, nearly 16% of the project portfolio encompassed an employee engagement component at the end of 2018 (see the Foundation’s 2018 Activity Report, pages 26–27). Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 15 Our approach to corporate responsibility CLIMATE CHANGE Content organisation We address our Corporate Responsibility Topics across the different areas of our business where they are relevant. These “implementation areas” are listed below and provide the basic chapter structure for our Corporate Responsibility Report: Business solutions Within our core business of re/ insurance, we strive to develop innovative solutions that help tackle key environmental and social challenges. To achieve this, we work with our clients and partners in both the private and public sectors. Risk intelligence We develop and apply tailor-made tools to extend the scope of our risk Climate change has been our most important sustainability issue for many management. This enables us to identify years: For a re/insurer, it constitutes a key topic because it will lead to an and appropriately address sustainabilityincrease in the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as floods, related and emerging risks in our core storms, excessive rainfall and drought. In combination with growing asset business. concentrations in exposed areas and more widespread insurance protection, this will cause a steady rise in damage. Among our current Corporate Investments Responsibility Topics shown on pages 11–15, two are directly linked to climate We integrate environmental, social and change: “Managing climate and natural disaster risk“ and “Advancing governance (ESG) criteria across our sustainable energy solutions”. investment portfolio. Our approach is based on the three strategic pillars Since detecting the long-term threat posed by climate change almost Enhancement, Inclusion and Exclusion. 30 years ago, we have been an acknowledged thought leader on the topic. To tackle the issue, we pursue a comprehensive strategy with four pillars. Stakeholder dialogue Through regular dialogue with our The four pillars of our climate change strategy clients and other stakeholders, we help develop effective responses to Advancing our knowledge and understanding of climate sustainability and other key issues, by change risks, quantifying and integrating them into our risk raising awareness of both the risks and management and underwriting frameworks where relevant; opportunities arising from them. Developing products and services to mitigate or adapt to climate risk; Operations: our own footprint We apply best-practice standards of Raising awareness about climate change risks through resource management to our properties dialogue with clients, employees and the public, and advocating and logistic operations as well as a worldwide policy framework for climate change; guidelines to our sourcing activities. Tackling our own carbon footprint and ensuring transparent, In doing so, we continually reduce annual emissions reporting. Swiss Re’s direct environmental impact. Operations: our people Drawing on the know-how and experience of a diverse, multigenerational group of people, we want to ensure our employees can contribute to an organisation that is constantly looking for new ways to improve the wellbeing of society – where how we achieve results is as important as what we achieve. 16 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Corporate governance and Furthermore, we continue to report compliance Report profile against the Principles for Sustainable By adhering to the highest standards of Our Corporate Responsibility Report Insurance, PSI (www.unepfi.org/psi). governance and compliance, we seek to covers the whole Swiss Re Group as it Our Public Disclosure of Progress is also maintain effective checks and balances was organised on 31 December 2018, available in the online version. between the top corporate bodies and ie the publicly listed holding company to ensure the application of laws, rules Swiss Re Ltd, its three Business Units and regulations, and ethical standards Reinsurance, Corporate Solutions and in our business. Swiss Re’s commitment Life Capital, and all directly or indirectly to sustainability is fully integrated into held subsidiaries. our Code of Conduct.  NLINE CONTENT O All the main chapters of the report have Our CoP for the UN Global Compact Active in society received independent assurance from and our PSI Public Disclosure of Playing an active role in society beyond PricewaterhouseCoopers. Their Progress are available at: reports. our core business is important to us. assurance report is included on pages swissre.com/corporateresponsibility-report/2018/ Globally, we empower vulnerable 72–73. cr-report/introduction/ourcommunities to become more resilient approach-to-corporateto risk and, where we have offices, we responsibility/reportingO  NLINE CONTENT encourage volunteering activities and frameworks.html More detailed information on reporting support local institutions. scope, reporting period and publishing rhythm is available in the online version of the report: reports.swissre.com/ In our Financial Report we provide Within these core chapters, the content corporate-responsibilitydetailed Climate-related Financial primarily reflects our current Corporate report/2018/cr-report/ Disclosures, as recently developed and Responsibility Topics, displayed and introduction/our-approach-torecommended by the Financial Stability described on pages 11–15. Our corporate-responsibility/ report-profile.html Board (www.fsb-tcfd.org). activities as an active citizen in society are described in detail in the separate Activity Report published by the Swiss Re Foundation. Reporting frameworks CONTENT IN THE 2018 FINANCIAL REPORT You can view our Climate-related Our Corporate Responsibility Report Financial Disclosures in the “Corporate  NLINE CONTENT O incorporates our 2018 Communication responsibility” chapter, pages 172–189. A full, interactive overview showing on Progress (CoP) for the UN Global where and how we have addressed our Compact (www.unglobalcompact.org). Corporate Responsibility Topics in 2018 is available in the online version You can view the full list of references of the report: reports.swissre.com/ to the Compact’s ten principles in the corporate-responsibilityonline version of the report. report/2018/cr-report/ introduction/our-approach-tocorporate-responsibility/overviewwhere-and-how-we-haveaddressed-our-cr-topics.html SUSTAINABILITY INDEX REPRESENTATION Swiss Re is a member of various sustainability indices, including the Dow Jones Sustainability World and Europe, FTSE4Good, Euronext Vigeo World 120, Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index, the MSCI ESG Leaders and MSCI Global Socially Responsible (2019) index families. In May 2018, Swiss Re received an AAA rating on the MSCI ESG assessment. Our most important index listings and ratings are displayed on page 75. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 17 Creating solutions for sustainability Our re/insurance solutions help address key environmental and social challenges. We focus on natural catastrophes and climate change, food security, renewable energy, longevity and advancing access to insurance. USD By managing risks and covering losses, Thus, our solutions frequently include: re/insurance creates stability and ̤̤ Public-sector partners: Besides direct enables economic growth. However, insurers and corporate clients, we 2.3 bn some environmental and social develop risk transfer solutions for, and challenges may undermine sustainable in cooperation with, governments and progress if left unaddressed. Helping our various public-sector organisations; clients and society tackle such risks is ̤̤ Index-based insurance products: We Natural catastrophe a key part of our commitment as a are a pioneer in creating innovative responsible company and of our vision insurance solutions that use an index premiums in our P&C to make the world more resilient. to determine payments; Reinsurance business ̤̤ Insurance-linked securities (ILS) or cat Currently, our focus is on the following bonds: We are a leading developer of (USD 2.3 billion in 2017) themes: natural disaster and climate these products, which enable cedents risks, food security, sustainable energy to transfer large risks to the capital and longevity. We develop our solutions markets. as part of our established risk modelling and underwriting activities or by Across our efforts, we seek to develop creating innovative new products in solutions that improve access to close cooperation with our clients and insurance protection, especially in partners. emerging and developing countries. If governments and communities are financially protected against such risks W  EBSITE You can find out more about as windstorms, earthquakes, drought insurance-linked securities at: and flooding, they can better cope www.swissre.com/investors/ with the immediate consequences of investors-ILS.html a disaster. 18 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report A typhoon approaching Japan. Natural catastrophes and the impact of climate change are key Just as importantly, our solutions help These figures underline the significant risks in our core business. create the conditions for sustained social benefits that access to effective and economic development, as they re/insurance protection against natural protect investments, allow governments catastrophes creates for our clients to stabilise budgets and give people the and for society at large. In 2018, our financial stability required to build and clients in P&C Reinsurance paid us maintain businesses. USD 2.3 billion of natural catastrophe premiums (for losses larger than USD 20 million), equivalent to NATURAL CATASTROPHE DATA Natural catastrophes and approximately 14% of total premiums climate change in this business segment. In our 2018 Financial Report, we Natural catastrophes are a key risk in our provide detailed quantitative Even before 2017 and 2018, both Property & Casualty (P&C) business. The information on natural catastrophe economic and insured losses caused by damage caused by floods, storms, perils: the four perils with the highest natural catastrophes had steadily earthquakes and other natural expected annual losses (page 184) increased on average over the past 20 catastrophes can affect millions of lives and the liquidity requirements years. The main reasons are economic and the economies of entire countries. stemming from four extreme loss development, population growth, Following a relatively benign first half of scenarios (“Insurance risk stress urbanisation and a higher concentration the year, the second half saw a number tests”, page 91). of assets in exposed areas. of natural catastrophes, contributing to make 2018 the fourth-costliest year This general trend will continue. But for the insurance industry according to crucially, economic losses will be further the Swiss Re Institute. aggravated by climate change. The scientific consensus is that a continued Swiss Re’s estimated combined claims rise in average global temperatures will from natural catastrophes were USD 2.2 billion in 2018. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 19 Creating solutions for sustainability have a significant effect on weatherunderwriting and risk management Flood insurance for homeowners related natural catastrophes. According purposes, our models provide an in Florida to the the Fifth Assessment Report estimate of the current risk. But as As hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Michael (AR5, 2014) and the Special Report on natural catastrophe losses continue to underlined once again, many Global Warming of 1.5 °C (SR15, 2018), rise as a result of the different factors homeowners in Florida are exposed published by the Intergovernmental listed above, our models will gradually to the risk of flooding. Until recently, Panel on Climate Change (IPCC, www. factor in this trend. however, adding flood insurance to an ipcc.ch), a changing climate gradually existing homeowners insurance policy leads to shifts in the frequency, intensity, In addition to providing re/insurance was rarely an option. Because flooding spatial extent, duration and timing of covers, we offer our clients strategic risk is sensitive to each specific location, extreme weather events. expertise and integral risk assessments it has been difficult to price accurately. of natural disasters and climate In a joint venture with Security First If climate change remains unchecked, adaptation. These include free access for Insurance (www.securityfirstflorida.com), the makeup of the main drivers will thus our clients to Swiss Re’s CatNet® tool we helped develop a flood insurance gradually shift, with climate change (swissre.com/reinsurance/propertysolution that overcomes this challenge. accounting for an increasingly large and-casualty/solutions/propertyshare of natural catastrophe losses. specialty-solutions/catnet.html), which The key to this innovative solution is includes our recently launched Global that it uses Swiss Re’s proprietary flood To assess our Property & Casualty Storm Surge Zones service, and our model. Based on the unique business accurately and to structure expertise publications. characteristics of a specific exposure sound risk transfer solutions, we need such as location of the structure, type to clearly understand the economic of construction and insured value, our impact of natural catastrophes and the Strengthening risk resilience: model generates a premium that more effect of climate change. This is why 2018 highlights accurately reflects the actual risk. we invest in proprietary, state-of-the-art Furthermore, the solution combines In this section, we describe a selection natural catastrophe models and flood and wind risk in one policy with of the innovative transactions and regularly collaborate with universities one deductible, meaning there is no initiatives we were involved in during and scientific institutions. longer a need to distinguish whether a 2018 to strengthen risk resilience. These loss has been caused partially by flood transactions help address the following While the impact of climate change or partially by wind. of our Corporate Responsibility Topics, will increase gradually over the coming often more than one at the same time: decades, most of our business is renewed The customers of Security First can now ̤̤ Managing climate and natural and repriced annually, and our risk choose to add the new, optional flood disaster risk models are refined every few years. and water backup coverage to their ̤̤ Partnering for food security Risks are normally covered for 12 existing homeowners policies. The fact ̤̤ Advancing access to insurance months (up to five years for cat bonds). that they can get comprehensive flood Thus, re/insurance premiums do not insurance protection at reasonable They help our clients and their reflect expected loss trends over the prices through one policy shows that communities become more resilient coming decades. Rather, for flood risk is insurable in the private to the risks they face by ensuring that market. Beyond sharing the information adequate funding is in place when it of our flood model, we support the is needed. CONTENT IN THE solution with claims, regulatory, 2018 FINANCIAL REPORT marketing and underwriting expertise, You can view our Climate-related Financial all backed by reinsurance capacity. Disclosures in the “Corporate responsibility” chapter, pages 172–189. 20 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Windstorm insurance in four US Swiss Re acted as transformer between Protecting coral reefs against states Mexico and IBRD to facilitate Mexico’s hurricane damage In 2018, Swiss Re Capital Markets access to the capital markets. The Around the world, coral reefs harbour structured and placed the issuance of flexible nature of the parametric trigger rich marine ecosystems and are vital for USD 350 million of insurance-linked allows the four countries to customise coastal protection. However, they are securities by Frontline Re Ltd on behalf their individual coverage in line with under threat from a number of sources: of Frontline Insurance (www. their exposures and overall disaster risk disease, bleaching events, diminishing frontlineinsurance.com). The transaction financing strategies. As a result, the herbivores, algae overgrowth. The most is Frontline’s debut catastrophe bond countries can now receive fast payouts important short-term risk affecting reef and covers windstorms in Alabama, once the coverage is triggered and structures comes from strong Florida, North Carolina and South are therefore able to accelerate their hurricanes: A category 4 to 5 hurricane Carolina for a period of four years. emergency response following a can destroy 20–60% of live coral cover. qualifying earthquake event. It represents the largest cat bond of a In 2018, we supported the design of Florida-based insurance company (that Insuring homeowners in Mexico City a new type of insurance product that is, a non-government entity) to date. The against earthquakes offers protection against hurricane innovative transaction uses an indemnity In addition to our involvement in the damage on the Mesoamerican Barrier trigger, featuring an event-adjusted World Bank’s earthquake catastrophe Reef System. Stretching over 1 000 km, attachment level. For the first time in bond for the Pacific Alliance (see above), this is the second-longest reef system in the cat bond market, this determines we also supported a local insurance the world and the longest in the Western payments by ranking the size of events solution addressing earthquake risks in hemisphere. Not only is it home to that occur during an annual risk period. Mexico City. When the large earthquake some of the world’s most important and of September 2017 occurred, almost unique coral reefs, mangrove forests, Swiss Re Capital Markets acted as the 6 000 houses in the city were affected – fish species and marine mammals, it also sole structuring agent and bookrunner 61% of which were partially damaged protects the Riviera Maya, Mexico’s for the transaction, which was well and 39% totally destroyed. This in turn primary tourism hub. received by investors. led to social unrest, as most of those affected were low-income homeowners, The new, innovative parametric Protection against earthquake risk with neither private insurance nor insurance solution is designed to protect for four Latin American countries financial resources to rebuild their the coral reef and the beach sand. When Chile, Colombia, Peru and Mexico are homes. triggered by a strong hurricane, it will all exposed to the threat of earthquakes. automatically pay out, thus funding The most recent in a string of major In response, the city government sought essential restoration measures. Premium earthquakes occurred in Mexico City in ways to leverage its existing natural payments for the programme will come September 2017, taking more than 450 disaster fund and to provide homeowners from the Coastal Zone Management lives and causing economic losses of with better financial protection against Trust, set up by the state government of approximately USD 12 billion. Previously, potential losses from earthquakes. Quintana Roo (www.qroo.gob.mx) with Chile had been hit in 2010 and Peru in In cooperation with a local cedent, support from The Nature Conservancy 2007. Swiss Re has helped develop an (www.nature.org) to protect coastal innovative programme that offers the areas in the Caribbean. The trust in turn In 2011, the four countries founded a city government insurance protection will collect funds as a portion of tourism regional integration initiative known as against losses in excess of its own taxes and other government sources. the Pacific Alliance (alianzapacifico.net). disaster fund, from earthquakes with Working together through this a magnitude of 8.5 or more. Giving low-income women in Egypt organisation, the countries’ governments access to life and health insurance recently took an important step to This insurance scheme automatically Lack of health insurance is a major improve their financial protection against covers homeowners who meet a protection gap in many parts of the the potential losses of earthquakes, by number of requirements. One of them is world. In Egypt, for example, many lowsponsoring a catastrophe bond issued that they have fully paid their property income women work in the informal by the World Bank’s International Bank taxes at the time of an event, which sector, by running a market stall with for Reconstruction and Development creates a strong incentive for tax fruit or vegetable, offering laundry (IBRD, www.worldbank.org/en/whocompliance and increases the city’s services and similar activities. To date, we-are/ibrd). With a total notional of revenues. In combination, the insurance these micro entrepreneurs usually USD 1.36 billion, it is the largest solution and the additional revenue will lack any sort of insurance protection sovereign-sponsored catastrophe bond help Mexico City reduce the protection against loss of income due to illness. to date. gap connected with major earthquakes. Swiss Re Capital Markets acted as joint structuring agent and bookrunner on this landmark transaction. Further, utilising its rated balance sheet, Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 21 Creating solutions for sustainability In Egypt, most women who run a small business in the informal sector lack any sort of life and health insurance. In 2018, we worked with several partners to expand a pioneering microinsurance programme that addresses this protection gap. In 2018, we helped expand a pioneering At the end of 2018, the programme Encouraged by local institutions such as health microinsurance programme that covered around 200 000 clients, 90% the Indaba Agricultural Policy Research targets this challenge. Originally of them women. Such basic but Institute (www.iapri.org.zm), the conceived by Women’s World Banking ground-breaking microinsurance and government changed the programme’s (www.womensworldbanking.org) and microfinance solutions play a vital role delivery mode by introducing electronic the Lead Foundation (lead.org.eg), a in promoting economic development vouchers and launched a pilot in 2015. dedicated microfinance institution, the in emerging countries, and the rapid The revamped E-FISP programme offers programme offers insurance linked to growth of Hemayet Lead demonstrates a more diversified range of products and the micro loans Lead offers to its clients. that there is strong interest from the gives farmers much more flexibility to informal sector in Egypt. acquire those inputs that best meet their Called Hemayet Lead (which means actual needs based on local conditions. “Lead’s protection” in Arabic), the Supporting an agricultural e-voucher All inputs are insured through a weather solution combines two benefits: a scheme in Zambia index insurance programme designed by hospital cash benefit of EGP 300 for Small-size farms are the main source of local insurance partners. Swiss Re has every night spent at hospital, with livelihoods for about 70% of Zambia’s supported E-FISP by offering pricing and limited exclusions (maternity, in population. The productivity of these reinsurance capacity. particular, is covered), and life insurance farms is generally low, threatening for an amount equal to three times the household income and food security. E-FISP has now been rolled out to the customer’s micro loan. Together with Starting in 2002, the government-run whole country. Regarding its insurance AXA Egypt (www.axa-egypt.com), we Farmer Input Support Program (FISP) element, we have recently started to are strategic partners of Hemayet Lead: has given the country’s smallholder engage with the Zambian government AXA Egypt in its primary role of direct farmers access to improved inputs such on potential areas that need insurer, and Swiss Re as the main as inorganic fertilisers and seeds. improvements, including product reinsurer and providing technical However, due to its overly rigid, topdesign, distribution and stakeholder support. down design and narrow focus, the engagement. programme’s impact on productivity and, thus, rural poverty remained minimal. 22 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report OUR COMMITMENT TO THE UNITED NATIONS Many of our recent efforts to expand insurance protection cover losses from natural catastrophes and weather volatility (eg drought or excessive rainfall). As climate change is predicted to increase these losses, such transactions also help communities strengthen their climate resilience. Furthermore, we have found that partnering with public-sector clients, USD especially national and regional governments, is an effective way to develop solutions. 8.2 billion Building on these experiences, we made a significant commitment to the United Nations at its Climate Summit in September 2014. Personally addressing the government leaders present at the summit, our then Group CEO Michel M. Liès made the following pledge: “By the year 2020, Total amount of Swiss Re commits to having advised 50 sovereigns and sub-sovereigns climate protection on climate risk resilience and to have offered them USD 10 billion against this risk.” offered to sovereigns and sub-sovereigns We have agreed with the United Nations to report publicly on the progress we make on this commitment. By the end of 2018, we had since 2014 advised 96 sovereigns and sub-sovereigns on climate risk resilience and offered a total of USD 8.2 billion in re/insurance protection. (USD 5.3 billion by 2017) CLIMATE PROTECTION OFFERED TO (SUB-)SOVEREIGNS 2016 2017 2018 Number of (sub-)sovereigns advised 26 66 96 Amount of climate protection offered 3.9 billion 5.3 billion 8.2 billion (in USD) Insuring a Chinese county against Company (www.groupama.com.cn/en) We offer a range of re/insurance natural disasters as direct insurer. Swiss Re is the solutions to manage the risks of different In China, we helped develop and programme’s sole reinsurer and has kinds of renewable energy projects. At implement the first-ever natural played a leading technical role in the end of 2018, we were providing risk catastrophe programme at county level. ensuring its successful implementation. cover to more than 3 300 wind and solar It provides the government of Mao A particular and noteworthy aspect of farms. County with comprehensive parametric the programme is that it includes insurance protection against losses from parametric insurance protection against Offshore wind is considered one of the natural disasters, covering earthquakes, losses from landslides, an innovative most promising renewable energy landslides, heavy rainfall and public technical breakthrough. sources. But like renewable energy in safety accidents. general, it presents very complex risks. Unlike traditional lines, there is no long Mao County is a minority autonomous Sustainable energy solutions loss history to refer to. Underwriting area in Sichuan Province, close to the Sustainable energy sources play a such risks is therefore challenging from epicentre of the devastating Wenchuan crucial role in reducing CO2 emissions an insurance perspective. earthquake of 2008. With a magnitude and securing future energy supplies. of 8.0, the disaster claimed more than Given our strategic focus on climate Swiss Re Corporate Solutions takes a 80 000 lives, left millions of people change, we are keen to support energy special interest in offshore wind as it has homeless and caused total damage generation from renewable sources. both the large capacity and the technical estimated at RMB 845 billion, with only But as sustainable energy projects expertise to help manage the associated a small portion covered by insurance. increase in scale and complexity, so do risks. We are continually enhancing our the risks associated with them. However, understanding of these risks and share Alongside the Mao County Government, innovative risk transfer solutions can our insights with our clients as well as this pioneering new partnership involves help reduce these risks and drive other insurers. As an initiator and cothe Groupama-AVIC Property Insurance investment in the sector. founder of the European Wind Turbine Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 23 Creating solutions for sustainability Offshore wind farms pose complex risks. We have the technical expertise and financial capacity to offer effective risk transfer solutions to our clients in this important renewable energy sector. Committee established in 2009, we Taiwan. Swiss Re Corporate Solutions is Taiwanese east coast and will consist were instrumental in launching the currently involved in this growing market of 21 wind turbines generating a total Offshore Code of Practice (OCoP), a with two projects. One of them is the capacity of 110 MW. This will be best-practice guide for risk management Formosa 1 OWF Phase 2, owned by sufficient to power approximately in the sector. Mirroring these efforts, we Formosa Wind Power. Building on a 77 000 homes and avoid 156 000 are now considered a lead market for successful pilot with two wind turbines tonnes of CO2 emissions. offshore wind risks. In the last five years, generating 8 MW, the project is now Swiss Re Corporate Solutions has into its second phase. This comprises Pilot projects with floating structures participated in numerous offshore wind the construction of 20 turbines with a Offshore wind farms are not just projects, including wind farms, standtotal capacity of 120 MW. Distanced evolving in terms of geographic location alone offshore sub-stations and standtwo to six kilometres from Taiwan’s but also technologically. So far the large alone export cables. north-western coast, the wind farm will majority of wind farms has been built as be able to supply approximately 85 000 fixed structures. However, floating In 2018, we were involved in a number homes with clean energy, cutting CO2 structures have a much larger technical of new offshore wind farm projects, emissions by 170 000 tonnes per year potential globally, since they are suitable some of which illustrate new trends in (data as provided by www.4coffshore. for deep-water environments and can the sector: accelerated development com). offer significant cost reductions. in Asia and the advent of floating Swiss Re Corporate Solutions takes an technology. In 2018, we also agreed to provide interest in this evolving technology and insurance protection to the Changhua has been involved in several pilot Offshore wind farms in Taiwan Demonstration Offshore Wind Farm, projects using floating structures, all Until recently, most large offshore wind owned and developed by the Taiwan of them in Europe. These pilots have farms have been constructed in Europe. Power Company (Taipower, www. the purpose of demonstrating both Construction activity has now also taipower.com.tw/en). It is located the technological and the commercial started to pick up in Asia, particularly in between 6.7 and 8.7 km off the feasibility of floating windfarms. 24 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report One of the earliest projects we insured ̤̤ The Scottish & Newcastle Pension is the Hywind Scotland Pilot Park. It Life and health re/insurance Plan (19 000 members) comprises five wind turbines generating Life and health (L&H) insurance products ̤̤ The Aviva Staff Pension Scheme a total capacity of 30 MW. When fully play a crucial role in creating stability (19 000 members plus partners) operational, it is predicted to power for individuals and society. They provide ̤̤ One of AkzoNobel’s pension funds approximately 21 200 homes and avoid financial security in the event of death (17 000 members) 43 000 tonnes of CO2 emissions per or illness, give access to medical ̤̤ The LV= pension fund (more than year (compared with fossil fuelled power treatment and offer dependable income 5 000 members) generation). Another, newer project is in retirement. We help primary L&H ̤̤ The Royal County of Berkshire the Kincardine Offshore Windfarm (pilotinsurers and other clients from the Pension Fund (11 000 members). renewables.com) off the Aberdeenshire private and public sector to manage coast. We have provided insurance such risks efficiently, thanks to our Life Capital: iptiQ cover for its initial phase, which used just specialist knowledge of mortality, Our Life Capital Business Unit was one turbine. Kincardine will be expanded morbidity and longevity trends. created in January 2016 and dedicated to seven turbines with a total capacity to developing Swiss Re’s primary life and of 50 MW. It is expected to power Longevity and health insurance have health business. It operates through approximately 35 400 homes and avoid remained two of our strategic priorities three wholly owned subsidiaries in three 71 500 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. in the L&H business. The demand for lines of business: ReAssure for closed longevity solutions is expected to grow books, elipsLife for Group L&H insurance First solar revenue “put” further as demographics shift. We keep and iptiQ for individual L&H insurance. in 2018, we were also involved in the investing in research and development development of a pioneering risk to improve our ability to predict mortality iptiQ reflects Swiss Re’s commitment to transfer solution for the solar energy and longevity trends. introducing more people in society to sector. Solar farms are faced with an the benefits of financial protection inherent risk: output is unpredictable to a Demand for commercial health against life’s uncertainties – in particular degree, because production rises and insurance solutions has also been to closing the gap between the amount falls with the length and intensity of local growing, driven by several major of savings or insurance that someone irradiation conditions as well as actual demographic and socio-economic has and the amount needed in the event panel and equipment production. In trends. These include: the greater of misfortune. iptiQ does not sell directly 2018, Swiss Re Corporate Solutions and healthcare needs of ageing societies; to consumers. Instead, it works in our partner Kwh Analytics (www. rising healthcare expectations of the partnership with established and trusted kwhanalytics.com) collaborated to sell new middle class, especially in growth brands, combining Swiss Re’s vast the industry’s first solar revenue “put”, an markets; and healthcare finance reform, experience and expertise in designing insurance product that can guarantee up particularly in mature markets. We offer protection products with the partner to 95% of a solar farm’s expected output. a variety of health reinsurance solutions companies’ own know-how. to meet these needs, from short-term The solar “put” works like this: the Swiss Re protection against the risk of volatility Offering products for term life, whole of policy sets a floor production level for in medical expenses for insurers or life, critical illness and disability, iptiQ’s electricity output from the solar farm. employers to very long-term protection overriding goal is to offer simple, Our client pays a premium, and if the against the financial impact of disability streamlined, digital solutions that plant does not generate enough power or critical illness. remove the traditional hurdles to to reach the floor, Swiss Re covers the purchasing protection. Our partners can difference. Underlying this new risk Solutions for longevity risk choose from more than 140 product management solution is a large With life expectancy rising, pension configurations in order to get easy-todatabase of historical production of schemes face the risk that they will not understand, non-advisory products US solar power plants, developed by be able to meet all their commitments. with clear and transparent pricing and kWh Analytics. Longevity transactions cover this risk optional add-ons. IptiQ has grown by insuring the schemes’ liabilities in strongly since its creation in 2016, with As offered, the solar put significantly case their members live longer than the amount of new policies sold more reduces the financial risk of a plant and expected. In previous Corporate than doubling for the second year in a makes debt financing available on better Responsibility Reports, we have row in 2018. terms. This in turn lowers the plant’s described a number of landmark overall cost of capital, enabling longevity transactions completed in developers to fund more solar projects recent years with different clients CONTENT IN THE and contributing to the “decarbonisation” in the UK: 2018 BUSINESS REPORT Learn more about how we help address of the US power generation stock. diabetes, on pages 32–35. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 25 Extending our risk intelligence We address sustainability, emerging and political risks in our core business transactions. For this, we have developed specific tools and know-how. Risk management is an integral part of credit risk. In addition, we consider it SUSTAINABILITY RISKS Swiss Re’s business model and key to essential for a responsible company to the controlled risk-taking that underpins pay attention to further significant risks We define sustainability risks as our financial strength. It is embedded we may be exposed to, especially in ethical concerns related to potential throughout our business and ensures the longer term. environmental and socio-economic that the Group and the three Business impacts of our business transactions, Units have the necessary expertise, Sustainability, emerging and political and the reputational risks they may frameworks and infrastructure to risks are particularly relevant in this entail. support good risk-taking (see 2018 respect. We have developed instruments Financial Report, pages 72–73 and and know-how that help us identify 81–97). and assess all of them. This allows us to determine those risks we think we Sound risk management is essential for should avoid – because of their potential a re/insurer. Tight control of our to increase losses, for ethical reasons exposures guarantees that we can fulfil or both. our role in society as ultimate risk-taker and be a reliable partner to our clients WEBSITE when they need us. The core categories To learn more about how we address of our risk landscape comprise insurance political risks, please visit our website risk (property and casualty, life and at: www.swissre.com/about-us/ health) as well as financial market and corporate-responsibility/ risk-intelligence/political-risks.html 26 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Dams can potentially have serious impacts on local communities and the environment. One of the policies of our Sustainability Risk Framework Our Sustainability Risk Our Sustainability Risk Framework is an Framework advanced risk management instrument clearly defines when and how our underwriters need to carry out designed to identify and address the due diligence on such risks. In a market environment, profitable potentially negative effects of our business activities create economic transactions on local communities, value. Occasionally, however, they workforces and the environment. This may also have adverse effects on the framework applies to all of our business environment and certain vulnerable transactions in re/insurance as well groups. If such impacts are ignored, as investments, to the extent that we they may pose a threat to societies’ can influence their various aspects. long-term sustainable development. The Sustainability Risk Framework For companies this situation can consists of: create dilemmas. A particular business ̤̤ Two umbrella policies on human transaction may be economically rights and environmental protection beneficial and in compliance with all plus eight specific guidelines on legal and regulatory requirements, yet sensitive sectors or issues; may have significant environmental or ̤̤ The Sensitive Business Risk (SBR) social downsides. Swiss Re recognises process comprising an online that such dilemmas exist and develops assessment tool and a referral tool – effective responses through a welldue diligence mechanisms to assess defined approach and by taking our business transactions; decisions based on ethical principles. ̤̤ Company exclusions; and ̤̤ Country exclusions beyond mere compliance with international trade controls. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 27 Extending our risk intelligence Policies and guidelines Our Sustainability Risk Framework is based on the overarching principles of Introduction of our respecting human rights and protecting the environment, encapsulated in two thermal coal policy umbrella policies that are valid for all our transactions. In addition, specific Swiss Re supports the worldwide reduction of greenhouse guidelines apply these overarching gas emissions and contributes to limiting global warming to principles to eight sectors or issues in 1.5–2°C above pre-industrial levels. To this end, we continually which we perceive major sustainability review measures to assist the transition to a low-carbon risks: the defence industry; oil and gas economy. Reflecting our commitment, in 2015 we signed (including oil sands, hydraulic fracturing the Paris Pledge for Action (www.parispledgeforaction.org) and arctic drilling); mining; dams; animal to affirm our support for the Paris Climate Agreement. testing; forestry, pulp & paper and oil palm; nuclear weapons proliferation; After a range of measures we have taken over the years in our and, newly from 2018, thermal coal. product development, risk management and operations, we have recently taken a further significant step. In July 2018, we introduced a thermal coal policy for our underwriting, pledging We regularly review all the policies and not to provide re/insurance to businesses with more than 30% guidelines of our Sustainability Risk exposure to thermal coal utilities or mining. The policy is fully Framework to ensure they stay abreast integrated into our Sustainability Risk Framework. It applies of relevant new risk developments and to both old and new thermal coal projects and across all lines stakeholder expectations. In 2018, we of business (direct, facultative and treaty). introduced a comprehensive thermal coal policy for our underwriting business The introduction of our thermal coal policy is the first step (see special section on the right), towards the development of a carbon risk steering mechanism, complementing a similar policy we had to measure our carbon intensity and associated risks embedded adopted in our asset management in in our re/insurance business. Over time, this will help us align 2016. our business activities with the Paris Climate Agreement and related Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). WEBSITE You can download a summary of our Given that there is no established methodology for such a main human rights and environmental carbon steering model in the re/insurance business, concerns in these sectors at: www. developing a purposeful model will take some time, but swissre.com/about-us/corporatewill enable us to take a holistic carbon risk perspective on responsibility/risk-intelligence/ sustainability-risk-framework/ our business and avoid a piecemeal approach. policies.html The Sensitive Business Risk process Each of the two umbrella policies and eight sector guidelines of our Sustainability Risk Framework contains criteria and qualitative standards which define precisely when a transaction may present a “sustainability risk”. We assess such transactions through our Sensitive Business Risk (SBR) process, which consists of two due diligence mechanisms – the SBR online assessment tool and the SBR referral tool. The online tool stores the relevant sustainability risk information for these sectors and thus provides our underwriters with an efficient means to check the potential impact of their transactions on human rights, labour rights and the environment. For transactions that reveal low to medium 28 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Thermal coal power plants are a significant source of CO2 emissions. In 2018, we introduced a policy for our underwriting, pledging not to provide re/insurance to businesses with more than 30% exposure to thermal coal utilities or mining. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 29 Extending our risk intelligence Sensitive Business Risk referrals 2013 NUMBER OF SENSITIVE SENSITIVE BUSINESS RISKS REFERRED TO OUR EXPERT TEAM IN 2018, BUSINESS RISK REFERRALS BY SECTOR/ISSUE Number of Sensitive Business Risk referrals AND DECISIONS TAKEN Number of Sensitive Business Risk referrals 500 500 400 33% Oil and gas 400 19% Mining (excl. thermal coal) 300 18% Thermal coal 300 11% Dams 200 200 11% Other: human rights 4% Defence 100 100 1% Animal testing 1% Forestry, pulp & paper, and oil palm 0 0 2015 1% Nuclear weapons proliferation 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 1% Other: environmental protection  Proceed Proceed Proceed Proceedwith Proceed with conditions conditions  Proceed Abstain Abstain with conditions  Abstain * In 2015, we launched our online assessment tool which has resulted in a steady decrease in SBR referrals. In 2018, we introduced our thermal coal policy, which contributed to a rise in referrals. 247 risks, they need to carry out additional due diligence based on industry and country advice provided by the tool. assessment into their decision-making. Between 2015 and 2017, this led to a marked, and steady, decrease of SBR referrals to our in-house sustainability Sensitive business If the potential human rights or experts. transactions referred environmental risks of a transaction are assessed as high but the responsible In 2018, however, the number of to our team of underwriter wants to pursue it, it is referrals rose, from 178 in the previous sustainability experts automatically transferred through the year to 247. This increase was mainly SBR referral tool to Swiss Re’s in-house driven by the introduction of our thermal (178 in 2017) team of sustainability experts. These coal policy (see special section on page specialists then conduct in-depth 28). Many of the coal-related referrals research to decide whether the were submitted by our underwriters transaction at hand is acceptable on to have the thermal coal exposures of ethical grounds. specific transactions clarified. Of the 247 transactions in total, we issued This decision takes the form of a binding negative recommendations in 40 cases recommendation either to go ahead and positive recommendations with with the transaction, to go ahead with conditions attached in 27 cases. certain conditions attached, or to abstain. If there is disagreement about Company exclusions the recommendation, the case can be Our Sustainability Risk Framework escalated to the next management level policies specify certain criteria that may and, ultimately, to the Group Chief Risk lead us to exclude a company from both Officer and the Group Executive our re/insurance transactions and our Committee. investments, to the extent that such an exclusion is permissible (eg by virtue of Since we introduced the SBR mandatory law or internal policies) and assessment tool in 2015, we have possible (eg if existing documentation continually fine-tuned it, thus relating to such re/insurance strengthening our underwriters’ transactions and investments provide for ability to integrate sustainability risk it). These criteria include: involvement in 30 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report prohibited war material; verifiable A couple of years ago, we developed a EMERGING RISKS complicity in systemic, repeated and new eLearning course for our in-house severe human rights violations; causing training. While this continues to be We define emerging risks as newly repeated, severe and unmitigated compulsory for all our employees who developing or changing risks that damage to the environment; unregulated work in underwriting and with our are difficult to quantify and whose proliferation of nuclear weapons; and clients, it is now mandatory for all our potential impact on our business is unethical/cruel animal testing practices. new entrants, as well. In 2018, a total not yet sufficiently taken into account. of 3 544 employees completed this Country exclusions mandatory training course. Swiss Re also excludes certain countries from its business that have particularly Client and industry interaction poor human rights records. This step Over the year, we had a number of Emerging risks goes further than compliance with important external engagements on Re/insurers operate in a rapidly international trade controls (ITCs). Our sustainability risks with clients, industry changing and increasingly complex risk goal is to refrain from directly underwriting peers, investors and civil society groups landscape. New demographic, risks or making investments in entities such as environmental and humanitarian economic, technological, socio-political, that are based in these countries. We NGOs. We held in-person meetings regulatory and environmental review the list of excluded countries with clients operating in sensitive developments are all capable of changing annually based on independent human sectors such as mining, forestry and oil & risks or creating new ones. In addition, rights assessments and update gas, discussing potential measures they growing interdependencies between it if warranted. could take to address their sustainability these developments can lead to risks. accumulations of risk and create As the Sustainability Risk Framework significant knock-on effects. People’s is based on the principles of respecting Further exchanges took place in the risk perceptions are shifting, liability human rights and protecting the context of our activities around thermal and regulatory regimes continue to environment, the SBR process with coal, focusing on the dedicated policy evolve and stakeholder expectations its two due diligence tools, company we introduced during 2018. For example, are growing. exclusions and country exclusions we participated in the Coal Exit is our principal means to ensure Roundtable organised by the Unfriend This complex landscape gives rise to compliance with the UN Global Coal Campaign (unfriendcoal.com) in “emerging risks” – newly developing or Compact in our core business. Paris in March 2018. changing risks that are difficult to quantify and whose potential impact on In partnership with other re/insurers, our business is not yet sufficiently taken WEBSITE You can read more about the we are also developing risk assessment into account. international declarations and tools designed to help the industry principles underpinning our better understand and manage Detecting and investigating such risks Sustainability Risk Framework in a sustainability risks. One of these ongoing early on forms an important part of our special publication dedicated to it: www.swissre.com/Library/ partnerships is the UNEP Finance comprehensive approach to risk sustainability-risk-framework.html Initiative Principles for Sustainable management. In analysing how risks are Insurance (UNEP FI PSI, www.unepfi. evolving and related to each other, we org/psi). In 2018, the UNEP FI PSI seek to assess their potential impact launched an insurance industry pilot on Swiss Re. This is vital to reduce Training examining the implementation of the uncertainty and prevent unforeseen Ever since we introduced our Climate-related Financial Disclosures losses, raising awareness within the comprehensive Sustainability Risk (TCFD), to which Swiss Re actively Group and across the industry. Framework ten years ago, we have contributes. made considerable efforts to raise awareness of sustainability issues among our underwriters and client managers. Through training, we ensure that they know how to properly apply the framework with its underlying principles of respecting human rights and protecting the environment. In recent years, we have focused on high growth markets where we want to expand our business. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 31 Extending our risk intelligence EMERGING RISK CASE STUDY: ALGORITHMIC DECISION-MAKING Increasingly important in decision-making, algorithms may also reinforce human judgement and are difficult to audit. To cope with potential ethical concerns while adapting to rapid digitalisation, Swiss Re is addressing algorithmic decision-making as an emerging risk. Algorithms play an increasingly A particular challenge of algorithms The other is to be attentive to the powerful role in ever more areas. They is their explainability and thus risks that may be created if the speed perform certain tasks faster than auditability. While the accuracy of of the digital transformation enlarges human beings, eg the analysis of (big) outputs may be tested empirically, the potential blind spots. data, and their decisions are held to be explainability of algorithmic workings more accurate and unbiased. But how remains limited. This “black box” Swiss Re has covered important objective can a computer programme problem of algorithms has spurred a aspects of algorithmic decisionthat has been written, calibrated and whole new field of AI research, which making in various publications. “Blame tested by humans really be? seeks to enhance users’ understanding your robot” was the title of an of algorithmic processes and thus help emerging risk theme in the SONAR With artificial intelligence (AI), build trust towards them. 2017 report. It was dedicated to the machine learning and unsupervised potential shifts in liability regimes training data from which the machine With the advent of the “algorithmic caused by the advent of AI. The learns, this question is becoming more economy”, ethical debate and SONAR 2018 report (see page 33) virulent. The underlying algorithms regulatory attention have picked up. highlights some of the challenges may directly feed from human One particular focus is the lack of – of algorithmic decision-making behaviour, thus in fact replicating both and potential need for – clear described above, under the heading human virtues and flaws. Adapting, governance around the development “Algorithms are only human too – confirming and reinforcing imperfect and application of algorithms. opaque, biased, misled”. human judgment may lead to discriminatory effects and raise ethical The re/insurance industry needs to Swiss Re Institute also supported concerns. In a re/insurance context, cope with two types of pressure. One IRGC in organising a multi-disciplinary such discriminatory bias can translate is to adapt in real time to the rapid workshop on the governance into defective modelling and digitalisation of the world, for example of decision-making algorithms. prediction, in addition to causing to the expected spread of autonomous reputational issues. vehicles. irgc.epfl.ch/issues/projectscybersecurity/the-governance-ofdecision-making-algorithms/ 32 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Our SONAR framework Our emerging risk specialists Strategic risk initiatives SONAR (“systematic observation of periodically cluster and further assess Identifying and addressing emerging notions associated with risk”) is our these risk notions for their potential risks can be challenging. Their novelty Group-wide framework specifically impact on our business. Finally, in-depth and interconnectedness make it difficult designed to manage and communicate investigations are carried out on to determine when a particular risk emerging risks. Firmly embedded in the selected topics. notion must be considered an emerging Group’s risk management organisation, risk. Timing is of crucial importance. If SONAR allows us to identify, assess You can learn more about one of these measures to exclude a particular risk are and report these risks in a timely manner topics – algorithmic decision-making – taken too early, we may not be able to and to factor them into our strategic in the case study on page 32. To share offer our clients insurance protection; business decisions. some of our key insights on these if measures are taken too late, we may emerging risks with external audiences, end up with increased loss potential. The SONAR process involves several we published the fifth edition of our Given these challenges, we believe it is steps. The first is an interactive intranet comprehensive Swiss Re SONAR report essential to foster risk dialogue with platform which enables our employees in 2018 (see below). various partners. By sharing perceptions to share and discuss risk notions based and assessments, all parties can gain on developments in the re/insurance Further activities on emerging risks a better understanding of potential landscape, allowing for bottom-up identified in the past emerging risks. identification and peer reviews. While The emerging risks we previously many of the risk notions – or “early examined in more detail and featured in signals” – flagged on SONAR will never our Corporate Responsibility Reports WEBSITE turn into emerging risks, others may well since 2007 are: You can read about our most important do so. However, as we cannot anticipate strategic initiatives concerning which signals will become emerging 2007: Electromagnetic fields emerging risks at: risks, we scan the horizon quite broadly www.swissre.com/about-us/ 2008: Critical infrastructure corporate-responsibility/ before concentrating on those with risk-intelligence/emerging-risks/ the highest impact potential on the 2009: Carbon nanotubes strategic-initiatives.html re/insurance business. 2010: Smart grids 2011: Cyber attacks 2012: 3D printing 2013: New forms of mobility SWISS RE SONAR; 2014: Electronic cigarettes NEW EMERGING RISK INSIGHTS 2015: The Internet of Things The Swiss Re SONAR report features 2016: Human-induced earthquakes emerging risk themes that have the 2017: Antimicrobial resistance potential to impact the re/insurance industry. These topics derive from Since we first identified these emerging our SONAR process and have been risks, we have followed up on several of assessed by our emerging risk them in our core business and together management experts in recent years. with our stakeholders, eg “Critical www.swissre.com/institute/ infrastructure” and “Cyber attacks”: research/sonar/sonar2018-a-peekinto-future-risk.html WEBSITE You can read more about these activities at: www.swissre.com/about-us/ corporate-responsibility/ risk-intelligence/emerging-risks/ case-study-critical-infrastructure. html and Swiss Re SONAR www.swissre.com/about-us/ New emerging risk insights corporate-responsibility/ May 2018 risk-intelligence/emerging-risks/ case-study-cyber-attacks.html Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 33 Being a responsible investor We integrate environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria across our investment portfolio. Our approach is based on the three strategic pillars Enhancement, Inclusion and Exclusion. As part of the Inclusion pillar of our responsible investment approach, we make thematic investments in “We make the world more resilient” Responsible investment infrastructure renewables ... is Swiss Re’s vision. More than ten approach years ago, our Asset Management unit embarked on a journey to not only The cornerstone of our investment generate risk-adjusted, stable long-term philosophy continues to be asset-liability returns, but to also consider management (ALM). To meet future environmental, social and governance claims and benefits, we invest the (ESG) aspects in our investment premiums generated by our decisions. With this approach, our Asset underwriting activities in assets whose Management has contributed to the cash flows match the durations and Group’s vision. currencies of our re/insurance liabilities. Therefore, we generally invest more in In 2017, we reached a key milestone higher-quality fixed income securities on this journey. As one of the first with stable long-term returns. At the end re/insurance companies, we integrated of 2018, such investments accounted ESG benchmarks into our investment for 82% of our total assets under portfolio, which was a significant step management1 (see graph on page 35). forward from considering ESG as an  EBSITE W “add-on” approach. A year later, we are You can find out more about our even more convinced that taking ESG approach to responsible investment at: www.swissre.com/our-business/ criteria into account has a positive managing-our-assets/responsibleimpact on the performance of our investing-in-practice.html investment portfolio in the long-term. 1 A sset classes considered are government bonds, credit, and mortgages and other loans. 34 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report OVERALL INVESTMENT Including ESG criteria into the These have been adopted in our PORTFOLIO investment process makes economic investment mandates and consist of sense, especially for long-term investors, better-rated companies from an ESG USD 122.6 bn, as of 31 December 2018 as it improves risk-adjusted return perspective. This allows us to have both profiles and hence reduces downside the right measurement and appropriate risks. incentives for our portfolio managers in place. If benchmarks are not applicable, We consistently integrate ESG a minimum ESG rating threshold is considerations along the three pillars applied to our mandates. For actively Enhancement, Inclusion and Exclusion, managed listed equities and corporate of which Enhancement is strategically credit mandates, external managers the most meaningful for Swiss Re. have limited leeway to invest into securities they deem to have a positive Enhancement ESG trend but are not yet included in the 4% Cash and cash equivalents This pillar refers to the systematic benchmark (see overview on page 36). 4% Short-term investments integration of ESG criteria along the At the end of 2018, approximately 45% 41% Government bonds investment process, from portfolio of our investment portfolio was definition to monitoring and reporting. managed externally, and more than 96% 37% Credit bonds As part of our active risk management, of those assets were managed by PRI 5% Equities* we announced in 2017 that we had signatories. 4% Mortgages and other loans switched to ESG benchmarks. 5% Other investments incl. policy loans * Includes equity securities, private equity and Principal Investments Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 35 Being a responsible investor OVERVIEW OF MAJOR ASSET CLASSES IN SWISS RE’S ASSET PORTFOLIO AND ESG CONSIDERATIONS Government ̤̤ Investments hold an ESG rating of BB or better bonds ̤̤ Green bond mandate considering ICMA Green Bond Principles ̤̤ Active mandates benchmarked against ESG BB and better indices with limited leeway to deviate from the benchmarks Credit ̤̤ Reinvestment universe of buy-and-hold mandates restricted to ESG rating BB or better ̤̤ ESG inclusion in infrastructure loans Listed ̤̤ Active mandates benchmarked against MSCI ACWI ESG Leaders Index restricted to BB and above and limited leeway to deviate from it equities ̤̤ New investments are only made into Private Equity funds, Private which adhere to ESG guidelines equity ̤̤ Swiss Re reviews ESG performance and compliance for each potential investment ̤̤ ESG regarded as an important metric for the portfolio. Attractive initiatives that offer a high ESG impact are considered for both new acquisitions and the existing portfolio Real ̤̤ B  enchmarked against different sustainability standards depending on estate the location of the property (Minergie standard, GreenGuide best practice, GreenPrint Environmental Management Platform, LEED certifications, GRESB scoring) 36 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ... as well as social infrastructure such as hospitals. For our real estate portfolio, we focus on Executing our shareholder rights is certified buildings, such as the Minergie another part of Swiss Re’s commitment label in Switzerland, or the world-wide to being a responsible investor. To reflect known LEED certification. By the end of this pledge in our voting behaviour, 2018, the value of our Minergie-labelled we have defined principles in our Asset buildings reached USD 0.4 billion, or Management Voting Policy. See: 23% of our Swiss portfolio. Furthermore, www.swissre.com/our-business/ we also invest in the US, UK and Australian managing-our-assets/Responsiblereal estate markets, reaching a total size Investments-Shaping-the-future-ofof USD 1.7 billion by the end of 2018. investing.html The investment managers’ approach to Inclusion sustainability includes “GreenGuide: Thematic investments are an ideal Sustainable Property Operations”, a approach to tackle specific sustainability best-practice guideline for sustainable topics. We mainly target investments and efficient real estate operations; that contribute to a low-carbon “ULI GreenPrint Foundation”, a global economy. An effective way to do this is environmental management platform; by investing in infrastructure renewables and “LEED Certification” from the and green bonds. As the latter is more of U.S. Green Building Council. We also a concept than a specific investment benchmark our US portfolio against class, we use the Green Bond Principles GRESB, an industry-driven organisation (GBP) from ICMA as guiding principles transforming the way capital markets for our investments. In 2018, we assess ESG performance of real asset reached our green bond target of at least investments. Our US portfolio USD 1.5 billion by holding USD 1.6 billion outperformed the GRESB average of per year-end. 68/100 with a score of 78/100. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 37 Being a responsible investor Infrastructure is an attractive asset Responsible investment class for our investment portfolio given governance framework its credit quality and inherent liquidity premium. Any of our infrastructure Our Asset Management operates within investments is assessed against a a well-defined framework. Strong catalogue of ESG parameters to evaluate governance is key to bringing ESG the underlying sustainability risk. considerations into the investment process in a structured and controlled ̤̤ 21% of our infrastructure investments way. Our approach to responsible are allocated to renewable energy, investment is based on clear principles, such as wind farms and solar panels procedures and responsibilities. ̤̤ 23% of our infrastructure investments The Swiss Re Responsible Investing are allocated to social infrastructure, Policy defines our approach to such as hospitals, student dorms or responsible investing, specifies roles and affordable housing projects responsibilities in the organisation, and defines implementation and monitoring In our 2018 Financial Report, we further standards for ESG criteria in the Group’s disclose information on our climate investment portfolio. change-related investment risk exposure (pages 172–189). The policy is reviewed periodically and updated if required. It is complemented Exclusion by the Swiss Re Asset Management We apply a number of pre-defined Voting Policy, which provides guiding criteria and qualitative standards that principles that apply to all our voting may lead to the exclusion of a company activities. or a country from our investment scope if they do not meet these criteria and Swiss Re’s Head Responsible Investing qualitative standards. Swiss Re’s (Head RI) develops and coordinates Sustainability Risk Management team the implementation of the ESG strategy OUR VOTING ACTIVITIES IN 2018 Our voting activities in 2017 develops and updates the Group-wide within the unit. As part of this role, the exclusion lists of countries and Head RI steers the ESG Advisory Board, companies based on the Sustainability a committee formed by representatives Risk Framework. Further information is of all investment units as well as Legal, available in this report on pages 27–31. Compliance and Group Risk Management. The ESG Advisory Board In order to mitigate the risk of stranded reports on responsible investment assets in light of an accelerating activities in the various investment units, transition to a low-carbon economy, develops and reviews improvement we avoid investments in companies ideas, shares knowledge and monitors that generate 30% or more of their implementation progress.  97% Votes cast revenues from thermal coal mining or  3% No votes cast that use at least 30% thermal coal for The Asset Management Investment power generation. We also divested Committee reviews and discusses from companies with more than 20% Swiss Re’s responsible investment OUR VOTING BEHAVIOUR IN 2018 revenues from tar sands operations. approach and advises the Group Chief Our voting behaviour in 2017 Investment Officer on related decisions and improvements. CONTENT IN THE 2018 FINANCIAL REPORT For more information, see our The overall responsibility for our ESG Climate-related Financial Disclosures, approach lies with the Group Chief pages 172–189. Investment Officer who signs off investment decisions within the Group’s Strategic Asset Allocation.  86% Voted with management  12% Voted against management  1% Abstained  1% Votes withheld 38 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report participating in the development of How we engage climate transition and Paris-aligned NEW PUBLICATION: RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS – THE NEXT STEPS Voting benchmarks and reporting needs for IN OUR JOURNEY We believe that ESG considerations, ESG benchmarks. especially good corporate governance and transparency towards shareholders, As an active member of the OECD’s are key drivers for sustainable value long-term investor network, we also creation. We recognise our shareholder engage in the development of policy rights and responsibilities as an integral proposals with regard to sustainable part of our commitment to responsible infrastructure and ESG. Responsible investments investment. We review our constitutive The next steps in our journey voting principles periodically to keep Knowledge sharing is another key them aligned with best practice. aspect of promoting responsible investments. We offer all Asset In the case of internally managed Management employees various internal equities, we make use of our influence ESG training opportunities to ensure as a responsible shareholder by directly consistent know-how across the Group. exercising our voting rights. For Furthermore, we are in an ongoing externally managed portfolios, we work dialogue with other industry participants Investing responsibly makes with the relevant portfolio managers to develop ESG as a standard investment economic sense. While significant to execute our proxy votes and related approach. progress has been made in the engagement activities. harmonisation of ESG-related In 2018, we launched the new methodologies and standards, there We review the voting policies of external publication “Responsible Investments – is still considerable improvement managers during the due diligence The next steps in our journey” to share potential regarding the definition of process to confirm compliance with our our experiences about switching to ESG standardised key metrics and the policy. In addition, external managers benchmarks after one year (see on the increase of the importance of ESG are required to report on voting activities right). The publication builds on its in financial analysis. As long as ESG conducted on Swiss Re’s behalf. predecessor “Responsible investments – criteria are not yet an integral part Shaping the future of investing”, released of all financial analyses, investors In 2018, we exercised 97% of our voting in 2017. need to make an effort and actively rights of our listed equity portfolio. We integrate ESG considerations in their voted on 4 363 voting items through our Swiss Re first formalised its commitment investment decisions. external managers. We voted in line with to responsible investing in 2007 by the respective management resolution signing the UN Principles for Responsible www.swissre.com/our-business/ recommendation in 3 770 cases (86%) Investment (PRI). In 2012, we signed managing-our-assets/responsibleand against it in 529 cases (12%). In 59 the Principles for Sustainable Insurance investments-next-steps-in-ourcases (1%), we abstained from voting. (PSI), a further step to formally endorse journey.html The remaining votes were withheld. our commitment to corporate responsibility. Both the PRI and PSI are In addition to shares in listed companies, taken into account within our investments in our equity portfolio comprehensive responsible investment include equity exchange-traded-funds framework. All PRI signatories are (ETFs). The fund managers cast votes required to provide in-depth reporting on these ETFs for all investors in on their responsible investment activities. accordance with the fund managers’ For the third time in a row, we received own voting policies and processes. the highest score for our overarching (“Strategy and Governance”) approach Promoting responsible investing to responsible investing in 2018. The Shifting the large institutional asset base reports are available on the PRI website towards sustainable investments would at www.unpri.org/signatory-directory/ mark a big step forward in making the world more resilient. Swiss Re’s brand We also became a member of the ICMA promise “We’re smarter together” is also Green Bond Principles in 2017. This applicable to responsible investing: reflects our view that the industry needs We interact with policymakers and other a more standardised responsible market participants to promote ESG investing market environment with considerations in the investment agreed definitions, standards, process. As an example, we contribute methodologies and best practices to to the European Commission’s Technical move the long-term investor base further Expert Group on Sustainable Finance by towards systematic ESG integration. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 39 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape We engage in regular dialogue with our stakeholders. By sharing expertise and know-how, we help society develop effective responses to key risks. Our re/insurance solutions help our academic institutions. This exchange clients and partners cope with the risks gives us valuable feedback and new they face. This in turn fosters stability insights for risk management and and enables economic growth. But product development. Established in many of today’s risks are complex and March 2017, the Swiss Re Institute plays may threaten sustainable progress. To a key role in our stakeholder dialogue find effective, long-term responses to (see page 44). such risks, partners from the public and the private sector need to work together. Risk knowledge topics This is why we attach great importance Combining insights from our own risk to ongoing dialogue with our expertise and from our stakeholders, we stakeholders. Drawing on the expertise identify topics that are relevant to from our core business, we identify key our clients, the insurance industry and risk topics and take an active role in society as a whole. Sharing our insights discussions about them. We share and is an important element of our exchange knowledge through many stakeholder engagement. channels, eg our renowned publications including the sigma series, international In 2018, we refocused our stakeholder  EBSITE W You can find out more about our risk dialogue platforms, events hosted at the dialogue on the three risk knowledge knowledge topics at: www.swissre. Centre for Global Dialogue and topics shown on the right: com/risk-knowledge.html cooperation with governments and 40 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Mitigating Building Driving climate risk societal resilience digital insurance solutions Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 41 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape These topics raise awareness of risks – With the Top Topic Mitigating climate Our response both current and evolving – that we risk we want to connect the dots, and Today, billions of people are either actually address with our solutions. engage our audiences with our expertise uninsured or underinsured for life and In doing so, we tap the risk knowledge and risk knowledge in this area. health risks. Health gaps are widening, embedded across our company, in such as those caused by our ageing particular our three Business Units, Notable achievements in 2018 populations or chronic illnesses like Group Risk Management, Group ̤̤ We hosted the third annual Oasis diabetes. At the same time, as the world Underwriting, Swiss Re Institute and conference in Zurich (see page 44). population increases, so too must global Global Partnerships. Oasis is a powerful modelling food production. But climate change and framework to help build a costsoaring food prices pose a serious Mitigating climate risk efficient “view of risk” by building threat, not least to farmers and the The effects of climate change and global proprietary models or by accessing agricultural industry. We share our warming are already evident and multiple models from various knowledge, apply new technologies and shaking up our risk landscape: warmer providers via the marketplace of cat partner with our clients to come up with average temperatures, rising sea levels, models. It is offered as an open source innovative solutions to address these longer and more frequent heatwaves platform and is free of charge, challenges. and more weather extremes. These reflecting the willingness of the phenomena are quickly becoming the re/insurance industry to join forces Furthermore, economic growth depends new normal and profoundly impacting and control rising costs. on investments in infrastructure. our way of life, our health and our natural ̤̤ We launched a new product hub to However, the funding gap for both environment. A most urgent question we better serve our corporate clients maintaining existing infrastructure and need to ask is not only how to tackle from the renewable energy industry. building new infrastructure is widening. climate change, but also how we can Corporate Solutions’ Renewable As a re/insurer and long-term investor, best adapt and avert the most damaging Energy Industry Solutions suite offers we both underwrite the many projects consequences – in short, how to clients a holistic, one-stop solution needed – from transport infrastructure mitigate climate risk. that covers risks along the entire value to urban spaces or renewable energy chain of a typical renewable energy infrastructure – and we provide capital Our response project. to infrastructure projects to help narrow Swiss Re’s main response to this ̤̤ We actively participated in the the financing gap. challenge is to make societies more second Annual Insurance and Climate resilient to the growing risks of climate Risk conference in London and With our Top Topic Building societal change and natural hazards. We do contributed to key sessions as resilience we connect the dots, and this in a number of ways. discussants and panellists. The event engage our audiences with our expertise gave a comprehensive overview of and risk knowledge in these areas. With our re/insurance solutions, we can all the key issues that the industry help communities and businesses get currently defines as relevant to the Notable achievements in 2018 back on their feet quickly after a disaster topic of climate risk and reaffirmed ̤̤ We launched a digital campaign and prepare them for more frequent and our own strategy supported by the around “modifiable risk” to coincide severe climate impacts. Top Topic Mitigating climate risk. with World Diabetes Day, sharing our expertise and solutions aimed at We also offer solutions that support the Building societal resilience improving the health of policyholders transition to more sustainable, lowTechnological and economic and ultimately prolonging lives. carbon energy systems by reducing the development, population growth, ageing ̤̤ We continued to engage with risk associated with renewable energy populations and other societal trends are stakeholders to advocate for the need projects and making them more putting people and assets in jeopardy. for stronger standardisation in attractive to investors with re/insurance Swiss Re’s work in the areas of health infrastructure investing, which will be backing. and longevity, food security and crucial to closing the infrastructure infrastructure represents some of the financing gap and supporting And we promote sustainable practices in ways we help build societal resilience. economic growth – for example, our own operations to improve good through our participation at the World stewardship and long-term performance. Bank Spring and Annual Meetings. We have adopted an investment practice ̤̤ Following months of extensive field for our assets to consider environmental, work and data analysis, we shared key social and governance (ESG) criteria in findings about the Asia Health our investment decisions, among them Protection Gap across multiple climate-impacting industries. Limiting markets, positioning our insights on global warming is part of this effort, and the topic with the most relevant we are reinforcing it by reducing our own audiences (see the related expertise fossil fuel footprint across our operations, publication on page 44). investments and re/insurance offerings. 42 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Driving digital insurance solutions efficient use of data allows us to get With our Top Topic Driving digital Our customers are seeking quick, closer to risk and offer risk cover in a insurance solutions we want to connect intuitive and streamlined digital much more efficient manner. This will the dots, and engage our audiences with experiences in order to make their lives make insurance more affordable and can our expertise and risk knowledge in this safer and healthier. This is a far-reaching give even underprivileged people access area. phenomenon, and the demand for such to coverage. As a result, we will be able services is affecting the entire insurance to offer risk cover to a greater number Notable achievements in 2018 value chain. While it enables us to of individuals. ̤̤ We co-sponsored a Human Centred deliver value directly to our customers, Design study to develop a client risk technology also provides us with new Secondly, end consumers now receive journey for healthcare in Ukraine, opportunities to close existing and an increasing number of services online. Russia and Morocco. The study will potential protection gaps, which often They consequently expect a better provide consumer insights (risk diary) widen due to lack of affordability, experience when purchasing insurance; which will be linked back to the digital awareness, trust or complexity. moreover, there are ample opportunities insurance value proposition for to help them become aware that telecoms clients. Our response insurance cover is available. Customer̤̤ We launched a digital campaign Swiss Re’s main response to these new driven digitisation is beginning to around the Top Topic Driving digital opportunities is clustered under three translate into new product offerings that insurance solutions in developed proof points: big data/data analytics, the are simple and easier to compare. markets in Europe and the US to raise digital consumer and the digitisation of awareness of Swiss Re’s digital insurance. And finally, although insurance is a expertise and solutions. complex sector that involves substantial ̤̤ We continued to invest our expertise At Swiss Re, our goal is to use data to administrative duties, many of these in helping people drive more safely. promote better access to insurance. For duties can be digitised. Examples We partnered with BMW to develop example, good data can help streamline thereof include sales, underwriting and an Advanced Driver Assistance processes, which eventually leads to contract handling, as well as investment, Systems (ADAS) risk score algorithm, more customer-friendly access to finance and claims management. At which will be available from 2019. insurance and increases the uptake of Swiss Re, we can assist customers in The use of vehicles equipped with insurance products. It can also be used simplifying the insurance value chain in ADAS has the potential to reduce to filter out fraud, increase insurability all these areas. motor accident frequencies and make prices fairer. Furthermore, the significantly. DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY While creating new possibilities to In 2018, we also continued our In addition, we contributed to the deliver value directly to our customers participation in a three-year research publication “Big Data and Insurance: and closing protection gaps (see project on “dealing with ethical and Implications for Innovation, above), the use of big data also raises legal big data challenges in the Competition and Privacy”, published by questions concerning solidarity in insurance industry”, conducted by the Geneva Association (www. society and the insurance principles researchers at the University of Zurich genevaassociation.org/sites/default/ of risk pooling. We seek to understand and the University of Applied Sciences files/research-topics-document-type/ and proactively address the ethical HTW Chur. The project receives pdf_public/big_data_and_ challenges surrounding the digital funding from Switzerland’s National insurance_-_implications_for_ transformation. Research Programme 75 on “Big Data” innovation_competition_and_privacy. (www.nfp75.ch/en/projects/modulepdf). The publication looks at three key Various regulators around the world 2-societal-and-regulatory-challenges/ concerns raised in the public debate: have started to evaluate the need for project-christen). privacy, individualisation of insurance, regulations on the topic of big data / and competition. With the use of five digital ethics, or have even issued first Firstly, the project analyses how scenarios, it examines how facts-based guidelines. Swiss Re engages actively re/insurers are affected by the ethical regulation can achieve a trade-off in the discussion with some regulators and legal challenges arising from the between the benefits and risks of using by way of feedback to consultations, by digital transformation and can address big data. responding to regulatory questionnaires, them. Secondly, it examines how by participating in industry groups, by legislation and regulations address For Swiss Re’s commitment to data writing articles and by participating in them. Ultimately, the aim of the project protection and privacy compliance, see regulator-initiated discussion groups. is to propose an approach how pages 67 and 69. to handle big data ethically in the re/insurance space. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 43 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Swiss Re Institute SELECTED CONFERENCES OF 2018 SELECTED PUBLICATIONS OF 2018 Swiss Re has long been recognised as a knowledge leader within the re/insurance Making a beeline for disaster? industry. We are convinced that a better Food for thought: The science The decline of pollinators puts understanding of the risks we all face and politics of nutrition agriculture at risk supports the Group’s vision of making www.swissre.com/institute/ swissre.com/institute/research/ the world more resilient. conferences/food_for_thought_bmj. topics-and-risk-dialogues/ html nutrition-and-agriculture/ It was in this spirit that we launched making_a_beeline_for-disasterSwiss Re Institute in March 2017. the-decline-of-pollinators-putsSwiss Re Institute conducts and agriculture-at-risk.html publishes superior risk research to drive better decisions and innovation in the re/insurance industry. Swiss Re Institute curates risk and market data to enable Making a beeline for disaster? solutions that create value for clients and The decline of pollinators puts agriculture at risk to guide the Swiss Re Group’s strategic direction. Further, it builds and manages partnerships with world-class academic and research institutions (see examples Oasis conference on probabilistic on page 45). natural catastrophe modelling www.swissre.com/institute/ Life underinsurance in the US: Swiss Re Institute incorporates conferences/oasisbridging the USD 25 trillion successful Swiss Re brands, such as the conference-2018.html mortality protection gap sigma publication series and the Centre swissre.com/institute/research/ for Global Dialogue. The Institute further topics-and-risk-dialogues/insuranceacts as a coordination point for researchmarkets-and-risk-management/lifefocused business lines within Swiss Re underinsurance-US.html and from external partners. Based on these activities, Swiss Re September 2018 Life underinsurance in the US: bridging the Institute supports Swiss Re’s USD 25 trillion mortality protection gap commitment to corporate responsibility. We help highlight emerging risk trends, engage in dialogue and provide capacity-building sessions and seminars The intelligence behind artificial 01 Executive summary 02 What is the US to clients and other stakeholders in intelligence mortality protection gap? 09 Outlook: underinsurance set to grow 11 Insurance solutions to bridge the gap different parts of the world, and seek to www.swissre.com/institute/ 16 Conclusions 17 Appendix identify sustainable risk solutions. conferences/The-intelligencebehind-artificial-intelligence.html The health protection gap Highlights among our many conferences in Asia: a modelled exposure of and publications of 2018 include: USD 1.8 trillion swissre.com/institute/research/ topics-and-risk-dialogues/ WEBSITE You can find more information about insurance-markets-and-riskSwiss Re Institute at: management/Health-protectionwww.swissre.com/institute gap-in-asia--a-modelled-exposureof-USD-1.8-trillion.html October 2018 The health protection gap in Asia: a modelled exposure of USD 1.8 trillion 01 The protection gap in healthcare 05 Sizing the gap – key findings 13 Extrapolating for all emerging regions 16 Next steps 17 Health protection gap estimation methodology 44 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Collaboration with (inter-) Our work with (inter-)governmental Working with academic institutions governmental and academic agencies to share risk management Through Swiss Re Institute (find out expertise more on page 44), we build and manage institutions ̤̤ With Global Partnerships, we have partnerships with world-class academic a team that works strategically with and research institutions, guide In recent years, we have collaborated public-sector bodies to improve risk Swiss Re’s internal capital allocation and with various (inter-)governmental and resilience: business steering processes and provide academic institutions both to promote – d irectly with sovereigns or subour stakeholders with cutting-edge risk effective approaches to sustainability sovereigns and their agencies, research. challenges and to share our expertise recently with the Pacific Alliance on managing specific risks. (Chile, Colombia, Peru and Mexico) ̤̤ We support the ETH Zurich Risk to structure an earthquake cat Center (www.riskcenter.ethz.ch/), Our work with (inter-)governmental bond, with the Federal Emergency which aims to advance a holistic, agencies to promote effective Management Agency (FEMA) to scientific approach to assessing sustainability responses create a reinsurance cover and managing risks and educating ̤̤ In Europe, we continued our programme for its National Flood a new generation of researchers; engagement with regulators to Insurance Program, as partner of ̤̤ We support Oasis (oasislmf.org/), an highlight the important role insurers the World Bank with the Philippine open-source cat modelling platform play in supporting the transition to a government to develop an free to use by anyone. It is owned low-carbon, more resource-efficient earthquake and typhoon cover by the re/insurance industry, with more and sustainable economy in line with for exposed provinces, with the than 40 re/insurance companies the EU’s 2018 Sustainable Finance government and prefectures of as members; Action Plan. For example, Swiss Re two Chinese provinces to establish ̤̤ With the Institute of Insurance was selected to be part of the major natural catastrophe Economics at the University of European Commission Technical insurance schemes, and with St. Gallen, HSG (www.ivw.unisg.ch/), Expert group, specifically to assist the UK government as part of a we conduct industry-wide studies to with the development of low-carbon programme set up to make flood better understand market dynamics. benchmarks. We provided input to insurance more affordable for ̤̤ With the London School of Economics the European Commission’s study on homeowners; (www.lse.ac.uk) we conduct research the role of insurance in weatherand – w ith development agencies such on macro resiliency; climate-related disaster risk and their as the United States Agency for ̤̤ With the University of Peking in consultation to evaluate Member International Development Beijing (www.pku.edu.cn) we have State action in response to the (USAID), the UK’s Department for carried out an economic analysis of Climate Adaptation Strategy, and International Development (DFID), poverty, insurance and resilience; we participated in climate change the Swiss Agency for Development ̤̤ We collaborate with the Cyber Policy focused regulatory roundtables and Cooperation (SDC), the World Initiative, Stanford University (fsi. hosted by national regulators (eg the Bank, the Asian Development Bank stanford.edu/cyber), which conducts UK PRA). (ADB), the Inter-American research on cybersecurity, ̤̤ In the US, we have maintained regular Development Bank (IADB) and the governance and the future of work. dialogue with the National German Development Bank (KfW). Association of Insurance ̤̤ We have regularly contributed to Commissioners (NAIC), principally Take a look at our website for further platforms such as the World on climate change and natural information on our collaborative Economic Forum, B20, G20 and catastrophes. projects: www.swissre.com/institute/ G8 to share our insights on key risks, ̤̤ In the Asia-Pacific region, we are partnerships.html and have supported the United participating in an industry-wide Nations Framework Convention on working group with the Monetary Climate Change (UNFCCC) process. Authority of Singapore to develop guidelines for sustainable insurance. And in Australia we are part of an industry-led stakeholder collaboration CONTENT IN THE developing open-source standards for 2018 FINANCIAL REPORT For our participation in the Financial projecting future climate-related Stability Board’s Task Force on repair and replacement costs of Climate-related Financial Disclosures, buildings and infrastructure. see page 174. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 45 Reducing our footprint We want to lead by example and work to minimise the environmental impact of our operations. Tackling our CO2 emissions and reducing energy consumption are key targets across the Group. As a knowledge company in the Management system and 14001 environmental management financial services sector, we do not certification standard (www.iso.org), replacing the cause large environmental impacts location-based approach previously through our own operations. We operate an integrated global used. This means that all our operations Nonetheless, we firmly believe it is management system at our Corporate and employees are covered by an important for a responsible company Real Estate & Services (CRES) division, ISO 14001-certified environmental to minimise its environmental which interlinks quality and management system (EMS). footprint, thus leading by example. environmental management, and ensures that similar processes are Complementing the ISO 14001 For our core re/insurance business, seamlessly managed. Through a certification of our Group-wide EMS, we climate change represents a key topic. systematic, Group-wide reporting have achieved ISO 50001 certification Reflecting this, we have been focusing process, we monitor our environmental for the energy management system of on our own CO2 emissions and performance and implement our main locations in the EU. energy consumption for many years. appropriate improvement measures. Our pioneering initiatives include the For our recently completed office Greenhouse Neutral Programme and Environmental objectives and targets buildings in New York, Zurich (Swiss Re the COyou2 Programme. Both are are defined centrally at our headquarters, Next) and Bangalore we have also now into their second cycles, running but responsibility for implementing received the Leadership in Energy and from 2013 to 2020. improvement measures also lies with the Environmental Design (LEED, new. CRES departments in our regions and usgbc.org/leed) certification, the most Furthermore, we apply sustainability individual locations. Some of them widely used green building rating guidelines to our sourcing and define additional environmental targets system worldwide to evaluate the overall construction activities. Extending that reflect specific local conditions environmental performance of a building. our efforts beyond our company, and challenges. In addition, we are committed to the we continue to play an active role in principles of the 2000-watt society for the Swiss Climate Foundation. Since 2015, our entire CRES division our Campus Mythenquai in Zurich. has been certified according to the ISO 8.1% WEBSITE You can find out about our engagement in the Swiss Climate Foundation at: W  EBSITE You can find out more about this commitment at: www.swissre.com/about-us/ Total reduction of www.swissre.com/about-us/ corporate-responsibility/footprint/ corporate-responsibility/ footprint/2000-watt-society.html CO2 emissions per partner-initiative-swiss-climatefoundation.html employee since 2013 46 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report CO2 EMISSIONS PER EMPLOYEE (FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT, FTE), SWISS RE GROUP Our Greenhouse Neutral Programme 2013 2017 2018 Change in % Change in % kg/FTE kg/FTE kg/FTE since 2017 since 2013 Climate change has been a strategic Scope 1 Heating 378 264 244 –7.6 –35.4 priority for Swiss Re for some 30 years. Scope 2 Power1 824 651 584 –10.3 –29.1 It is a key topic for a re/insurer, because it leads to more extreme and more Scope 3 Business travel 3 713 4 126 3 892 –5.7 4.8 frequent weather events. Our strategy Copy paper 40 17 16 –5.9 –60.0 to tackle climate change rests on four Waste 50 34 33 –2.9 –34.0 pillars, one of which is our pledge to Water 12 12 11 –8.3 –8.3 reduce our own CO2 emissions Technical gases 27 21 6 –71.4 –77.8 (see page 16). Commuting2 1 250 1 050 1 000 –4.8 –20.0 Total 6 294 6 175 5 786 –6.3 –8.1 Our Greenhouse Neutral Programme is 1 C alculation based on a market-based approach taking into account the purchase of renewable energy the principal means to achieve this goal. instruments, with the exception of the UK, where the government requires companies to report an It combines two commitments: firstly, to average grid factor (see table at the bottom for our reporting of emissions from electricity). reduce our CO2 emissions per employee 2 Commuting data are gathered biannually by means of a survey. The figures are rounded and fraught with considerable uncertainty. (full-time equivalent, FTE); secondly, to offset all the remaining emissions by purchasing high-quality emission UNDERLYING ENVIRONMENTAL DATA, SWISS RE GROUP reduction credits, thus making our company fully greenhouse neutral. Change in % Change in % 2013 2017 2018 since 2017 since 2013 We originally launched the Greenhouse Heating kWh/FTE 1 931 1 286 1 190 –7.5 –38.4 Neutral Programme in 2003 for a Power kWh/FTE 4 533 3 606 3 405 –5.6 –24.9 ten-year period. During that time, we Energy intensity kWh/FTE 6 464 4 892 4 595 –6.1 –28.9 gradually reduced our CO2 emissions by 49.3% per employee (FTE) and Business travel km/FTE 13 492 15 224 14 310 –6.0 6.1 compensated all the remaining emissions. Copy paper kg/FTE 34 15 14 –6.7 –58.8 Recycling paper % 71 64 65 1.6 –8.5 FSC label % 96 94 96 2.1 0  EBSITE W You can read more about the first phase of our Greenhouse Neutral Waste kg/FTE 181 130 134 3.1 –20.4 Programme at: www.swissre.com/ Water m3/FTE 16 16 14 –12.5 –12.5 about-us/corporate-responsibility/ footprint/greenhouse-neutralprogramme-first-phase.html INDIRECT EMISSIONS FROM PURCHASED ELECTRICITY, SWISS RE GROUP In line with the Scope 2 Guidance of the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, we report Goals and scope the emissions associated with our electricity consumption according to both a locationbased approach representing the CO2 intensity of the grids where we operate and Seamlessly continuing from the a market-based method taking into account emission reductions from instruments such programme’s first phase, we launched a as Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) and Guarantees of Origin (GOs). second commitment cycle running from 2013 until 2020. However, after almost Location-based Market-based Instrument Percentage halving our CO2 emissions per employee total total types kWh in the previous ten years, the potential t CO2e t CO2e for further reductions is now significantly Switzerland1 980 358 GOs 35% smaller. Thus, our target until 2020 is US2 8 437 244 RECs 24% to keep our CO2 emissions per employee GOs, residual stable at the 2013 level. In view of our UK3 6 134 6 134 mix 19% expansive business strategy, especially RECs, in high growth markets, we regard this GOs, residual as an ambitious goal. Rest of the world4 7 832 2 162 mix 22% Total 23 383 8 898 100% 1 A ll Swiss electricity producers are required by law to declare the quality and quantity of the electricity produced. Swiss Re buys 100% green labelled electricity (naturemade star). 2 In the US, we purchase green-e labelled Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) for our total power consumption. 3 The UK government claims all green credentials of renewable electricity produced in the country. Even though over 80% of the electricity we consume in the UK comes with Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin (REGOs), we report the same emission figures for locationand market-based approaches. 4 Our next biggest power consumption is in Slovakia and India, each with 3% of the Group’s total. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 47 Reducing our footprint RE100 AND EP100 Using renewable power Goals of our Greenhouse Neutral Purchasing power from renewable Programme until 2020: At the end of 2018, approximately 94% rather than conventional sources has of the power we purchased across the ̤̤ Maintain the emissions reductions been a principal measure of our Group came from renewable energy we achieved between 2003 Greenhouse Neutral Programme. sources. We are committed to raising and 2013 regarding power Concluding a gradual build-up that this figure to 100%, which is why we consumption, heating and started in 2005, we are now using helped establish the Climate Group’s business travel; 100% renewable power at all the RE100 initiative in 2014 as a founding ̤̤ Fully offset the remaining Group’s locations where it is available in member. emissions; reliable and trustworthy quality (ie at a ̤̤ Continuously reduce energy total of 30 locations in Asia, Europe, The goal of this initiative is to unite intensity (power consumption North America and Oceania). This the world’s most influential companies and heating) by 2% per year means that approximately 94% of our in a shared commitment to use 100% (kWh/FTE); total power consumption came from renewable power by 2020. To achieve ̤̤ Obtain 100% of power from renewable sources at the end of 2018. this, the RE100 group approaches renewable sources by 2020. policymakers and regulators at national To assess the quality of the renewable and sub-national level to make power available in individual locations renewable energy more available. In the current cycle, the programme and select suitable sources, we use RE100 grew substantially again in covers the following emission sources: a “minimum standard” that clearly states 2018 and now includes more than ̤̤ Heating (Scope 1) how we define renewable power and 160 of the world’s largest companies. ̤̤ Power consumption (Scope 2) what requirements it needs to meet. www.theRE100.org ̤̤ Business travel, copy paper use, waste generation, water use, In particular, we pursue the following Going beyond these collective efforts, technical gases and employee impactful green power options, with we have recently started to build commuting (Scope 3) decreasing preference: solar power plants at our own offices. ̤̤ Direct investments in our own solar In 2018, our total CO2 emissions per plants (eg at Armonk, Swiss Re Next); In 2016, we also signed up to the employee (FTE) decreased by 6.3% ̤̤ Indirect investments via long-term EP100 initiative, launched by the and were thus 8.1% lower than in 2013. virtual power purchase agreements Climate Group (www.theclimategroup. We achieved this reduction mainly from newly built plants (see page 49); org) and the Global Alliance for Energy through a decrease in business travel ̤̤ Sourcing of high-quality renewable Productivity (www.globalproductivity. and by further cutting power energy certificates (eg naturemade org). This is a shared commitment consumption at our business locations. star in Switzerland and NaturEnergie by leading global companies to double Moving into more energy-efficient in Germany). their energy productivity or, in other buildings, eg in New York and Zurich words, to get more economic output (Swiss Re Next), has been a key factor Reducing energy consumption from each unit of energy. in this. In parallel with our switch to using www.theclimategroup.org/project/ renewable power, we have made ep100/ continuous efforts to lower the actual amount of energy consumed per employee (FTE) or, in other words, to 28.9% reduce our energy intensity. Through many small measures to improve energy efficiency and by concentrating backoffice tasks in fewer and more energyTotal reduction efficient buildings, we managed to cut our energy intensity by a total of of energy intensity 46.5% between 2003 and 2013. per employee For the current phase of our Greenhouse since 2013 Neutral Programme from 2013 until 2020, our goal is to continuously reduce our energy intensity by 2% per year. At the end of 2018, the total reduction we had reached since 2013 was 28.9%. We partly achieved this by decommissioning existing office buildings and moving into more energy-efficient ones. 48 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report As part of our Greenhouse Neutral Programme, we are committed to covering 100% of our power consumption from renewable sources by 2020. Through a “virtual power purchase agreement” completed in 2018, we help fund the construction of a new wind farm in the US and get access to renewable energy supplies at steady prices. Entering into a virtual power purchase agreement (VPPA) Switching to renewable energy is a A VPPA is a financial contract rather of new renewable energy capacity. key measure we have taken to reach than a contract for physical power. Our partnership with Apple, Akami our emissions reduction goals. This Under it, Swiss Re will pay a developer and Etsy has helped secure financing is one of the reasons why we have a fixed price for a fixed amount of for the Green River wind farm in helped launch the RE100 initiative power produced by a renewable Illinois, as well as giving us access as a founding member. energy asset for a defined period of to renewable energy produced at time. However, this power will never competitive prices. To date, Swiss Re has obtained its actually be delivered physically to our renewable energy mainly by offices and we will not pay the strike Secondly, a VPPA allows for the purchasing Energy Attribute price directly to the developer. Instead, hedging of variable energy market Certificates (EACs). These EACs are the developer sells the energy from prices. When market prices increase, “unbundled”, meaning they are not the project to the market at prevailing our offices will incur higher expenses linked to the actual creation of new prices. When the variable market price but will receive funds (the difference renewable power generation capacity. is lower than the fixed VPPA price, we between market price and fixed price) As a result, unbundled EACs are no pay the difference to the developer – from the VPPA – and vice versa. As the longer seen as having a sufficient and the other way round when the fixed amount of power covered by environmental impact. market price is higher than the fixed the VPPA is equivalent to our expected VPPA price. total energy consumption in North This is why we entered into a virtual America, shifts in energy prices should power purchase agreement (VPPA) for Such VPPAs combine an roughly balance out within this area. the first time in 2018, partnering with environmental benefit with a financial Apple, Akami and Etsy. In this way, we one. Firstly, a long-term contract The innovative character of the VPPA want to secure high-quality EACs for with a fixed price for the electricity approach has been recognised by the total power consumption of all our produced allows the developer to both peers and the media. offices in North America. secure financing for the construction Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 49 Reducing our footprint We have also continued our efforts to We continuously monitor all travel all our locations. Average paper use per create more flexible and modern office budgets and collect travel data centrally. employee fell by 6.7% in 2018, mainly environments that offer our employees Furthermore, we introduced an internal as a result of ongoing digitisation and optimal working conditions while, at the carbon levy on air travel in 2014, which measures such as pull printing, leading same time, using space and resources uses the “polluter pays” principle. It to a total reduction of almost 60% since more effectively. The spread of digital allocates the costs of the Voluntary 2013. communication and devices makes it Emissions Reductions (VERs) we need possible to work seamlessly across to buy to offset our CO2 emissions to the Offsetting our remaining CO2 different locations and devices, creating Group’s Global Functions in proportion emissions the foundation for a more flexible and to their respective share of air travel; The second commitment of our informal workplace set-up that previously they had been borne centrally Greenhouse Neutral Programme is to encourages teamwork. At Swiss Re by Group Finance. This internal price compensate all CO2 emissions we Next, for example, this open workplace on carbon heightens awareness of cannot avoid. For the seven emissions concept is a key feature. Although travel costs among our managers and sources covered by it, we bought and further reducing our environmental employees and creates a further retired VERs for a total of 75 794 tonnes footprint is not the primary driver of incentive to reduce air travel, in addition of CO2e in 2018. these efforts, their potential to lower to flight costs. the energy intensity of our locations We are keen to ensure that the VERs is nevertheless substantial. Despite these measures, the amount of we buy are of a high environmental kilometres travelled per employee and standard and have developed a set of Minimising business travel the associated emissions increased for criteria to select the projects generating As a result of the substantial cuts we a number of years, mainly driven by our certificates. In particular, we give priority have achieved in CO2 emissions from continued expansion in high growth to those which create strong social power consumption and heating since markets. After stabilising in 2017, the side effects and benefit the poorest 2003, business travel easily constitutes average total distance travelled by each regions. You can read more about Swiss Re’s largest emissions source of our employees decreased by 6.0% in a compensation project we selected today. Since the business trips our 2018. in 2018 on page 51. employees take are ultimately driven by client needs, they are difficult to Paper, water and waste External verification of our CO₂ influence. However, we have taken We also calculate and compensate reporting several measures to reduce the the CO2 emissions from further sources Ever since we first launched our need for business travel and to curb along our supply chain (Scope 3), ie Greenhouse Neutral Programme in unnecessary business trips. copy paper, waste generation and water 2003, we have disclosed our CO2 use. The overview of all our emissions emissions, their principal sources and For a start, we have built up a dense sources on page 47 shows, however, relative performance over time. The network of video conferencing that these are less relevant in our method we use to calculate our equipment across the Group. Recently, business than other environmental emissions is based on the guidelines we replaced these facilities with stateimpacts, which is why we have not set of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the of-the-art technology, which creates a quantitative reduction goals for them. most widely used emissions accounting real-time, life-size virtual meeting standard (www.ghgprotocol.org/). experience in specially designed rooms. Furthermore, it is difficult for us to By the end of 2018, we had a total of influence water use and waste Before our emission figures are 159 video conference facilities generation at locations where we rent published, PricewaterhouseCoopers worldwide. In total, we hosted 97 617 office space. In the office buildings checks them to verify our calculations. video calls in 2018, amounting to we own ourselves, though, we ensure Their complete assurance report for the 70 249 hours. that appliances meet high standards whole Corporate Responsibility Report of water efficiency. is included on pages 72–73. As paper use is more responsive to 75 794 managerial action, we have taken a number of measures to reduce the average amount used by our employees in recent years. New IT solutions such Tonnes of CO2e as “pull printing” (which eliminates uncollected printouts), web-based compensated collaboration and document in 2018 management platforms have led to a significant decrease of paper use in 50 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report A farmer delivers cotton stalks to a biomass power plant in northwest China instead of burning them in the open field, thus helping to generate energy and avoiding CO2 emissions. We support this project through the Voluntary Emissions Reductions we bought in 2018. Turning cotton waste into clean electricity in northwest China As part of our Greenhouse Neutral traditional insurance products and 79 200 MWh of renewable electricity Programme, we compensate all the provided coverage for about annually – enough to power around CO2 emissions we have not been able 840 hectares of cotton. 53 000 Chinese homes. to avoid. The projects we select for this purpose need to be of the highest Next to extreme weather conditions, The project has also created a number quality and to benefit communities Bachu County faces further problems of social benefits that increase the highly vulnerable to the consequences because power generation is resilience of the local community. of climate change. Based on these predominantly coal-fired, leading to criteria, in 2018 we supported the the release of greenhouse gases and As cotton stalks have turned from Gold Standard-certified Bachu Biomass other pollutants. Cotton farmers have being seen as waste to a valuable Project in China’s northwestern further contributed to air pollution by by-product, selling the residue Xinjiang, the largest cotton-growing burning cotton stalks, which they used has allowed farmers to boost their region in China. to consider as waste, in the open field. combined income by up to USD 5 million per year. Furthermore, Climate change-induced natural perils Thanks to the Bachu project, these the combustion process at the plant such as drought, hail, wind and lowcotton residues are now used as creates ash that the farmers can use temperature waves pose a threat to renewable fuel to fire a new biomass as fertiliser. the thriving cotton production hubs of power plant. In this way, the project the Xinjiang region, including Bachu reaches several objectives at once: All in all, the Bachu project has created County. For that reason, Swiss Re it reduces greenhouse gas emissions, more than 100 jobs in the local delivered the first low-temperature improves air quality and makes the communities. More than half of these weather index insurance programme local power supply more stable. positions are held by Turkic Muslim for cotton production in Xinjiang in Uyghurs and other regional ethnic 2015. The scheme addressed the Since its implementation in 2008, the minorities, while a quarter of total problem of reduced crop yields from project has mitigated 62 774 tonnes project staff are women. cold weather not addressed by of CO2e and generated an average of Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 51 Reducing our footprint Sustainability in our supply In 2016, we signed up for EcoVadis chain (www.ecovadis.com), a collaborative platform for sustainable supply chain As a re/insurance company, Swiss Re management, which covers a wide does not have an extensive supply range of screening criteria across the chain. Our core business does not topics of environmental impacts, human require us to buy intermediate inputs like rights, labour practices, ethics and a manufacturing company. However, sustainable procurement. This will allow to run our operations, we need a range us to assess the sustainability of goods and services. performance of our suppliers more systematically with the help of key When we make these purchases, we performance indicators and to engage apply general and individual criteria. them in improvements. It also helps In line with our overarching Group us reduce and manage potential Sourcing Policy, we select suppliers that sustainability risks in our supply chain. 30% offer the best value for money, meet high quality standards and adhere to Swiss Re’s Code of Conduct. As a We have been implementing the EcoVadis platform into our sourcing signatory to the UN Global Compact, we processes across all categories. For our Share of our tier 1 and 2 are committed to honouring all its ten tier 1 and tier 2 vendors, we have set vendors included in principles. Amongst other things, these ourselves the goal of including all of prohibit any sort of discrimination or the them in the platform by 2020. At the the EcoVadis platform use of child or forced labour, and require end of 2018, implementation was by end of 2018 that the freedom of association and the completed for 30% of these vendors. right to collective bargaining be upheld. (13% by the end of 2017) We consider environmental criteria relating to materials and ingredients, production methods, recycling and waste. For some sourcing categories, we have developed “minimum standards” that further specify our requirements. Besides power (see page 48) and paper (see page 50), these cover cleaning services and agents, refrigerant agents and building materials. When selecting new products and suppliers, we examine whether they comply with these requirements as part of the overall evaluation process. We take a fresh look at existing strategic suppliers in our periodic contract reviews, and we visit individual suppliers to inspect them onsite. Internally, we hold regular awareness trainings with our sourcing staff. 52 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report In 2018, we granted a total of 2 924 The COyou2 Programme subsidies spread across three product Tackling our carbon footprint is one categories: home appliances, home of four pillars of our climate change infrastructure and mobility. Over the past strategy (see page 16). In 2007, we five years, electricity-powered mobility 2 924 launched the CO you2 Programme has become more prominent, with because we wanted to make our 811 subsidies for e-bikes, e-motorbikes, commitment more tangible for our e-cars and plug-in hybrid electric cars. employees and help them become COyou2 subsidies more aware of climate change. The Amongst the larger Swiss Re locations, programme offers subsidies for a range uptakes per employee were highest in granted to our of investments through which our Slovakia and India. Our office in Slovakia employees in 2018 employees can reduce their private has witnessed particularly strong growth carbon footprints. To our knowledge, in recent years. Many new employees (2 528 in 2017) it was the first global corporate initiative there have made use of the opportunity of its kind at the time. to claim subsidies, eg for highly energyefficient fridges and washing machines The investment options we offer for as well as bicycles for their daily subsidies are clearly specified in the commute to work. In Europe, in general, programme. Some of them are mobility remains a popular category, supported at all our locations, while with bicycles the most common type others vary to account for regional of subsidy. differences in climate, living conditions etc. Our subsidies cover 50% of the In our Asian locations, energy-efficient investment amount up to a locally home appliances were particularly determined maximum allowance. popular. In the Americas region, both All regular employees are entitled to home appliances and home infrastructure apply and new employees can submit subsidies were sought-after subsidy subsidy requests after three months categories. following their hire start date. COYOU2 PAYOUTS IN 2018, NUMBER OF COYOU2 PAYOUTS IN 2018, BY CATEGORY PER 1000 EMPLOYEES 600 500 400 300 52% Home appliances 9% Home infrastructure 200 39% Mobility 100 0 Slovakia India Germany Switzerland US UK Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 53 Engaging our people We are an organisation where diverse talents come together globally to apply fresh perspectives and knowledge to make the world more resilient. Our vision is to offer our employees where everyone can contribute. meaningful work with a clear purpose We are passionate about building an in an attractive and inclusive work environment of trust, respect, environment. We aim to collaborate in collaboration and responsibility in the spirit of “Let’s be smarter together”, which how we achieve results is every because we can maximise our full bit as important as what we achieve. potential only if we work together. Our organisation is constantly looking for Swiss Re is a global company with a new ways to improve the wellbeing of presence in all major markets and 30 society and prepare for the changing countries. As of 31 December 2018, we needs of the future, drawing on the employed 14 943 people (regular staff) know-how and experience of a diverse, from 116 nationalities: 60.9% work in multigenerational group of employees. Europe, the Middle East and Africa We aspire to be a place where a flexible (EMEA), 24.2% in the Americas and and inclusive culture is the norm and 14.9% in the Asia-Pacific region. WEBSITE EMPLOYEE DATA, SWISS RE GROUP Find out more about working at Swiss Re at: www.swissre.com/ 2016 2017 2018 careers.html Total headcount regular employees 14 053 14 485 14 943 Full-time* 12 689 13 101 13 510 Part-time* 1 364 1 384 1 433 Temporary employees 330 355 252 Turnover rate (incl. company sales) 9.7% 10.7% 12.2% Voluntary 6.7% 7.2% 7.6% Involuntary 3.1% 3.5% 4.6% Average tenure regular staff (in years) 7.0 7.1 7.3 * For the years up to 2017, full-time employees had a working degree of 90% and higher. As of 2018, we report full-time employees as those working 100%. 54 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report The Swiss Re employee ̤̤ Build for the future: At Swiss Re, We are proud that our employees experience we embrace and build a diverse perceive a collaborative and inclusive workforce that brings together the culture across all Business Units, Swiss Re has a clear People Strategy best of multiple generations, cultures, demonstrated by the following results which sets out what we want to achieve skill sets and thinking. Our aim is of the EES: in order to create an environment that for our employees to live a flexible, ̤̤ Diversity & Inclusion: 78% of surveyed enables each one of us to give our inclusive and open culture where all employees strongly appreciate personal best. We regard our People perspectives are valued. We create Swiss Re valuing diversity and having Strategy as our “North Star”: It provides meaning for our employees by a collaborative, inclusive and friendly us with clarity and direction, it is connecting our work to the core culture with high integrity (5% points embedded in everything we do and purpose of our company. above the Global Finance & Insurance defines our ambition for the future of industry benchmark). Learn more Swiss Re. about our actions and initiatives in Listening to our employees the section “Fostering an inclusive Four core themes bring our strategy We foster a culture of open dialogue and workplace for all” (pages 59–60). to life: frequent feedback on all levels, where ̤̤ Our Managers: More than three ̤̤ Lead and develop: We aim to be employees and managers engage in quarters of our employees perceive known in the market for both our regular exchange as described in our that their line managers engage in technical expertise and our leadership Leadership and Personal Imperatives an open and safe dialogue where the capabilities. Our employees inspire (see online version). In addition, once employees have the freedom to and engage each other across all a year, we seek feedback from all our express their views and are levels through honest, constructive employees in a more formal manner encouraged to seek out innovative and timely dialogue and feedback. through the Employee Engagement solutions (76%, which is 3% points We invest in the career development Survey (EES), which is run by our above the industry benchmark). of our people, which we see as a external provider Aon (www.aon.com). ̤̤ Empowerment/Autonomy: More than shared responsibility, with leaders As in previous years, we again two thirds of our employees feel investing their time and resources and experienced a high response rate of strongly that their opinions and ideas employees taking ownership to drive 88% in 2018. Our Group Employee count and that they are given the their development. Engagement score was at 66% (three flexibility to balance their work and ̤̤ Empower and collaborate: We percentage points lower than in 2017) personal life (overall score: 69%, empower and enable our people to and was thus on a par with Aon’s Global which is 4% points above the industry make decisions and drive Finance & Insurance industry benchmark. benchmark). performance, while at the same time The Engagement score is calculated ensuring that we maintain the based on how employees speak about appropriate risk culture. We their organisation, on their desire to work Developing our employees encourage all employees to work for it and their motivation to contribute In a world where the ability to learn and together and collaborate across to business success. adapt quickly is increasingly crucial, the organisational and geographical effective development of our people and boundaries for the wider and ultimate leaders is key for our enduring success. benefit of Swiss Re. For this reason, we have continued to ̤̤ Drive the business: We envision that invest significantly in this area in 2018 our employees operate with a truly by reinforcing our 70/20/10 approach commercial mind-set and to enhancing and upgrading our accountability. They should all take leadership development architecture. accountability proactively and hold To read more about this, see the section each other responsible for “Investing in a strong leadership performance in terms of both results pipeline” below. The 70/20/10 and behaviour. We ensure reward is approach advocates a shift from formal fair and competitive, although this training or self-study (10% of should not be the main reason why development time) to actions that reflect people want to work for our company. “on-the-job experiences” (eg rotations and stretch assignments: 70%) and “learning from others” (eg mentoring, O  NLINE CONTENT Information on “Embedding the coaching: 20%). behaviours we need for the future” is available at: reports.swissre.com/ corporate-responsibilityreport/2018/cr-report/our-people/ the-swiss-re-employee-experience/ embedding-the-behaviours-weneed-for-the-future.html Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 55 Engaging our people CLASSROOM AND INHOUSE E-LEARNING DATA, SWISS RE GROUP 2016 2017 2018* Total learning hours recorded 231 826 234 609 165 440 Learning hours per employee 15.3 15.0 11.0 Learning costs per employee (in USD) 1 024 919 513 * In 2018 we began changing Swiss Re’s learning landscape with new tools and adopted a new learning philosophy that gives our employees access to bite-sized learning nuggets at their personal convenience. We no longer track these learning hours, which explains the significant drop from 2017 to 2018. Investing in employee development leadership skills training. We design our Investing in a strong leadership and growth training internally or in collaboration with pipeline Knowledge and skill requirements are leading external partners and deliver it We continue to strengthen the changing faster than ever before, so through our long-established Swiss Re capabilities of our line managers and we need to be prepared. As a risk Academy. Currently, we offer more than prepare them to meet the challenges knowledge business, getting the right 1 000 different training courses. Our of a rapidly changing environment. capabilities to the right people at the employees attend training in areas as We have introduced a new leadership right time is strategically important for diverse as underwriting, finance, sales development architecture with a the success of our individual employees and negotiation, leadership, diversity manager curriculum at every as well as for the company as a whole. and inclusion, interpersonal skills, management level. Our Manager This is why we need to facilitate learning project management, office tools and Curriculum is about accelerating the with content that is relevant and easy language skills. development of our line managers to find exactly when it is needed. A new through targeted training, providing online platform called MyResource We recommend that client-facing them with the skills and resources they introduced small bite-sized learning employees invest at least two days per need to lead, build and engage our nuggets on many development topics year in formal sales training. A total of people in the future. allowing employees to maintain and 685 employees participated in sales control when and where they learn, training during 2018, with an average As a result of the Manager Curriculum thereby leading to more learning outside feedback score of 4.26 (out of 5). project we launched the Development the classroom. We will continue this Reflecting our efforts in the area of Compass for Managers this year. This journey into 2019 with the launch of a employee development, we continue to platform uses the latest digital tools to new learning experience platform and outperform our industry peers in the strengthen leadership expertise by access to a wider range of learning social dimension of the prestigious providing access to thousands of content available to all employees. Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, with resources that help our line managers Swiss Re top in human capital continue to develop as leaders. The This development and the introduction development (we scored 80% in this platform provides access not only to of the Development Compass for category versus the industry average of newly designed manager classroom Managers (see “Investing in a strong 39% and world average of 67%). training but also to online training in the leadership pipeline” below) has led to form of corporate in-house MOOCs a noticeable reduction in classroom (Massive Open Online Courses). Known and inhouse e-learning training hours. internally as DIALs (Digital Inter-Active In 2018, our employees completed Learning), they provide an interactive 165 440 hours of training overall, and innovative learning experience that averaging 11 hours and USD 513 per equip line managers with the necessary employee. Formal training at Swiss Re management expertise that differentiates combines technical, professional and 56 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Peter Vigliotti of our Learning & Development Americas team collects the STEVIE Gold Award we STEVIE Gold Award received for a newly introduced, and Brandon Hall Bronze Award innovative online learning platform. In 2018, Swiss Re won the STEVIE Also in 2018, Brandon Hall awarded Gold Award in the area “Curated Swiss Re with the bronze award in Training Platform of the Year – the area Human Capital Management Managerial/Professional” with its Excellence Awards. Swiss Re programme “Development Compass participated in the category “Best for Managers: Revolutionising Unique or Innovative Learning corporate learning at Swiss Re”. The Development Program” with its Compass integrates five systems and “Development Compass for Swiss Re’s offers access to more than 2 000 Line Managers: Applied Future of resources, enabling line managers to Learning and Corporate In-house develop without having to travel to MOOCs Revolutionising Management attend a workshop. Training at Swiss Re”. us from our competitors. Close to CEO-sponsored Pathfinder Experience 3 000 employees used the Development programme to build a community of Compass in 2018. change catalysts who will reinforce the agile, forward-looking principles To further equip our leaders with the mentioned above. We also developed necessary tools to lead us into the future, the Explorer Programme for our we developed an agile leadership model leadership talents, which enables them and have begun integrating it into our to take on additional leadership leadership development programmes. responsibilities and to lead in an For senior leaders, we launched the new ambiguous and dynamic environment. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 57 Engaging our people Managing performance Continuing from 2017 into 2018, we Our performance management have widened our employee approach supports our aim for a highparticipation in the Performance performance culture in which our Management pilot, where we are individual and team goals, as well as experimenting with the “rating-less” behaviours, are aligned to our firm’s concept of Performance Management, purpose and business strategy. We want in the process exploring more flexible, our employees to reach their potential timely performance management and be fully supported in their work. Our approaches to strengthen Swiss Re’s Personal and Leadership Imperatives are culture of continuous feedback/ fully embedded in our performance dialogue, recognition of achievement management approach, focusing on and personal growth and development. both what people achieve and how they We are committed to continuing to achieve their goals. Including these improve our programmes and capitalise behaviours in performance and on digitisation where possible, as we feedback discussions allows for robust, build our feedback culture. future-focused conversations, better performance differentiation and transparent pay-for-performance. Award from TheJobCrowd – for the third year in a row Our graduates@swissre programme To determine the ranking, our has again won the JobCrowdAward – graduates were asked to complete a sixth place in the category “Top 100 survey about working at Swiss Re. Companies for Graduates to Work For” They were asked questions such as: and first place in the category What are the best things about your “Banking & Finance”. This award was company? What attracted you to presented to us by TheJobCrowd the company? How do you rate (www.thejobcrowd.com), a popular the work/life balance, training and graduate job review website in the UK. ethical/environmental balance? The results from our graduates were overwhelmingly positive. 58 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Promoting an inclusive culture Engaging the next generation We know that our employees’ lives and We support employees at all levels to experiences are unique and we believe maximise their potential and are proud in championing that uniqueness. to offer various programmes to young Uniqueness in leadership, in thought, in adults moving into the workforce. fact in every way we work together and live our values. A key aspect of our People Strategy is to prevent stereotyping O  NLINE CONTENT You can find detailed information on of individuals based on any dimension how we engage the next generation at: of diversity. The philosophy of managing reports.swissre.com/corporateand attracting diverse talent is fully responsibility-report/2018/ embedded in our development offering cr-report/our-people/engaging-thenext-generation.html for new and existing managers. Swiss Re is committed to providing an equal and safe work environment for LGBTI+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, Fostering an inclusive transgender, intersex) employees, and workplace for all our global “Together with Pride” employee network is a signatory to the We can only unleash the motivation and United Nation’s Free & Equal Standards creativity of our employees if they can all of Conduct to tackle discrimination be who they are and feel included. Our against LGBTI+ people. The network has business success depends on our ability opened new local chapters in Germany, to create and sustain an inclusive culture Brazil, Canada, India, Mexico and Slovakia, – one that builds diverse teams, and now comprises over 1 000 allies encourages fresh perspectives and and LGBTI+ employees. The Switzerland brings innovative thinking to create chapter had an official opening event smarter solutions for our clients. A with a keynote speech from the Group commitment to inclusiveness is therefore CEO in June, followed by the Swiss Re fundamental for our organisational Next building lighting up in rainbow performance and for reaching the goals colours to honour Pride Month. set out in our People Strategy. The network hosted a global event about being transgender in the insurance industry to acknowledge National Coming Out Day in October. Working together with HR and our leaders, the terms “gender identity” and “gender expression” were added to the equal treatment section of our Code of Conduct in 2018. A gender-neutral language policy was also introduced and made available to all staff. Achieving gender equality at Swiss Re Swiss Re is a signatory to the United Nation’s Global Compact and deeply committed to the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goal #5: “To achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls”. At Swiss Re, we believe that increasing gender balance in During Pride Month in June 2018, we lit up our Swiss Re Next headquarters in rainbow leadership is a strategic imperative that is colours for one week, manifesting our support for the LGBTI+ community. critical to our future business success. WEBSITE Find out more about diversity & inclusion at swissre.com at: www.swissre.com/about-us/ diversity-inclusion-in-Swiss-Re.html Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 59 Engaging our people WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS, SWISS RE GROUP (IN %) 2016 2017 2018 Total workforce 46.9 47.3 47.9 Executive/senior management positions* 22.9 23.3 24.5 All management positions* 32.9 33.3 34.2 * “ Executive/senior management positions” comprises the management levels of Director/Senior Vice President upwards. “All management positions” refers to Vice President and above. We recognise that women continue to diverse candidate slates as well be underrepresented at executive/senior as diverse selection panels. “Gender management levels, and our Group Promotion Ratio” is a key internal Executive Committee (Group EC) performance metric for each of our members are committed to closely Group EC members: comparing the ratio monitoring the talent flows in their of female promotions into middle businesses and locations to actively management and above with the ratio improve the situation. We are focused of women in the “donor pool”. Whilst on increasing the number of women we are doing well here, we recognise who join Swiss Re at all levels, ensuring the need to work on other measures to address imbalances in the gender composition of our workforce. In 2018, we continued to build on initiatives started the year before, such as the global female sponsorship initiative designed to build a strong female pipeline for impactful leadership positions. Over 60 women are currently paired up with an executive sponsor, including all Group EC members. In March, we acknowledged the International Women’s Day by engaging all major locations in a dialogue on Gender Intelligence®: the social norms on gender, how they demonstrate at the workplace and what inclusive behaviour looks like. We have been included as a member of the 2019 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI, www.bloomberg.com/gei), which underscores our strong commitment to gender-related topics and an inclusive work environment. We regard increasing gender balance in leadership as a strategic imperative and have launched concrete initiatives to do so. 60 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report EMPLOYEE HEALTH DATA Sick leave days, Switzerland regular staff 2016 2017 2018 Number of employees 3 267 3 214 3 119 Number of employees who have recorded absence due to illness 1 809 1 683 1 635 Average number of sick days 7.9 8.7 8.7 Caring for the wellbeing of Owning the way we work our employees At Swiss Re, we seek to enable everyone to reach their full potential, as individuals A healthy mind is as important as a and as teams. We align our working healthy body. We offer free, locally environments and methods with available Employee Assistance evolving social trends and challenging Programmes, through which our market conditions. We appreciate the employees can get confidential, ever-changing working preferences impartial and professional assistance of different cultures, generations and on issues of a personal or work-related personalities. nature. Our trademarked programme, Own Pathways, our Mental Health Network, the Way You Work, is a cultural change “If we are to make the was launched in the UK in 2017. The initiative which gives managers and network’s mission is to allow employees employees autonomy to decide how, world more resilient, we to bring their whole selves to work; when and where work is carried out in need everybody to be to allow them to feel accepted and compliance with the applicable laws, included and to reduce the stigma rules and regulations of their particular able to bring their true surrounding mental health issues. In region. Yet there is more to agile working selves to work and to February 2018, the network expanded than having flexible hours and managing to Zurich, our headquarters and largest them. We have enriched our vision for be fully engaged. I am office location. Training and awareness the way we work at Swiss Re with an ally to our LGBTI+ sessions have been at the core of our cutting-edge technology and flexible work since the launch. workplace solutions. These shape an community and am ambitious and creative company culture, committed to ensuring Across the globe, we also continued to where everyone performs at their best, hold various local events on topics such individually and collectively. that they do not feel as work stress, mental health and marginalised or underawareness training. For example, in  NLINE CONTENT O Hong Kong we held a Wellness 360 represented alongside Week that hosted a series of events to You can find information about how we support parents at: reports.swissre.com/ all other communities help our employees focus on their corporate-responsibility-report/2018/ physical and mental wellbeing as well cr-report/our-people/caring-for-theat Swiss Re.” as on their personal growth. In Australia, wellbeing-of-our-employees/ being-a-parent-at-swiss-re.html we organised meditation sessions and Christian Mumenthaler, Group CEO keynote presentations with external experts who spoke on fostering a healthy mind and the importance of sleep. To help our people stay fit, we provide onsite fitness centres and classes, for instance in Switzerland and Bangalore. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 61 Engaging our people benefits and financial protection in case Employee relations Rewarding our people of ill health are also an important part Many of our locations have active Swiss Re is committed to having a of many of our packages. We provide employee groups. These employee compensation framework that is medical, life and disability insurance in representatives play an important part in balanced and performance-oriented, excess of state provisions in several the company’s success by contributing and which aligns the interests of locations. Furthermore, we support valuable perspectives and by helping to both shareholders and employees. employees in accumulating retirement identify employment-related challenges. benefits to supplement any state These bodies are elected by local Our compensation framework is provisions. employees and have clearly defined designed to attract, motivate and retain information and consultation rights. the qualified talent the Group needs to In addition, the COyou2 Programme Although there are significant local succeed globally and to create a tangible continues to offer our employees differences in the applicable legislation, link between performance and pay. The subsidies for a range of environmentally their rights typically concern: working aim is to provide compensation that is friendly technology investments they conditions, benefits, reorganisation and competitive in local labour markets and want to make in their private lives (see restructuring, redundancies, and to ensure that our employees focus on page 53). disciplinary actions and conflict cases. delivering outstanding results while supporting appropriate and controlled Further information on Swiss Re’s At our Zurich headquarters, where risk-taking. approach to compensation and benefits almost a quarter of our total workforce can be found in our 2018 Financial is employed, we work closely with For most employees, total compensation Report (pages 142–171). the Personnel Committee (PECO). comprises base salary and the Annual Representing the interests of all Zurich Performance Incentive (API), which is employees, PECO aims to create and linked to both individual and business/ maintain a positive working company performance. environment. It is involved in changes or adaptions to the General Working Swiss Re has several incentive Conditions or other important policies, programmes that reflect the long-term such as the Social Plan. PECO also seeks nature of our business: both the Value to ensure the de-facto equality of men Alignment Incentive Plan (VAI) as the and women, and places special deferred part of the API and the emphasis on the challenges faced by Leadership Performance Plan (LPP) aim employees with family obligations. to reward sustained business performance rather than short-term In the UK, these activities are covered results. This helps align shareholder and by the Employee Liaison Group (ELG), employee interests more closely. The VAI and at our Munich office we have a applies to employees who have a total works council with clearly defined API in excess of a defined threshold, and codetermination rights in several areas. the LPP is awarded to our senior Our smaller branches in Europe (eg in management and select key employees. France, Italy, Luxembourg and Denmark) also have works councils or staff We also encourage our employees to delegates, depending on the size of the own Swiss Re shares by providing branch and local regulations. opportunities to participate directly in the long-term success of the Group  NLINE CONTENT O through the Global Share Participation You can find information about our Plan. Alumni Network at: reports.swissre. com/corporate-responsibilityThe balanced compensation package is report/2018/cr-report/our-people/ generally complemented by competitive employee-relations/alumninetworks.html pension plans and other employee benefits. Such benefits include, for example, the Continuous Contribution Award, which recognises the loyalty, commitment and continuous contribution of our employees by offering them opportunities at defined milestones to enjoy additional paid time-off. Health 62 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Ensuring good corporate governance and compliance Our governance standards and procedures apply throughout the Swiss Re Group. Corporate governance shifting considerably, with the clearest Our Board of Directors is in a regular example being the increased demands dialogue with our shareholders and Our Board of Directors closely monitors of shareholders for more meaningful and welcomes the valuable feedback on our corporate governance developments more frequent engagement with governance framework. globally, with a particular focus on management and boards of directors. trends in Switzerland, the US and the A key trend in engagement efforts is in In our Corporate Responsibility Report, European Union. Institutional investors, the area of environmental, social and we highlight key elements of Swiss Re’s in particular, are increasingly focused governance (ESG) matters. corporate governance, in particular with on greater transparency and greater respect to its structure, the independence accountability to shareholders on a of the Board of Directors, conflicts broad range of corporate governance of interest procedures and shareholder issues. Expectations of boards are rights. SWISS RE’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ADHERES TO CONTENT IN THE 2018 FINANCIAL REPORT Comprehensive information on ̤̤ the SIX Swiss Exchange’s Directive on Information Relating to Corporate Swiss Re’s corporate governance is Governance (including its annex) of May 2018; available in the 2018 Financial Report ̤̤ the principles of the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance on pages 98–141. (Swiss Code) of September 2014, issued by economiesuisse, the Swiss business federation; and ̤̤ the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA) provisions on corporate governance, risk management and internal control systems. Swiss Re’s corporate governance furthermore complies with applicable local rules and regulations in all jurisdictions where it conducts business. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 63 Ensuring good corporate governance and compliance Swiss Re’s corporate governance Independence of the Board All the members of the Board of framework of Directors and conflicts of interest Directors meet our independence Swiss Re Ltd’s Board of Directors has the procedures criteria with the exception of our ultimate responsibility for the success The SRL Bylaws stipulate that at least Chairman. As a full-time Chairman, he is and for delivering the sustainable three quarters of the members of the not considered independent. In addition interests of Swiss Re Ltd (SRL) and the Board of Directors must be independent. to the independence criteria applicable Swiss Re Group within a framework of Independence is defined in line with to Board members in general, additional effective and prudent controls. It is best-practice corporate governance independence criteria apply for members responsible for the overall direction, standards. To be considered of the Audit Committee. supervision and control of SRL and the independent, a Board member may not Group. It has delegated the management be, and may not have been in the past The members of the Board of Directors of SRL and the Group to the Group three years, employed as a member of are also subject to procedures to avoid Executive Committee (Group EC). This the Group EC, or by any subsidiary of any action, position or interest that structure maintains effective mutual the Swiss Re Group or may not have a conflicts with an interest of SRL or the checks and balances between these top material relationship with any part of Swiss Re Group or gives the appearance corporate bodies. the Swiss Re Group (either directly or of a conflict. Each member must as a partner, director or shareholder disclose any conflict of interest relating SRL’s Articles of Association (AoA) of an organisation that has a material to a matter to be discussed at a meeting, define the legal and organisational relationship with the Swiss Re Group) as soon as the member becomes aware framework of SRL as the Group’s holding other than serving as an independent of the conflict, to the Chairman. The company. The SRL Bylaws define the board member in any subsidiary. In respective member must not participate governance framework of SRL and the addition, the Board of Directors agrees in the discussion and decision-making Group, including the responsibilities on other criteria that disqualify a involving the interest at stake. The and authorities of the Board of Directors, Board member from being considered Chairman informs the Board of Directors Chairman, Vice Chairman, Lead independent, taking into consideration of the existence of the conflict and it is Independent Director, Board provisions of applicable law, regulations reflected in the meeting minutes. Each committees, Group EC, Group CEO and best practice. member must disclose any conflict and of the other individual Group EC of interest generally arising to the Group members including the Regional In particular, each of the Board Chief Legal Officer or in his absence to Presidents, as well as the relevant members must annually confirm that the Group Chief Compliance Officer in reporting procedures. he or she: has not been employed by line with the standards and procedures the company in any capacity within the set forth by the Personal Conflicts of As determined by applicable law and last five years; has not accepted or Interest Instructions. the AoA, the Board of Directors has has a family member who accepted inalienable and nontransferable any payments from the company or any responsibilities and authorities. The subsidiary of the company in excess Board of Directors has established five of USD 60 000 during the current fiscal Board committees, which support the year or any of the past three fiscal Board in fulfilling its duties. The Board years; is not a family member of an of Directors has delegated certain individual who is, or during the past responsibilities, including the three years was employed by the preparation and execution of its company or by a subsidiary of the resolutions, to the Chairman’s and company in any capacity; is not (and is Governance Committee, the Audit not affiliated with a company that is) Committee, the Compensation an adviser or consultant to the company Committee, the Finance and Risk or a member of the company’s senior Committee and the Investment management; is not affiliated with a Committee. significant customer or supplier of the company; does not have any personal services contract(s) with the company or a member of the company’s senior management; is not affiliated with a not-for-profit entity that receives significant contributions from the company; has not been a partner or employee of the company’s external auditor during the past three years and that he or she does not have any other conflict of interest that the Board of Directors determines to mean he or she cannot be considered independent. 64 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Shareholders’ participation rights Changes of control and defence Shares measures All shares issued by SRL are fully paid-in SRL has not put in place any specific registered shares, each with a par value measures to defend against potential of CHF 0.10. Each share carries one unfriendly takeover attempts. SRL’s AoA vote. There are no categories of shares neither contain an “opting up” nor an with a higher or limited voting power, “opting out” provision. The Board of privileged dividend entitlement or any Directors believes that the company’s other preferential rights, nor are there best protection is a fair valuation of any other securities representing a part its shares, and that the efficiency of a of SRL’s share capital. SRL cannot free market is preferable to artificial exercise the voting rights of treasury obstacles, which can have a negative shares. impact on the share price in the long term. Voting right restrictions, statutory group clauses and exception rules There are no voting right restrictions and no statutory group clauses (other than the limitations on nominee registrations) in place. Therefore, there are no procedures or conditions for cancelling restrictions and no rules on making exceptions to them. Accordingly, no such exceptions were granted in 2018. Statutory rules on participating in the General Meeting of shareholders Owners, usufructuaries or nominees entered in the share register as having voting rights on a specific qualifying day determined by the Board of Directors are entitled to one vote per share held at the General Meeting of shareholders. SRL’s Articles of Association allow any shareholder with voting rights to have his or her shares represented at any General Meeting of shareholders by another person authorised in writing or by the Independent Proxy. Such representatives need not be shareholders. Business firms, partnerships and corporate bodies may be represented by legal or authorised representatives or other proxies, married persons by their spouses, minors and wards by their guardians, even though such representatives are not shareholders. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 65 Ensuring good corporate governance and compliance Compliance: Code of Conduct OUR CODE OF CONDUCT Our Code of Conduct (Code) is one of the key documents governing the management of risks and driving the Code of Conduct Our Company. Our Code. culture within our company. It sets the framework and defines the basic compliance and integrity principles we adhere to globally. The Code is built on the five Swiss Re values, which guide us in making responsible decisions and achieving results using the highest ethical standards: integrity, team spirit, passion to perform, agility and client files.swissre.com/codeofconduct/ centricity. index.html The Code also offers practical guidance By adhering to the and examples for deciding the highest standards, appropriate course of action and solving ethical dilemmas. It further sets out how Policies we ensure behaviour all employees should react when they Our Code addresses the following key across the Group that observe a possible breach of the compliance topics under two headings, principles in the Code. All employees are “Our responsibility towards one another is compliant and obligated to uphold both the letter and and Swiss Re” and “Our responsibility demonstrates integrity. spirit of the Code, policies, standards towards our business partners and and the Group’s corporate governance society”: principles in their daily business activities, and to respect and obey applicable laws and regulations in all Our responsibility towards one jurisdictions where we do business. another and Swiss Re ̤̤ Business information and We regularly review and update the information technology Code to reflect changes in regulations ̤̤ Communication and principles. The Code was ̤̤ Conflicts of interest overhauled in 2016 to include real-life ̤̤ Diversity & inclusion and fair examples and clearer guidance for dayand equal treatment to-day business situations. In 2018, ̤̤ Fraud updates were made to the Code ̤̤ Health, safety and security including an update to reflect Swiss Re’s ̤̤ Intellectual property commitment to diversity and inclusion. Our responsibility towards our The Code is supported by detailed business partners and society policies and standards that document ̤̤ Bribery and corruption Swiss Re’s requirements in line with ̤̤ Data protection applicable laws and regulations. It is ̤̤ Inside information available to our employees in eight ̤̤ Fair competition languages: English, French, German, ̤̤ International trade controls and Italian, Japanese, Portuguese, Slovak economic sanctions and Spanish. ̤̤ Licensing and permanent establishment ̤̤ Money laundering ̤̤ Sustainability and human rights 66 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Below we present additional information We also contribute thought leadership Whistleblowing on some key topics in the Code: on data protection by conducting expert Swiss Re is strongly committed to sessions during insurance industry maintaining a culture in which Bribery and corruption events and by hosting events through employees feel free to voice their The Code addresses our position on the Swiss Re Institute that look at the concerns and report suspected bribery and corruption. It clearly states future of regulations, new technologies, misconduct. Accordingly, Swiss Re that “we conduct business fairly without digitalisation, cross-border data explicitly prohibits any retaliatory action accepting or offering benefits intended processing, big data and innovation in be taken against employees who report to improperly influence decisionlife and health insurance. We offer suspicions of misconduct in good faith. making”. additional information about our global data protection and privacy approach There are several ways in which alleged The Code is supported by our Global on our public website. violations of the Code can be reported, Policy on Financial Crime and our Global both by internal and external sources. Standard on Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Money laundering For our employees, the options are which emphasise that bribery, facilitation The Code draws attention to the risk of described in the Code and include an payments and hospitality where the giver becoming involved in money laundering external, independently operated is not present are always prohibited. and emphasises the importance of due whistleblowing hotline, which can be For gifts, hospitality, sponsorships and diligence. used anonymously (where legally charitable contributions, the policy and permitted). Our whistleblowing hotline standard specify the correct procedures Our Anti-money Laundering Standard is also available to externals via our to be followed, including dealing with sets out in detail key requirements and public website. The hotline includes public officials and requesting approval guidance in relation to our anti-money translation services into numerous in the gift and hospitality register. laundering and counter terrorism languages and is available globally. financing efforts, including due diligence Data protection obligations concerning “know your All investigations of alleged Code We could not work successfully with our counterparty”, counterparty and violations involving either an employee business partners, clients and individual politically exposed persons (PEP) or external contractor are handled by the consumers around the world without screening and the reporting of any Investigation Coordination Process (ICP). maintaining their trust regarding the data suspicious activities. ICP, managed by the Compliance they provide to us. The Code highlights function, serves as a central coordinating that we need to handle personal data Sustainability and human rights unit across all Swiss Re offices globally with the greatest care and use it only for The Code includes our formal and ensures that all investigations are legitimate business purposes. commitment to sustainability and human handled in a consistent and fair manner. rights, providing a guiding principle If, following an investigation, the Our Data Protection Compliance for our efforts to act as a responsible allegations are substantiated, ICP will Framework, with a global policy as well company. issue recommendations regarding as local standards, addresses our any appropriate disciplinary or noncommitment to protecting personal data disciplinary actions that should be taken and respecting privacy rights across our and oversees the actions to ensure operations. We use internationally fairness and consistency across the recognised data protection and privacy Group. principles that ensure compliance with a complex and constantly changing set Misconduct cases are systemically of laws and regulations, and we provide presented and discussed with executive proper training and awareness sessions management, as well as with legal entity to our employees. Procedures for boards as part of the reports to board reporting security incidents and notifying audit committees. In 2018, ICP cases on data breaches are established. reflected the following indicators: ̤̤ The predominant channels for reporting ICP cases were through  EBSITE W internal reporting directly to the You can learn more about our global Compliance department, line approach to data protection and privacy at: www.swissre.com/ managers and members of the about-us/data-protection-brochure. Human Resources team that were html referred to ICP; Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 67 Ensuring good corporate governance and compliance ̤̤ The large majority of ICP cases were In addition, local compliance officers related to theft of company property regularly provide needs-based training and misappropriation of assets on compliance risks tailored to their through fraudulent acts; respective locations and/or areas of ̤̤ In total, 65% of investigated cases of business. alleged misconduct were confirmed with respect to one or more of the Training on Code topics falling outside allegations in question; the Compliance mandate is managed ̤̤ Disciplinary actions from similarly by the responsible functional substantiated investigations have areas. been taken in 60% of the cases. The relatively low percentage of such In 2017, we enhanced the mandatory actions should not be considered on a training escalation process for all de-facto basis as an indication of Compliance Group-wide eLearnings weakness in culture. It is important to to enable timely completion of note that each investigation is factassignments. Employees not complying and circumstance-specific. There are with their mandatory eLearning certain criteria where disciplinary assignments on time without valid actions are generally delivered, eg reasons are subject to potential where existing employees are found disciplinary action. For 2018 we to have engaged in intentional achieved over 99% completion of all misconduct. However, situations mandatory eLearning assignments involving unintentional breaches will including new hire and refresher training. be considered substantiated, but may not result in disciplinary action. Validity for third parties Third parties representing Swiss Re – Training such as consultants, intermediaries, All new permanent and temporary distributors and independent contractors employees joining Swiss Re must – should be carefully selected and need undergo mandatory eLearning training to comply with the Code and relevant on the Code, focusing on ethical policies. When we work with such behaviour in accordance with the third parties, we provide them with principles of the Code and its information about the relevant relationship to Swiss Re’s values. requirements and, in the event of any Completion of the training is tracked infringements, take appropriate action, and instances of non-completion are up to and including terminating a escalated until resolution. contract. All permanent and temporary employees Policy governance also complete a periodic Code of A Policy Management Tool serves as a Conduct Acknowledgement. central place for finding Swiss Re policies and standards. Eight Global We deliver global eLearnings to Policies contain more detailed principles remind and increase understanding of all employees have to be aware of, our key compliance risks and policy supporting the principles set out in the requirements. Last year, global Code. Where necessary, underlying eLearnings were delivered on Data Global Standards are in place to provide Protection and International Trade additional detail on the specific Controls and Economic Sanctions. We requirements. also conducted global eLearnings for all our employees on the following compliance risks over the period from 2015 to 2018: ̤̤ Anti-bribery and corruption ̤̤ Anti-money laundering and terrorist financing ̤̤ Conflicts of interest ̤̤ Data protection ̤̤ Fraud 68 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Providing transparency On some specific topics, we provide transparency by publishing full policies or statements on our website. Data Protection and Swiss Re Modern Privacy Compliance Slavery Act at Swiss Re Transparency Statement www.swissre.com/about-us/datawww.swissre.com/about-us/ protection-brochure.html modern-slavery-statement.html Swiss Re Swiss Re’s Policy Tax Policy Engagement www.swissre.com/about-us/corporatewww.swissre.com/about-us/taxresponsibility/transparency/policypolicy.html engagement.html Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 69 The Swiss Re Foundation Empower the community and build resilience Who we are The Foundation reflects Swiss Re’s Our initiatives address the causes social and humanitarian values. and effects of risks in four areas – We partner with social entrepreneurs, climate, natural hazards, water and aid organisations, researchers and society – both in emerging and Swiss Re employees and clients to help developing countries and in regions communities increase their resilience. where Swiss Re has offices. Our core goals: Empower communities to become more resilient to risk and adapt to a changing natural and social environment Contribute to promoting social welfare, protecting the environment and enhancing quality of life near Swiss Re locations Engage Swiss Re employees as local volunteers and as expert consultants in our global programmes Boost impact by teaming up with private and public partners that share our goals and complement our expertise  EBSITE W You can find detailed information Earn the respect of our stakeholders, creating about the Swiss Re Foundation at: www.swissrefoundation.org measurable value for society and for Swiss Re 70 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report The Swiss Re Foundation and The Nature Conservancy (TNC) have developed the first training programme for coastal dwellers who want to help conserve the coral reefs that shield their communities from erosion, flooding and storms. We are piloting the approach on Mexico’s Caribbean coast near Cancún, a hub of tourism and fishing as well as home to the endangered Mesoamerican reef. ACTIVITY REPORT What we What our The Swiss Re Foundation respond to priorities are in 2018 For reefs to protect coasts, humans Threats to: ̤̤ Climate must protect reefs. With The ̤̤ Health ̤̤ Natural hazards Nature Conservancy, the Swiss Re ̤̤ Security ̤̤ Water Foundation is helping people on ̤̤ Prosperity ̤̤ Society Mexico’s Caribbean coast preserve ̤̤ Opportunity and restore their reef for generations to come. The Swiss Re Foundation Who we Where we support help in 2018 ̤̤ Social entrepreneurs ̤̤ In emerging and ̤̤ NGOs developing countries ̤̤ Academic institutions ̤̤ In regions where that help communities Swiss Re has offices We train locals to protect coral reefs with The Nature increase their resilience Conservancy page 4 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 71 Independent Assurance Report on the Swiss Re Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 ­ To the Executive Management of equivalent, FTE), Swiss Re Group” ̤̤ The framework document Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich (“Swiss Re”) on page 47, “Underlying “Environmental Performance We have been engaged to perform a environmental data, Swiss Re Indicators (EPI) Reporting at limited assurance engagement on the Group” on page 47 and “Indirect Swiss Re”, version 1.1 from consolidated CO2 emissions reporting emissions from purchased December 2015 including Annex; and Corporate Responsibility topics electricity, Swiss Re Group” on page and and sections disclosed with the 2018 47 in the CR Report 2018 covering ̤̤ The defined internal guidelines, Swiss Re Corporate Responsibility the reporting period from 1 October by which CR data and information Report (“CR Report 2018”) as well with 2017 to 30 September 2018; are internally gathered, collated the 2018 Swiss Re Financial Report. ̤̤ The retirement of 75 794 tonnes and aggregated. of CO2e (CO2 equivalents) described Scope and subject matter on page 50 of the CR Report 2018. Inherent limitations Our limited assurance engagement ̤̤ The consolidated data and information The accuracy and completeness of focused on the following data and disclosed in the Financial Report CR indicators are subject to inherent information disclosed in the CR Report 2018 in the “Climate-related limitations given their nature and 2018 and Financial Report 2018 of Financial Disclosures (TCFD)” on methods for determining, calculating Swiss Re and its consolidated page 174 and their sections and estimating such data. Our subsidiaries, for the financial year “Climate governance” on page 175, assurance report should therefore ended 31 December 2018: “Climate strategy” on pages 176– be read in connection with Swiss Re’s ̤̤ The management and reporting 181, “Climate risk management” on internal guidelines, definitions and processes with respect to the pages 182–183, “Climate metrics procedures on the reporting of its consolidated CR reporting as well and targets” on pages 184–189. CR performance. as the control environment in relation to the aggregation of data Criteria Swiss Re’s responsibility and information; The management reporting processes The Executive Management of ̤̤ The organizational measures and with respect to the corporate Swiss Re is responsible for both the internal key controls in place at the responsibility reporting 2018 were subject matter and the criteria as corporate level regarding aggregation assessed against the internal and well as for selection, preparation of information obtained from the external policies and procedures as set and presentation of the selected subsidiaries and reporting functions; forth in the following: information in accordance with the ̤̤ The consolidated data and ̤̤ “Internal Environmental criteria. This responsibility includes information disclosed in the Performance Indicators for the the design, implementation and CR Report 2018 in the sections Financial Industry” published by the maintenance of related internal control “Creating solutions for sustainability” Verein für Umweltmanagement in relevant to the calculation of the on pages 18–25, “Extending our risk Banken, Sparkassen und CR indicators that is free from material intelligence” on pages 26–33, Versicherungen e.V. (VfU) published misstatement, whether due to fraud “Being a responsible investor” on in 1997 and 2011; or error. pages 34–39, “Exploring and ̤̤ “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: shaping the risk landscape” on A Corporate Accounting and Our responsibility pages 40–45, “Reducing our Reporting Standard (Revised Our responsibility is to express a limited footprint” on pages 46–53, Edition) published in 2004 by assurance conclusion on the CR “Engaging our people” on pages the World Resources Institute and indicators based on the procedures 54–62 and “Compliance: Code of the World Business Council for we have performed and the evidence Conduct” on pages 66–68; Sustainable Development; we have obtained. We conducted ̤̤ The consolidated CO2 emissions ̤̤ DEFRA Guidelines to DEFRA/DECC’s our limited assurance engagement in 2018 (Scope 1, 2 and 3 in GHG Conversion Factors for Company accordance with the International adherence with the Greenhouse Reporting. AEA for the Department Standard on Assurance Engagements Gas Protocol) in the tables of the of Energy and Climate Change (DECC) 3000 (revised), “Assurance CR Report 2018 entitled “CO2 and the Department for Environment, Engagements other than Audits or emissions per employee (full-time Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA); 72 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ­ Reviews of Historical Financial Summary of work performed ̤̤ Review of the documentation Information”, and, in respect of Our assurance procedures included the Reviewing the relevant greenhouse gas emissions, with the following work: documentation on a sample basis, International Standard on Assurance ̤̤ Evaluation of the application of including Swiss Re’s CR-related Engagements 3410, “Assurance Swiss Re’s CR reporting policies, the management of Engagements on Greenhouse Gas guidelines reporting structures, the Statements”, issued by the International Assessing whether the methodology documentation and systems used to Auditing and Assurance Standards applied by Swiss Re is in line with collect, analyse and aggregate Board. These standards require that we the reporting criteria; reported CR data and information; plan and perform this engagement to ̤̤ Interviews and management ̤̤ Assessment of the processes obtain limited assurance about inquiry and data consolidation whether the identified CR indicators Evaluating the CR reporting and Reviewing the appropriateness of are free from material misstatement. underlying performance indicators the management and reporting by performing analytical procedures processes for CR reporting; and A limited assurance engagement and interviewing selected key assessing the processing and undertaken in accordance with ISAE contacts to assess whether the consolidation of data at Swiss Re’s 3000 (revised) and ISAE 3410 internal Environmental Performance Group level; and involves assessing the suitability in the Indicators Reporting guidelines and ̤̤ Review of verified emission circumstances of Swiss Re’s use of CR guidance were consistently reductions applicable criteria as the basis for the applied by the selected locations; Reviewing the retirement of 75 794 preparation of the CR data and Performing enquiries of personnel tonnes CO2e verified emission information, assessing the risks of responsible for internal CR reporting reductions (VER) according to the material misstatement of the CR data and data collection at the Swiss Re Gold Standard. and information whether due to fraud corporate level to evaluate the or error, responding to the assessed reporting and aggregation process We have not conducted any work on risks as necessary in the circumstances, and to assess its appropriateness; data other than outlined in the subject and evaluating the overall presentation ̤̤ Reconciliation of CO2 emissions matter as defined above. We believe of CR data and information. A limited data that the evidence we have obtained is assurance engagement is substantially Reconciling the CO2 emissions data sufficient and appropriate to provide less in scope than a reasonable for energy consumption, business a basis for our assurance conclusions. assurance engagement in relation to travel, copy paper, waste, water, both the risk assessment procedures, technical gases and commuting and Conclusion including an understanding of internal CR data and information to the data Based on our work described in this control, and the procedures performed used for the internal CR emissions report, nothing has come to our in response to the assessed risks. The reporting of the selected locations; attention that causes us to believe that procedures selected depend on the ̤̤ Assessment of the key figures the CR data and information outlined in assurance practitioner’s judgement. Performing tests on a sample basis the scope and subject matter section of evidence supporting selected has not been prepared, in all material Our Independence and Quality CR data and information (natural aspects, in accordance with Swiss Re’s Control catastrophes and climate change, internal policies and procedures. We have complied with the the commitment to the UN, independence and other ethical sensitive business transactions requirements of the Code of Ethics for referred to sustainability experts, Zurich, 14 March 2019 Professional Accountants issued by the responsible investments, energy International Ethics Standards Board consumption for heating and PricewaterhouseCoopers AG for Accountants, which is founded on electricity, business travel data, fundamental principles of integrity, sustainable supply chain data, objectivity, professional competence HR data and information, diversity and due care, confidentiality and and inclusion, development & Dr. Marc Schmidli Konstantin Meier professional behavior. training) to assess their completeness, accuracy, adequacy Our firm applies International Standard and consistency; on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 73 Memberships, commitments and index listings Listed here is a selection of Swiss Re’s most important memberships, commitments and index listings with regard to corporate responsibility. ­ Memberships and Clinton Global Initiative Klimastiftung Schweiz Established in 2005 by former (Swiss Climate Foundation) commitments US President Bill Clinton, the Clinton The Swiss Climate Foundation is a Global Initiative (CGI) convenes non-profit foundation that directly CDP global leaders to devise and implement champions the cause of climate CDP is an international, not-for-profit innovative solutions to some of the protection in Switzerland, helping to organisation providing the only global world’s most pressing challenges. fund small and medium enterprises system for companies and cities to www.clintonfoundation.org that are proactive in their approach to measure, disclose, manage and share reducing CO2 emissions. Swiss Re is vital environmental information. CDP FSB Task Force on Climate-related one of the foundation’s members and works with market forces to motivate Financial Disclosures is sponsoring its managing director. companies to disclose their impacts on The Financial Stability Board (FSB) www.swiss-climate-foundation.ch the environment and natural resources is an international body that monitors and take action to reduce them. and makes recommendations about Öbu (“Ecologically conscious www.cdp.net the global financial system. Its Task enterprises” network) Force on Climate-related Financial Öbu is a Swiss think tank for Chief Risk Officer Forum Disclosures (TCFD) has developed sustainability and management topics. The CRO Forum is a group of voluntary, consistent climate-related It carries out projects focusing on professional risk managers from the financial risk disclosures for use by corporate and economic policy, and insurance industry that focuses on companies in providing information promotes experience-sharing among developing and promoting industry to investors, lenders, insurers, and its members. best practices in risk management. other stakeholders. www.oebu.ch The Forum consists of Chief Risk www.fsb-tcfd.org Officers from large multinational Principles for Responsible insurance companies. Insurance Europe Investment (PRI) www.thecroforum.org Insurance Europe is the European The PRI is the world’s leading re/insurance federation. Through its 34 proponent of responsible investment. ClimateWise member bodies, the national insurance It works to understand the investment ClimateWise is the global insurance associations, Insurance Europe implications of environmental, social industry’s leadership group driving represents all types of insurance and and governance (ESG) factors and action on climate change risk. reinsurance undertakings, eg panto support its international network The group leverages the insurance European companies, monoliners, of investor signatories in integrating industry’s expertise to better mutuals and SMEs. these factors into their investment understand, communicate and www.insuranceeurope.eu and ownership decisions. act on climate risks. www.unpri.org www.cisl.cam.ac.uk International Risk Governance Council Principles for Sustainable Insurance IRGC is an independent organisation Launched at the 2012 UN Conference whose purpose is to help the on Sustainable Development, the understanding and management UNEP FI Principles for Sustainable of global risks that impact on human Insurance (PSI) serve as a global health and safety, the environment, framework for the insurance industry the economy and society at large. to address environmental, social and www.irgc.org governance risks and opportunities. www.unepfi.org/psi/ 74 Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ­ RE100 Selected index listings and ratings The Climate Group is partnering with CDP to encourage the world’s most MSCI AAA rating (May 2018) influential businesses to join RE100 and commit to going 100% renewable. The aim is for at least 100 companies to make a global 100% renewable commitment with a clear timeframe for reaching their goal. Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, Silver Class www.theRE100.org Swiss Sustainable Finance Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) strengthens the position of Switzerland Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index in the global marketplace for sustainable finance by informing, educating and catalysing growth. Currently SSF unites 90 members and network partners from financial service providers, investors, universities and business schools, public sector entities and other interested organisations. ECPI Indices www.sustainablefinance.ch The Geneva Association The Geneva Association is a leading inter­national insurance think tank for strategically important insurance and Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI), Excellence Global risk management issues. It identifies fundamental trends and strategic issues where insurance plays a substantial role or which influence the insurance sector. www.genevaassociation.org UNEP Finance Initiative UNEP FI is a global partnership between Euronext Vigeo index: World 120 UNEP and the financial sector. Over 190 institutions, including banks, insurers and fund managers, work with UNEP to understand the impacts of environmental and social considerations on financial performance. FTSE4Good Index Series www.unepfi.org ISS QualityScore, Enviromental & Social ISS-oekom, Prime investment status Swiss Re 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 75 Contact details Contact address Sustainability, Emerging and Political Risk Management Martin Weymann Telephone +41 43 285 9555 Martin_Weymann@swissre.com Printing: Multicolor Print AG, Baar © 2019 Swiss Re. All rights reserved. Title: 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Enabling sustainable progress Production: Group Qualitative Risk Management Group Communications Graphic design and production: Swiss Re Corporate Real Estate & Services/ Media Production, Zurich This report is printed on sustainably produced Photographs: paper. The wood used comes from forests Gettyimages (Cover & back cover) certified to 100% by the Forest Stewardship Braschler/Fischer (page 2) Council (FSC). Swiss Re (pages 6, 22, 24, 27, 35, 41) Istockphoto (pages 16, 19, 29, 32, 37, 41, Visit www.swissre.com to 49, 60) download or to order additional South Pole (page 51) copies of Swiss Re publications. © 2018 Stevie Awards, Inc. (page 57) Swiss Re / Stephan Birrer, Birrer Photography Order no: 1490937_19_EN (page 59) 03/19, 1500 en Swiss Re Ltd Mythenquai 50/60 P.O. Box 8022 Zurich Switzerland Telephone +41 43 285 2121 Fax +41 43 285 2999 www.swissre.com
