May 2019 UN Global compact COP Statement by the CEO Nordic Waterproofing is one of Europe's leading suppliers of membranes for roofing and environmental buildings and we develop solutions for public and commercial buildings and constructions. I am pleased to confirm that Nordic Waterproofing supports of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environment protection and anti-corruption. Our sustainability program is based on the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We have identified our prioritized sustainability issues and follow our performance on these issues on a yearly basis. Our Communication on Progress describes our actions to continually anchor and integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy and daily operations. We are committed to share this information with our customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders mainly through our individual company brands. Martin Ellis Nordic Waterproofing Group, CEO NORDIC WATERPROOFING HOLDING A /S, CVR NO: 33395361 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Sustainable waterproofing and building solutions We make waterproofing easy CONTENTS Statement by the President and CEO .................... 2 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW .............................. 4–61 SUSTAINABLE WATERPROOFING 2018 in brief .......................................................... 4 Multi-year overview.............................................. 5 AND BUILDING SOLUTIONS Strategy and operations ................................. 6–27 Driving forces in the waterproofing and Construction market ......................................... 8 The market: increasing demand for systems and related services ......................... 10 Nordic Waterproofing is one of the leading providers in the Business concept, vision and targets ............ 14 waterproofing market in northern Europe. The Group develops, Strategy: increased focus on sustainable manufactures and distributes a full range of products and building solutions............................................ 16 Customer and sustainability focus drive solutions for the protection of buildings and infrastructure. our business model ........................................ 20 Ease of installation, energy and environmental optimization Operating segment: Products & Solutions..... 22 are key components of the offer. Operating segment: Installation Services ...... 26 Results and prospects .................................. 28–33 The Group in brief ........................................... 30 Financial review .............................................. 31 Environmental, Social and Governance ....... 34–61 2011 Sustainable enterprise ................................... 36 Manufacturing and environment .................... 40 FOUNDED Social enterprise ............................................ 42 IN Corporate governance .................................... 44 2016 Risks and risk management ........................... 55 The share and ownership information ........... 58 LISTED ON NASDAQ FINANCIAL INFORMATION .......................... 62–98 STOCKHOLM, MID CAP Statements and reports .................................... 99 Statement by the Executive Management and the Board of Directors ........................... 100 NUMBER OF OPERATIONS IN Independent Auditor’s Report....................... 101 Financial definitions...................................... 104 Glossary ........................................................ 104 EMPLOYEES 1,033 10 COUNTRIES Shareholders’ information ............................ 105 SALES IN 2018 (SEK M) 2,680 NORDIC WATER PROOF ING HOLDIN In 2018, Nordic Waterproofing acquired G A /S, CVR NO: 333953 61 ANNUA L REPOR T 2018 the company Veg Tech, whose products provide further advantages to a group Sustainable wa terp that is already the leader in waterproofand building soroofing lutions ing membranes. Among their advantages, sedum coverings slow the progress of surface water and improve energy efficiency and air quality. Other benefits are that sedum roofs also aid biodiversity and add herbaceous details to the urban environment. Customers are predominantly construction companies and municipalities seeking holistic green solutions that are easy to install and offer a clear sustainability profile. Other important target groups are architects, technical consultants and For environmental reasons, Nordic Waterproofing other specialists, serving as advisers to companies and municipalities. We make wate rproofing does not print the 2018 Annual Report. easy Contents NORDIC WATERPROOFING IN BRIEF A BROAD PORTFOLIO OF PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS Nordic Waterproofing operates in close proximity to its customers, providing high-quality, innovative sealing products and services through local companies with strong brands. PRODUCTS & SOLUTIONS INSTALLATION SERVICES 72% of net sales for 2018* 28% of net sales for 2018* LA-KATTOHUOLTO .FI * Excluding intra-Group sales. NORDIC WATERPROOFING AS AN INVESTMENT • We are a market-leading supplier with strong brands in waterproofing and effective solutions in prefabricated elements, installation and maintenance services. Read more about our market positions on pages 10–13. • We apply efficient production processes, maintaining a high and even level of quality. Read more about our strategies on pages 16–19. • We have strong and stable cash flow with good dividend capacity. Read more about our dividend policy on page 60 and comments on the cash flow statement on pages 32–33. • The number of full-time employees averages 1,033. The Group’s management team has long and solid experience of the sector from both international and local operations. Together we have developed Nordic Waterproofing into a leading player in the waterproofing market with supporting solutions. Read the presentation of Group Management on pages 52–53. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 1 Contents STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT AND CEO SUSTAINABLE GROWTH I am pleased to report our best year ever with continued strong sales growth and record profitability. In addition, and in accordance with our strategy, we were able to make three acquisitions in 2018 which are performing successfully. 2018 IN NUMBERS ACQUISITIONS GEARED TOWARDS BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Consolidated net sales for full-year 2018 SUSTAINABILTY 2018 was charachterized by a stable demand amounted to SEK 2,680 m, an increase of All our acquisitions in 2018 – Ugilt, RVT and situation from our key customer segments. 23 percent, and EBITDA before items Veg Tech – demonstrate our fundamental Price increases in key raw materials affecting comparability rose by 16 percent to commitment to environmentally efficient continued over the year and we had to adjust SEK 286 m. Earnings per share for full-year building solutions. Ugilt and RVT both offer our sales prices for bitumen based products. 2018 were SEK 6.30 (5.71). The operating wood based prefabricated element solutions The second price increase took place after cash flow of SEK 192 m (164) was the result that contribute significantly to reducing the summer, with the initial effect becoming of increased earnings. The Board of greenhouse gas emissions by binding CO2, apparent in the fourth quarter. Directors accordingly proposes a dividend of and increase on site construction efficiency We can expect continued volatility in SEK 4.00 per share (3.75). thus reducing the environmental footprint. bitumen prices, mainly as a result of Veg Tech produces and installs green political measures affecting oil prices. infrastructure solutions thus helping to In the Products & Solutions segment, ” mitigate the climatic effects of global Sweden, Norway and Denmark showed WE CONTINUOUSLY LOOK FOR warming. All of the acquired operations strong development and were affected have developed well in 2018 and thus favourably by the mild weather. OPPORTUNITIES TO FURTHER contribute to our Group’s success. In the Installation Services segment, our ENHANCE OUR PORTFOLIO WITH In early 2019 we acquired Distri Pond, a Finnish flat roofing operation showed ENERGY EFFICIENT AND Belgian specialist supplier of ponds and improved profitability due to a targeted green infrastructure. program launched in late 2017. Our Danish SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS FOR franchise companies continued to develop THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY” well. IMPORTANT EVENTS 2018 MARCH 1 Acqusition of Ringsaker APRIL 20 Veggog Takelementer AS, MARCH 28 Annual General a leading prefabricated Notice of Annual ­General Meeting of Nordic MAY 3 wood element façade Meeting of Nordic WaterWaterproofing Interim Report, ­producer in Norway proofing Holding A/S Holding A/S January–March 2018 2018 Q1 Q2 FEBRUARY 8 Year-end report, ­ MARCH 21 APRIL 19 January–December 2017 The Nomination C ­ ommittee’s Agreement to acquire Veg Tech, a leading Proposals for election of new supplier of green roofs and multifunctional Board members vegetation systems in the North 2 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT AND CEO ” 2018 WAS OUR BEST YEAR EVER, WITH SALES GROWTH OF 23% FOLLOWING A 21% INCREASE IN 2017, AND RECORD FINANCIAL RESULT” In prefabricated elements, RVT’s operations initiatives. We adhere to the Global CONCLUSION in Norway developed favourably with very Compact’s principles and have won 2018 was our best year ever, with sales strong order intake, while we have been recognition as a quality employer. growth of 23 percent following a 21 percent negatively affected by delays among increase in 2017, and record financial Taasinge’s Danish customers. Although 2019 AND BEYOND results. This has been achieved thanks to outbound deliveries and production We continue to focus on organic growth, the commitment, creativity and enthusiasm efficiency increased towards the end of 2018, profitability and selective acquisitions. of all our colleagues here at Nordic we still face challenges in fully adapting our Organic growth is expected to derive Waterproofing, and the continued trust production planning to this situation. primarily from the development of our latest and loyalty of all of our customers. I want acquisitions, leveraging our platforms for to thank all my colleagues for their ESG AND SUSTAINABILITY prefabricated elements, Taasinge Group, ­contribution, and all of our customers for Starting from a strong base, we are working and for green infrastructure, Veg Tech and their support. towards achieving ESG excellence both in Distri Pond. our legacy operations and through our Our selective acquisition strategy will aforementioned acquisition strategy. continue to focus on small and mediMartin Ellis We at Nordic Waterproofing have the um-sized companies offering good President and CEO of ambition to contribute significantly towards synergistic potential with our existing Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S making buildings and infrastructures, as operations. Portfolio extension, exposure to well as the construction process itself, megatrends and downstream integration sustainable and climate efficient. remain the key drivers. We take responsibility in our local communities through a large number of APRIL 1 The Board of Directors proposes that the Annual JULY 5 SEPTEMBER 12 General Meeting on The acquisition Nordic Waterproofing A/S receives NOVEMBER 1 24 April 2019 resolve to of Veg Tech AB decision from the Danish Competition Interim Report, pay out a cash dividend of is completed Appeals Board January–September 2018 SEK 4.00 (3.75) per share Q3 Q4 2019 AUGUST 16 OCTOBER 3 DECEMBER FEBRUARY 12 Interim Report, Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S’s The board of directors resolves Year-end report, January–June 2018 nomination committee appointed to initiate a share buyback January–December 2018 ­program to secure the Company’s incentive program 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 3 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW 2018 IN BRIEF NET SALES SEK million +23% Nordic Waterproofing continued to perform well 2,800 and 2018 was the best year ever. Net sales rose by 23 percent to SEK 2,680 m (2,187). 2,400 2,000 1,600 1,200 800 400 +8% Operating profit (EBIT) before items affecting 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 comparability for the full-year 2018 rose by 8 percent (-7) to SEK 224 m (208). Operating margin before items affecting comparability decreased to 8.4 percent (9.5). EBIT BEFORE ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY AND EBIT MARGIN SEK million % 250 15 200 12 +3% Organic growth was 3 percent (5) for 2018. 150 9 100 6 50 3 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Operating margin (EBIT), % +10% Earnings per share for the full-year 2018 were EARNINGS PER SHARE SEK 6.30 (5.71), an increase of 10 percent (-12). SEK 8.00 6.00 4.00 SEK 4.00 The Board of Directors will propose that the Annual General Meeting on 24 April 2019 2.00 resolve to pay out a cash dividend of SEK 4.00 (3.75) per share, totalling SEK 96 m (90). This corresponds to about 64 percent of net profit. 0.00 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 4 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW MULTI-YEAR OVERVIEW CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REVIEW Shown over a seven-year period, the development of the Group is described by the following financial highlights SEK m unless otherwise stated 2018 Change 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Profit/loss Net sales 2,680 23% 2,187 1,813 1,720 1,679 1,668 1,672 EBITDA 274 17% 234 231 165 143 141 97 EBITDA before items affecting comparability 286 16% 248 248 204 187 161 130 Operating profit (EBIT) 212 10% 194 206 143 122 122 77 Operating profit (EBIT) before items affecting comparabilty 224 8% 208 224 182 165 142 110 Net financial items –22 10% –20 –13 –27 –25 –30 –37 Profit/loss for the year before tax 190 9% 174 193 116 96 92 40 Tax on profit/loss for the year –39 5% –37 –37 –34 –19 –21 –13 Net profit/loss for the year 152 10% 138 156 82 77 71 27 Earnings per share, SEK/share 6.30 10% 5.71 6.49 3.40 3.19 2.95 1.13 Balance sheet Total assets 2,127 21% 1,756 1,568 1,345 1,345 1,238 1,220 Net investments in property, plant and equipment 36 80% 20 10 27 15 24 19 Capital employed 1,653 21% 1,370 1,317 1,071 1,083 1,021 975 Capital employed excluding goodwill 774 22% 637 701 472 469 431 393 Equity 1,106 10% 1,010 964 748 683 596 524 Net interest-bearing debt 442 117% 204 25 141 259 361 404 Cash flows – from operating activites 185 47% 126 128 153 158 85 60 – from investing activities –311 96% –159 –19 –29 –20 –16 –73 – from financing activities 73 n/a –140 31 –75 –61 –51 16 Total cash flow for the period –53 –69% –173 140 49 78 18 2 Operating cash flow 192 17% 164 211 197 189 133 106 Ratios EBITDA margin before items affecting comparability 10.7% –0.6pp 11.3% 13.7% 11.9% 11.1% 9.6% 7.8% EBIT margin before items affecting comparability 8.4% –1.1pp 9.5% 12.3% 10.6% 9.9% 8.5% 6.6% Operating cash conversion 67% 1pp 66% 85% 97% 101% 83% 82% Net debt/EBITDA before items 1.5x 0.7x 0.8x 0.1x 0.7x 1.4x 2.2x 3.1x affecting comparability, multiple Net debt/equity ratio, multiple 0.4x 0.2x 0.2x 0.0x 0.2x 0.4x 0.6x 0.8x Solvency: equity/assets ratio 52% –5pp 57% 61% 56% 51% 48% 43% Return on shareholders’ equity 14.5% 0.6pp 13.9% 18.2% 11.4% 12.1% 12.7% 5.6% Return on capital employed 14.0% –0.4pp 14.4% 17.3% 13.2% 11.5% 12.2% 8.0% Return on capital employed before items affecting comparability 14.8% -0.7pp 15.5% 18.7% 16.9% 15.7% 14.2% 11.5% Return on capital employed before tems affecting comparability excluding goodwill 31.7% 0.7pp 31.0% 38.1% 38.7% 36.8% 34.4% 28.4% Number of employees, FTE 1,033 24.% 830 630 634 644 635 634 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 5 Contents Morphing roof of the Amos Rex museum in Helsinki. KerabitPro and and the client, Fastighets Ab Glaspalatset i Helsingfors, have built an exciting roof in the Finnish capital. The roof of the Amos Rex art museum was made into a yard cover with a folded structure. The work included tilt casting, waterproofing, thermal insulation work, protective castings and surface rendering on foam glass. Contents STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS Nordic Waterproofing’s strategic focus is to generate value for its customers, prioritizing strong relationships at all stages, all the way to the end users. The Group’s companies hold a favourable position in a market in which quality and sustainability are crucial factors in generating profitability and driving development opportunities. We continue our focus on organic growth, profitability and selective acquisitions. Organic growth will come from the development of our recent acquisitions, building on our new platforms in prefabricated elements and green roofs and surfaces. Regarding acquisitions, we maintain our focused and selective approach on small to medium sized companies presenting good synergistic potential with our existing businesses, in order to: • enhance our product and service offering • benefit from mega trends in the construction industry, and • forward integrate. Contents Strategy and operations | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW DRIVING FORCES IN THE WATER­PROOFING AND CONSTRUCTION MARKET Nordic Waterproofing’s ability to grow and create value in its home markets is affected by a number of external factors and drivers. Some of these variables – macroeconomic as 1 well as more sector-specific – are presented below. DEMOGRAPHICS AND ECONOMICS GDP TREND AND POLITICAL FACTORS MAINTENANCE AND RENOVATION URBANIZATION In general, the development of the waterRenovation of waterproofing is less Increasing urbanization is leading to a proofing market follows the overall national dependent on the business cycle and is housing shortage in major cities. Most of the GDP trend, as well as the broader construcnormally not affected by a recession. Nordic capitals remain among the top-ten tion market. Strong GDP growth favours the Neglected maintenance, especially of fastest-growing cities in Europe, leading to broad construction industry with more waterproofing, leads to costly consequences higher demand for construction projects in construction starts and higher volumes, which constitutes a key driver to ensuring these regions. In the Nordic countries, the weaker periods mean greater focus on frequent monitoring and maintenance. In the public sector accounts for a significant share maintenance and repairs. In periods of lower long term, increased building stocks lead to of construction investment, contributing to activity, it has been common for governa growing market. steadier demand even during periods of ments to initiate construction and civil The sustainability perspective contributes recession. engineering projects to stimulate the to increasing demand for good quality in economy. Greater uncertainty in the roofing products and preventive activities, geopolitical situation may lead to a changed such as annual controls and more frequent 2 view on state aid and funding, postponement maintenance of roofs and façades. and delays, as well as changes in strategies. SUSTAINABILITY AND RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT provide increased ratios of health and TAKING RESPONSIBILITY As cities become larger and denser, the wellness, while biodiversity and green Issues of responsibility, environmental importance of sustainable construction and infrastructure grant the general public impact, business ethics and control of both infrastructure systems increases. To meet access to new and larger parts of the urban the internal organization and the external the challenges of the future, housing and environment. supply chain are becoming increasingly work environments are needed that have a important and are a decisive factor in how minimal environmental impact and COMPETITION FOR SKILLS different stakeholders assess the business. maximum resistance to climate change. The Being able to attract and retain well-trained, focus is on reducing the climate footprint, skilled employees is crucial to competitiveindustrial symbiosis (reuse of materials) and ness in many industries, including the energy-efficient and renewable materials. construction industry. Having employees Green roofs, living walls and parklands with broad experience and of different – also known as ecosystems in urban backgrounds generates the conditions for environments – are all vital parts in cities new insights and methods to emerge, as that are welcoming to all people and well as strong customer relationships. animals. Well-functioning ecosystems 8 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Strategy and operations Photo: Ken Stuen RAPID STAGES IN DIGITALIZATION PROCESS STUDENTS FROM NTNU TO RAISE THE PACE AT RVT Even before finishing their training in engineering at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Julie Olasveen and Rawand Mohamed had secured employment at RVT. In their studies, they focused on digitalization in the construction industry, which helps RVT meet its promise that “customers can expect creative processes, creating beneficial element solutions for each individual project.” 3 Julie Olasveen and Rawand Mohamed are two young engineering engineers assisting RVT with Together with several fellow students, digitalization in prefabricated wooden elements. Julie and Rawand contacted RVT to obtain data for their essays on the principal theme of further developing a new type of composite “stender”, that is, the wooden parts of the wall elements that RVT manufactures. They continued TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT by working in groups, with Rawand writing his essay on construction physics DIGITALIZATION Other benefits of modular construction and Julie writing hers focusing on The construction industry has begun a include: calculating the strength of “stender”. significant and necessary digitalization • When building in a factory, waste is Their papers were awarded the highest process, which will last for several years. reduced by efficient logistics and by grade. This digitalization will affect all aspects of recycling materials, controlling inventory During the work on the essays, RVT the value chain, from purchasing, design and and protecting building materials and considered what the next step in the manufacturing to how the products are equipment. In addition, this allows using collaboration should be. Recruiting marketed and the development of new dry materials, the potential for high students was new for RVT, and therefore construction and maintenance services. This levels of moisture being trapped in the a bit of a gamble, but also an entirely means shorter lead times, less inventory new construction is eliminated. Indoor deliberate effort to bring in new skills and lower costs, as well as an increased working conditions are also increasingly that could contribute to new projects, need for skills development among favoured by construction workers. knowledge on digitalization and the employees, designers and customers. courage to adopt new approaches. • Most of the construction is carried out indoors, which mitigates the risk of Another aspect to this involved encouragPREFABRICATION ing more women to realize the opportuweather delays. Buildings are occupied Building elements, such as prefabricated nities open to them in the construction sooner, creating a faster return on roof and façade elements based on wooden industry and at RVT. investment. frame constructions are built with the same “We wanted to study and work with materials and to the same building codes • Safer construction as the indoor something that is sustainable in the long and architectural specifications as traditionenvironment reduces the risks of term,” explains Rawand. “I am now al construction. Once assembled, they are accidents and related liabilities for writing my master’s thesis on the topic of virtually indistinguishable from their workers. digital construction processes, which is site-built counterparts. an aspect of increasing importance in the In establishing efficient, profitable Prefabrication of building elements relies on prefab industry. The transition from 2D construction processes, there is a growing advanced Building Information Modeling modelling (paper and pen) to 3D need for prefabrication and information (“BIM”) for visualization, to assess the modelling (BIM and AutoCAD) is still in sharing for all parties involved in a project. energy performance and identify the most its early stages, so it’s very exciting for us Prefabrication (prefab) is an important cost-effective efficiency measures. to be involved in contributing to this component in a more efficient supply chain Prefabrication is ideal for digitalization, development.” and in the effort to reduce construction costs systematizing the construction process, “For me, this was one of the most and shorten lead times. Underlying this materials and human resources and attractive aspects about RVT,” Julie development are factors such as increasing facilitating the use of robots. concludes. “There is a willingness to demands for quality at all stages, and on learn about how new approaches can system and concept solutions where simplify various parts of the construction technically more advanced manufacturing process, and, as students, I think we can cannot be performed at construction sites, help hasten the transition.” as well as increased standardization. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 9 Contents Strategy and operations | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW THE MARKET: INCREASING DEMAND FOR SYSTEMS AND RELATED SERVICES Nordic Waterproofing operates primarily in the waterproofing market, a sub-market within the broader construction market. The value of the total waterproofing market for buildings in the Nordic region is estimated to amount to approximately SEK 15 billion. The value of the European market for EPDM products is estimated at about SEK 1.5 billion. The waterproofing market comprises both manufacturers to have reliable and efficient products and services for protecting homes, logistic solutions). commercial properties and other facilities Production processes in the industry against water and wind. involve a high level of automation, reducing In the Group’s main markets – the Nordic competition from countries able to take countries of Sweden, Denmark, Finland and advantage of low-cost labour. The various Norway – Nordic Waterproofing provides waterproofing markets are characterized by waterproofing products and solutions. The differences in construction regulations and primary product offered is roofing felt, and traditions. the principal material is bitumen. AcquisiThe market for prefabricated elements is tions have complemented the Group’s in an early phase of growth. Demand for offering with prefabricated elements for larger elements such as walls, roofs and floors, walls and roofs. Following the façades is increasing due to stricter quality acquisition of Veg Tech, the Group is also requirements, increased opportunities for offering a broad assortment of green roofs automation and coordination of various and vegetation technology. In Finland the logistics streams. Ultimately, prefabrication Group also provides proprietary installation can also offer improved finances in solutions market segment can be further services for roofing and floor coating. individual projects, involving both residential broken down into: The Group offers different types of rubber and commercial properties. In a construc• Roofing products, including products for membranes made of the synthetic rubber tion market with declining volumes, flat and pitched roofs made primarily of material EPDM trought its sales organizaconstruction companies can choose to bitumen roofing felt, PVC, EPDM (rubber tion in Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland, increase the degree of site-based core units membranes) and TPO (thermoplastic Sweden, the United Kingdom. and walls, which may affect demand for olefin, a synthetic plastic material) and simpler prefab products. products for roofing accessories, such as FOCUS ON SYSTEM SOLUTIONS FOR fastening devices. OPTIMIZED BUILDING TWO BUSINESS SEGMENTS The waterproofing market is consolidated, Nordic Waterproofing’s operations are struc• Building products, including various and the market shares tend to remain stable tured in two operating segments: Products types of membranes for buildings, such over time. The industry requires local & Solutions, and Installation Services. as moisture, wind and vapour underlay production, since transportation costs barriers made of bitumen and EPDM. account for a considerable proportion of the Products & Solutions • Prefabricated elements include total costs (high weight in proportion to the The total value of the Nordic products and prefabricated construction components value of the product) and since customers solutions market is estimated at approxisuch as façade elements, floor elements, expect short delivery times (requiring mately SEK 5 billion. The products and walls and sandwich wall elements. 10 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Strategy and operations Flat roof houses are an important category of customers for Nordic Waterproofing. Nordic Waterproofing will install a total 700 square metres of sedum roofing on the Central Park properties in Lund. The work is scheduled to be fully complete in the spring of 2019. Production is conducted indoors in a CONSTRUCTION MARKET waterproofing membranes. A market with a controlled environment, which is a Construction of housing and domestic greater element of industrial and commerprecondition for being able to maintain a structures, including outbuildings and cial buildings with flat roofs generates high and even level of quality and to meet garages, predominantly flat-roofed buildings, greater demand for Nordic Waterproofing’s increasing requirements regarding represents an important customer category products and services than a market in improved working environment and more for Nordic Waterproofing. Over the past five which single-family homes and smaller advanced technology. years, the Nordic market has grown by about buildings dominate. Demand is generally 20 percent, although production is believed stable in the Group’s markets. Installation Services to have peaked in 2018 or 2019. The Installation Services segment includes Stable renovation market installations of waterproofing products, as Roofing market Renovation is less affected by the general well as maintenance services. The total The Nordic roofing market is developing in economic cycle. Renovation is estimated to value of the Nordic installation services line with the general construction market, account for almost 60 percent of the Nordic market is estimated at approximately SEK 10 with lower variation between different construction market and new-build for billion, corresponding to approximately stages of the economic cycle due to a slightly more than 40 percent. The Nordic 70 percent of the total waterproofing market greater element of renovation and mainterenovation market did not decrease during in the Nordic region. nance assignments involving installation of the 2007-2009 economic recession, while 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 11 Contents Strategy and operations | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW the new-build market declined by Digital channels in streamlining design processes. Although 27 p ­ ercent. Accordingly, exposure to the Developments in digital construction this technology is primarily used in the renovation market would appear to strengthmethods and sales efforts in the construcprefab segment, Nordic Waterproofing has, en the Group’s operations. tion industry are increasing in importance. during the year, invested in development and The renovation market is driven by: Clearest is the development within the marketing to increase knowledge of • Composition and age of property stocks. Group’s prefab operations where customers waterproofing membranes and their various largely apply a continuous information flow properties, so that designers, architects and • Renovating buildings is usually cheaper for design drawings, assembly instructions others who select materials can choose the than building new ones. In addition, and material specifications. In addition, optimal material and solution for the inadequate maintenance could incur production is increasingly performed by specific project. considerable costs due to water damage, robots. Nordic Waterproofing is also meeting the for example, making renovation decisions Building Information Models, or BIM, is a industry’s increased expectations in terms of crucial. As a result, the renovation digital channel of considerable importance a digital presence. Here, digital sales market is relatively stable and less cyclical compared with new production. The Group’s markets can also be broken down by type of building, such as residential and commercial properties. It is estimated that around 70 percent of the value of the total waterproofing market in the Nordic region is attributable to commercial properties and other facilities (bridges for example). The higher proportion of commercial properties is attributable to these more frequently having flat roofs compared with residential properties. VALUE-GENERATING SERVICES To an increasing extent, customers, both professionals and private individuals, demand customized solutions combining broad and deep product ranges with expertise on materials, service, advice/ training and specialist skills. Nordic Waterproofing has for some time invested in training of roofing contractors and other professionals, as well as representatives of building merchants. In addition to training and inspiration initiatives, the Group is expanding its value-generating services to be able to advise building merchants on matters such as permits, supervision and inventory optimization. Private individuals are increasingly aware of the benefits of annual roof checks, roof clearance, gutter clearance and receiving advice on investments and supplier contacts. Logistics Good availability is a decisive competitive factor and Nordic Waterproofing meets these requirements through an efficient logistics network, with fast deliveries and highly reliable deliveries. Superior precision of delivery, with the right product being delivered to the right destination on time, reduces disruption to the customer’s production processes. Such processes are often business-critical, and delays can cause considerable extra expense. 12 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Strategy and operations channels are considered an important and this will be extended to offer more complement to the construction industry or videos that are adapted for smartphones and Effective from 2021, all new buildings in roofing contractors. other devices used on a building site. The the European Union are to be virtually Being able to offer different customer training material covers detailed information zero-energy buildings*. The purpose of categories multiple contact paths, including of the products, as well as recommended the “Energy Performance of Buildings digital sales channels, e-commerce, apps, methods to install waterproofing products Directive”, issued in May 2010, is to information through proprietary and and for maintenance of roofs and other parts ensure, by means of strict energy third-party websites, trade fairs, physical of a building. requirements, that affected companies stores and personal meetings, customers have time to adjust, while advancing are offered greater opportunities to choose development towards more energythe channel best suited to their needs. efficient construction in Europe. For The Group has extensive experience from certain public buildings, the requireeducational material for roofing contractors ments will apply effective from 2019. The Swedish regulations came into effect in April 2017 and impose demands on a building’s energy performance, defined as the amount of purchased energy used for heating, air conditionSedum is a durable plant blend for low-incline roofs and is decorative while offering a number of ing, piped hot water and property environmental benefits. At the same time, good preparation with a high-quality sealing membrane is required to guarantee the roof’s protective function. Nordic Waterproofing offers a range of products for maintenance operations. According to green roofs. the Planning and Building Regulations, a building shall have “a very high level of energy performance”, “particularly good properties in its use of electricity resources” and “a climate screen that allows only a small amount of heat to pass through”. Nordic Waterproofing assesses the EU directive would increase the demand for high-performing waterproofing products and supplementing services for installation. The Group companies producing prefabricated elements have developed concepts offering cost-effective solutions for changing or supplementing existing facades and roofs with highly-insulated alternatives. Taasinge Elements performs energy upgrades of buildings constructed in the 1960s and 1970s by mounting facade elements with superior insulation functions, reducing energy consumption and increasing the level of comfort in the indoor climate. The roof is usually the part of a structure through which most energy is lost if there is no insulation or if the insulation is inadequate. Exchanging such parts to highly-insulating prefabricated elements is a quick and efficient way of reducing energy consumption. Facade elements are adapted to customers’ requirements regarding energy classification and visual impression. The prefabricated elements can be supplied with pre-assembled windows and other additions, in accordance with the wishes of the client. * Nearly zero-energy building as defined in Article 2(2) in the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive as: “nearly zero-energy building’ means a building that has a very high energy performance, as determined in accordance with Annex I. The nearly zero or very low amount of energy required should be covered to a very significant extent by energy from renewable sources, including energy from renewable sources produced on-site or nearby.” 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 13 Contents Strategy and operations | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW OUR VISION Make waterproofing so easy that every structure and BUSINESS building in the world is protected, enabling everyone to live and work in healthy, good atmosphere environments. CONCEPT, OUR MISSION We make waterproofing easy VISION AND Protecting people and what’s important to them by creating reliable waterproofing solutions for buildings and infrastructure. TARGETS OUR VALUES Enthusiasm We show enthusiasm for what we do, always. Whenever we take on a responsibility, we make sure we follow it BUSINESS CONCEPT through with the highest quality possible, and with Nordic Waterproofing develops, manufactures and accuracy to the last detail. We show pride in our distributes innovative products and solutions for individual responsibilities and never move on until we ­waterproofing, protecting and preserving buildings can look at our customer, fellow colleagues or a newly and other structures. developed product and say: “it cannot be done better than this”. We reward passion and enthusiasm, enabling • Our products and solutions are supplied with the people to grow within the company. highest level of service and are characterized by the best available quality, extremely long ­durability, Reliability adaptation to local conditions, smart logistics, Our customers trust us as a partner, as well as the ease of installation, energy and environmental products and solutions we offer. We care for that trust optimization. and do everything we can to maintain it. We nurture this by taking responsibility for ensuring that our product • Good customer service is based on our employees’ development, services and customer relations are responsiveness and ability to understand and characterized by first class reliability. anticipate our customers’ needs. Efficiency We are a large organization, with a well-developed, flexible and efficient logistics system. We also retain the characteristics of a small company. This is because we have created, and actively maintain, a simple structure, within which we operate. For the benefit of our customers, we cultivate a highly decentralized corporate culture geared toward efficiency and strategic targets. We trust our people’s own professional judgement and promote quick decision making to help our customers, and their often challenging, time schedules. OUR TARGETS With a set of well-defined financial and strategic targets, Nordic Waterproofing seeks to demonstrate how the Group ​generates value ​for its various stakeholders over time. These targets are well-supported and integrated into the business units of the decentralized organization. The following targets are linked to the Group’s ­strategies: 14 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Strategy and operations FINANCIAL TARGETS OUTCOME 2018 SALES GROWTH Consolidated net sales increased by 23 percent to SEK 2,680 m (2,187), +23% Nordic Waterproofing’s goal is to exceed the growth experienced in the Group’s current of which organic growth amounted to markets through organic growth. In addition, 3 percent. the Group expects to grow through selective acquisitions. PROFITABILITY >15 % % Return on capital employed for 2018 Nordic Waterproofing’s goal is to generate 20 18.7 amounted to 14.8 (15.5) percent, while 16.9 a return on capital employed (ROCE) before 15.7 15.5 14.8 the EBIT margin before items affecting 15 Target >15 % items affecting comparability exceeding comparability was 8.4 percent (9.5). 15 percent. 10 5 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 At the end of 2018, indebtedness, CAPITAL STRUCTURE <2.5 x x 2,5 Target <2,5 x calculated as interest-bearing net Net debt in relation to EBITDA before items 2,0 debt/EBITDA before items affecting affecting comparability (R12M basis), 1.5 comparability over the past 12-month excluding temporary deviations, shall not 1,5 period, was a multiple of 1.5 (0.8) and exceed a multiple of 2.5. 1,0 0.8 net debt/equity was a multiple of 0,5 0.4 (0.2). 0.1 0,0 2016 2017 2018 DIVIDEND POLICY >50 % SEK % The Board of Directors will propose 4.00 100 that the Annual General Meeting on Nordic Waterproofing aims to pay an annual dividend exceeding 50 percent of its 24 April 2019 resolve to pay out a cash 3.00 75 net profit. The proposed dividend will be dividend of SEK 4.00 (3.75) per share, based on the Group’s financial position, 2.00 50 Target >50% totalling SEK 96 m. This corresponds investment needs, liquidity position, as well = The Board of Directror’s to about 64 percent of net profit. 1.00 25 proposal as general economic and business = dividend conditions. 0.00 2016 2017 2018 0 = % of net profit STRATEGIC TARGETS In addition, a set of well-defined financial • Benefit from mega trends in the By widening and enhancing our products and operational targets, Nordic Waterproofconstruction industry: sustainable and services with new product categories, ing seeks to generate value for its various building solutions, energy efficiency, we foresee that the Group will increasingly stakeholders over time through the following renewable energy sources, and site become a one stop shop opportunity for strategic targets: efficiency through increased exposure customers seeking comprehensive solutions • Enhance our product and service offering to prefabrication. for building and infrastructure protection. for our existing customers. • Forward integration to increase exposure We intend to maintain our focus on small to end customers. to medium sized companies presenting good • Apply geographic leverage to newly synergistic potential with our existing acquired product and service categories. businesses. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 15 Contents Strategy and operations | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW STRATEGY: INCREASED FOCUS ON SUSTAINABLE BUILDING SOLUTIONS Based on our fundamental interest in sustainability, we have built up a ­market leading assortment of products developed for the building envelope and solid skills in manufacturing and installation. SOLID POSITION IN OUR LEGACY BUSINESS STRENGTHS High-quality waterproofing is crucial • Building products, including various We consider the following market characterFlawless waterproofing is key for a safe and types of membranes for buildings, such istics to be favourable. sustainable building, and failure in choice of as moisture, wind and vapour underlay material, quality and installation could have barriers made of bitumen and EPDM. Mature and consolidated industry far-reaching consequences. Waterproofing Through acquisitions completed in 2017, The waterproofing market is consolidated, products and solutions are crucial to the Nordic Waterproofing also offers prefabriand the market shares tend to remain stable construction process and account for a cated components for floors, walls and over time. The industry requires local small fraction of the total construction cost. ceilings. production, since transportation costs Thus, construction companies are sourcing In 2018, the prefab operations of Ugilt in account for a considerable proportion of the the roofing from qualified installers who Denmark and the Norway’s leading total costs (high weight in proportion to the have the necessary understanding of the prefabricated wood element façade value of the product) and since customers best material for the building or structure. producer, RVT, were acquired, as well as Veg expect short delivery times (requiring Tech, the leading company within vegetation manufacturers to have reliable and efficient Stable demand for bitumen products technology in the Nordics. logistic solutions). We have noted a continued preference for Production processes in the industry bitumen as the most suitable waterproofing Installation Services involve a high level of automation, reducing material. The installation services market segment competition from countries able to take Accordingly, bitumen remains the includes installations of waterproofing advantage of low-cost labour. The various primary choice of material in Nordic products, as well as maintenance services. waterproofing markets are characterized by Waterproofing’s markets. differences in construction regulations and STABLE RENOVATION MARKET OFFSETS traditions. CONTINUED STRONG MARKET SHARE POSSIBLE DECLINE The waterproofing market in the Nordic Renovation is less affected by the general Long-term reliability is of crucial region can be broken down into two market economic cycle and this market is driven importance segments: Products & Solutions, and by favorable underlying trends. One major Customers generally seek proven and Installation Services. trend is effects of the looming shortage of well-established products and materials fossil fuels and increased awareness of the from strong brands with a long tradition of Products & Solutions need to reduce CO2 emissions have quality and expertise, since long-term • Roofing products, including products for prompted regulators, including the reliability is of crucial importance. flat and pitched roofs made primarily of European Union, to move in the direction The Group’s well-reputed brands, bitumen roofing felt, PVC, EPDM (rubber of optimizing the energy performance of combined with partnerships, training membranes) and TPO (thermoplastic buildings. programmes, technical service and highly olefin, a synthetic plastic material) and motivated employees have contributed to the products for roofing accessories, such as creation of long-term relationships with fastening devices. customers. 16 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Strategy and operations The renovation market is driven by: Direct sales to end-users Castellum, Hufvudstaden and Carlsberg • Composition and age of property stocks. End-users consist of property owners Ejendomme, but also Copenhagen who use waterproofing products on their Airport and government-owned real • Renovating buildings is cheaper than properties. This level of the distribution estate companies, such as Akademiska building new ones. In addition, inadechain is fragmented and includes private Hus; as well as private real estate quate maintenance could incur considerreal estate companies, such as Kungsleden, companies. able costs due to water damage, for example, making renovation decisions crucial. As a result, the renovation WELL-DEFINED SALES CHANNELS market is relatively stable and less cyclical compared with new production. Own roofers and franchise roofing contractors Direct sales to contractors DIRECT SALES (Installation Services) Since flat roofing waterproofing installation require special expertise, related materials are mainly sold to installation companies. 65% General contractors This link to end-users accounts for Prefabricated roof approximately 65 percent of the Products & and facade elements Solutions operating segment’s sales. The installation market is fragmented and BUILDING OWNER consists predominantly of small, local companies. Independent Sales via builders’ merchants roofing contractors The builders’ merchants level of the distribution chain is relatively consolidated, consisting mainly of large building material chains with a regional or national presence DISTRIBUTION and offering waterproofing products as a Builders’ merchants Independent smaller small part of a wide product range. Approximately 35 percent of the Products & 35% contractors Solutions operating segment’s sales of Small construction roofing products in the Nordic region are companies and made through builders’ merchants. DIY merchants carpenters Construction company customers Construction companies are either large general contractors with a global, national or regional presence or smaller contractor companies (builders and carpenters). Construction companies that operate at both the regional and global level include Sweden’s JM, NCC, Skanska and Peab; RECENT ACQUISITIONS PREDOMINANTLY GEARED Denmark’s MT Højgaard, HusCompagniet TOWARD SUSTAINABLE BUILDING SOLUTIONS and Hoffman; and Norway’s Veidekke. With regard to flat roofing waterproofing Starting with the acquisition of Taasinge With the acquisition of Veg Tech (Sweden) in products, these companies secure direct Elementer (Denmark) in 2017, Nordic Water2018, the Group entered the supply and agreements with installation companies, proofing entered the prefabricated wood installation of green infrastructure. Green delivering a complete package of roofing based facade and roofing elements business. roofs and urban surfaces contribute towards solutions, for example Nordic WaterproofThe Group has quickly increased its footprint a better environment in a number of ways. ing’s Installation Services. in this sector with the subsequent acquisiExamples are the increasing of the energy The Group’s operations in prefabricated tions of Ugilt in Denmark, RVT in Norway and efficiency of buildings, helping manage the floor, wall and roof elements, also bring the establishment of LV Elements in Latvia. adverse effects of heavy rainfall on urban new customer categories in the segment Using wood instead of traditional sewage systems by temporarily retaining of medium-sized and large construction inorganic building materials dramatically rain water, and reducing urban heat islands. companies, major architectural firms and inverts the CO2 balance, thus helping to With the acquisition of Distri Pond other procuring companies. decrease global warming. While the (Belgium) in early 2019, Nordic WaterproofThe Group’s specialists in the fast-­ production of traditional materials genering expanded its EPDM based building growing floor covering market have a ates significant amounts of CO2, wood has solutions to the design and installation of customer base consisting mainly of medium the opposite effect: it binds CO2 thus helping ponds and related landscaping solutions, as and large construction and industrial to reduce global CO2 emissions, at a rate of well as swimming ponds, an environmentally companies, as well as shipyards and their approximately 1 ton of CO2 per cubic meter friendly alternative to traditional swimming subcontractors. of wood. pools. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 17 Contents Strategy and operations | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW ACQUISITION RVT: RVT BUILDS ELEMENTS FOR WORLD’S TALLEST WOODEN BUILDING In the small Norwegian town of BrumundInterest in building in wood is also reflected “We participate in the entire value chain, dal, just north of Oslo, stands a wooden in university education programmes, with from the drawing stage to installation. We building that is 85.4 metres tall. This makes more students seeking a future in an are well-known by architects and have good “Mjøstårnet” the world’s tallest building industry that has previously found it difficult relations with all of the major Norwegian made from this classic building material, to attract talent. RVT has been active and construction companies. As a Nordic which is used here in a new way. has worked strategically to interest Waterproofing company, RVT is part of a Building tall wooden buildings offers conprospective designers in prefabrication and larger group with a strong and solid siderable climate benefits. “Using wood in wood. Since 2017, two students from NTNU platform that allows us to continue growing, load-bearing structures can reduce – Norway’s technical science university – safeguarding synergies, cost-effective and emissions from material production by up to have been working at RVT during their sustainable production, and thereby 85 percent,” says environmental adviser and programme and both have already been optimizing our operations in Norway,” said civil engineer Bård S. Solem. offered employment once they have Per Arne Barli. Mjøstårnet and its 18 stories help to set a completed their studies. new standard for both height and assembly methods for wooden structures. “We have enjoyed a good partnership with the developer, Moelven, and it feels good to now see our prefabricated wall elements sitting on the Mjøstårnet tower and protecting the building with a high-quality climate shell,” says Per Arne Barli, Project Manager. WOODEN BUILDINGS INTEREST STUDENTS In recent years, wooden buildings have been re-established as a strong alternative to buildings in steel, concrete or brick. Architects, designers and the construction industry have acquired new knowledge and interest in living in more climate-friendly buildings is increasing. For Ringsaker Vegg og Takelementer AS (RVT), the market has grown rapidly, and the company has good opportunities to further strengthen its position. The fact that Nordic Waterproofing has acquired a majority in RVT, enables us to meet demand in the Norwegian market. We have a favourable collaboration with Taasinge Elements, allowing us to invest in a new production line at our unit in Moelv, as well as in Danish production units. Ringsaker Vegg– og Takelementer AS, Norway Managing Director: Andreas Solbakken Barli Number of employees: 50 Since March 2018, the company has been consolidated within the Products & Solutions operating segment. Website: www.rvt.no 18 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Strategy and operations ACQUISITION VEG TECH: “ VEG TECH IS ONE OF THE FOCUSING ON GREEN ROOFS FIRST CULTIVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE FOR COMPANIES TO DEVELOP A HOLISTIC INDUSTRIAL GREEN ENVIRONMENTS APPROACH AND WE ARE ABLE TO PROVIDE LOCALLY “ Focusing on green roofs and different comments Bengt-Erik Karlberg, Head of Veg GROWN PLANTS INSTALLED systems for creating green environments Tech and a member of Nordic WaterproofBY OUR OWN CONTRACTORS throughout the Nordic region, the Swedish ing’s Group Management. OR OTHER SKILLED company Veg Tech has been able to capture a Veg Tech was founded in 1987 in Vislanda significant share of a market that is expandand has, for several years, invested in its INSTALLERS ing due to increased interest in utilizing space production capacity, machinery and Bengt-Erik Karlberg, in densely populated areas better. Customers employees to develop a system providing Head of Veg Tech are primarily construction companies, other superior reliability and quality throughout companies and municipalities seeking green, the chain, from cultivation to delivery and comprehensive solutions that are easy to assembly of plant systems. During the past install and offer a clear sustainability profile. year, Veg Tech has studied the possibility of Other important stakeholders are architects, producing biochar, a soil improver providing technical consultants and specialists that are benefits including more efficient utilization brought in as advisers. of fertilizer and irrigation. This also allows The company’s offering complements Veg Tech to make use of residual products Nordic Waterproofing’s waterproofing from the fields at its four plants in Sweden. membrane products made of bitumen and “Circular economy is the foundation of EPDM. Both materials are used to seal roofs our business and we are working continuand facade elements, with Veg Tech’s green ously to maintain our leading position within layer bringing additional benefits, such as an important niche in the construction delaying surface water, enhancing energy market. Being part of Nordic Waterproofing efficiency and air quality. Other benefits are means that we can increase the pace of the that the plants contribute to biodiversity and company’s development as a market leader greenery in the urban environment. in vegetation technology and sustainable “We are very pleased with the acquisition construction,” says Bengt-Erik Karlberg. of Veg Tech. The company’s strong position Veg Tech is a partner that focuses on Veg Tech AB, Sweden in vegetation technology and green roofs is a quality. While cultivating plants in, and Managing Director: perfect complement to our existing offering adapted to, the vegetation zones in which Bengt-Erik Karlberg of high-quality waterproofing solutions,” end customers are located, we also impose said Martin Ellis, President and CEO of strict demands in other areas, such as the Number of employees: 45 Nordic Waterproofing. choice of fuel for heating and electricity and Since July 2018, the company has been “Nordic Waterproofing has a genuine our role as employer in smaller communiconsolidated within the Products & interest in our operations and we see good ties. This may involve solar cells on office Solutions operating segment. opportunities to expand Veg Tech’s operaroofs, investments in local non-profit Website: www.vegtech.se tions in Sweden and adjacent markets,” organizations or soil improvement products. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 19 Contents Strategy and operations | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW CUSTOMER AND SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS DRIVE OUR BUSINESS MODEL With a combination of competent employees, innovative power and robust financing, Nordic Waterproofing helps develop, manufacture and sell innovative and sustainable products and solutions. NORDIC WATERPROOFING’S STRATEGIC PRIORITIES RESOURCES AND CUSTOMIZED OFFERINGS CUSTOMER RELATIONS • Small and medium-sized roofing STRATEGY contractors/construction Nordic Waterproofing operates in close proximity to its companies and industrial customers, providing high-quality, innovative sealing companies products and services through local companies with strong • Builders’ merchants brands. (professionals/private individuals) EMPLOYEES AND MANUFACTURING RESOURCES SERVICES PRODUCTS AND • About 1,100 employees with • Customized offerings PRODUCTION considerable skills and customer • Complete product range • Procurement commitment and turnkey sealing • Product development • 12 manufacturing units solutions • Industrial symbiosis • New investments, SEK 56 m • Logistics • Training FINANCIAL RESOURCES • Assets of SEK 2,127 m GOVERNANCE CLEAR SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS • Clear corporate governance with centralized areas of • Efficient use of resources responsibility (finance and product development), as well • Development of materials and as clear decentralized areas of responsibility for technology focusing on the business and customer relations environment • Financial strength to be a leading supplier for a long • Prefabrication units and products period of time • Green Veg Tech products 20 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Strategy and operations RESULTS IN 2018 THE VALUE WE GENERATE Sales: CUSTOMERS +23% • Sustainable products and services • Investments in product development for EBITDA before items affecting sustainable and easier installation comparabilty: +16% EMPLOYEES AND MANUFACTURING RESOURCES Operating cash flow: • Positive and inspiring working +17% environment • Continuous skills development Return on capital employed before • Salaries, pensions and benefits, items affecting comparabilty: SEK 622 m 14.8% Net sales per employee: SHAREHOLDERS SEK 2.6 m • Proposed dividend: SEK 96 m, corresponding to SEK 4.00 per share • Dividend yield: approximately 5% • Sustainable and long-term profitability SOCIETY • Increase in number of employees: +203 to a total of 1,033 employees • More jobs • Offering that contributes to sustainable buildings and infrastructure 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 21 Contents Strategy and operations | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW OPERATING SEGMENT: PRODUCTS & SOLUTIONS The companies within the Products & the working environment (product handling Solutions operating segment mostly offer and installation methods), environmental waterproofing products and solutions for effects of manufacturing processes, roof and façade elements. Production including recycling and reduction of scrap in primarily takes place in the Group’s production and handling of waste. The Group proprietary facilities in Europe and is also works on an ongoing basis to strengthcomplemented with products manufactured en its relations with those whose work by sub-suppliers, including plastic film, involves using the Group’s products. damp courses and moisture barriers. Nordic Waterproofing’s offering in climate shells Flat roofing – mainly non-residential also includes prefabrication of completed buildings wooden roof, wall and floor elements. The The Group’s products have unique technical Group has recently acquired companies with qualities and can easily be adapted to expertise in complete green system different environments, property types and solutions for roof and façade vegetation, underlay. green courtyards, erosion protection and The products are primarily made of water treatment. bitumen roofing felt and of EPDM (rubber membranes) with a life span up to 50 years. ROOFING PRODUCTS Flat roofs make waterproofing and The Group offers a broad range of roofing installation particularly difficult, and this products that are adapted to different types work is usually performed by professional of roofs and needs. The products provide contracting companies. These products are long-term and robust protection for roofs sold through direct sales to contractors. and properties, irrespective of the climate to which they are exposed. The Group’s roofing Pitched roofing – mainly residential products are broken down into flat roofing buildings waterproofing products, pitched roofing Products installed on pitched roofs are more waterproofing products and roofing visible than products used for flat roofs. The accessories design and appearance of the products are Nordic Waterproofing provides a therefore important factors for the customer. well-adapted product range and works These products are sold primarily to continuously with development to meet builders’ merchants and are usually installed customers’ demands for improvements in * * During the first quarter of 2019, Nordic Waterproofing acquired Distri Pond Group, a leading distributor of pond systems in Belgium. 22 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Strategy and operations The “Solhuset” kindergarten in Hørsholm, Denmark is an exciting combination of appealing architecture and integrated energy design. In an innovative process, many different construction players, have applied unique facade and roofing materials, solar collectors, solar panels and heat pumps, have developed a building that meets all of the requirements that can be imposed on a positive environment for children and adults while the building produces a surplus of energy. Nordic Waterproofing has supplied different solutions for roof and wall components for Solhuset. by private individuals and independent technical and therefore often require quality at all stages. The focus has been on smaller contractors and carpenters. customer support and training. expanding the range by introducing existing In Denmark, the products are to some Nordic Waterproofing produces building products to new market segments. The extent sold and installed by franchise products in-house, but also sells building production units have also worked to reduce companies partly owned by Nordic Waterproducts purchased from subcontractors the amount of materials discarded and to proofing, while in Finland, installation and sold mainly under the Group’s own evaluate suitable methods for recycling the services are also provided by in-house brands. residual materials left over from production. personnel through the Installation Services operating segment. RUBBER MEMBRANES PREFABRICATED ELEMENTS Rubber membranes of EPDM or butyl Prefabricated components include customAccessories – for complete solutions rubber are primarily intended to be used for er-specific products with flat components, As a provider of complete roofing solutions, waterproofing roofs and façades, and as including façades, roofs and floors. Using Nordic Waterproofing also offers a broad geomembranes in building foundations, 3D-based information technology and a range of essential accessories that ponds and reservoirs. knowledge of virtually all structure types, complement the Group’s products, such as SealEco’s product range consists of products can be tailored to optimally suit a plastic sheets, foundations, moisture airtight, sound-proof and waterproof specific project. The sales force and barriers and roof safety. The accessories are systems providing long-term environmental structural engineers have great technical sourced from a number of subcontractors efficiency and energy savings for up to 50 know-how and develop the products in close and often constitute an important factor in years. The products are primarily adapted to dialogue with developers and architects to the complete solution. Accessories are sold the customer’s needs and, at the Group’s jointly arrive at the best design and solution. both through builders’ merchants and units, the rubber membranes are made to Prefabricated components are primarily directly to installation companies. be easy to install. The products are sold sold and marketed directly to medium-sized primarily to customers in Belgium, and large construction companies. Building products Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, Sweden In March 2018, Nordic Waterproofing Building products, such as building and the UK. acquired the Norwegian company Ringsaker chemicals for roof installation and repairs, Following the acquisition of EPDM Vegg– og Takelementer AS (“RVT”). The as well as protection against radon radiation Systems in the Netherlands, Nordic company is one of Norway’s leading and sealing of roof lanterns, are highly Waterproofing rubber membrane production manufacturers of prefabricated wooden units have increased their productivity and façade elements for the construction 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 23 Contents Strategy and operations | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW industry. RVT has annual sales of about a number of advantages, protecting the equality. One example is the City of SEK 100 m and 50 employees. The acquisiroofing membrane, insulating better against Gothenburg in Sweden. The council has tion forms part of the strategy to make both cold and heat and absorbing a large published an Overview Plan, where it writes Taasinge Elementer, and Nordic Waterproofamount of noise, dust and air pollution in the that “Gothenburg is a dense and green city ing, a larger player in the Nordic market for urban environment, and improving both the where public places contribute to a rich and prefabricated roofing and façade elements. micro and macro climate. Accordingly, green healthy city life” and “the green links are Through the acquisition of RVT, Nordic roofs reduce the energy consumed for partly about increasing orientability in the Waterproofing has strengthened its heating and cooling – thereby lowering city, which contributes to increased presence in, and production of, high-quality carbon dioxide emissions. The construction security”. prefabricated wooden roof and façade sector applies various environmental In 2018, Nordic Waterproofing acquired elements, currently operated under the classification models (LEED, BREAM, etc.) in the Swedish company Veg Tech to meet Taasinge Elementer and LV Elements trade which the green surface factor is a key customer demand for greener environments names. Taasinge Elementer currently has parameter. and roofs that change with the seasons. Veg three production units in Denmark and one As part of public environments, green Tech offers a very broad range, including in Latvia, with the construction industry as areas have an important part in the everything from plants and seeds to its principal customer category. development of sustainable urban developprefabricated vegetation mats. It also offers ment. In many cities there are land areas complete system solutions for roof and GREEN ROOFS AND FAÇADES that have potential, but are not fully utilized. façade vegetation, green courtyards, erosion Green roofs in cities help improve the Here, nature lacks the prerequisites to protection and water treatment. environment for all living there and can establish itself, but with the help of the right increase biodiversity. Plant-covered roofs vegetation solutions, such as park-arteries, COMPETITORS can absorb up to 50-80 percent of the lush green vaults over noisy traffic routes, In addition to Nordic Waterproofing, the rainwater falling on the roof, reducing or can be an important sustainability solution following major private manufacturers of delaying the flow of rainwater into the providing healthier greenbelts. waterproofing products are to be found in drainage system and preventing sewers Working actively with green areas has the Nordic market: Icopal, Katepal, Protan from becoming overloaded. Green roofs also also come to the fore as part of the and Isola. The small number of local afford buildings and the urban environment municipalities’ efforts to increase gender manufacturers in the Nordic market has a 24 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Strategy and operations GEOGRAPHIC PRESENCE Bitumen manufacturing units and sales offices Manufacturing unit for liquid bitumen and sales office t EPDM manufacturing unit and sales office t EPDM prefabrication units Production units for prefabricated facade and roof elements Sales offices Predominantly bitumen market Predominantly EPDM market tt t t t t relatively fragmented customer base. In the KEY FIGURES PRODUCTS & SOLUTIONS, SEK m 2018 2017 European market for EPDM products, the Net sales 2,023 1,568 competitors to Nordic Waterproofing’s EBITDA before items affecting comparability 270 239 SealEco brand include Firestone, Carlisle and Duraproof, of which Firestone and Operating profit (EBIT) before items affecting comparability 216 205 Carlisle are estimated to be the largest and Number of employees (FTE) 617 413 second-largest providers, respectively, with SealEco being the third-largest provider. In the prefab operation, it is primarily the construction companies’ own operations PRODUCT & SOLUTIONS’ SHARE with semi-prefabricated or site-built core OF CONSOLIDATED NET SALES, SALES GROWTH IN 2018 and façade elements that offer alternatives 2018* to ready-made elements/modules delivered on time to the location where they are to be used. In the Nordic market, there are few direct competitors to Taasinge Elementer 72% and RVT. In Denmark, competitors include Roust Træ, and in Norway they include roof +29% manufacturer Lett-Tak and manufacturers of wall and larger house elements Optimera, Jatak and Støren Treindustri. * Excluding intra-Group sales. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 25 Contents Strategy and operations | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW OPERATING SEGMENT: INSTALLATION SERVICES The Nordic market for roofing contracting is ADDITIONAL SALES CHANNEL CLOSE TO highly fragmented due to local requireTHE CUSTOMERS’ NEEDS ments, history and customer structure. Installation Services acts as a sales channel Nordic Waterproofing offers reputable for the Group’s waterproofing products and brands focusing on superior quality, solutions. Value is added in the direct expertise and local traditions, as well as contact with end-users, in greater undercooperation with selected partners to standing of the customer’s needs and in facilitate effective marketing, delivery and educating the market of the importance of sales. Well-functioning service operations using high-quality products. The link to the can help increase customer satisfaction and end-users provides control of the entire open the way for profitable added sales value chain which also protects the Group’s through personal meetings with end market position and brands. customers. WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES IN EXTENDED SERVICE OFFERING FINLAND The Installation Services operating segment In Finland, installation is performed by is fully integrated into the Group’s business wholly owned subsidiaries under the brands and consists mainly of the installation, mainAL-Katot and KerabitPro, through district tenance and assembly primarily of the offices across the country. In 2017, LA Group’s own roofing products for commerKattohuolto, was acquired – a Finnish cial properties and homes. In recent years, roofing and service company, both strengthNordic Waterproofing has supplemented ening the Group’s geographical presence roofing and installation operations with a and contributing a range of services that can service offering targeting home owners be offered to private individuals and seeking to extend the life span of their roofs customers of other companies within the and ensure that buildings’ climate shells segment. comply with the energy values that have been set. KerabitPro is a leading roof installer in Finland and works with all types of roofs. In addition to installation, maintenance and renovation are an important part of the service offering. LA-KATTOHUOLTO .FI 26 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Strategy and operations Bitumen is the most common material used in the Nordic region. The material accounts for about 80 percent of the Nordic waterproofing market for new-build of flat roofing, and 90 percent of the renovation of flat roofing. MINORITY-OWNED FRANCHISE KEY FIGURES INSTALLATION SERVICES, SEK m 2018 2017 COMPANIES IN DENMARK Net sales1) 752 714 In Denmark, installations are offered EBITDA before items affecting comparability2) 47 36 through franchise companies under the Phønix Tag and Hetag Tagdækning brands. Operating profit (EBIT) before items affecting comparability2) 41 31 The franchise companies are owner-manNumber of employees (FTE) 404 407 aged businesses, in which Nordic Water1) Sales do not include the Danish franchise companies. proofing has minority interests. 2) Including share of profit in associated companies (Danish franchise companies). CUSTOMIZED FLOOR COATINGS The Finnish company SPT-Painting, which operates within the fast-growing market for INSTALLATION SERVICES’ SHARE OF CONSOLIDATED NET SALES, SALES GROWTH IN 2018 liquid sealing membranes and coverings for 2018* floors, also known as “coatings”, and supplies floor installation services to customers in the construction, shipbuilding and industrial segments. The customer base consists primarily of medium and large construction companies, industrial companies and shipyards and their 28% sub-contractors. +5% * Excluding intra-Group sales . 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 27 Contents The swimming and activity centre Vattnets Hus in Ängelholm, Sweden, has been topped off with a bitumen roof and waterproofing products from Mataki, and covered with sedum. Contents RESULTS AND PROSPECTS In 2018, Nordic Waterproofing’s sales rose by 23 percent, affected positively by the recovery in the roofing and infrastructure markets in Sweden and Norway, but also by the market for prefabricated elements in Norway. While the Products & Solutions operating segment reported a sales increase of 29 percent, sales in the Installation Services operating segment increased by 5 percent. PROSPECTS FOR THE 2019 FINANCIAL YEAR For the 2019 financial year, the general market trend is expected to be in line with 2018 in most markets. Nordic Waterproofing expects to achieve its financial targets and that organic growth will exceed general growth in the markets in which the Group operates. In addition to organic growth, the Group also anticipates continued growth through selective acquisitions. Contents Results and prospects | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW ” THE BALANCE SHEET IS CONTINUOUSLY STRONG, ALLOWING FURTHER EXPANSION OF THE GROUP” NET SALES GROWTH – BEST YEAR EVER! are amortized over 5–7 years. The acquired PROFITABILITY TEMPORARILY BELOW 2018 was the best year ever in the history of order books in Taasinge Elementer and RVT LONG-TERM TARGET Nordic Waterproofing, and consolidated net are amortized over its delivery time, Nordic Waterproofing’s long-term target is sales for the full year 2018 increased by estimated to 6-12 months at the time of the to generate a return on capital employed 23 percent amounting to SEK 2,680 m. acquisition. Therefore, EBITDA better (ROCE) before items affecting comparability Both operating segments contributed to the reflects the underlying operations considerexceeding 15 percent. For 2018 the return growth: our Products & Solutions operating ing the many acquisitions made during after was 14.8 percent, just below the long-term segment reported a sales increase of the IPO. In 2018, EBITDA before items affecttarget due to the increased capital employed 29 percent, and our Installation Services ing comparability increased by 16 percent following the acquired goodwill and operating segment increased 5 percent. and amounted to SEK 286 m (248), while customer relations from the relatively large Sales were positively affected by the mild EBIT before items affecting comparability acquisition of Veg Tech in July 2018. and warm autumn as well as the late winter amounted to SEK 224 m (208). arrival allowing a strong end of the year in WILL BREXIT AFFECT NORDIC all the Nordic countries. Our growth strategy STRONG BALANCE SHEET ALLOWING WATERPROOFING? entails both organic and acquisitive growth, EXPANSION Nordic Waterproofing operates in the UK and our three acquisitions in 2018, Ugilt, RVT Total assets increased by 21 percent through its business unit SealEco and is and Veg Tech, have all contributed positively amounting to SEK 2,127 m (1,756) at the closely monitoring developments with to our Group. end of 2018, while net debt amounted to regard to Brexit. Although the operations in SEK 442 m (204) or 1.5x (0.8) EBITDA. the UK are, to some extent, dependent on IFRS ACCOUNTING AND EFFECTS ON The balance sheet is continuously strong, imports of goods from the Swedish EBITDA AND EBIT FOLLOWING allowing further expansion of the Group, production unit, and considering that Nordic ACQUISITIONS even though a dividend of 64 percent of net Waterproofing’s UK sales account for less In 2018, Nordic Waterproofing has continued profit is a proposed by the Board of than 2 percent of consolidated sales, Nordic to grow substantially through acquisitions. Directors. Waterproofing does not believe that the UK’s The acquisitions have contributed by adding In December, a share buy-back program exit from the EU, in one form or another, will 15 percent net sales to the Group in 2018. of maximum 200,000 shares (0.8 percent of have a significant impact on consolidated At the same time, EBIT, as a consequence of the total number of issued shares) to secure earnings. applying IFRS accounting rules, is affected the long-term incentive programs was by increased amortizations of intangible initiated. As per year-end, Nordic Waterassets. The purchase price allocation proofing owned 11,610 treasury shares. The process has led to the identification of share buy-backs form part of the SEK 18 certain intangible assets, such as the value million share buy-back program that Nordic of customer relations as well as the existing Waterproofing announced on 20 December order book at the time of the acquisition. The 2018, in order to secure the Company’s value of customer relations was identified incentive programs. and estimated in most acquisitions, which 30 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Results and prospects FINANCIAL REVIEW NET SALES there-of showed positive financials effects acquired companies as well as the acquired Consolidated net sales in 2018 increased by as from summer 2018. order books in Taasinge Elementer and RVT 23 percent to SEK 2,680 m (2,187), with both In general, the weather conditions were being amortized over 6–12 months, resulting our operating segments contributing. favorable during the year, albeit the warm in a limited contribution from Taasinge Organic growth amounted to 3 percent, and and unusually dry summer was challenging Elementer and RVT to EBIT over the first sales in acquired companies contributed by for Veg Tech requiring unusual watering year following the acquisition. All acquired 15 percent following the acquisitions made efforts to secure the growing of sedum and businesses are developing according to plan during the year. The currency translation other plants. The mild autumn and late or better than was expected at the time of effect was positive and affected net sales by winter arrival allowed Veg Tech to deliver acquisition. 5 percent. The Products & Solutions green vegetation solutions almost the entire Hence, the financial performance for the operating segment reported a sales increase fourth quarter, following the challenges year was based on the combination of of 29 percent, and the Installation Services after the warm and unusually dry summer. organic growth in both operating segments operating segment achieved an increase of in most of our markets, an unfavorable 5 percent. The Flat Roofing market developed OPERATING PROFIT (EBIT) development of our raw material prices well with demand overall at healthy levels Operating profit (EBIT) for the period which however was almost fully offset by but with local variations, while the Builders January–December increased to SEK 212 m increased sales prices, contribution from Merchants were stable. The year showed a (194) and the EBIT margin decreased to acquired business, as well as favorable strong development in most geographies but 7.9 percent (8.9). Items affecting comparaweather conditions during the autumn in all especially in Norway, Sweden and Denmark. bility amounted to SEK –12 m (–14), the Nordic countries. Denmark continued to see a favorable primarily consisting of consultancy costs demand trend, with a strong market all over related to acquisitions. Hence, the operating NET FINANCIAL ITEMS the country. Our Swedish and Norwegian profit (EBIT) before items affecting comparaNet financial items were SEK 3 m higher operations showed strong growth, especially bility for the period January–December than in the preceding year and amounted to during the second half of the year, and increased to SEK 224 m (208), which was in SEK –22 m (–19). The change is primarily Nordic Waterproofing has successfully line with expectations as stated in the explained by a negative SEK 7 m fair value increased its market shares in these quarterly report for the period Januaryadjustment of call/put options for the markets. The decreased private housing September 2018. The EBIT margin before remaining shares in the acquired compabuilding starts and new permits being clear items affecting comparability decreased to nies, due to a stronger performance than signs of a weaker market in Sweden were 8.4 percent (9.5). The raw material purchase originally anticipated at the time of still not visible in our sales. The market for prices were stable in general, although acquisition. In addition, external interest prefabricated façade elements in Norway bitumen prices have been volatile during the costs have increased due to the higher was strong and developed positively during year. The increasing bitumen prices affected leverage following the acquisitions of Ugilt, the year, and ended the year with an order the income statement negatively during the RVT and Veg Tech during the year. book covering almost the entire year of 2019. year, but were almost fully offset by In our Finnish installation services business, increased sales prices. In addition, the our deliberate and selective approach result was negatively affected by the towards profitable projects and execution amortization of customer relations in the At the green roof of Central Park in Lund, Sweden, has biotopes with vegetation that attracts butterflies and small birds. The green roof also keeps the building cooler in the summer, while cleaning the air, dampening noise and absorbing rainwater. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 31 Contents Results and prospects | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW During 2018 Nordic Waterproofing acquired Veg Tech a company with focus on green roofs and different systems for creating green environments. Customers are primarily construction companies, other companies and municipalities seeking green, comprehensive solutions that are easy to install and offer a clear sustainability profile. Other important stakeholders are architects, technical consultants and specialists that are brought in as advisers. TAXES In May, a cash dividend of SEK 90 m was has increased following the acquisitions Income tax for 2018 were SEK 2 m higher paid. The solvency ratio was 52 percent (58) made and dividend payment and amounted than in the preceding year and amounted to at the end of the year. to SEK 442 m at the end of the period, SEK –39 m (–37). The Group’s effective tax Nordic Waterproofing’s principal external compared with SEK 204 m at the end of the rate for the year amounted to 20 percent financing agreement is valid until June 2021 preceding year. Consolidated cash and cash (21). and contains, as per the end of 2018, a EUR equivalents decreased by SEK 51 m and 37.5 m term loan facility and a EUR 42 m amounted to SEK 106 m (157) at the end of NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR revolving loan facility, of which EUR 14.4 m is the period. Out of the Group’s total overdraft Net profit for the year increased to SEK 152 m allocated to the Group cash pool. The facility of SEK 148 m (142), SEK 57 m (0) was (138). The increase in profit in comparison revolving loan facility was increased by EUR utilized at the end of the year. Hence, the with the preceding year is primarily 20 m in connection with the acquisition of total liquidity available was SEK 197 m (299). attributable to the organic growth in both Veg Tech in beginning of July. The loan and Indebtedness calculated as interest-bearing operating segments and contribution from credit facilities bear variable interest and net debt/EBITDA before items affecting acquired business. run without requiring repayment in comparability was 1.5x (0.8) at the end of the instalments. The financing agreement period, and the net debt/equity ratio was BALANCE SHEET contains financial covenants which are 0.4x (0.2). The balance sheet total increased SEK 371 m monitored and followed up on a quarterly and amounted to SEK 2,127 m (1,756). basis. Every quarter, Nordic Waterproofing CASH FLOW Equity increased by SEK 96 m and came has fulfilled the terms and conditions of the Operating cash flow for the full year 2018 to SEK 1,106 m (1,010) at year-end 2018. facility agreements. Consolidated net debt compared with the preceding year increased, amounting to SEK 192 m (164), RECONCILIATION – ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY entailing an operating cash conversion of 67 percent (66). The higher cash flow is SEK m 2018 2017 primarily explained by higher EBITDA Operating profit (EBIT) 212 194 compared to the preceding year, partly offset Costs related to acquisitions 9 10 by higher investments in fixed assets due to a higher capex need in acquired companies Other 3 4 and upgraded ERP systems in Taasinge, Operating profit (EBIT) before items Denmark and Sweden. The cash conversion affecting comparability 224 208 was unchanged and temporarily affected by Operating profit (EBIT) margin before items higher inventory levels at the end of the year affecting comparability 8.4% 9.5% in order to fulfil delivery obligations, but also 32 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Results and prospects by higher purchase of raw materials to secure a competitive price level, in the beginning of 2019. SEASONALITY Nordic Waterproofing’s business is spring. As a result of active efforts in the The cash flow from operating activities was affected by seasonal variations – the management of working capital, the average higher than in the previous year, amounting months of January, February and working capital requirement decreased to SEK 185 m (126). December being the weakest months. In between 2013 and 2016 but increased in The negative cash flow from investing 2018, sales in these three months 2017 and 2018 which is primarily a conseactivities was higher than in the correspondaccounted for almost 16 percent of the quence of increased net working capital ing period in the previous year, amounting to annual total, while the other nine months following the acquisitions made during the SEK 311 m (159). During 2018 two compaaccounted for 84 percent which is in line years. At the end of 2018, the net working nies were acquired and one asset deal was with the five-year average. The decline capital was higher than historical end-year finalized. The negative net cash impact due during the winter is explained by the cold levels due to temporarily higher inventory to these acquisitions of business was SEK and poor weather conditions and their levels in order to fulfil delivery obligations, 228 m (123), while gross investments in impact on the construction industry. In but also by higher purchase of raw materials tangible and intangible assets amounted to general, there is a certain degree of to secure a competitive price level, in the SEK 56 m (23). stockpiling during the winter months, beginning of 2019. The graph below The cash flow from financing activities which transfers to a stock depletion illustrates the seasonal pattern in the amounted to SEK 73 m (-140). In May, a cash during the summer months as a result of Company’s working capital by quarter during dividend of SEK 90 m was paid. In addition, increased activity in the market. An early 2014–2018. external loans were increased in connection winter could, among other things cause Seasonal variations affect EBIT and the with the acquisition of Veg Tech in July. many of the Company’s customers choose EBIT margin to the same extent as sales. to postpone planned projects, in turn, The graph below illustrates the seasonal SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE END OF having a negative impact on annual pattern in the Company’s sales and earnings THE PERIOD earnings. The same applies if the winter is per quarter 2014–2018. On February 26, 2018, Nordic Waterproofing long and the season starts late in the Holding A/S’s Swedish subsidiary, Nordic Waterproofing Group AB, acquired 100 percent of the shares in Distri Pond Group in Belgium, with the two operating companies Distri Pond NV and Pond Technics & Training SEASONAL VARIATIONS IN NET SALES AND PROFITABILITY SEK m % BVBA. The company is a leading distributor 800 20 of pond systems in the Belgium market, with annual sales of approximately SEK 110 15 million and 23 employees. The acquisition 600 fits well into SealEco’s strategy of vertical integration and will increase Nordic 400 10 Waterproofing’s exposure to an attractive market segment within our core business. 200 5 With the acquisition of Distri Pond, Nordic Waterproofing’s business unit SealEco 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 0 strengthens its market presence and 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 distribution of high-quality pond systems Net sales EBIT before items affecting comparability EBIT margin before items affecting comparability, % supported by installation service as well as education. The enterprise value amounted to EUR 11,3 m on a cash and debt-free basis and was financed through an extension of Nordic Waterproofing’s existing credit SEASONAL VARIATIONS IN WORKING CAPITAL facilities. The acquisition was finalized as of SEK m % February 26, 2019 and will be consolidated 500 25 into the Products & Solutions segment. 400 20 EXPECTATIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL 300 15 YEAR 2019 200 10 For the financial year 2019, general demand is expected to be similar to that in 2018 in 100 5 most markets. Nordic Waterproofing expects to meet its financial targets, and the Group’s 0 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 organic net sales growth is expected to 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 exceed the general growth rate in the Net working capital balance (before items affecting comparability) Net working capital as % of LTM sales markets in which the Group operates. In addition to organic growth, the Group also expects to continue growing through selective acquisitions. EBIT before items affecting comparability is expected to increase compared with 2018, assuming normal winter conditions during the fourth quarter. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 33 Contents Sedum is a mixture of herbs, succulents, grass and moss that can withstand drought well and cope with a thin layer of soil. Green sedum roofs are suitable for roofs with a slope of less than 27 degrees. On the roof of the Sillen & Makrillen pub in Helsingborg, Nordic Waterproofing has installed 300 square metres of sedum roofing on water-retaining felt underlay. Contents ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE For Nordic Waterproofing, the link between successful business and responsible enterprise is self-evident. In addition to the Group’s products simply and efficiently helping to protect buildings and infrastructure, its sustainability efforts generate new business opportunities, reduce costs and risks and enable the Group to meet the demands and expectations of various stakeholders. Nordic Waterproofing intends to integrate sustainability into all aspects of its operations. This includes products, services and solutions, the Group’s manufacturing facilities, the supply chain and skills development. Nordic Waterproofing supports and contributes to many of the UN’s sustainable development goals. The Group has chosen to prioritize six of these in particular, in areas in which its operations have a major impact (see pages 38–39). Contents Environmental, Social and Governance | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW SUSTAINABLE ENTERPRISE Nordic Waterproofing works to generate added value for its stakeholders. This involves understanding the company’s role in society and acting responsibly in those areas where the Group can make a difference – directly or indirectly. Essentially, this means being a responsible Like most innovative companies, Nordic mented by the local company management and respected member of society, generatWaterproofing is conducting several projects teams. ing long-term value for both the Group’s in which we are working with renewable raw A broader initiative to adapt sustainability shareholders and the broader community by materials and recycled materials. We are efforts at the Group level has been in means of sustainable products and solutions. also looking at material efficiency and how progress since 2017, enabling experience to In recent years, Nordic Waterproofing has we can derive benefit from our production be shared between the facilities. Based on achieved significant advances in these waste. the Group’s review of sustainability efforts in regards. At the same time, we maintain the The Group continue its selective acquisithe subsidiaries, indicators have been fundamental commitments documented in tion approach, focusing on sustainable developed that have been monitored our Code of Conduct, which is based on the development. The recent additions of annually since 2017, including follow-up of UN Global Compact, an initiative for Taasinge Elementer, RVT and VegTech are the Group’s Code of Conduct and business responsible business practices focusing on excellent examples of our commitment to ethics policy, accident reporting, gender the environment, working conditions, human a circular and sustainable construction distribution, waste recycling, landfill, energy rights and anti-corruption. industry. Wood as a construction material consumption and carbon dioxide emissions is a natural resource, carrying the lowest from energy consumption. SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS carbon footprint of any comparable building Projects are continuously in progress within material. In addition, no high-energy fossil STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE the Nordic Waterproofing Group to further fuels are required to produce wood or the In the autumn of 2018, a dialogue was develop the products and identify where plants supplied from Veg Tech. initiated with stakeholders aimed at production can be improved from an ensuring that Group-level sustainability environmental perspective. The developDECENTRALIZED GOVERNANCE reporting responds to our investors’ needs ment process is performed at both the In the Group’s decentralized organization, for non-financial information. The dialogue Group and business unit levels. Efforts are with varying conditions regarding both is also intended to contribute to our efforts focused on developing new products and products and production, additional to work for the principles of the UN Global improving existing products and solutions. sustainability targets are set and impleCompact and to our priorities based on the UN GLOBAL COMPACT KEY COMPLIANCE POLICIES PRINCIPLES All new employees sign a “Letter of HUMAN RIGHTS Confirmation” stating that they have 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and participated in training in the Group’s 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Code of Conduct. Each year thereafter, LABOUR they sign that they are familiar with, 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to and agree to uphold the “Code of collective bargaining; Conduct”.The Code of Conduct includes 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; information on anti-corruption efforts, 5. the elimination of child labour; and competition, contract management and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. transactions with closely related ENVIRONMENT parties. In addition, the Code of 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Conduct contains information about the 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Group’s whistleblower function and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. how any irregularities should be ANTI-CORRUPTION handled. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Since 2012, Nordic Waterproofing has been a signatory to the UN’s Global Compact and is committed to honouring the Global Compact’s 10 principles. 36 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Environmental, Social and Governance UN’s global targets for sustainable development. discrimination or sexual harassment. Nordic Waterproofing’s workplaces should be THE GROUP’S During the autumn of 2018, four of the largest shareholders and three of the largest characterized by respect for diversity and different qualities, knowledge and skills, AREAS OF customers were interviewed and the process of interviewing customers and other regardless of gender, religion, ethnic background, age, race or sexual orientation. FOCUS IN stakeholders will continue in 2019. All of Nordic Waterproofing’s Code of Conduct, SUSTAINABILITY: those questioned welcome the efforts that which includes the areas of environment, Nordic Waterproofing initiated in the area of work environment and business ethics, is BUSINESS ETHICS sustainability in the autumn of 2016. The the basis for all activities within the Group • Target: 100% of Group employees issues of which these stakeholders are most and applies to all employees and the Group’s shall sign off the Group’s Code of aware are Climate and Occupational health Board of Directors without exception. An Conduct and safety, both with regard to reporting on updated version of the company’s Code of • Outcome 2018: 94%. Training in the these issues, but also with regard to the Conduct and training materials was rolled Code of Conduct provided continucompany’s risk management. The shareholdout throughout the Group during the second ously and in connection with ers would also like to see clearer indicators quarter of 2018. More than 94 percent of recruitment used in the reporting, particularly in the area employees have undergone this training of Occupational health and safety, as well as during the year – further contributing to SAFE WORKPLACE clearer targets regarding the various areas. awareness of applicable legislation and • Target: Vision of zero serious internal policies and regulations. The Code work-related accidents IMPLEMENTATION OF ADJUSTED CODE OF of Conduct and the training materials are • Outcome 2018: 44 LWC-accidents CONDUCT available in all nine languages used within Nordic Waterproofing aims to maintain a the Group. EQUALITY working environment characterized by The Code of Conduct is based on • Target: Increase the proportion of responsibility and empowerment, ethics and internationally recognized conventions and women among senior executives morality, openness and teamwork. Comguidelines, such as the UN Global Compact, • Outcome 2018: +1% in local bined with a focus on customers and their to which Nordic Waterproofing has been a management teams needs, these values, enable the Group to signatory since 2012. meet its targets and strategic priorities. An A specific Code of Conduct for suppliers important part of a safe working environwill be launched in 2019. ment is to ensure that no one is exposed to 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 37 Contents Environmental, Social and Governance | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW NORDIC WATERPROOFINGS CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN’S GOALS FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT To the extent it is possible, Nordic Waterproofing and our products and solutions shall, beyond being functional and driving business, also help improve sustainability. Several of our products currently have an impact on climate change and contain fossil raw materials. This is something we always bear in mind. Among other things, the products and solutions acquired in 2017 and 2018 contribute in more than one way to sustainable development and are based on non-fossil resources. DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH: Decent Work and Economic Growth Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Providing a workplace that is safe and promotes employee health is essential for Nordic Waterproofing, both in its own production and among suppliers and contractors working on the company’s behalf. Contributing to employment by creating jobs, but also through apprenticeships and internships, is another way in which we contribute to the development of society. This goal includes work to ensure continued growth, albeit with reduced environmental impact. CLIMATE ACTION: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. Following our multiple acquisitions of prefabricated elements business we used about 16,000 m3 of wood in 2018, which binds approximately 16,000 tons of CO2 compared with traditional construction methods. Veg Tech’s green roofscan absorb and delay moisture heavy downpours. 38 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Environmental, Social and Governance GENDER EQUALITY: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. For the Group, achieving working SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND environments that are non-discriminatory COMMUNITIES: Make cities and and in which women are afforded equal human settlements inclusive, safe, opportunities to gain influence and reach resilient and sustainable. leading positions is an important process. Getting more women into different professional categories that have been Nordic Waterproofing works to offer products and male-dominated for a long time is a solutions that protect buildings and other infrachallenge, but also a great opportunity for structure. We work to make them cost-­efficient and recruiting future employees. environmentally-friendly from a lifecycle perspective. With the right materials, buildings and other infrastructure can become more resistant to climate-related risks, for example. Once materials have served their purpose, it is also important that waste is suitably handled and disposed of. In addition, Veg Tech provides solutions for making cities inclusive and sustainable for all people. RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. Increasingly, society’s manufacturing industries need to use resources efficiently, recycling and recovering materials efficiently. By using bitumen, a residue from the oil industry which has few other usages, we make a productive use of it which eliminates the need to burn it. PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. For Nordic Waterproofing, combating all forms of corruption and other wrongdoings is an important issue. During 2018, 94 percent of employees were trained in our updated Code of Conduct and signed a letter confirming that they understood the meaning of the Code. This involves applying clear internal guidelines, but also working to reduce the risk of corruption along the supply chain. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 39 Contents Environmental, Social and Governance | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW MANUFACTURING AND ENVIRONMENT Nordic Waterproofing works to generate added value for its stakeholders without compromising the standards set in terms of manufacturing and the ­environment. With the recent integration of the prefabricated elements business, Nordic Waterproofing is now a net contributor to reducing climate change. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE The bitumen and rubber membrane In 2017, one of the units in Denmark FAVOURABLE CARBON DIOXIDE production facilities in Denmark, Finland reported an inaccurate figure, which has EMISSIONS BALANCE and Sweden are subject to mandatory been adjusted in the graph below. This reporting obligations and require permits. means that the district heating column The operations affect the external for 2017 has decreased by 243 MWh. 2018 ­environment primarily through noise and Following the adjustment for 2017, direct and indirect emissions. The Group’s energy consumption in 2018 increased by production requires resources such as 5.7 percent compared with the preceding raw material, water, energy and year. Net sales for the same period chemicals. increased by 23 percent, which is one All subsidiaries are covered by our Group of the reasons for the increased energy 2017 Environmental policy, which covers energy consumption. consumption, emissions and raw material use. Where relevant, they have formulated a POSITIVE CLIMATE IMPACT -10 -5 0 5 10 15 20 local policy to complement this. All The calculation of the Group’s carbon dioxide 1,000 tons manufacturing units apply an environmental emissions (CO2) is based on each unit’s total CO2 emissions reduction from wood CO2 emissions CO2 net management system. The operations in average energy mix. Finland and Sweden are certified in The Group’s combined carbon dioxide 2017 includes RVT for comparison purposes. Calculated by lock-in effect of 1,000 kg/m3. accordance with ISO 14001. Each production emissions amounted to 5,644 tonnes facility has established environmental (5,159*), an increase of 9 percent, targets. significantly below the 23 percent sales A mapping of energy consumption and increase. climate emissions at an aggregated Group Through the use of wood in the prefabriENERGY CONSUMPTION level commenced in early 2017. Energy cated elements business, in substitution PER ENERGY SOURCE consumption and climate emissions are key for traditional inorganic building materials, MWh SEK m figures, that have been reported at the Nordic Waterproofing achieves a significant 35,000 3,000 Group level since 2017. net reduction of CO2 emissions. While the 30,000 production of traditional materials releases SAFE AND EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES large quantities of CO2, wood binds CO2 at a 25,000 A significant part of the Group’s energy rate of approximately 1 ton of CO2 per m3 of 2,000 consumption, as well as its impact on the wood. 20,000 climate, is associated with fossil fuel As shown in the graph to the right, 15,000 combustion, as well as purchased electricity Nordic Waterproofing with a consumption 1,000 and district heating (indirect energy and of 16,000 m3 of wood in 2018, generated 10,000 direct energy). Production units and offices a net favorable CO2 balance of 5,000 in all business units submit reports, with the 10,000 tons. exception of Installation Services, which Direct emissions from operations 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017* 2018 consists primarily of roofing services. (scope 1) were 3,383 tonnes and indirect Energy consumed by company vehicles and emissions from purchased energy, that is, Electricity District heating Natural gas Light heating oil Wood Pellets forklifts, or by suppliers, is not included in electricity and district heating (scope 2) Net sales, SEK m these figures. were 2,261 tonnes. * Corrected from previous year’s reporting. 40 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Environmental, Social and Governance GREEN ECONOMY For some time, Veg Tech has studied possibilities of using biochar to improve the well-being of the plants and to make use of materials that help reduce the carbon dioxide in the air. Biochar can reduce the use of fertilisers and increase the soil’s capacity to retain oxygen and water for extended periods. During 2018, a decision was taken to invest in a proprietary factory that is planned to become operational in the winter of 2019/2020. The total investment is estimated at approximately SEK 7 m, including ancillary buildings for materials and handling. To date, the company has invested slightly less than SEK 3 m, of which two thirds has been offset by climate subsidies from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, entailing a net investment of slightly less than SEK 1 m. “Circular economy is the foundation of our business and we are working continuously to maintain our leading position within an important niche in the construction market. Being part of Nordic Waterproofing means that we can increase the pace of the company’s development as a market leader in vegetation technology and sustainable construction,” says Bengt-Erik Karlberg, the company’s CEO. “Veg Tech is a partner that focuses on quality. While cultivating plants in, and adapted to, the vegetation zones in which end customers are located, we also impose strict demands in other areas, such as the choice of fuel for heating and electricity and our role as employer in smaller communities. This may involve solar cells on office roofs, investments in local non-profit organizations or soil improvement products.” VEG TECH BIOCOAL 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 41 Contents Environmental, Social and Governance | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW SOCIAL ENTERPRISE Nordic Waterproofing has built up a successful working climate with a proven process for employee dialogue, in which employees and company management have a mutual exchange of expectations and suggestions on how to improve working conditions. In 2018, the Group had an average of 1,033 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY that have production sites have contracted (830) full-time employees. During the Nordic Waterproofing’s operations include external Occupational Health Care services summer season, the workforce in Installation factories, warehouses and offices. The to support their employees, such as in the Services increases through the addition of Finnish operations also include roofing case of rehabilitation. more than 100 temporary employees. The services. Employee safety is always the personnel matters are decentralized and highest priority and all subsidiaries have a differ regionally, although they show certain work environment policy. The productionmutual trends. Nordic Waterproofing is often one of the larger employers in a particular plant in Finland is certified in accordance with the OHSAS 18001 work environment ROOFING TRAINEE location and employing personnel locally management system. LEARNS THE JOB helps maintain low personnel turnover, contributing to stability within the organizaEach workplace and environment have their own specific risks and, accordingly, ON THE JOB tion. each subsidiary is responsible for systematically managing health and safety efforts. SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND MOTIVATION This includes gathering information about Ongoing skills development focusing, for and assessing site-specific risks and example, on productivity and broader reporting accidents to the Group. The production skills, increases the organizaprocess of reducing the occurrence of tion’s flexibility. The Group’s philosophy is incidents and accidents is achieved by that skills development is primarily achieved analyzing the underlying causes. through continuous learning in day-to-day Each individual site shall report to the work. This is complemented by training Group level, all occupational injuries and initiatives for a large number of employees, illnesses resulting in at least eight hours of as well as for external roofers/contractors absence caused by accidents, defined as seeking further training in the industry. Lost Work Cases (LWC). During 2018, During 2018, Nordic Waterproofing in To monitor employee satisfaction and focused efforts were in progress to reduce Denmark successfully developed a commitment, performance reviews are accidents within the Group, resulting in proprietary programme to reach young conducted alongside regular employee almost 40 percent fewer accidents over the people and introduce them to the surveys. year. In 2018, 44 LWC accidents (61) were opportunity of working in the industry. reported. Over the year, nine trainee roofers HELPING YOUNG PEOPLE ENTER Although there were ten less LWC were taught in partnership with the THE JOB MARKET accidents in Finland compared with 2017, Danish Agency for Labour Market and Nordic Waterproofing has broadened its installation operations are still the Group’s Recruitment and the results are recruitment activities, complementing riskiest area of work, accounting for 32 of positive. traditional recruitment days by offering the accidents. Accidents at Taasinge The apprenticeship programme was apprenticeships and seeking new fora in Elementer decreased from nine in 2017 to established permanently in March 2019 which the companies believe appropriate zero reported in 2018. in the presence of Mr. Troels Lund: skills can be found. Efforts to prevent accidents are continuPoulsen, the Minister of Employment. Roofing contractors have been experiing in 2019. An important part of this will “I am very pleased with this initiative. encing personnel shortages and difficulties involve integrating newly acquired compaIt’s a completely unique and new way of recruiting new skilled labourers. In order to nies into our systematic efforts, but also, as broad cooperation, where the public increase access to potential staff, Nordic the pace of production and installation rises, sector and private organizations are Waterproofing supports educational raising awareness and knowledge among working together to match the people programmes in roof installation and offers the many new employees who have joined looking for job with the opportunities in trainee positions for future professionals, our operations. a wide-ranging industry”. increasing its attractiveness in the market. All of the companies within the Group 42 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Environmental, Social and Governance DIVERSITY AND EQUAL TREATMENT individual is offered equal opportunities in Historically, the roofing industry has been terms of career paths. a male-dominated industry regardless of In 2016, it was decided with regard to the personnel category. Nordic Waterproofing diversity target, that the operations as a works to achieve its goal to have a balanced whole should also work towards a more mix of ethnicity, age and gender, taking into balanced mix in terms of ethnicity and account the type of activity being conducted. gender. To reach the goal to increase the Improved diversity and inclusion have the awareness of its operations and being a potential to further drive Nordic Waterproofgood employer, Group companies leveraging ing’s development and results, both at team several online platforms and channels to 1,033 EMPLOYEES 2018 level and individually. build relationships with new stakeholders. In 2018, a process was initiated within Today, local management teams Administration R&D the Group to compile salary payment data to study its development, any pay gaps comprises a total of 68 individuals (52), of which 23 percent (22) are women. Sales and 5% 1% and assess if the Group is offering fair Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S’s Board marketing remuneration. of Directors consists of four men and two 15% Installation services The companies within the Group work women. Accordingly, the proportion of continuously to attract, develop and retain women on the Board of Directors is 39% talented young people regardless of gender 33 percent, meeting the target of the Group’s or other characteristics. Independent of Diversity policy. gender or other aspects of diversity, each Production 40% DISTRIBUTION OF GENDER, ACCIDENTS NORDIC WATERPROOFING DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES % LWC/million BY COUNTRY, 2018 LWC workhours 100 60 100 Other 90 80 50 Norway 9% 70 40 80 7% 60 60 50 Sweden 14% 30 40 40 30 20 Finland 20 10 10 20 Denmark 45% 0 Average total number of Average of senior Group Board of Directors, 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0 25% Manageemployees, positions, ment, 6 persons 1,033 persons 68 persons 9 persons LWC=Lost Work Cases, number of accidents resulting in more than eight hours of absence (left axis) Women Men Number of accidents resulting in more than eight hours absence per million work hours (right axis) 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 43 Contents Environmental, Social and Governance | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S is a Danish public limited liability company, with company registration number 33395361, and is governed by the provisions of the Danish Companies Act. The registered office of the company is situated in Vejen, Denmark, with operational headquarters in Helsingborg, Sweden. The company’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, Mid Cap. This report on Nordic Waterproofing’s corporate governance for 2018 is issued in accordance with the Danish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. THE SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS 2 Nomination 1 Annual General Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S, with the 9 External auditor Committee Meeting ticker NWG, has been listed on Nasdaq Appointed in accordance with instructions Stockholm, Mid Cap segment since 10 June from the Annual General Meeting 2016. The number of shares outstanding on 31 December 2018 was 24,083,935. Each 4 Remuneration 3 Board of Directors 5 Audit Committee share entitles the holder to one vote. The Committee number of shareholders on the same date was about 3,700, which is approximately 800 more, compared with the number at the end 6 Executive management 8 Financial reporting of 2017. The largest shareholder on President and CEO and internal control 31 December 2018 was Mawer Investment Internal governance Management, holding 2,729,537 shares, documents representing 11.3 percent of the votes and (including the rules of procedure for the Board of share capital in the company. 7 Group Management Directors, executive Further details on Nordic Waterproofing’s management instructions, share and the company’s shareholders are financial manual, treasury available in the section “The share and policy, IT policy, information security policy, diversity policy, ownership information”, on pages 58–61 and Operating segments Code of Conduct and on the company’s website. whistleblower policy, Proposal/Reports Products & Installation Solutions Services information policy and insider CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Appoints/Assesses and log book policy) Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S aims to maintain an appropriate corporate governance framework to ensure active, reliable and profitable business management. The APPLICATION OF THE SWEDISH CODE OF the Board of Directors to nominate auditors. corporate governance is based upon CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In addition, the Code stipulates that the applicable Danish legislation and other The application of the Code is in all company’s auditor shall review whether a external rules and instructions, including important aspects consistent with the Corporate Governance Report has been the Danish Company Act, Nasdaq StockDanish recommendations on corporate prepared and that certain disclosures in the holm’s Rulebook, the Swedish Securities governance. The Code applies to all Swedish Corporate Governance Report are consistent Council on good practices in the stock companies with shares listed on a regulated with the other parts of the Annual Report. market, the Swedish Code of Corporate market in Sweden and must be applied on Nordic Waterproofing’s auditor follows Governance (the Code), and internal the date of the listing of the company’s generally accepted auditing practices in guidelines including Articles of Association, shares on Nasdaq Stockholm. In 2018, Denmark and no specific review of the instructions, policies and guidelines. Nordic Waterproofing deviated from Article Corporate Governance Report has therefore 2.1 of the Code in that Danish law requires been performed. 44 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Environmental, Social and Governance OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AS Extraordinary General Meetings may be (re-election of Ulf Gundemark as Chairman of PER 31 DECEMBER 2018, HOLDINGS, % convened to deal with other specific matters. the Board, re-election of Jørgen Jensen and Extraordinary General Meetings must be Riitta Palomäki, Mats O. Paulsson and Other ­ Anonymous held upon request from the Board of Kristina Willgård, and new election of Allan share­­ shareholders Directors or the auditor elected by the Jørgensen) and elected the auditor (re-elecholders 7% 2% Swedish General Meeting. In addition, shareholders tion of PricewaterhouseCoopers, authorized private that individually or collectively hold five firm of auditors) for the period extending up individuals percent (or more) of the share capital can until the next Annual General Meeting. 12% Swedish make a written request to the Board of institutional Directors that an Extraordinary General Among other things, the Meeting also approved a mandate to increase share capital share­ Meeting be held to deal with a specific (valid until Annual General Meeting 2019) and holders matter. Extraordinary General Meetings to to acquire treasury shares corresponding to Foreign ­institutional 55% consider specific matters must be convened at most 10 percent of the number of shares shareholders within two weeks of receipt of a request to outstanding in the company at any given time 24% such effect. In accordance with the Articles of Association, all General Meetings must be and authorization to decide on the introduction of a long-term performance-­based convened by the Board of Directors giving compensation programme (LTIP 2018). Source: Monitor by Modular Finance AB. Compiled and processed data from various sources, including written notice between three and five weeks Euroclear, Morningstar and the Swedish Financial prior to the meeting. As regards the Annual 2 NOMINATION COMMITTEE Supervisory Authority. General Meeting, the date of the intended Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S’s meeting must be published no later than shareholders have resolved to establish a eight weeks prior to the date of such Nomination Committee and to adopt rules of meeting and state the deadline for shareprocedure for the Nomination Committee. holder proposals. Notice of General According to the current rules of procedure Meetings must, observing the form and for the Nomination Committee, the substance required under the Danish Nomination Committee shall consist of four 1 GENERAL MEETINGS AND Companies Act, be published on www. members representing the largest shareSHAREHOLDERS’ INITIATIVES nordicwaterproofing. com. Furthermore, holders in the company, as per the last Under the Danish Companies Act, the Annual written notice of the General Meeting must banking day in August in the year before the General Meeting (AGM) is the company’s be e-mailed to all shareholders who so Annual General Meeting, who wish to highest decision-making body. The Annual request. participate in the Nomination Committee. In General Meeting may resolve upon every At the same time, it shall also be addition to these four members, the issue for Nordic Waterproofing which does announced in Swedish daily newspaper Chairman of the Board must also be a not specifically fall within the scope of the Svenska Dagbladet that notice has been member of the Nomination Committee. The exclusive powers of another corporate body. given. The notice is expected to specify the instructions for the Nomination Committee At the Annual General Meeting, shareholders time and place of the General Meeting and follow the Code as regards the appointment exercise their voting rights. At the Annual contain the agenda of the business to be of members. General Meeting, the shareholders vote on addressed at the General Meeting. The main duties of the Nomination matters such as approval of the Annual If a proposal to amend the Articles of Committee are to nominate candidates for Report, appropriation of Company profits or Association is to be addressed at the the positions of Chairman of the Board and losses, resolutions to discharge the General Meeting, a summary of such other members of the Board, and to submit members of the Board of Directors and the proposal must be included in the notice. For proposals for fees and other remuneration executive management from liability for the certain material amendments, the specific to be paid to each of the members of the financial year, the appointment of members wording must be set out in the notice. Board. Since 3 October 2018, the Nomination of the Board of Directors, the appointment of General meetings must be held in the Committee ahead of Annual General an auditor, and remuneration for the Board City of Stockholm or the Municipality of Meeting 2019 consists of the following five of Directors and the auditor. At the Annual Helsingborg in Sweden. Decisions made by persons: General Meeting, shareholders also have the the Annual General Meeting are published in • Viktor Henriksson, appointed by Carnegie opportunity to ask questions regarding the a press release after the meeting and the funds and chairman of the Nomination Group’s operations. minutes of the meeting are published on the Committee. The Annual General Meeting must be company’s website. • Karen Phadke, appointed by Mawer held in such time that the Annual Report, to Investment Management be adopted by the Board of Directors and Annual General Meeting 2018 • Joachim Spetz, appointed by Swedbank thereafter submitted to the General Meeting The Annual General Meeting 2018 took place Robur for approval, can be submitted to the Danish on 20 April in Helsingborg, Sweden with 51.4 percent of the votes represented. The • Ulf Hedlundh, appointed by Svolder AB Business Authority within four months after the expiry of the financial year. Meeting approved the Annual Report for 2017 • Ulf Gundemark, Chairman of the Board Shareholders who wish a matter to be and a dividend of SEK 3.75 per share in of Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S. addressed at the Annual General Meeting accordance with the Board’s proposal, must submit a written request to the Board approved fees for the Board of Directors and On the forming of the Nomination Commitof Directors no later than six weeks prior to the auditor, discharged the Board and tee, it represented 36.1 percent of the voting the date of the Annual General Meeting. In executive management from liability, and rights for all shares in Nordic Waterproofing addition to the Annual General Meeting, elected members to the Board of Directors Holding A/S. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 45 Contents Environmental, Social and Governance | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW The Nomination Committee observes the shareholders in a General Meeting, by a containing a copy of, among other things, the rules regarding the independence of simple majority of votes. Pursuant to the most recent corporate governance report. members of the Board as well as versatility Code, no more than one member of the The Board of Directors also ensures that and breadth. The Nomination Committee Board of Directors may be a member of the there are efficient systems for follow-up and has declared that it has applied regulation executive management of the company or a control of the company’s operations and that 4.1 of the Code as its diversity policy. In subsidiary. Furthermore, such Board there is a satisfactory control of the addition, each member of the Nomination member may not be the Chairman or the company’s compliance with laws and other Committee has considered any potential Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors. regulations applicable to the company’s conflict of interest before accepting the Similarly, under the Danish Companies operations. assignment, as stated in the Code. On the Act, the majority of the members of the company’s website, www.nordicwaterproofBoard of Directors must be members who Composition of the Board of Directors ing.com, a special section entitled “Nominaare not also members of executive manageThe Annual General Meeting on 20 April tion Committee” contains additional ment, and a Board member who is also a 2018 resolved that the Board of Directors of information about the Nomination Commitmember of the executive management Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S shall have tee and its proposals to the Annual General cannot be Chairman or Deputy Chairman of six members, elected by the Meeting, for the Meeting. the Board of Directors. period until the end of the next Annual Pursuant to the Danish Companies Act, General Meeting. Accordingly, the Board Independence of the nominating committee the Board of Directors is responsible for consists of Ulf Gundemark (Chairman), According to the Code, the majority of the Nordic Waterproofing’s overall and strategic Jørgen Jensen, Allan Jørgensen, Riitta members of the Nomination Committee are management. In addition to performing Palomäki, Mats O. Paulsson and Kristina to be independent in relation to the company overall management duties and strategic Willgård. All Board members have attended and company management. In addition, at management duties and ensuring proper Nasdaq’s stock market training course for least one of these must also be independent organization of the company’s business, the Board and management. The average age of in relation to the largest shareholder in the Board of Directors must, inter alia, ensure the Board members elected by the Annual company in terms of voting rights. Of the that: General Meeting was 57 at the end of the appointed members, all are independent in year, and two of the six members were • The bookkeeping and financial reporting relation to the company and its management women. For information about the Board procedures are satisfactory, having and the majority are independent in relation members’ assignments outside the Group regard to the circumstances of the to the company’s largest shareholder in and holdings of shares in Nordic Watercompany. terms of voting power. proofing, see pages 50–51. • Adequate risk management and internal Meetings of the Nomination Committee control procedures have been estabIndependence of the Board of Directors The Nomination Committee ahead of Annual lished. In accordance with the Code, the majority of General Meeting 2019 has held five • The Board of Directors receives requisite the Board members elected by the Annual meetings. No fees have been paid for work regular information about the company’s General Meeting shall be independent in on the Committee financial position. relation to Nordic Waterproofing and its management and at least two of these shall • The executive management performs its 3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS also be independent in relation to the duties properly and as directed by the The Board of Directors is the highest company’s major shareholders. Of the Board of Directors and. decision-making body after the General Board’s six members, all are independent in Meeting. The responsibilities of the Board of • That the financial resources of the relation to the company and its management Directors are set out in the Danish Compacompany are adequate at all times, and and in relation to the company’s major nies Act, the Articles of Association, and the that the company has sufficient liquidity shareholders. Board’s rules of procedure adopted by the to meet its current and future liabilities Board of Directors. In addition, the Board of as they fall due. The company is therefore Evaluation of Board performance Directors must comply with the Code and required to continuously assess its The Board of Directors regularly evaluates Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers, financial position and ensure that the its work through a systematic and structured as well as other Swedish, Danish and other existing capital resources are adequate. process with the purpose of developing the foreign laws and regulations, as applicable. Board of Directors’ work methods and Members of the Board of Directors (other The Board of Directors has adopted, and efficiency. In addition, the Board of Directors than employee representatives, if any) are regularly evaluates, a number of governing evaluates the company’s IT strategy and its appointed annually by the shareholders at documents including the rules of procedure implementation and monitors compliance the Annual General Meeting for the period for the Board of Directors, executive with the policies, instructions and guidelines until the next Annual General Meeting. The management instructions, financial manual, established by the Board of Directors. The Articles of Association state that the Board treasury policy, IT policy, information Chairman is responsible for carrying out the of Directors (not including any employee security policy, diversity policy, code of evaluation and presenting the results to the representatives) must consist of a minimum conduct and whistleblower policy, informaNomination Committee. The purpose of the of four members and a maximum of eight tion policy and insider and log book policy. evaluation is to gather the Board members’ members. The Board of Directors currently Adopted governance documents are views on the Board’s performance, what consists of six ordinary members. The implemented in the organization through the measures can be taken to improve the composition of the Board complies with the business unit managers. In addition, the efficiency of Board work, and whether the Code’s requirements for independence in Board of Directors regularly adopts and Board has a well-balanced mix of competenrelation to both the company, its manageevaluates the Nordic Waterproofing’s cies. The evaluation provides the basis for ment and the company’s major shareholdbusiness plan, including goals, strategies, the work of the Nomination Committee ers. The members of the Board are risks and budget, and reviews the company’s ahead of the Annual General Meeting. In presented in closer detail on pages 50–51. website and ensures that such website has a 2018, the Chairman conducted a self-asUnder Danish law, members of the Board of special corporate governance section sessment of the Board work performance Directors may be removed at any time by the including the collaboration between the CEO 46 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Environmental, Social and Governance BOARD WORK IN 2018 A minimum of six ordinary Board meetings will be held each year. In 2018 the Board held 14 Board meetings (13). The work of the Board of Directors follows an annual cycle, in order for the Board to best fulfil its duties. Discussed at the beginning of the year are the year-end report and the Annual Report and the matters to be submitted to the Annual General Meeting. At the end of the year, the budget for the coming year is addressed. Each quarter, consolidated earnings are reported, and interim reports are approved for publication. December Budget and strategy. January November Review of potential acquisitions. Interim report for the period February January to September. DEC JAN Year-end report. OV FE N B March October Audit and Annual Report review. Evaluation of the President OCT WORK OF MAR and the Board of Directors. THE BOARD SEP OF DIRECTORS APR April G M Annual Report, constituent meeting September AU AY after the Annual General Meeting. Visit to Veg Tech. JUL JUN May Interim report for the period January to March. August July June Interim report for the period January to Review potential Review of policies, digitalization and June and review of potential acquisitions. acquisitions. potential acquisitions. and CFO. This based on the principle of comcontractual terms are fair to the • Monitor and evaluate programmes for paring “to be” with “as is” evaluations. The individual and the company, that failure is variable remuneration, both ongoing and results have been communicated and not rewarded and that the duty to those that have ended during the year, for discussed within the Board and senior mitigate loss is fully recognized. the executive management. management as well as the Nomination • Consider and make decisions on issues • Monitor and evaluate the application of Committee. concerning principles for remuneration the guidelines for remuneration that the and other terms of employment for the Annual General Meeting is legally obliged Board meetings executive management, including to establish, as well as the current In 2018 the Board held 14 scheduled evaluating whether the remuneration remuneration structures and levels in the meetings. The CEO and the CFO, who is also level of the CEO is in accordance with, company. the Board secretary, take part in the Board’s and not exceeding, comparable market • Oversee the implementation of any meetings. Other executives take part as practice levels at any given time, pension, retirement, fatality, disability or needed as rapporteurs for special items of including any incentive programmes. life assurance scheme and any incentive business. • Consider and make decisions on schemes for executive managers of the remuneration matters of material company. BOARD COMMITTEES importance to the company, including • Review its own terms of reference and 4 Remuneration Committee incentive programmes and payments for effectiveness on the above, on an annual Effective from 2017, the Board of Directors the CEO of the company. The decisions basis. has established a Remuneration Committee. concerning the remuneration of the CEO, In 2018, the Remuneration Committee held including any incentive programme shall 5 Audit Committee two meetings at which minutes were kept. be in accordance with, and not exceed, The Board of Directors has internally Three meetings are planned for 2019. The comparable market practice levels at any established an Audit Committee, which must current Remuneration Committee consists given time. comprise three members. The Audit of two members: Ulf Gundemark (chairman) • Consider and make decisions on the Committee prepares proposals for the Board and Kristina Willgård. The Remuneration targets (bonus levels and performance of Directors which either adopts resolutions Committee’s main function is to: targets) for company-operated perforon the matters or, if appropriate, decides • Consider and make decisions as to the upon proposals for resolutions to be adopted mance related incentive programmes for framework for the remuneration of the by the shareholders at General Meetings. In executive managers of the Company, as CEO of the company, including but not 2018, the Audit Committee held five well as monitoring and evaluating the limited to salary, salary increases, meetings at which minutes were kept. Five fulfilment of such targets. pension rights and any compensation or meetings are planned for 2019. terminations payments, ensuring that the 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 47 Contents Environmental, Social and Governance | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW The current Audit Committee consists of consists of the CFO and the seven business ties, expertise and performance. In addition, three members: Jørgen Jensen (Chairman), unit managers (Denmark, Finland, Norway, the Annual General Meeting may resolve to Riitta Palomäki and Mats O. Paulsson. Its Sweden, SealEco, Taasinge Elementer and offer long-term incentive schemes such as main duties, without having any impact on Veg Tech). The CEO and other members of equity-based and share price-based the duties and responsibilities of the Board the Group Management team are presented incentive schemes. The purpose of these of Directors, are to assist with oversight of: in more detail on pages 52–53. incentive schemes will be to contribute to • The company’s financial reporting. The Group Management team conducts long-term value growth and provide a management meetings at regular intervals shared interest in value growth for share• Systems of internal control and risk and held eleven meetings in 2018. The meetholders and employees. For further informamanagement related to finances. ings are focused on the Group’s strategic tion on remuneration to the Board of • External audit of the Annual Report. and operative development and financial Directors and Group Management, see • Control of the auditor’s independence, performance. In addition to these meetings, pages 50–53 and 72–73 respectively, and including oversight of non-audit services. the senior executives work in close daily Note 7. • Preparing a recommendation to the cooperation regarding various matters. The long-term performance-based Board of Directors as regards the auditor remuneration programmes (LTIP 2017 and to be nominated by the Board of REMUNERATION FOR BOARD MEMBERS LTIP 2018 respectively) aim at strengthening Directors and elected by the Annual AND GROUP MANAGEMENT Nordic Waterproofing’s ability to retain the General Meeting. Board of Directors most talented individuals in key positions, Fees and other remuneration for members of and at stimulating participants to increase 6 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT the Board of Directors, including the their efforts by linking their financial Pursuant to the Danish Companies Act and Chairman of the Board, are determined by interests and perspectives with those of the Articles of Association, the Board of the company’s shareholders at the Annual shareholders. LTIP 2017 and LTIP 2018 will Directors appoints and removes the General Meeting based on proposals made by run over a period of three years, with the members of an executive management, the Board of Directors and the Nomination outcome being dependent on the fulfilment which is responsible for the day-to-day manCommittee. The Annual General Meeting has of various financial performance requireagement of Nordic Waterproofing Holding resolved that fees be payable for the 2018 ments. To obtain the maximum allocation of A/S. accounting year as follows: SEK 500,000 to rights to performance shares in LTIP 2018, The Articles of Association state that an the Chairman of the Board and SEK 275,000 EBIT growth over the period 1 January 2018 executive management consisting of one to to each of the other Board members. to 31 December 2020 must correspond to an five members must be appointed. Currently, Remuneration for the Chairman of the Audit annual average of 12 percent. More the company has only appointed one Committee amounts to SEK 100,000 and each information on LTIP 2017 and LTIP 2018, is member to the executive management: member of the Audit Committee is paid SEK provided on page 73. Martin Ellis as CEO (Danish: Administrerande 50,000. Board members are not entitled to Direktør). any special benefits on resigning from the 8 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT ON The executive management reports to the Board of Directors. INTERNAL CONTROL AND FINANCIAL Board of Directors. The executive manageREPORTING ment’s responsibilities are set out in the Executive Management and Group The responsibilities of the Board of Directors Danish Companies Act, the Articles of Management team and the executive management for financial Association, directions and instructions The Board of Directors’ policy is that salaries reporting and internal control is, among given by the Board of Directors, and other and other benefits be on market terms and other things, governed by the Danish internal regulations and instructions adequate to attract sufficiently qualified Accounting Act, the Danish Annual Reports established by the Board of Directors. In employees for the relevant positions. The Act, the Danish Companies Act and the addition, the executive management is Board of Directors determines the remunerCode. required to comply with the Code and ation payable to the members of executive The Board of Directors regularly Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers, management, including the CEO. The considers whether it would be expedient to as well as other Swedish, Danish and other salaries for the members of executive include additional financial and non-finanforeign laws and regulations, as applicable. management consist of a fixed salary, cial information in the company’s financial The executive management must, inter variable salary and other benefits. The reports. The Board of Directors regularly alia, take any measures necessary to ensure annual salary of the company’s CEO assesses the material risks associated with the company’s bookkeeping is maintained amounts to EUR 0.5 m, together with a the company’s operations, the implementapursuant to law and that the management of variable portion of at most 60 percent of tion of the company’s strategy and the risks funds is conducted in a sound manner. The annual salary. associated with the financial reporting and executive management may in specific cases The CEO, supported by the Board of seeks to ensure that such risks are be authorized by the Board of Directors to Directors, determines the remuneration managed in a proactive and efficient carry out management-related measures, payable to other members of Group manner. which are outside the scope of the compaManagement. The salaries to the members As part of the company’s risk manageny’s day-to-day business. of Group Management consist of a fixed ment, various internal control systems have salary and pension, and the possibility to been established, which are reviewed 7 GROUP MANAGEMENT receive variable salary and other benefits. regularly by the Board of Directors to ensure The executive management is supported by The variable salary to which the company’s that such systems are appropriate and a number of senior officers of the company. CEO and CFO and the seven business unit sufficient in the context of the company’s Together with the executive management, heads are entitled is capped at 60 percent of business and operations. The company’s these senior officers of the subsidiaries, their fixed salary. Annual Report includes information about constitute the Group Management team. The members of the executive managethe management of operational risks. The Martin Ellis has been the CEO of Nordic ment team and Group Management will be financial reporting and internal controls are Waterproofing since October 2015. In offered a salary which is on market terms aimed at providing the Board of Directors addition to the CEO, Group Management and based on each individual’s responsibiliand executive management with reasonable assurance that: 48 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Environmental, Social and Governance • reporting by the executive management is subsidiaries. For 2018, the total remuneraINFORMATION POLICY AND INSIDER AND reliable and in compliance with internal tion to the company’s auditor amounted to LOGBOOK POLICY policies and procedures and gives a true SEK 7.0 m (9.5). The total remuneration to Nordic Waterproofing has prepared an and fair view of the company’s financial other auditors in the Group during the period information policy and an insider policy for performance and financial position amounted to SEK 0.3 m (0.3). Please refer to the purpose of informing employees and • material risks are identified and minimized Note 36 for further information. other relevant parties at the company about The auditor is appointed for a term of one the laws and regulations applicable to the • internal controls are in place to support year by the shareholders following a distribution of information by the company, the quality and efficiency of the business proposal by the Board of Directors and and the special requirements imposed on processes and to safeguard the compafollowing recommendation from the Audit persons who are active in a listed company ny’s business and assets and Committee. The scope of the auditor’s with regard to, among other things, • business is conducted in compliance with duties, including audit and non-audit duties, price-sensitive information. In this context, applicable laws, regulations and internal is agreed annually between the Board of the company has established routines for policies. Directors and the auditor based on handling the distribution of information. recommendations by the Audit Committee. CONFLICT OF INTEREST TRANSACTIONS The company has regular discussions and THE IR FUNCTION Under the Danish Companies Act, no regularly exchanges information with the The IR function is headed by the company’s member of the Board of Directors or auditor. To ensure that the dealings of the CFO. Its primary duties are to prepare executive management may participate in Board and Audit Committee’s treatment are quarterly and Annual Reports, analyst the transaction of business that involves any conducted in a structured manner, and to conferences, General Meetings and capital agreement between the company and that meet the Board’s information requirements, market presentations, and to regularly report member, or legal proceedings against that Nordic Waterproofing’s auditors met the on IR activities. External financial information member, or the transaction of business that Audit Committee on two occasions in 2018. is regularly provided in the form of: involves any agreement between the The auditor is obliged to attend the • Interim reports company and a third party, or legal Annual General Meeting and is entitled to • Annual Report proceedings against a third party, if the attend other General Meetings. At the • Regulatory, as well as non-regulatory member has a material interest in such Annual General Meeting, the auditor is press releases business and that material interest could obliged to answer questions raised relating • Presentations for financial analysts, conflict with the interests of the company. to the Annual Report. The auditor is also investors and the media on the date of entitled to attend any Board meeting at publication of the year-end and interim 9 AUDITING which the Annual Report of the company is reports Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the presented and – under the Board’s rules of • Meetings with financial analysts, Annual General Meeting must appoint a procedure – any other Board meetings at investors and media representatives. state-authorized public accountant to audit which financial statements are considered, Nordic Waterproofing’s accounts. The on which the auditor must provide a ADDITIONAL INFORMATION company’s auditor is PricewaterhouseCoopstatement. Visit www.nordicwaterproofing.com for ers Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskinformation such as the Articles of Associaab with Lars Almskou Ohmeyer as the tion, the Code of Conduct, and information principal auditor. Lars Almskou Ohmeyer is from previous General Meetings as well as currently also the auditor for the Danish media releases. REQUIREMENT TO DISCLOSE SHAREHOLDINGS Since Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S’s capital. When a company has received a and shares held directly or indirectly registered office is located in Denmark, the notification, it must publish the content of following the transaction. Swedish Financial Instruments Trading Act the notification as soon as possible. The notification must further state the (1991:980) provides that corresponding Holders of shares in a company mean a transaction date on which the threshold Danish rules apply as regards the natural or legal person who, directly or was reached or no longer reached and the requirement to disclose shareholdings. indirectly, holds identity of the shareholder as well as the For the purpose of designating the 1) shares in the company on behalf of identity of any natural or legal person with home member state pursuant to the himself and for his own account, the right to vote on behalf of the shareTransparency Directive (2004/109/EC, as 2) shares in the company on behalf of holder. In the case of a group structure, the amended), Denmark is the company’s himself, but for the account of another chain of controlled undertakings through home member state. Pursuant to section natural or legal person, or which voting rights are effectively held 38 of the Danish Capital Markets Act, 3) share certificates, where such holder is shall also be disclosed. The information holders of shares in Danish companies considered a shareholder in relation to must be notified to the company and with shares admitted to trading on Nasdaq the underlying securities represented simultaneously submitted electronically to Stockholm are required to give simultaneby the certificate. the Danish FSA. Failure to comply with the ous notice to the company and the Danish notification requirements is punishable by FSA of the shareholdings in the company The notification must be made immediately fine. immediately, when the shareholding and during the same trading day (before Please refer to www.nordicwaterproofreaches, exceeds or falls below thresholds midnight) of the transaction and in ing.com under the headline Shareholders at intervals of 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 50 or 90 per accordance with the provisions of the Execfor more information. cent. and limits of 1/3 or 2/3 of the voting utive Order no. 1256 of 5 November 2015 rights or nominal value of the total share and must state the number of voting rights 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 49 Contents Environmental, Social and Governance | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW BOARD Name Ulf Gundemark Jørgen Jensen Allan Lindhard Jørgensen Position Chairman of the Board since 2015. Board member since 2015. Board member since 2018. Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Audit Committee. Committee. Member of the Nomination Committee. Year elected 2015 2015 2018 Born 1951 1968 1965 Nationality Swedish Danish Danish Other assignments Board member of AQ Group AB, GUMACO CEO of Widex A/S and Board member of CEO of Dovista A/S. Chairman of the AB, Opti Group AB, Ripasso Energy AB several subsidiaries of Widex A/S. Board Boards of Velfac A/S, Rational Vinduer and Lantmännen ekonomisk förening. member and CEO of JFJ Invest ApS. A/S, and Svenska Fönster AB. Board Board member of DFDS A/S, and Vice member of OH Industri A/S, and Pankas Chairman of the Board of Velux A/S. A/S. Previous assignments Chairman of Bridge to China AB, President and CEO of Nilfisk-Advance Board member of Huscompagniet A/S, Chairman and Board member of Lindab A/S, Chairman of the Board of Alto CEO of Kemp & Lauritzen A/S, COO of International AB and Ripasso Energy Danmark A/S and several companies in NCC AB, CEO of Eurodan-huse A/S, Systems AB, and Board member of the Nilfisk Group, Board member and chief accountant with Eurodan-huse A/S, Scandi Standard AB, Solar A/S, Lönne member of the Audit Committee of Auriga auditor with PricewaterhouseCoopers International AS and Constructor Group A/S and Board member of TCM A/S. A/S. A/S. Education Master of Science in Electrotechnology Master of Science in Economics from Bachelor of Commerce, Accounting, from Chalmers University of Technology, Aarhus University, Denmark. Copenhagen Business School, Denmark. Gothenburg, Sweden. Supplementary courses at IFL and INSEAD. Independent in relation to Yes. Yes. Yes. major shareholders Independent in relation to Yes. Yes. Yes. the company Shareholding in Nordic 34,000 shares. Has purchased 7,500 NWG 20,976 shares. Has not traded in the NWG 0 shares. Has not traded in the NWG Waterproofing1) shares during 2018. share during 2018. share during 2018. Participation in Board 14 of 14 meetings. 11 of 14 meetings. 9 of 11 meetings. meetings Audit Committee attendance – 5 of 5 meetings. – Remuneration committee 2 of 2 meetings. – attendance Fees in 20182) Board assignments SEK 500,000 SEK 275,000 SEK 183,333 Committee assignments – SEK 100,000 – Total 2018 SEK 500,000 SEK 375,000 SEK 183,333 1) Own shares and shares held by closely related parties. Board assignments and holdings in Nordic Waterproofing as stated above reflect the situation as per 31 December 2018. This information is updated regularly at www.nordicwaterproofing.com. 2) The fees paid to the members of the Board of Directors elected by the Annual General Meeting are approved by the Annual General Meeting based on the proposals of the Nomination Committee. For the 2018 calendar year, remuneration was paid as per Note 7. No consulting fees were paid to Board members. Remuneration excludes travel allowances. 50 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Environmental, Social and Governance Name Riitta Palomäki Mats O. Paulsson Kristina Willgård Position Board member since 2016. Board member since 2017. Board member since 2017. Member of the Audit Committee. Member of the Audit Committee. Member of the Remuneration Committee. Year elected 2016 2017 2017 Born 1957 1958 1965 Nationality Finnish Swedish Swedish Other assignments Member of the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Boards of Caverion Oy, CEO of AddLife AB, Chairman of the Member of the Supervisory Board at OP Nordisk Bergteknik AB, KEWAB, AKEAB, Board of AddLife Development AB, Board Cooperative. and Mark & Energibyggarna AB. Board member of Mediplast AB, Biolin Scientific member of Eleda Acquisition AB, and AB, and Biomedica Medizinprodukte Bösarps Grus & Torrbruk AB. GmbH, and assignments as member and shareholder in Willgård AB. Previous assignments Board member, Chair of the Audit CEO of Bravida AB, CEO of Strabag CFO of Addtech AB, Finance Director at Committee and member of the Scandinavia AB and CEO of Peab Industri Ericsson AB, CFO of Netwise AB, CFO of Remuneration Committee at HKScan Oyj, AB. Member of the boards of Acando AB, Acando AB and auditor at Arthur Executive Vice President and CFO of Paroc Oy, Ramirent Plc, BTH Bygg AB, Andersen, among other managerial Uponor Oyj, Board member and Chair of and WinGroup AG. positions. Board member of Serneke the Audit Committee of Componenta Oyj, Group AB. CFO of Kuusakoski Group, various managerial positions at Konecranes and ABB Finland. Education Master of Science in Accounting and ICT Master of Science in Engineering from Master of Science of Economics, Lund from Turku School of Economics and Lund University of Technology, Sweden. University, Sweden. Business Administration, Finland. Independent in relation to Yes. Yes. Yes. major shareholders Independent in relation to Yes. Yes. Yes. the company Shareholding in Nordic 3,000 shares. Has not traded in the NWG 15,000 shares. Has not traded in the NWG 0 shares. Has not traded in the NWG Waterproofing1) share during 2018. share during 2018. share during 2018. Participation in Board 13 of 14 meetings. 12 of 14 meetings. 12 of 14 meetings. meetings Audit Committee attendance 5 of 5 meetings. 5 of 5 meetings. Remuneration committee – – 2 of 2 meetings. attendance Fees in 20182) Board assignments SEK 275,000 SEK 275,000 SEK 275,000 Committee assignments SEK 50,000 SEK 50,000 – Total 2018 SEK 325,000 SEK 325,000 SEK 275,000 1) Own shares and shares held by closely related parties. Board assignments and holdings in Nordic Waterproofing as stated above reflect the situation as per 31 December 2018. This information is updated regularly at www.nordicwaterproofing.com. 2) The fees paid to the members of the Board of Directors elected by the Annual General Meeting are approved by the Annual General Meeting based on the proposals of the Nomination Committee. For the 2018 calendar year, remuneration was paid as per Note 7. No consulting fees were paid to Board members. Remuneration excludes travel allowances. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 51 Contents Environmental, Social and Governance | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW GROUP MANAGEMENT Name Martin Ellis Jonas Olin Petter Holth Bengt-Erik Karlberg Mats Lindborg Position President and CEO. Chief Financial Officer Head of Nordic Head of Veg Tech. Head of Nordic (CFO). Waterproofing Norway. Waterproofing Sweden. Employed since 2011 2007 2012 2005 1986 In current 2015 2011 2017 2018 2011 position since Born 1956 1972 1959 1969 1964 Nationality British Swedish Norwegian Swedish Swedish Education Diploma from HEC Paris B. Sc. economics and Four-year technical high Development Engineer Four-year technical high Business School, France. business accounting, school diploma in (B.Sc.) Halmstad school diploma in In addition, attended Lund University, Sweden. Building and Civil University, Sweden. Building and Civil Stern Business School in Engineering from Gjøvik Trained reserve officer in Engineering from Erik New York, US and Getulio Tekniske Fagskole, the Royal Swedish Air Dahlbergs Gymnasium in Vargas Business School Norway. Force. Jönköping, Sweden. in Sao Paulo, Brazil. Selection of previous CEO of Nordic 20 years of experience as 30 years of experience of More than 20 years of 30 years of experience in positions Waterproofing and CFO, controller and sales and marketing in senior management sales and marketing Chairman of the Board of auditor, including the building industry. experience, including at positions, including at Nordic Waterproofing. 30 Trelleborg Waterproofing, CEO of Nortett Bygg A/S. Veg Tech and Mekra Trelleborg years of experience as Abdon Finax, IKEA Lang. Waterproofing. CEO and other leading Industry and Mazars. positions, including at Icopal (CEO) and Saint Gobain (President of the Building Materials Division). Shareholding in 366,270 shares. 50,010 shares. 154,395 shares. 15,000 shares. 61,414 shares. Nordic Waterproofing1) Has not traded in the Has not traded in the Has not traded in the Has purchased 15,000 Has not traded in the NWG share during 2018. NWG share during 2018. NWG share during 2018. NWG shares during 2018. NWG share during 2018. 1) Own and closely related. Holdings in Nordic Waterproofing as stated above reflect the situation as per 31 December 2018. PRINCIPLES FOR REMUNERATION salary of each eligible participant from the Board of Directors and The following are the principles for remuneration of senior executhe executive management. Payment of bonus is only relevant when tives adopted by the 2018 Annual General Meeting: conditions and targets have been fully or partly met (as agreed). If no targets are met, no bonus is paid out. Members of the company’s Board of Directors and Executive Targets for the Board of Directors shall be agreed upon by the Management receive a fixed annual remuneration. In addition, Board of Directors and the Nomination Committee. Targets for the members of the Board of Directors and Executive Management may executive management shall be agreed upon by the Board of receive incentive-based remuneration consisting of cash bonus Directors and the executive management. (including cash bonuses based on development in the share price) Other bonus schemes that may lead to cash bonuses of up to – on an ongoing, one-off and event-based basis. 100 percent of the base salary may be made in special cases. Such schemes shall typically be made so as to take effect upon the CASH BONUS REMUNERATION occurrence of a specific event. Subject to the restrictions of Cash bonus schemes may consist of an annual bonus, which the applicable law, specific events can be the acquisition of a controlling individual member of the Board of Directors and the executive interest in a company, the completion of a takeover bid, or the management can receive if specific targets of the company and other completion or reaching of other significant transactions or possible personal targets for the relevant year are met. The cash ­objectives. bonus shall be equivalent to at most 100 percent of the fixed base 52 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Environmental, Social and Governance Name Esa Mäki Paul Erik Rask Martin Tholstrup Thomas Zipfel Position Head of Nordic Head of Nordic Head of Taasinge Head of SealEco. Waterproofing Finland. Waterproofing Denmark. Elementer. Employed since 2017 1992 2017 2009 In current position 2017 2011 2017 2011 since Born 1969 1962 1976 1961 Nationality Finnish Danish Danish Swedish Education Master of Science in Bachelor in Business Carpenter from Master of Science in building economics and a Administration from Svendborg electronics engineering Bachelor in building Aarhus University, a Erhvervsskole, Denmark from Industrie und construction technology Bachelor in Marketing and an AP degree in Handelskammer in from Tampere University, from Aalborg University Construction Technology Bochum, Germany. In Finland. and an Executive Master from Erhvervsakademiet addition, he has studied of Business Lillebælt, Denmark. an Executive Marketing Administration from the Program and Executive Scandinavian Management Program at International IFL, Stockholm School of Management Institute in Economics, Sweden. Copenhagen. Has also studied the Advanced Management Programme at INSEAD. Selection of previous CEO of Nesco Group and 30 years of experience of CEO of AtticGroup A/S 20 years of experience of positions various managerial leading positions and and AtticGroup AB, and managing positions, positions at Icopal sales and marketing, 20 years of experience including at Trelleborg Finland and other including at Trelleborg from development, sales Waterproofing. companies in the Phønix A/S. and prefabrication within building material the construction industry. industry. Shareholding in 12,055 shares. 103,683 shares. 19,000 shares. 90,504 shares. Nordic Waterproofing1) Has purchased 8,000 Has not traded in the Has not traded in the Has not traded in the NWG shares during 2018. NWG share during 2018. NWG share during 2018. NWG share during 2018. 1) Own and closely related. Holdings in Nordic Waterproofing as stated above reflect the situation as per 31 December 2018. REMUNERATION OF GROUP MANAGEMENT Total including SEK M Fixed salary Variable salary Other benefits Total Pension pension CEO 2018 5.1 3.1 0.0 8.2 0.0 8.2 2017 5.0 2.5 0.0 7.5 0.0 7.5 Group Management (8 persons) 2018 13.5 4.7 1.2 19.4 2.2 21.6 (7 persons) 2017 11.5 3.8 1.1 16.4 2.5 18.9 Total 2018 18.6 7.8 1.2 27.6 2.2 29.8 Total 2017 16.5 6.3 1.1 23.9 2.5 26.4 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 53 Contents Environmental, Social and Governance | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW 54 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Environmental, Social and Governance RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT All business operations are associated with CRISIS MANAGEMENT annually in each business unit. A risk matrix risks. Risks that are managed well can lead Nordic Waterproofing’s crisis management with the ten greatest risks – their probability, to opportunities and value being generated, is decentralized, meaning that events should consequences and measures for reducing or while risks that are not managed properly be resolved locally, as close as possible to preventing those risks – is then consolidated can cause damage and losses. the origin of the incident. The crisis from each business unit up to the Group Demand for Nordic Waterproofing’s organization now in place at the Group level level, forming the basis for a list of the products and solutions varies by market. shall ensure that those involved within Group’s shared risks. The Group focuses on maintaining an Nordic Waterproofing have the knowledge Financial risk management is adminisexposure to market segments that generally and skills required to manage various trated by the Group CFO who is responsible offer a favourable balance between parts of incidents. If major incidents occur that could for the Group’s external banking relationthe construction industry that dominate in affect the Group as a whole, the Group’s ships, liquidity management, net financial the earlier and later stages of the economic crisis organization, including the Board of items, interest-bearing liabilities and assets, cycle, as well as towards private individuals Directors, is to be informed and should and for Group-wide payment systems and and industrial players between which assess how the event should be managed. netting of currency positions. The centralizademand is well balanced. Seasonal effects tion of financial management entails occur and are particularly apparent in the RESPONSIBILITY AND REVIEW considerable economies of scale and lower Installation Services operating segment. The capacity to identify, evaluate, manage financing costs, while ensuring strict Read more about seasonal effects on and monitor risks is an important part of the management of the Group’s financial risks page 33. management and control of Nordic and improved internal control. Waterproofing’s business operations. The Read more about Nordic Waterproofing’s RISKS OF CONFIDENCE purpose is for the Group’s targets to be significant risks and risk management on As a leading player in the Nordic waterproofachieved through well-considered risk pages 56–57. ing market, the expectations of Nordic taking within defined limits. Risks and Waterproofing are rigorous. There is a risk opportunities are regularly reviewed and for the Group that the behaviour of individual reported to the Executive Management and employees or business decisions could the Board of Directors for appropriate erase the trust that has been built up over a responses and actions. long time. It is essential to prevent and Responsibility for risk work lies with the minimize the risk of such events and managers of each of Nordic Waterproofing’s behaviours adversely affecting confidence different business units. Responsibility and trust in the Group and its brands. For refers both to ongoing efforts with operathis reason, the Group conducts continuous tional and other relevant risks, to advance training in the Code of Conduct and product and develop work in the area of risk. A safety. bottom-up risk assessment is conducted 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 55 Contents Environmental, Social and Governance | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW MAJOR RISKS AT NORDIC WATERPROOFING RISK DESCRIPTION DEVELOPMENT IN 2018 Market Development The waterproofing market is a relatively small niche within Demand from the construction industry remained of the the construction market and generally follows the strong throughout 2018. Nordic Waterproofing’s construction fluctuations in the construction industry. Demand for distribution of sales was stable, with approximately market Nordic Waterproofing’s products and services may fall 60 percent to renovation and 40 percent to new build. because of lower construction activity. Competition By developing their products, improving their production Nordic Waterproofing is constantly monitoring the methods or offering their products at lower prices, Nordic development in its market. The overall demand for Waterproofing’s competitors could cause customers to bitumen and EPDM products, and other materials prefer their products. Synthetic materials, such as PVC supplied via Nordic Waterproofing’s local representaand TPO, which account for a small proportion of the tives, is stable in the Group’s market. Group’s turnover, may increase in popularity at the expense of bitumen. Operational Unforeseen Unforeseen business-related problems associated with the During 2018, the Group made three acquisitions. Plans problems in acquired companies or the integration processes may take for integrating the new acquisitions were included in connection longer or be costlier than anticipated, and expected the acquisition process. A senior team of managers are with synergies could fail to, or only partially, materialize. Thus, involved from the start, supported by a structured due acquisitions the value of assets relating to the acquisitions – goodwill diligence process, and the Group’s Code of Conduct. – may not be realized and may need to be written down. Seasonality Irregular seasonal variations, e.g. an earlier winter The Group maintains an agile organization to meet the season, may affect building activities. challenges posed by the Nordic winter and summer weather conditions. Disruption in The Group’s manufacturing and installation operations The bitumen manufacturing units in Denmark, Finland production could suffer stoppages or disruptions in the form of, for and Sweden are maintained routinely and, once a year, example, fire, engine breakdowns, failures in IT systems, production is stopped for systematic servicing. In disputes with labour organizations, weather conditions or addition, Nordic Waterproofing has spare capacities in natural disasters. its production units, allowing for a shorter accidental stop. EnvironmenThe production facilities in Denmark, Finland and Sweden The Group has all necessary permits for its operations tal permits are subject to mandatory reporting obligations and require and is monitoring any changes in the environmental permits. The operations affect the external environment regulations and permit regulations in each relevant primary through noise and emissions. country. IT system and The Group’s IT systems can be disrupted by software A central organization is continually monitoring the process failures, computer viruses, hacking, sabotage and physical system’s status and carrying out monthly updates to failure damage, for example. protect the Group’s IT systems. No major disruptions were reported in 2018. Supplier Access to alternative suppliers from whom bitumen and The Group has integrated risk mitigation and relationships rubber components can be purchased is considered dependency into the sourcing process. Potential crucial in the event that partnerships with the Group’s suppliers are evaluated and a two-tier supplier primary suppliers were to come to an end. The supply scheme is used when possible. agreement for rubber products contains minimum volume commitments for the Group, reducing the option to purchase rubber compounds from alternative suppliers and adapt to lower demand. Raw material There is a risk that the Group will be unable to compensate The Group is exposed to volatility of raw materials, and costs for an increase in the cost of input goods by imposing a can decide to hedge the price levels for a certain period higher price on a customer or that this compensation will and/or respond by increasing the price of its products. only be obtained after a period of time, which will have an During 2018, the price for bitumen was volatile and adverse effect on the Group’s results and financial increased substantially and the Group implemented position. measures to mitigate any negative effects. Political risks One of Nordic Waterproofing’s key bitumen suppliers Due to the current political situation in Venezuela, sources part of its oil from producers operating in Nordic Waterproofing will continue to be in contact Venezuela. Following the Executive Order 13850 by the US with its suppliers that may be affected of any Treasury Department’s office of Foreign Assets Control sanctions. (“OFAC”), Nordic Waterproofing’s supplier has requested a confirmation that it will be allowed to continue to purchase products from their supplier. OFAC has provided special treatment by singling it out in a new general license issued by OFAC to allow the company to continue its operations. 56 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Environmental, Social and Governance RISK DESCRIPTION DEVELOPMENT IN 2018 Effects of Nordic Waterproofing conducts operations in the UK The development surrounding Brexit is continuously Brexit through its business unit SealEco. The operations in the monitored in order to mitigate potential negative UK are to a certain extent dependent on imports of goods effects. from the production unit in Sweden, but combined with the fact that Nordic Waterproofing’s sales in the UK account for less than 2 percent of the Group’s total sales, Nordic Waterproofing estimates that an exit from the EU, in one form or another, will not have a significant direct impact on the Group’s earnings. Legal Competition Competition authorities have the power to take legal action Nordic Waterproofing A/S and other providers of law and may require a party to cease applying terms and waterproofing products are subject to an investigation conditions or prices in agreements that are found to be by the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority anti-competitive. (KFST). The decision from the Danish Competition Council has been appealed, and the Danish Competition Appeals board has decided to remit the case back to the Council for re-assessment. At present, the process is uncertain and not possible to predict. Nordic Waterproofing is cooperating with the KFST. Changes to Changes in stimuli to encourage the construction of Nordic Waterproofing’s products are well established regulations new-buildings, e.g. legislation, regulations and rules in all relevant markets and the Group is exposed to a affecting town planning, zoning plans and land developlimited extent to changes in the subsidies in different ment, as well as building permit/planning permission countries. The taxreduction in the Swedish ROT regulations, may change in the future. Furthermore, (Repairs, Conversion, Extension) deduction scheme as changes may occur in the regulations for contributions, well as the lending restrictions and amortization such as the ROT deductions in Sweden and household requirements have had a certain, albeit limited, impact allowances in Finland. in 2018. Intellectual The Group has developed products that lack patent The Group has assigned an external party and property protection that may be more important to the Group and its established routines to register and maintain its rights competitive position on the market than what has patents, trade marks and other intellectual property. previously been considered to be commercially reasonable. There is also a risk that the Group will be unable to defend trademarks and patents granted. Compliance With 1,033 employees in ten countries there is an inherent In 2018, the updated version of the Group’s Code of risks risk that any Nordic Waterproofing employee is involved in Conduct and Whistleblower policy was signed-off by unethical behavior in terms of bribery, corruption, fraud or 94 percent of the employees, and the document will be other illegal or unethical behaviour. The same goes for the followed up annually in the annual performance Group’s suppliers. reviews. In addition, the development of a Code of Conduct for Suppliers is in its final stage and will be introduced in 2019. Financial Currency The Group is exposed to currency risk in the form of The Group has significant cash flows in foreign risks transactions and currency conversions. Transaction currencies (DKK, EUR and NOK) that arise in the exposure arises in connection with acquisitions and sales ordinary course of the Group’s business. Inflows and of goods and services in currencies other than the local outflows of those foreign currencies are naturally well currency of the relevant subsidiary. The translation balanced and any net transaction exposure is therefore exposure constitutes the risk represented by the considered insignificant. translation difference in the form of the change in equity. Credit risks Credit risks Credit risks may occur in relationships with In each country, Nordic Waterproofing has a large customers failing to perform their obligations. number of customers, most with low outstanding credit. As the Group maintain a close relationship with its customers and any delays are monitored and rectified as soon as possible. No major credit loss was reported in 2018. Sustaina­ EnvironmenThe Group is exposed to environmental and production With regard to fires in proprietary production, this is bility tal and risks, such as major fires with both production stoppages followed up for each individual business unit in an occupational and environmental impact as a consequence. Group annual assessment with preventive action programmes health and operations, especially the installation businesses which and testing of emergency contingencies. The follow-up safety risks involves roof laying, are also subjected to risks of is reported to Group Management. The Group accidents, with very severe injuries or even deadly continuously trains personnel with the aim of minimizoutcomes as a consequence. ing risks and accidents. Best practice comparisons are made between the different countries’ organizations. Human rights The Group has both common supply chains, and supply In 2018, we initiated a project looking further into the chains specific for our business units. We evaluate our possible impacts of our business. We are now in the suppliers but there is a risk that there are breaches of final phase of developing a Supplier Code of Conduct. labour and human rights lower in the value chain. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 57 Contents Environmental, Social and Governance | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW THE SHARE AND OWNERSHIP INFORMATION SHARE PRICE AND TRADING As part of the long-term performance-based The closing price for the NWG share on 28 incentive programme, LTIP 2018, the December 2018 was SEK 71.30 (70.50), company may repurchase shares with the corresponding to a market capitalization of purpose of ensuring the supply of shares approximately SEK 1,717 m (1,698). In 2018, through the exercise of performance shares a total of 14,540,213 NWG shares were in LTIP 2018. Additional information on LTIP traded on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange 2018 is provided on page 73, Note 7. for an average price of SEK 77.37 per share. The average number of shares traded per SHARE CAPITAL AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE trading day was 58,160. The highest price Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S’s share paid during the period 1 January to 31 capital at 31 December 2018 amounted to December 2018 was SEK 88.90 (100.50) on DKK 24,083,935. The total number of shares 21 June and the lowest price paid was SEK is 24,083,935. The quota value per share is 67.10 (69.00) on 6 February. The share price DKK 1.00. on 28 December 2018 was SEK 71.30 (last price paid). During the period from 1 INDIVIDUALS WITH AN INSIDER POSITION January to 31 December 2018, Nordic The members of the Board, the Group’s Waterproofing’s share price increased by management Team, the authorized public one percent, while the OMX Mid Cap index accountant, a number of employees/ GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF decreased by 4.5 percent (increase of 6.0). contract personnel in Nordic Waterproofing SHAREHOLDERS AS PER 31 DECEMBER and individuals with certain functions in the 2018, VOTES, % SHAREHOLDERS Group’s subsidiaries, who have a position On 31 December 2018, most of the total that can normally be assumed to provide Anonymous shareholders share capital was owned by Swedish access to non-publicized share price institutions and mutual funds (55.4 percent) sensitive information, have been registered 2% and private investors (11.7 percent). At 31 as insiders in Nordic Waterproofing. Listed Foreign December 2018 Nordic Waterproofing companies are required to record a logbook shareHolding A/S had more than 3,700 (2,900) of individuals who are employed or holders shareholders. The ten largest shareholders accounted for 60.6 (54.2) percent of the votes contracted by the company and have access to insider information relating to the 28% Swedish and of the share capital. company. These can include statutory shareThe Nordic Waterproofing Board of Direcinsiders, and other individuals who have holders tors held a total of 72,976 (88,476) NWG insider information without being registered 70% shares. The holdings of the individual as insiders. members appear on pages 50-51. Group Nordic Waterproofing records a logbook Source: Monitor by Modular Finance AB. Compiled and processed data from Management held a total of 872,331 for each financial report or press release various sources, including Euroclear, (849,331) NWG shares. The holdings of the containing insider information. Morningstar and the Swedish Financial individual members appear on pages 52–53. Supervisory Authority. Nordic Waterproofing held 11,610 treasury shares as per 31 December 2018. 58 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Environmental, Social and Governance FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2019 24 April Annual General Meeting 2 May Interim Report, January–March 2019 25 July Interim Report, January–June 2019 31 October Interim Report, January–September 2019 The Glasvasen office building immediately adjacent to the Central Station in Malmö, Sweden, has built-in waterproofing from Mataki overlaid with sedum. This green roof has biotopes with vegetation that WHY INVEST attracts butterflies and small birds. The green roof also keeps the building cooler in the summer and warmer in winter, while cleaning the air, dampening noise and absorbing rainwater. IN NORDIC WATERPROOFING? • Market-leading supplier with strong brands in waterproofing and effective solutions in installation and maintenance services. Read more about market positions on pages THE NORDIC WATERPROOFING SHARE 1 JANUARY 2018–28 FEBRUARY 2019 10–13. Number SEK of shares • We apply efficient production 3,000 processes, maintaining a high and 120 even level of quality, with potential Number of shares for further profitability enhance100 2,500 3,000 ments. Read more about the strategies on pages 16–19. Number 80 2,000 of shares 2,500 • Nordic Waterproofing has strong 3,000 and stable cash flow with good 60 1,500 2,000 dividend capacity. Read more about the dividend policy on page 60 and 2,500 40 1,000 comments on the cash flow 1,500 Nordic Waterproofing statement on pages 32–33. 2,000 20 500 OMX Stockholm Construction & Materials PI • The number of full-time employees 1,000 OMX Mid Cap Stockholm Index Nordic Waterproofing averages 1,033. The Group’s 1,500 0 0 Number of shares traded per month, thousands management team has long and Jan Feb Mar Apr May June 500 July Aug Sep Stockholm OMX Oct NovConstruction Dec Jan Feb PI & Materials solid experience of the sector from 1,000 OMX Mid Cap Stockholm Index both international and local Nordic Waterproofing 0 Number of shares traded per month, thousands operations. Read the presentation of June July Aug OMXSep Stockholm Oct Nov Dec Jan Construction Feb PI & Materials 500 Group Management on pages 52–53. OMX Mid Cap Stockholm Index 0 Number of shares traded per month, thousands Feb 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 59 Contents Environmental, Social and Governance | MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW DIVIDEND POLICY AND DIVIDEND FOR 2018 KEY INVESTOR RELATIONS ACTIVITIES NOTIFICATION TO ATTEND THE ANNUAL For 2018, the Board proposes a dividend of DURING THE YEAR GENERAL MEETING SEK 4.00 (3.75) per share, which is equal to Nordic Waterproofing has hosted several The complete notification convening the 64 (66) percent of net profit for the year. site visits for investors and analysts, as well Annual General Meeting will be available on Based on the share price of NWG shares at as presenting at Swedish Shareholders’ the company’s website www.nordic­water­ the end of 2018, the dividend yield for 2018 Association (Sw. Aktiespararna) meetings. proofing.com under the headline Corporate was 5.6 (5.3) percent. • February 2018 – Presentation of the Governance. The total dividend payment of SEK 96 m fourth quarter and full-year 2017, To participate in the meeting and to be is to be resolved on by the Annual General Stockholm, Sweden able to exercise their voting rights, shareMeeting and disbursement is handled by VP holders must be included in the share • March 2018 – Capital Goods Seminar, Securities A/S and Euroclear Sweden AB. register maintained by VP Securities A/S by Sweden Entitlement to dividends is granted to Wednesday, 17 April 2019 at the latest and those persons who are listed as sharehold• April 2018 – Annual General Meeting notify the company of their intention to ers in the share register maintained by VP 2018, Helsingborg, Sweden participate by the same date. Securities A/S on the record date resolved by • May 2018 – Presentation of the first Shareholders who have registered their the Annual General Meeting. quarter, Paris, France shares with a trustee must have temporarily Nordic Waterproofing’s long-term • August 2018 – Presentation of the second registered their shares in their own name by intention is a dividend payout of more than quarter, Stockholm, Sweden Wednesday, 17 April 2019. 50 percent of its net profit. The payout Please note that specific information • November 2018 – Presentation of the decision will be based on the company’s applies to shareholders who hold their third quarter, web cast financial position, investment needs, shares through Euroclear Sweden AB. liquidity position as well as general THE FOLLOWING ANALYSTS MONITOR economic and business conditions. Neither PROPOSALS TO ANNUAL GENERAL NORDIC WATERPROOFING’S the Danish Companies Act nor Nordic MEETING 2019 DEVELOPMENT Waterproofing’s Articles of Association The Board of Directors and the CEO propose ABG Sundal Collier/Introduce: Anders Idborg contain any restrictions regarding the right that shareholders be paid a cash dividend of (anders.idborg@abgsc.se) and Karl Bokvist to dividends for shareholders outside SEK 4.00 per share (3.75). Friday, 26 April (karl.bokvist@abgsc.se) Sweden. Aside from any limitations related 2019 is proposed as the record date for the Carnegie: Kenneth Toll Johansson (kenneth. to banking or clearing activities in the dividend. If the Annual General Meeting toll.johansson@carnegie.se) affected jurisdictions, payments to foreign resolves in accordance with the proposal, the shareholders will be carried out in the same dividend is expected to be distributed by INFORMATION ABOUT ANNUAL GENERAL manner as to shareholders in Sweden. Euroclear Sweden AB on Thursday, 2 May MEETING 2019 The ambition is for future cash flows to 2019. The Annual General Meeting of Nordic continue to be used for repayment of debt Waterproofing Holding A/S will take place on and share dividends, but also to create IR CONTACT Friday, 24 April at 11:00 a.m. (CET), at financial flexibility for complementary Jonas Olin, CFO and investor relations. Radisson Blu Metropol, Carl Krooks gata 16, acquisitions. Phone: +46 708 29 14 54. Helsingborg, Sweden. e-mail: INVESTOR RELATIONS jonas.olin@nordicwaterproofing.com Nordic Waterproofing aims to be informative and accessible to all shareholders. For results and other key announcements, we provide information on a timely basis to both retail and institutional shareholders. The KEY DATA PER SHARE Nordic Waterproofing corporate website SEK 2018 2017 contains a wealth of material for shareholdEarnings before and after dilution 6.30 5.71 ers, including the current share price, press Earnings before items affecting comparability 6.80 6.29 releases and dividends. The website can be accessed at www.nordicwaterproofing.com. Shareholders’ equity 45.26 41.91 Nordic Waterproofing maintains a quiet Dividend 4.00* 3.75 period from the first day following the last Dividend as a % of earnings per share 63.5% 65.7% day of the quarter until the publication of the Total dividend, SEK m 96.3 90.3 Group’s quarterly financial reports. During this period, representatives of the Yield, % 5.6% 5.3% Group will not meet with financial media, Market price, 31 December, last paid price, SEK 71.30 70.50 analysts or investors. P/E ratio 11.32 12.35 Number of shares At 31 December 24,083,935 24,083,935 Average 24,083,935 24,083,935 * According to the Board of Directors proposal Source: Monitor by Modular Finance AB. Compiled and processed data from various sources, including Euroclear, Morningstar and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. 60 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW | Environmental, Social and Governance TEN LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 Owner No. of shares Percentage of votes and capital, % Mawer Investment Management 2,729,537 11.3 Svolder Aktiebolag 2,504,672 10.4 Swedbank Robur fonds 2,187,095 9.1 Carnegie funds 1,986,505 8.3 Catella funds 1,310,558 5.4 Länsförsäkringar funds 1,221,857 5.1 Handelsbanken funds 850,044 3.5 Third Swedish National Pension fund 638,916 2.7 Traction 600,000 2.5 AMF Insurance & Funds 573,199 2.4 Total, ten largest shareholders 14,602,383 60.6 Other shareholders 9,481,552 39.4 Total 24,083,935 100.0 Source: Monitor by Modular Finance AB. Compiled and processed data from various sources, including Euroclear, Morningstar and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. SHARE DATA Marketplace Nasdaq Stockholm Date of listing 10 June 2016 Segment Mid Cap Sector Construction & Materials Ticker symbol NWG ISIN code DK0060738409 Currency SEK Standard trading unit 1 share No. of shares outstanding 24,083,935 shares Highest closing price paid in 2018 SEK 88.90 (21 June) Lowest closing price paid in 2018 SEK 67.20 (6 February) Last price paid 2018 SEK 71.30 Share price development in 2018 +1 percent SIZE CATEGORIES AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 Number Number % of votes Range of shareholders of shares and capital 1–500 2,915 406,718 1.7 501–3,000 582 752,489 3.1 3,001–30,000 135 1,244,520 5.2 30,001–150,000 24 1,737,652 7.2 150,001–300,000 6 1,243,605 5.2 300,001– 19 18,146,402 75.4 Anonymt ägande n.a. 552,549 2.2 Total 3,681 24,083,935 100.0 Source: Monitor by Modular Finance AB. Compiled and processed data from various sources, including Euroclear, Morningstar and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 61 Contents CONTENTS FINANCIAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of profit or loss............................................................ 64 Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income................................. 64 Consolidated statement of financial position..................................................... 65 Consolidated statement of cash flows............................................................... 66 Consolidated statement of changes in equity.................................................... 67 LIST OF NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Basis of preparation 1 Accounting policies...................................................................................... 68 2 Changes in accounting policies.................................................................... 69 3 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions............... 69 Results for the year 4 Operating segments..................................................................................... 70 5 Significant types of income.......................................................................... 72 6 Operating costs by nature............................................................................ 72 7 Employees and personnel expenses............................................................ 72 8 Pensions....................................................................................................... 74 9 Other operating income and expenses........................................................ 74 10 Financial income and expenses................................................................... 75 11 Taxes............................................................................................................. 75 Group structure 12 Participations in associated companies...................................................... 77 13 Group companies and subsidiaries ............................................................. 78 14 Acquisitions.................................................................................................. 80 15 Information on the Parent Company............................................................ 81 16 Related parties............................................................................................. 81 Operating assets and liabilities 17 Intangible assets.......................................................................................... 82 18 Property, plant and equipment .................................................................... 84 19 Operating leases.......................................................................................... 86 20 Inventory ...................................................................................................... 86 21 Trade receivables......................................................................................... 86 22 Receivables for on-going construction contracts........................................ 86 23 Other current receivables............................................................................ 87 24 Prepaid expenses and accrued income....................................................... 87 25 Other current liabilities................................................................................ 87 26 Accrued expenses and prepaid income....................................................... 87 Capital structure and financing 27 Other investments........................................................................................ 87 28 Cash and cash equivalents........................................................................... 87 29 Equity............................................................................................................ 88 30 Earnings per share....................................................................................... 88 31 Interest-bearing liabilities........................................................................... 89 32 Other non-current liabilities........................................................................ 89 33 Financial instruments.................................................................................. 90 34 Financial risks and finance policy................................................................ 92 35 Contingent liabilities.................................................................................... 94 Other disclosures 36 Audit fees and expenses............................................................................... 95 37 Statement of cash flows............................................................................... 95 38 Events after the reporting date.................................................................... 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY Parent company statement of profit or loss....................................................... 96 Parent company statement of financial position............................................... 96 Parent company statement of changes in equity .............................................. 97 Parent company notes........................................................................................ 97 62 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL INFORMATION Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS SEK m Note 2018 2017 Net sales 4, 5 2,679.7 2,186.8 Cost of goods sold 6 –1,999.9 –1,602.7 Gross profit 679.7 584.1 Selling expenses 6 –322.4 –272.3 Administrative expenses 6 –161.1 –130.5 Research and development expenses 6 –6.7 –6.5 Other operating income 9 7.3 6.3 Other operating expenses 6, 9 –4.5 –2.5 Share of profit in associated companies 12 19.8 15.1 Operating profit 4, 7, 36 212.1 193.7 Financial income 1.0 0.2 Financial expenses –22.9 –19.7 Net finance items 10 –21.9 –19.5 Profit before tax 190.3 174.2 Tax 11 –38.5 –36.6 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 151.8 137.6 Attributable to: Shareholders of the Parent company 152.1 136.9 Non-controlling interests –0.3 0.7 151.8 137.6 Earnings per share before and after dilution (SEK) 30 6.30 5.71 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SEK m Note 2018 2017 Profit for the year 151.8 137.6 Other comprehensive income Items that are or may be reclassified to profit for the year Exchange differences for the year in translation of foreign operations 32.4 19.8 Gains/losses on hedging of currency risk in foreign operations –6.8 –4.5 Gains/losses on raw material hedging 3.2 –22.1 Tax on gains/losses on other comprehensive income 0.8 5.7 Other comprehensive income for the year 29.7 –1.1 Total comprehensive income for the year 181.4 136.5 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to: Shareholders of the Parent company 181.7 135.8 Non-controlling interests –0.3 0.7 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 181.4 136.5 64 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION SEK m Note 2018 2017 Assets Goodwill 17 878.5 732.8 Other intangible assets 17 96.9 63.7 Property, plant and equipment 18 268.1 209.8 Investments in associated companies 12 55.3 30.7 Receivables from associated companies 6.7 5.8 Other investments 27 2.1 2.0 Deferred tax assets 11 0.0 0.0 Other non-current receivables 16.3 12.0 Total non-current assets 1,323.8 1,056.8 Inventory 20 345.8 259.6 Trade receivables 21 250.6 199.8 Receivables for on-going construction contracts 22 54.3 43.9 Receivables from associated companies 10.9 13.0 Current tax assets 2.4 1.9 Other current receivables 23 15.5 10.9 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 24 17.9 13.5 Cash and cash equivalents 28 105.6 156.8 Total current assets 803.2 699.3 TOTAL ASSETS 2,127.0 1,756.1 Equity Share capital 30.0 30.0 Treasury shares –0.8 0.0 Reserves 50.9 23.0 Retained earnings including profit for the year 913.6 866.1 Proposed dividend for the financial year 96.3 90.3 Equity attributable to shareholders of the Parent company 1,090.0 1,009.4 Non-controlling interests 15.6 0.5 TOTAL EQUITY 29 1,105.6 1,009.8 Liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 31 416.3 360.3 Other non-current liabilities 32 38.1 37.1 Provisions 5.9 5.8 Deferred tax liabilities 11 75.2 52.6 Total non-current liabilities 535.4 455.9 Current interest-bearing liabilities 31 131.0 0.0 Trade payables 129.2 90.7 Payables for on-going construction contracts 22 15.5 0.0 Current tax liabilities 11.7 9.4 Other current liabilities 25 46.0 57.2 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 26 152.6 133.1 Total current liabilities 485.9 290.4 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,021.4 746.3 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 2,127.0 1,756.1 Information on the Group’s contingent liabilities, see Note 35. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 65 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS SEK m Note 2018 2017 Operating activities Operating profit 212.1 193.7 Adjustment for non-cash items etc 37 38.9 23.7 Interest received 0.8 0.2 Interest paid –10.6 –7.6 Dividends received 12.1 10.8 Income tax paid –37.2 –38.1 Cash flow from operating activities before working capital changes 216.1 182.6 Cash flow from working capital changes Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in inventories –31.5 –45.2 Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in trade receivable 10.1 –13.7 Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in other operating receivables –11.8 –20.1 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in trade payable 8.7 9.3 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in other operating liabilities –6.8 13.1 Cash flow from operating activities 184.8 126.1 Investing activities Acquisition of intangible assets –20.2 –2.0 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment –35.5 –21.2 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 1.0 Acquisition of business, net cash impact 14 –228.2 –123.2 Acquisition of participations in associated companies –19.4 –6.6 Disposal of participations in associated companies 0.0 0.2 Increase in receivables in associated companies –4.3 –0.5 Decrease in receivables in associated companies 0.0 0.0 Increase in other non-current receivables –3.8 –6.6 Proceeds from other financial investments 0.0 0.0 Cash flow from investing activities –311.2 –158.8 Financing activities Proceeds from loans and borrowings 31 259.3 0.4 Repayment of borrowings 31 –95.0 –50.1 Repurchased own shares –0.8 0.0 Dividends paid –90.3 –90.3 Cash flow from financing activities 73.2 –140.0 Cash flow for the year –53.3 –172.7 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 156.8 328.4 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 2.1 1.0 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 105.6 156.8 66 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders Trea­ R ­ eserves Trans­ Non­ Share sury for lation Retained controlling Total SEK m capital shares ­hedging reserve Dividend earnings Total interests equity Equity as at 1 January 2017 30.0 0.0 17.3 6.8 90.3 819.5 963.8 –0.2 963.6 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit/loss for the year – – – – – 136.9 136.9 0.7 137.6 Other comprehensive income for the year – – –22.1 15.3 – – –6.8 – –6.8 Tax on gains/losses on comprehensive income – – 4.8 1.0 – – 5.7 – 5.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 0.0 –17.3 16.2 0.0 136.9 135.8 0.7 136.5 Transactions with the Group’s owners Paid dividend – – – – –90.3 – –90.3 – –90.3 Proposed dividend for the financial year – – – – 90.3 –90.3 0.0 – 0.0 Total contributions from and distribution to owners 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 –90.3 –90.3 0.0 –90.3 Changes in participating interest in subsidiaries Transactions with non-controlling interests – – – – – – 0,0 – 0,0 Total changes in participating interest in subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total transactions with the Group’s owners 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 –90.3 –90.3 0.0 –90.3 Equity as at 31 December 2017 30.0 0.0 0.0 23.0 90.3 866.0 1,009.4 0.5 1,009.8 Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders Trea­ ­Reserves Trans­ Non­ Share sury for lation Retained controlling Total SEK m capital shares ­hedging reserve Dividend earnings Total interests equity Equity as at 1 January 2018 30.0 0.0 0.0 23.0 90.3 866.0 1,009.4 0.5 1,009.8 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit/loss for the year – – – – – 152.1 152.1 –0.3 151.8 Other comprehensive income for the year – – 3.2 25.6 – – 28.8 – 28.8 Tax on gains/losses on comprehensive income – – –0.7 1.5 – – 0.8 – 0.8 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 0.0 2.5 27.1 0.0 152.1 181.7 –0.3 181.4 Transactions with the Group’s owners Repurchased own shares – –0.8 – – – – –0.8 – –0.8 Paid dividend – – – – –90.3 – –90.3 – –90.3 Proposed dividend for the financial year – – – – 96.3 –96.3 0.0 – 0.0 Total contributions from and distribution to owners 0.0 –0.8 0.0 0.0 6.0 –96.3 –91.1 0.0 –91.1 Changes in participating interest in subsidiaries Transactions with non-controlling interests – – – – – –10.0* –10.0 15.4 5.4 Total changes in participating interest in subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 –10.0 –10.0 15.4 5.4 Total transactions with the Group’s owners 0.0 –0.8 0.0 0.0 6.0 –106.3 –101.1 15.4 –85.7 Equity as at 31 December 2018 30.0 –0.8 2.5 50.1 96.3 911.8 1,090.0 15.6 1,105.6 *Relating to put option liability in respect of the RVT AS acquisition (refer to Note 14) as risks and rewards still are belonging to the non-controlling interests. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 67 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Net investment in a foreign operation 1 Monetary long-term receivables or liabilities attributable to a foreign operation for which settlement is not planned or will not likely occur 2 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING within the foreseeable future are in practice a part of the company’s net The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with investment in the foreign operation. An exchange-rate difference that 3 International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by Internationarises on the monetary long-term receivable or monetary long-term al Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as adopted by the EU and liability is recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated 4 additional Danish disclosure requirement applicable for class D entities. in a special reserve, called a translation reserve. Upon the divestment of In addition, the Group applies interpretations from IFRS Interpretations a foreign operation, the accumulated exchange-rate differences 5 Committee (IFRIC). attributable to monetary long-term receivables or liabilities are included The accounting policies in this note and in the following notes have 6 in the accumulated translation differences that are reclassified from the been applied to the financial statement prepared as at 31 December 2018 translation reserve in equity to profit/loss for the year. and for the comparative information as per 31 December 2017. 7 Below is a description of which accounting policies the Group applies IMPAIRMENT LOSSES as of 1 January 2012. 8 The Group’s recognized assets are assessed every balance sheet date to determine if there is an indication of impairment requirements. IAS 36 is 9 BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS applied regarding impairment of assets other than financial assets, Assets and liabilities are recognized at historical cost, except some which are recognized according to IFRS 9, inventory and deferred tax 10 financial assets and liabilities that are valued at fair value. Financial assets. For exempt assets as per the above, the carrying amount is assets and liabilities that are valued at fair value consist of derivative assessed according to the respective standard. 11 instruments. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are recognized, with some exceptions, as of the classification of such assets Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets and 12 at the lower of the carrying amount at the time of reclassification and the participations in associated companies fair value less cost of disposal. If there is an indication of impairment requirements, the asset’s 13 recoverable amount is calculated (see below). For goodwill, other FUNCTIONAL CURRENCY AND PRESENTATION CURRENCY intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet 14 The Parent Company’s functional currency is Danish kronor (DKK) while completed for use, the recoverable amount is also calculated annually. If the presentation currency for the Group is Swedish kronor (SEK) due to it is not possible to establish significant independent cash flows for an 15 individual asset, and its fair value less costs of disposal cannot be used, the Group’s primary stakeholders. This means that the financial statements are presented in SEK. All amounts are rounded to the the assets are grouped in impairment testing at the lowest level where it 16 nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated. This rounding off process is possible to identify significant independent cash flows a so-called 17 may mean that the total sum of the sub-items in one or more rows or cash-generating unit. columns does not match the total sum for the row or column. An impairment loss is recognized when an asset’s or cash-generating 18 unit’s (group of units) carrying amounts exceed the recoverable amount. CONSOLIDATION POLICIES AND BUSINESS COMBINATIONS An impairment loss is recognized as an expense in profit/loss for the 19 Transactions eliminated upon consolidation year. Once an impairment requirement has been identified for a The intra-Group receivables and liabilities, revenues and expenses that cash-generating unit (group of units), the impairment loss is primarily 20 arise from intra-Group transactions between Group companies, are allocated to goodwill. Then a proportional impairment loss is applied to eliminated in their entirety when preparing the consolidated accounts. the other assets included in the unit (group of units). 21 The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of FOREIGN CURRENCIES disposal and value in use. In the calculation of the value in use, future 22 cash flows are discounted with a discount factor that takes into account Transactions in foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional risk-free interest and the risk associated with the specific asset. 23 currency at the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date. The Impairment of financial assets 24 functional currency is the currency in the primary economic environAt each reporting occasion, the company evaluates if there is objective ments in which the companies conduct their activities. Monetary assets evidence that a financial asset or group of assets requires impairment. 25 and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated to the functional Objective evidence is comprised of observable conditions that have currency at the exchange rate on the reporting date. Exchange-rate occurred and have a negative impact on the possibility to recover the 26 differences that arise in the translations are recognized in the profit/loss cost. for the year. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are recognized at The impairment requirements of trade receivable are determined 27 historical cost are translated to the exchange rate on the transaction based on historical experience of customer bad debts on similar date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities recognized at fair value are 28 receivables. Trade receivable with impairment requirements are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing at recognized at the present value of expected future cash flows. Receivathe time of the fair value measurement. 29 bles with a short duration are however not discounted. Financial statements of foreign operations Reversal of impairment losses 30 Assets and liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and other An impairment loss on assets that are included in the area of application consolidated surpluses and deficits, are translated from the foreign of IAS 36 is reversed if there is both an indication that the impairment 31 operation’s functional currency to the Group’s presentation currency, requirement no longer exists and a change has occurred in the Swedish kronor (SEK), at the exchange rate prevailing on the reporting 32 date. Revenues and expenses in a foreign operation are translated to SEK assumptions that formed the basis for the calculations of the recoverable amount. An impairment of goodwill is, however, never reversed. A at an average exchange rate that constitutes an approximation of the 33 reversal is only applied insofar as the asset’s carrying amount after the exchange rates existing at the respective transaction date. Translation reversal does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been differences that arise in the currency translation of foreign operations 34 recognized, less depreciation/amortization where applicable, if no are recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a impairment loss had been applied. 35 special reserve, called a translation reserve. When a controlling Impairment losses on loans and receivables recognized at amortized influence, significant influence or joint controlling influence ceases for a cost are reversed if the previous reasons for the impairment losses no 36 foreign operation, the accumulated translation differences attributable to longer exist and full payment from the customer is expected to be the operation are realised, whereby they are reclassified from the received. 37 translation reserve in equity to profit/loss for the year. 38 68 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION PROVISIONS the date of the initial application (that is 1 January 2019). The effect on A provision differs from other liabilities in that there is uncertainty about the financial statements is expeced to be SEK 110-125 m on total assets 1 the payment date or the amount to settle the provision. A provision is and liabilities respectively, which is judged to be not significant. The recognized in the statement of financial position when there is an effect on the consolidated income statement is expected not to be 2 existing legal or constructive obligation as a result of an event that has significant and the effect on net income is expected to be marginal. occurred, and it is likely that an outflow of financial resources will be The analysis of the effect on the Group’s financial targets following the 3 required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount implementation of IFRS 16 is not yet finalized, however ROCE is expected can be made. to be negatively affected by approximately 1.0–1.2 percentage units, and 4 Provisions are made in the amount that is the best estimate of what the Net debt/EBITDA-ratio is expected to increase approximately 5 will be required to settle the existing obligation on the reporting date. 0.3–0.4 times. Where the effect of when in time payment is made is material, provisions 6 are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flow using an interest rate before tax that reflects current market assessments of the 7 time value of money and, if applicable, the risks associated with the NOTE 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING liability. JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES 8 AND ASSUMPTIONS 9 NOTE 2 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING ASSESSMENTS AND ESTIMATES IN THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10 Preparing the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires POLICIES management to make assessments and estimates as well as 11 assumptions that affect the application of the accounting principles and NEW IFRS THAT HAVE BEEN APPLIED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR the carrying amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. The 12 IFRS 9 Financial instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from contract with actual outcome may deviate from these estimates and assessments. customers are applied by the Group as of 1 January 2018. The estimates and assumptions are regularly reviewed. Changes in 13 estimates are recognized in the period the change is made if the change IFRS 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS only affects this period, or in the period the change is made and future 14 IFRS 9 Financial instruments replaced IAS 39 as of 1 January 2018. The periods if the change affects both the current period and future periods. standard introduced an expected loss model for impairment losses on Assessments made by corporate management in the application of 15 loans and receivables. The number of classification categories for IFRS that have a material impact on the financial statements and financial assets were reduced to three: amortized cost, fair value through 16 estimates made that may entail material adjustments in the subsequent profit or loss and fair value through other comprehensive income. Fair year’s financial statements are described in more detail in below. value changes to financial liabilities which are attributable to the fair 17 Some assumptions regarding the future and some estimates and value and which arise from changes in own credit risks must be assessments at the reporting date are of particular importance to the 18 recognized in other comprehensive income. Simplified rules on hedge valuation of the assets and the liabilities in the statement of financial accounting were introduced. The introduction of IFRS 9 have not had any position. The areas where the risk of material value changes in the 19 significant impact on the financial statements. subsequent year is significant due to the assumptions or estimates having to be changed are discussed below. 20 IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM CONTRACT WITH CUSTOMERS IFRS 15 Revenue from contract with customers has replaced IAS 18, IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL 21 which covers contracts for goods and services, and IAS 11, which covers The value of recognized goodwill is tested at least once a year with constructions contracts, as of 1 January 2018. The new standard is based regard to possible impairment requirements. The testing requires an 22 on the principle that revenue is recognized when the company fulfills a assessment of the value in use of the cash-generating unit, or group of performance obligation by transferring goods or services to the 23 cash-generating units, to which the goodwill is attributable. This requires customer, meaning that the control has been transferred to the that several assumptions regarding future conditions and estimates of customer. This can take place at a certain point in time or over time. The 24 parameters are made. A description of these are provided in Note 17. Group has adopted the standard using the modified retrospective 25 approach which means that the cumulative impact of the adoption is OTHER recognized in retained earnings as of 1 January 2018 and that comparaAs described in Note 35, on 31 May 2017, the Danish Competition Council 26 tives was not restated. The introduction of IFRS 15 have not had any decided that Nordic Waterproofing A/S, Icopal Danmark ApS, Danske significant impact on the financial statements. Tagpapfabrikanters Brancheforening and TOR had violated the Danish 27 Competition Act. Nordic Waterproofing A/S and the other parties NEW IFRS THAT HAVE NOT YET BEGUN TO BE APPLIED disputed the Council’s decision and brought the case before the Danish 28 On 1 January 2019, IFRS 16 Leases came info effect. Competition Appeals Board. On 12 September 2018, the Appeals Board No new or revised IFRS that enter into effect in future financial years decided to remit the case to the Council for re-evaluation. The Competi29 have been applied in advance in preparation of these financial statetion Council has still not decided whether the case will be re-opened or ments. finally closed. Accordingly, at present, it is not possible to predict if the 30 case will be re-opened or, in that case, what the final outcome would be. IFRS 16 LEASES 31 The initial decision by the Competition Council has resulted in two IFRS 16 Leases, replacing IAS 17 Leases, contains principles for leases civil law proceedings raising claims. However, both proceedings have 32 and is mandatory for financial years commencing on or after 1 January been suspended to await the Council’s decision. There are at present no 2019. It will result in almost all leases being recognized in the balance substantive basis for the claims made. Additionally, it should be noted 33 sheet, as the distinction between operating and finance leases is that Nordic Waterproofing A/S does not consider the claims raised removed. Under the new standard, an asset (the right to use the leased substantiated and justified. 34 item) and a financial liability to pay rentals are recognized. The only The Group conducts operations in the UK and is monitoring the exceptions are short-term or low-value leases. The analysis of the development surrounding Brexit carefully. The operations in the UK are 35 effects from IFRS 16 is in its final stage. The preliminary analysis shows to a certain extent dependent on imports of goods from Sweden, but that the Group has three main types of leasing contracts: premises, combined with the fact that the sales in UK account for less than 2 36 machinery and vehicles. The Group has decided to use the simplified percent of total sales, the Group estimates that an exit from the EU, in approach as transition method, which means that the impact of the one form or another, will not have a significant direct impact on the 37 adoption is adjusted against the opening balance of retained earnings on Group’s earnings. 38 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 69 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 4 OPERATING SEGMENTS 1 The following operating segments have been identified: 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES • Products & Solutions: includes sales of both own produced and An operating segment is a part of the Group that conducts externally sourced products and services associated therewith. 3 operations from which it can generate revenues and incur expenses • Installation Services: includes the Group’s wholly and partially owned and for which independent financial information is available. An contracting operations. 4 operating segment’s profit or loss is also monitored by the company’s highest executive decision-maker to evaluate the profit Directly attributable items and items that can be reasonably and reliably 5 or loss and to be able to allocate resources to the operating allocated to the segments have been included in the operating segments’ segment. 6 profit/loss, assets and liabilities. The items recognized in the operating segments’ profit/loss, assets and liabilities are valued in accordance with 7 The Group’s operations are divided into operating segments based on the profit/loss, assets and liabilities that the company’s Group managewhat parts of the business the company’s highest executive decision­ ment monitors. The same accounting principles are applied in both 8 maker follows up, the so-called ”management approach”. The Group’s internal segment reporting as in the external reporting. operations are organised in the manner that Group management follows Non-allocated items comprise net finance items and tax expenses. 9 up the earnings that the Group’s various goods and services generate. As Assets and liabilities that have not been allocated to segments are Group management follows up the results of operations and decides on deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, financial investments and 10 financial liabilities. the distribution of resources based on the goods and services the Group provides and sells, they constitute the Group’s operating segments. At 31 Sales between the operating segments have occurred at market-­ 11 based prices. December 2017 and 2018, the highest excutive decision-maker followed 12 up the segments’ operating profit (EBIT) before items affecting comparability. 13 2018 Products & Installation Group items and 14 SEK m Solutions Services eliminations Group 15 Revenues from external customers 1,927.2 752.5 0.0 2,679.7 Revenues from other segments 95.8 0.0 –95.8 0.0 16 Revenues, total 2,023.0 752.5 –95.8 2,679.7 EBITDA before items affecting comparability 270.3 47.4 –31.3 286.5 17 Depreciation & amortization –54.3 –6.2 –1.9 –62.3 EBIT before items affecting comparability 216.1 41.3 –33.2 224.1 18 Items affecting comparability –10.9 0.0 –1.1 –12.0 19 Operating profit (EBIT) 205.2 41.2 –34.3 212.2 Net finance items –21.9 20 Profit after finance items but before tax (EBT) 190.3 Tax –38.5 21 Profit for the year 151.8 22 Assets 23 Intangible assets 837.9 127.4 10.1 975.4 Property, plant and equipment 255.7 11.8 0.5 268.1 24 Participations in associated companies 0.0 55.3 0.0 55.3 Inventory 338.5 7.3 0.0 345.8 25 Other assets 278.7 106.4 –19.4 365.6 26 Non-allocated assets 116.8 116.8 Total assets 1,710.9 308.2 107.9 2,127.0 27 Liabilities and Equity 28 Equity 1,105.6 1,105,6 29 Other liabilities 308.8 79.0 –38.6 349.2 Non-allocated liabilities 672.2 672.2 30 Total liabilities and equity 308.8 79.0 1,739.2 2,127.0 31 Investments in property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 44.5 5.5 5.7 55.7 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 70 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION 2017 Products & Installation Group items and SEK m Solutions Services eliminations Group 1 Revenues from external customers 1,472.9 713.8 0.0 2,186.8 Revenues from other segments 95.2 0.0 –95.2 0.0 2 Revenues, total 1,568.1 713.8 –95.2 2,186.8 3 EBITDA before items affecting comparability 238.6 35.9 –26.5 248.0 Depreciation & amortization –33.3 –5.2 –1.9 –40.3 4 EBIT before items affecting comparability 205.3 30.7 –28.4 207.6 Items affecting comparability –9.4 –3.9 –0.7 –14.0 5 Operating profit (EBIT) 195.9 26.8 –29.0 193.7 6 Net finance items –19.5 Profit after finance items but before tax (EBT) 174.2 7 Tax –36.6 Profit for the year 137.6 8 Assets 9 Intangible assets 674.1 122.5 0.0 796.6 10 Property, plant and equipment 199.4 9.4 1.0 209.8 Participations in associated companies 0.0 30.7 0.0 30.7 11 Inventory 254.3 5.2 0.0 259.6 Other assets 204.6 117.9 –29.5 293.0 12 Non-allocated assets 166.5 166.5 13 Total assets 1,332.4 285.7 138.0 1,756.1 14 Liabilities and Equity Equity 1,009.8 1,009.8 15 Other liabilities 254.3 74.0 –41.4 286.9 Non-allocated liabilities 459.4 459.4 16 Total liabilities and equity 254.3 74.0 1,427.8 1,756.1 17 Investments in property, plant and equipment 18 and other intangible assets 19.2 3.1 0.9 23.2 19 20 ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY Items affecting comparability include income statement items that are 21 non-recurring, has significant impact on profit and is important for understanding the underlying development of operations. 22 SEK m 2018 2017 23 Acquisition-related costs –9.0 –9.9 24 Other –3.0 –4.1 Total –12.0 –14.0 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 71 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 5 SIGNIFICANT TYPES OF INCOME INFORMATION ON MAJOR CUSTOMERS 1 No single customer accounted for more than 10 percent of consolidated sales. A maximum of approximately 2.8 percent of consolidated sales 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES were attributable to a single customer. Sale of goods 3 Sale of goods is considered as a performance obligation and the revenue is recognized when the performance obligation is fulfilled 4 and the customer takes control of the product, i.e. at a certain point NOTE 6 OPERATING COSTS BY NATURE in time (usually in connection with the physical delivery to the 5 customer). Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration SEK m 2018 2017 received, or expected to be received, less discounts provided. Material costs and goods for resale 1,330.2 1,095.6 6 The goods are often sold with volume discounts based on Change in inventory of finished goods and accumulated sales over a predefined period, together with cash work in progress –65.5 –72.8 7 discounts. A liability is reported for expected volume discounts. Employee benefits 621.7 511.3 8 Construction contracts Depreciation & amortization 62.3 38.8 Revenues from construction contracts exist in both operating Other external costs 541.4 439.1 9 segments and are recognized in profit/loss for the year based on Other operating expenses 4.5 2.5 the stage of completion on the reporting date, i.e. over time. The Total 2,494.6 2,014.5 10 stage of completion is determined on the basis of contract 11 expenditures incurred relative to the total estimated expenditures, as this best reflects the value creation of the work performed. NOTE 7 EMPLOYEES AND PERSONNEL 12 Expenses comprise expenses directly and indirectly attributable to the construction work. When the outcome of a construction contract EXPENSES 13 cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognized only to the extent of contract expenses incurred and subject to recoverability ACCOUNTING POLICIES 14 being probable. If the contract expenses are expected to exceed Remuneration of employees contract revenue, the expected loss is recognized immediately. Short-term employee benefits 15 If revenue from a construction contract exceeds the invoicing, a Short-term employee benefits are calculated without discounting receivable for on-going construction contracts is recognized. If the and recognized as an expense when the related services are 16 invoicing exceeds the delivered services, a payable for ongoing received. construction contracts is recognized. See Note 22. 17 A liability is recognized for the anticipated cost for profit-sharing and bonus payments when the Group has a current legal or 18 constructive obligation to make such payments as a result of Significant types of income services being received from employees and the obligation can be 19 SEK m 2018 2017 reliably calculated. Sale of goods 1,592.4 1,381.5 20 Construction contracts 1,087.3 805.3 Benefits upon termination An expense for benefits in connection with the terminations of Total 2,679.7 2,186.8 21 personnel is recognized at the earliest time of when the company can no longer withdraw the offer to the employees or when the 22 Time of revenue recognition company recognizes expenses for restructuring. The benefits that SEK m 2018 2017 are estimated to be settled after 12 months are recognized at their 23 At a certain point in time 1,592.4 1,381.5 present value. Benefits that are not expected to be fully settled Over time 1,087.3 805.3 within 12 months are recognized according to long-term employee 24 Total 2,679.7 2,186.8 benefits. 25 GEOGRAPHIC AREAS Expenses for employee benefits 26 Revenues from external customers SEK m 2018 2017 SEK m 2018 2017 27 Denmark 707.9 493.0 Salaries and benefits, etc. 509.7 417.9 Sweden 440.8 348.1 Pension expenses, defined-contribution plans 18.8 15.3 28 Norway 303.7 193.4 Social security contributions 93.2 78.1 Finland 856.0 810.0 621.7 511.3 29 Europe (excluding Nordic region) 366.4 333.5 of of 30 Other countries 4,9 8.8 Average number of employees which which Total 2,679.7 2,186.8 FTE (Full Time Equivalents) 2018 men 2017 men 31 Parent Company Non-current assets 32 SEK m 2018 2017 Denmark 1 100% 1 100% Total in Parent Company 1 100% 1 100% Denmark 367.0 326.6 33 Sweden 514.8 367.6 Subsidiaries 34 Norway 62.2 27.8 Denmark 256 84% 141 80% Finland 258.6 244.2 Sweden 145 75% 125 80% 35 Europe (excluding Nordic region) 40.9 40.2 Norway 71 88% 22 73% Total 1,243,5 1,006.4 36 Finland 467 93% 465 93% Revenues from external customers have been attributed to individual Other 93 86% 75 82% 37 countries according to the country the customer is domiciled in. NonTotal in subsidiaries 1,032 87% 829 87% current assets have been allocated to individual countries according to Group total 1,033 87% 830 87% 38 the owning company’s domicile. 72 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION FTE is defined as average number of employees after re-calculation to PRINCIPLES FOR REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD full-time equivalents. The Chairman of the Board receives a fixed fee of SEK 500 thousand per 1 year, and the remaining Board members receives SEK 275 thousand per SALARIES AND OTHER BENEFITS, PENSION EXPENSES AND PENSION year. Audit committee members receives an additional SEK 50 thousand. 2 OBLIGATIONS FOR KEY MANAGEMENT IN THE GROUP PRINCIPLES FOR THE REMUNERATION OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO 3 SEK m 2018 2017 Remuneration Remuneration to the Board and CEO of Nordic Remuneration of the CEO is decided by the Board. The amount of the 4 Waterproofing Holding A/S: remuneration shall be market based and based on factors such as Remuneration of Board members 2.1 2.1 5 expertise, experience and performance. The remuneration consists of Salaries and benefits to CEO 8.2 7.5 fixed salary and, in addition to this, variable salary and non-monetary 6 10.3 9.6 benefits. The variable salary shall be based on the achievement of Remuneration to Group management in Nordic Waterproofing Group 1 AB with subsidiaries: quantitative and qualitative targets. Remuneration of the President and 7 CEO amounted in 2018 to SEK 8.2 m (7.5). Salaries and benefits 19.4 16.3 8 Pension expenses, defined-contribution plans 2.2 2.5 Periods of notice and severance pay Upon termination of the CEO by the company, a period of notice of 24 21.6 18.9 9 months applies. If the CEO resigns, a period of notice of 12 months applies Total remuneration to the Board, CEO and Group management team in the Group 31.9 28.5 instead. 10 Pension benefits Fixed Variable Other The employment contract for the CEO ends without prior cancellation at 11 2018 salary salary Pension benefits Total the time of the CEO’s retirement. No pension premiums for the CEO have Chairman of the board: 12 been reserved, but rather are taken into account in the determination of Ulf Gundemark 0.5 – – – 0.5 the fixed remuneration. 13 Boardmember: Jørgen Jensen 0.4 – – – 0.4 Boardmember: PRINCIPLES FOR REMUNERATION OF OTHER MEMBERS OF GROUP 14 Christian Frigast 0.1 – – – 0.1 MANAGEMENT Boardmember: Remuneration 15 Allan Jørgensen 0.2 – – – 0.2 Remuneration is decided by the CEO with assistance from the Board. The Boardmember: level of remuneration for the individual executive shall be based on factors 16 Riitta Palomäki 0.3 – – – 0.3 such as position, expertise, experience and performance. Remuneration Boardmember: consists of fixed salary and pension and shall also be able to consist of 17 Mats O. Paulsson 0.3 – – – 0.3 variable salary and non-monetary benefits. The variable salary shall be based on the achievement of qualitative and quantitative targets. 18 Boardmember: Kristina Willgård 0.3 – – – 0.3 Periods of notice and severance pay 19 President and CEO: Other members of Group management team have a 12-month period of Martin Ellis 5.1 3.1 – – 8.2 notice upon termination by the company and a 6-month period of notice 20 Other senior upon resignation. executives (8 persons) 13.5 4.7 2.2 1.2 21.6 21 Total 20.7 7.8 2.2 1.2 31.9 Pension benefits Other members of Group management team have the right to retire at 22 Fixed Variable Other the age of 67, and are entitled to pension benefits in accordance with the 2017 salary salary Pension benefits Total company’s pension policy. 23 Chairman of the board: Ulf Gundemark 0.5 – – – 0.5 24 INCENTIVE PROGRAMS Boardmember: The 2017 and 2018 Annual General Meeting resolved to authorize the Holger C. Hansen 0.1 – – – 0.1 Board of Directors to establish a Long-Term Incentive Program (“LTIP 25 Boardmember: 2017” and “LTIP 2018”) offered to the CEO and other senior executives of Christian Frigast 0.3 – – – 0.3 the Group. The participants shall be allotted, free-of-charge, perfor26 Boardmember: mance share rights entitling them to allocations of shares in the Vilhelm Sundström 0.1 – – – 0.1 27 Company. Performance shares may be granted to the individual Boardmember: Jørgen Jensen 0.4 – – – 0.4 participant when targets have been met over a period of three years. The 28 target is measured each year and the outcome is set after three years. Boardmember: Riitta Palomäki 0.3 – – – 0.3 Performance shares may only be granted to the individual participant if 29 Boardmember: the participant is still employed by the Company and has not given, or Mats O. Paulsson 0.2 – – – 0.2 been served, notice during the three-year vesting period. Targets for the 30 Boardmember: participants are based on annual growth of operating profit before items Kristina Willgård 0.2 – – – 0.2 affecting comparability, interest and taxes (“EBIT growth”). 31 President and CEO: The total cost, including social security charges, is estimated to be at Martin Ellis 5.0 2.5 – – 7.5 most SEK 9 m for each program under the assumption of an average 32 Other senior annual growth of operating profit (EBIT) before items affecting comparaexecutives (7 persons) 11.5 3.8 2.5 1.1 18.9 bility of 12 percent. No new shares will be issued in the Company due to 33 Total 18.5 6.3 2.5 1.1 28.5 the programs. However, the Company will acquire treasury shares in 34 order to secure the provision of shares under LTIP 2017 and LTIP 2018 and to secure and cover social security charges. The costs for the 35 programs are expected to have a marginal effect on Nordic Waterproofing Group’s key ratios. For 2018, the Group’s earnings were charged with 36 SEK 3.0 m (0.0) and 11,610 (0) treasury shares were acquired as of 31 December 2018. The maximum number of shares that can be granted 37 under the LTIP 2017 and LTIP 2018 are 98,843 and 140,731 respectively. 38 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 73 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 8 PENSIONS NOTE 9 OTHER OPERATING INCOME 1 AND EXPENSES 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Defined contribution plans ACCOUNTING POLICIES 3 The pension plans where the company’s obligations are limited to Royalty included in other operating income is related to sales to the contributions the company has committed to pay are classified associated companies for using brands and concepts. Royalty 4 as defined contribution plans. In such cases, the size of the income is recognized in profit/loss for the year at the time the employee’s pension depends on the contributions the company pays associated companies recognize the sales to their customers. 5 to the plan or to an insurance company and the capital returns that the contributions provide. Consequently, it is the employee that 6 bears the actuarial risk (that the compensation is less than Other operating income 7 expected) and the investment risk (that the invested assets will be SEK m 2018 2017 inadequate to provide the anticipated compensation). The company’s Royalty 5.1 4.6 8 commitments in respect of contributions to defined contribution Capital gains 0.4 0.0 plans are recognized as an expense in profit/loss for the year as they Exchange gains on operating receivables/ 9 are earned by the employees performing services for the company liabilities 1,8 1.7 during a period. The Group only has defined contribution pensions. Total 7.3 6.3 10 11 Commitments for retirement pensions and family pensions for white-­ Other operating expenses collar employees in Sweden are secured through insurance with Alecta. SEK m 2018 2017 12 According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, Exchange losses on operating receivables/ UFR 10, this is a defined-benefit plan that comprises multiple employers. liabilities –3.9 –2.0 13 For the 2018 financial year, the company has not had access to informaOther –0.6 –0.5 tion that makes it possible to recognize this plan as a defined-benefit Total –4.5 –2.5 14 plan. The pension plan according to ITP is secured through insurance in Alecta and is therefore recognized as a defined-contribution plan. The 15 year’s fees for pension insurance taken out in Alecta amount to SEK 6.4 m (6.1). Alecta’s surplus can be distributed to the policyholders 16 and/or the beneficiaries. At the end of 2018, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective solvency level amounted to 159 percent (154). The collec17 tive solvency level is comprised of the market value of Alecta’s assets as 18 a percentage of the insurance commitments calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial assumptions, which is not in accordance with IAS 19. 19 DEFINED-CONTRIBUTION PLANS 20 In Sweden, the Group has defined-contribution pension plans for workers that are entirely paid by the companies. Outside Sweden, there are 21 defined-contribution plans that are partially paid for by the subsidiaries and partially covered through fees that the employees pay. Payment to 22 these plans takes place on a running basis in accordance with the rules of the respective plan. 23 Expenses for defined-contribution plan 1) 24 SEK m 2018 2017 18.8 15.3 25 1) This includes SEK 6.4 m (6.1) for ITP plans financed in Alecta, see above. 26 Next year’s expected contributions to defined-benefits plans covered by 27 several employers, but recognized as if the plan was a defined-contribution plan amount to approximately SEK 6.4 m. 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 74 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 10 F  INANCIAL INCOME AND NOTE 11 TAXES 1 EXPENSES ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Income taxes comprise current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes Financial income consists of interest income on invested funds, are recognized in profit/loss for the year except when underlying 3 dividend income, gains on the disposal of financial assets available transactions have been recognized in other comprehensive income or in equity whereby the associated tax effect is recognized in other 4 for sale, gains upon a change in value of financial assets valued at fair value through profit or loss and such gains on hedging comprehensive income or in equity. Current tax is tax that shall be paid or received with regard to the current year, with the application 5 instruments that are recognized in profit/loss for the year. Dividend of the tax rates that are enacted or practically enacted at the income is recognized when the right to receive a dividend has been 6 established. The results from the disposal of a financial instrument balance sheet date. Current tax also includes adjustments of are recognized when the risks and benefits associated with current tax attributable to earlier periods. Deferred tax is calculated 7 ownership of the instrument have been transferred to the buyer and using the balance sheet method based on temporary differences the Group no longer has control over the instrument. between carrying amounts and amounts for tax purposes of assets 8 Financial expenses consist of interest expenses on loans, losses and liabilities. The valuation of deferred tax is based on how upon a value change in financial assets valued at fair value through underlying assets or liabilities are expected to be realized or 9 profit or loss, impairment of financial assets and such losses on settled. Deferred tax is calculated with the application of the tax hedging instruments that are recognized in profit/loss for the year. rates and tax regulations that are enacted or practically enacted at 10 Exchange-rate gains and losses are recognized net in operating the reporting date. profit if they are attributable to operating-related items or in net Deferred tax assets concerning deductible temporary differenc11 finance items if they are attributable to finance items. es and tax-loss carry-forwards are only recognized insofar as it is likely that they will be able to be utilized. 12 Potentially additional income tax that arises upon dividends is 13 SEK m 2018 2017 recognized at the same time as when the dividend is recognized as a liability. Interest income 0.8 0.2 14 Other financial income 0.2 0.0 Financial income 1.0 0.2 15 RECOGNIZED IN THE STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS 16 Interest expenses on loans at amortized cost –11.7 –8.5 SEK m 2018 2017 Fair value adjustment put options –7.1 –5.7 Current tax expense (–)/tax revenue (+) 17 Net exchange-rate changes –0.8 –2.7 Tax expense for the period –38.4 –34.0 Other financial expenses –3.3 –2.8 18 Adjustment of tax attributable to earlier years 0.0 0.0 Financial expenses –22.9 –19.7 –38.4 –34.0 19 Net finance items –21.9 –19.5 Deferred tax expense (–)/tax revenue (+) Deferred tax for temporary differences –0.1 –2.5 20 All interest income and expenses are attributable to items valued at amortized cost. Deferred tax resulting from changes in tax rates 0.0 0.0 21 Interest expenses include period-allocated arrangement fee for liabilities 0.0 –2.5 to credit institutions in an amount of SEK 1.1 m (0.8). 22 Total reported tax expense in the Group –38.5 –36.6 23 Reconciliation of effective tax SEK m 2018 % 2017 % 24 Profit/loss before tax 190.3 174.2 25 Tax according to current tax rate for the Parent Company –41.9 22.0 –38.3 22.0 26 Effect of other tax rates for foreign subsidiaries –1.3 0.7 –0.3 0.2 27 Non-deductible expenses –1.7 0.9 –1.8 1.0 Non-taxable revenues 1.0 –0.5 0.1 0.0 28 Result from participations in associated companies 4.2 –2.2 3.6 –2.1 29 Increase in loss carry-forwards without corresponding capitalization 30 of deferred tax –0.6 0.3 –1.0 0.6 Utilisation of earlier, non-capitalized 31 loss carry-forwards 4.2 –2.2 0.3 –0.2 Effect of changed tax rates/and tax 32 regulations –0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other –2.3 1.2 0.8 –0.5 33 Reported effective tax –38.5 20.2 –36.6 21.0 34 35 36 37 38 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 75 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION RECOGNIZED IN THE BALANCE SHEET CHANGE IN DEFERRED TAX IN TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES AND LOSS 1 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CARRY-FORWARDS Recognized deferred tax assets and liabilities Balance Recognized Recognized Balance 2 as per in profit/ in other Acquisition/ as per Deferred tax assets and liabilities are primarily long term and pertain to the following: 1 Jan loss for the comprehen­ Divestment 31 Dec 3 SEK m 2018 year sive income of business 2018 Deferred tax 2018 Property, 4 plant and SEK m Asset Liability Net equipment –17.3 –1.0 – – –18.3 5 Property, plant and equipment 1.0 19.3 –18.3 Intangible Intangible assets 0.5 10.4 –9.9 assets –6.3 2.8 – –6.4 –9.9 6 Inventory 2.1 0.6 1.5 Inventory 1.4 0.1 – – 1.5 Other current assets 0.0 10.7 –10.7 7 Other current Untaxed reserves 0.0 37.4 –37.4 assets –7.0 0.3 –0,7 –3.3 –10.7 8 Loss carry-forwards 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other current Other 0.5 0.9 –0.4 liabilities 0.0 – – – 0.0 9 Tax assets/liabilities 4.1 79.3 –75.2 Untaxed Offset –4.1 –4.1 0.0 reserves –26.9 –3.0 – –7.5 –37.4 10 Tax assets/liabilities, net 0.0 75.2 –75.2 Loss carry-­ 11 forwards 2.8 –2.8 – – 0.0 Deferred tax 2017 Other 0.7 –1.1 – – –0.4 12 SEK m Asset Liability Net –52.6 –4.7 –0.7 –17.2 –75.2 Property, plant and equipment 0.1 17.4 –17.3 13 Intangible assets 0.2 6.5 –6.3 Inventory 1.8 0.4 1.4 Balance Recognized Recognized Balance 14 Other current assets 0.0 7.0 –7.0 as per in profit/ in other Acquisition/ as per 1 Jan loss for the comprehen­ Divest­ment 31 Dec Untaxed reserves 0.0 26.9 –26.9 SEK m 2017 year sive income of business 2017 15 Loss carry-forwards 2.8 0.0 2.8 Property, 16 Other 0.8 0.1 0.7 plant and Tax assets/liabilities 5.7 58.3 –52.6 equipment –12.1 0.3 – –5.5 –17.3 17 Offset –5.7 –5.7 0.0 Intangible assets –1.4 2.4 – –7.3 –6.3 Tax assets/liabilities, net 0.0 52.6 –52.6 18 Inventory 0.5 0.9 – – 1.4 Non-recognized deferred tax assets Other current 19 Total unrecognized deferred tax assets amount to SEK 8.1 m (12.6), assets 0.0 –1.8 – –5.2 –7.0 hereof tax loss carry-forwards for which deferred tax assets have not Other current 20 been recognized in the income statement and balance sheet amount to liabilities –4.8 – 4.8 – 0.0 SEK 8.1 m (12.6), of which SEK 5.7 m expires within 1–5 years and the Untaxed 21 remaining after 5 years. reserves –22.4 –4.5 – – –26.9 Loss 22 carry-­ forwards 0.0 –0.4 – 3.2 2.8 23 Other –0.2 0.6 – 0.1 0.7 –40.3 –2.5 4.8 –14.7 –52.6 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 76 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 12 P  ARTICIPATIONS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES the Group’s share of the associated companies’ profit or loss adjusted 2 Associated companies for any depreciation, amortization, impairment losses and reversals of Associated companies are companies over which the Group has a acquired surpluses or deficits is recognized in ”Share of profit in 3 significant, but not a controlling influence over the operational and associated companies”. These shares in profit less dividends received financial governance, usually through an interest of between 20 and from the associated companies comprise the main change in the 4 50% of the number of votes. The vast majority of the associated carrying amount of participations in associated companies. companies in the Group are customers to the Danish subsidiaries, and Any difference in the acquisition between the cost of the holding 5 also franchisees where they have access to the concepts and brands and the owner company’s share of the fair value of the associated 6 Phønix Tag and Hetag Tagdækning. company’s identifiable assets and liabilities is recognized according to As of the date that significant influence is obtained, participations the same policies as in the acquisition of subsidiaries. 7 in associated companies are recognized according to the equity Transaction costs that arise are included in the cost. method in the consolidated accounts. The equity method means that When the Group’s share of recognized losses in the associated 8 the value of the shares recognized in the Group corresponds to the company exceeds the carrying amount of the participations in the Group’s share of the associated companies’ equity and consolidated Group, the value of the participations is reduced to zero. The equity 9 goodwill and other potential remaining value of consolidated method is applied until the date that significant influence ends. surpluses and deficits. In the consolidated profit/loss for the year, 10 11 The Group has assessed that no significant holdings in any individual SEK m 2018 2017 associated company exist. Specified below, a summary of financial Carrying amount at beginning of the year 30.7 19.5 12 information for non-significant holdings in associated companies are Acquisitions of associated companies 20.1 6.6 shown, based on the amounts included in the consolidated financial Divestment of associated companies –3.8 –0.2 13 statements. Dividend for the year –12.6 –10.8 14 Share of profit in associated companies 19.8 15.1 Reclassification 0.0 0.0 15 Reversed impairment losses 0.0 0.0 Translation difference for the year 1.1 0.4 16 Carrying amount at the end of the year 55.3 30.7 17 Share of profit in associated companies 19.8 15.1 18 Other comprehensive income 0.0 0.0 Total comprehensive income 19.8 15.1 19 SPECIFICATION OF HOLDINGS OF PARTICIPATIONS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES 20 2018 2017 Associated companies Domicile Voting and capital share in % Voting and capital share in % 21 Takkonsulten i Helsingborg AB Helsingborg, Sweden 25% 25% 22 AB Tätskiktsgarantier i Norden Sundsvall, Sweden 50% 50% Hetag Byens Tag A/S Faaborg-Midtfyn, Danmark 40% 0% 23 Hetag JK Tagentreprise ApS Herlev, Denmark 40% 40% Hetag Nordjysk Tag ApS Brønderslev-Dronninglund, Denmark 70% 40% 24 Hetag Tagdækning Nord A/S Århus, Denmark 40% 40% 25 Hetag Tagdækning Syd A/S Hedensted, Denmark 40% 40% Nordisk Tagdækning A/S Roskilde, Denmark 40% 40% 26 Phønix Tag Energi A/S Favrskov, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag Esbjerg A/S Esbjerg, Denmark 40% 40% 27 Phønix Tag Fyn A/S Faaborg-Midtfyn, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag Grønland ApS Esbjerg, Denmark 40% 40% 28 Phønix Tag Holbæk-Næstved A/S Næstved, Denmark 40% 40% 29 Phønix Tag København A/S Ishøj, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag Nordjylland A/S Ålborg, Denmark 40% 40% 30 Phønix Tag Nordsjælland A/S Fredensborg, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag Storentreprise ApS Hedensted, Denmark 40% 40% 31 Phønix Tag Sønderjylland A/S Aabenraa, Denmark 40% 40% 32 Phønix Tag Vejle A/S Hedensted, Denmark 40% 40% Phønix Tag Århus A/S Favrskov, Denmark 40% 40% 33 Garantiselskabet Dansk Tagdækning A/S Rudersdal, Denmark 50% 50% 34 35 36 37 38 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 77 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 13 GROUP COMPANIES AND SUBSIDIARIES 1 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Business combinations conducted after the transition to IFRS Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are reported using the aquisition method. This means 3 Subsidiaries are companies that stand under a controlling influence that the acquisition of a subsidiary is viewed as a transaction through from the Parent Company. A controlling influence exists if the Parent which the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and 4 Company has influence over the investment object, is exposed to or assumes its liabilities at fair value. In the acquisition analysis, the fair has the right to variable returns from its engagement and can use its value is determined on the acquisition date of the acquired identifiable 5 influence over the investment to affect the returns. In the assessment assets and assumed liabilities, as well as any non-controlling as to whether a controlling influence exists, potential shares that interests. Transaction costs that arise are recognized directly in profit/ 6 entitle the holder to votes are taken into account as well as whether loss for the year. 7 de facto control exists. In business combinations where transferred consideration exceed The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities, the 8 consolidated accounts as of the acquisition date until the date that the difference is reported as goodwill. When the difference is negative, the controlling influence ends. If the subsidiary’s accounting policies do negative goodwill is recognized directly in the profit/loss for the year. 9 not correspond with the Group’s accounting poilicies, adaptation have Contingent considerations are recognized at fair value at the been made to conform to the Group’s accounting policies. Losses acquisition date. Contingent considerations are revalued at every report10 attributable to non-controlling interests are also distributed if ing date and the change is recognized in the profit/loss for the year. non-controlling interests will be negative. In step acquisitions, goodwill is determined on the date that a 11 When acquiring less than 100 percent of the equity interests of a controlling influence arises. Earlier holdings are valued at fair value subsidiary, the Group may enter into arrangements under which and changes in value are recognized in profit/loss for the year. 12 Nordic Waterproofing has an obligation to acquire the minority Business combinations made before 1 January 2012 shareholders’ shares at a predetermined price at a future point in 13 (date for the transition to IFRS) time (put options). Further, Nordic Waterproofing may have the right For acquisitions that took place before 1 January 2012 goodwill has, to acquire the shares (call options) on similar terms. Such arrange14 after impairment testing, been recognized at a cost that corresponds ments are generally treated as if the option had been exercised to the carrying amount according to previously applied accounting 15 resulting in accounting for purchase of 100 percent of the equity policies. The classification and the accounting handling of business interest. The put option liability is treated as contingent consideration combinations that occurred before 1 January 2012 have not been 16 and measured at fair value with changes in fair value reocognised in reviewed according to IFRS 3 in the preparation of the Group’s opening financial items. balance under IFRS at 1 January 2012. 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 78 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION HOLDINGS IN SUBSIDIARIES The Group consists of 38 subsidiaries. 1 These subsidiaries are owned through a majority of the votes in the respective subsidiary. 2 2018 2017 Subsidiary (domicile, country) Voting and capital share in % Voting and capital share in % 3 Nordic Waterproofing Group 1 AB (Stockholm, Sweden) 100% 100% Nordic Waterproofing Group AB (Stockholm, Sweden) 100% 100% 4 Nordic Takvård AB (Helsingborg, Sweden) 100% 0% Nordic Waterproofing Holding DK ApS (Vejen, Denmark) 100% 100% 5 Hetag Tagmaterialer A/S (Hedensted, Denmark) 100% 100% 6 Nordic Waterproofing A/S (Vejen, Denmark) 100% 100% Hetag Tagdækning Vest A/S (Hedensted, Denmark) 100% 100% 7 Tagselskabet af 1 maj 2014 A/S i likv. (Hedensted, Denmark) 100% 100% Hetag Tagdækning Sjælland A/S (dormant) (Vejen, Denmark) 100% 100% 8 Hetag Tagdækning Vest A/S (Vejen, Denmark) 100% 100% Taasinge Elementer A/S (Hampen, Denmark) 89% 80% 9 LV Elements SIA (Riga, Latvia) 100% 100% 10 Nordic Build A/S (Svendborg, Denmark) 100% 100% Ringsaker Veggog Takelementer AS (Brumunddal, Norway) 75% 0% 11 Nordic Waterproofing AB (Trelleborg, Sweden) 100% 100% Nordic Waterproofing AS (Askim, Norway) 100% 100% 12 Nordic Waterproofing Oy (Helsinki, Finland) 100% 100% 13 AL-Katot Oy (Helsinki, Finland) 100% 100% KerabitPro Oy (Helsinki, Finland) 100% 100% 14 LA Kattohuolto Oy (Muurame, Finland) 100% 100% Nordic Waterproofing Property Oy (Helsinki, Finland) 100% 100% 15 SPT-Painting Oy (Helsinki, Finland) 100% 100% Nordic Waterproofing SpZoo (Lodz, Poland) 100% 100% 16 SealEco AB (Värnamo, Sweden) 100% 100% 17 SealEco BV (Lemelerveld, Netherlands) 67% 67% SealEco AG (Herzogenbuchsee, Switzerland) 51% 51% 18 SealEco Su Yalitim Teknolojileri A.Ş. (Nilüfer, Turkey) 100% 100% SealEco GmbH (Marsberg, Germany) 100% 100% 19 SealEco Holding Belgium NV (Brecht, Belgium) 100% 100% 20 SealEco Belgium NV (Brecht, Belgium) 100% 100% SealEco Ltd (London, United Kingdom) 100% 100% 21 SealEco Contracts Ltd (London, United Kingdom) 100% 100% SealEco NV (Brecht, Belgium) 100% 100% 22 Veg Tech AB (Vislanda, Sweden) 100% 0% Blomstertak AS (Ås, Norway) 60% 0% 23 Nordiska Gröntak AB (Alvesta, Sweden) 100% 0% 24 Veg Tech A/S (Copenhagen, Denmark) 100% 0% Veg Tech Oy (Kyrkslätt, Finland) 100% 0% 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 79 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 14 ACQUISITIONS 1 On 4 January 2018, the acquisition of a production plant in Denmark for proforma net sales and profit for the year ended 31 December 2018 2 prefabricated roofing and façade elements, by means of an acquisition of would have been SEK 2,706 m and SEK 155 m. These amounts have been assets, from Ugilt Savværk was finalized. The production plant was calculated using the subsidiary’s results and adjusting them for: 3 acquired by Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S’s subsidiary Taasinge • differences in accounting policies between the Group and the Elementer A/S. The purchase consideration was SEK 23 m and it was subsidiary, and 4 financed through Nordic Waterproofing’s available cash and bank • the additional amortization that would have been charged assuming 5 balances. Goodwill includes the value of market knowledge and synergies the fair value adjustments to intangible assets had applied from from the transaction. No portion of the goodwill is expected to be tax 1 January 2018, together with consequential tax effects. 6 deductible. Acquisition-related costs amounted to SEK 1 m in the form of On 5 July 2018, Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S’s subsidiary Nordic consulting fees in connection with the acquisition process. These Waterproofing Group AB completed the acquisition of Veg Tech AB. 7 consulting expenses have been recognized as administrative expenses in Nordic Waterproofing initially acquired 83 percent of the shares for SEK the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive 129 per share, corresponding to a consideration of SEK 153 m.The total 8 income, and are excluded from operating result (EBIT) before items consideration has been paid in cash, and the acquisition was financed by affecting comparability of the Nordic Waterproofing Group. 9 The acquired business contributed net sales of SEK 20 m and net a new bank loan through an extension of Nordic Waterproofing’s current credit facilities and the revolving facility. Furthermore, Nordic Waterprofit of SEK 1 m to the Group for the period from 4 January to 31 De10 cember 2018. proofing submitted an offer to acquire the remaining shares for the same price per share as the main acquisition. As per 31 December, all 11 On 1 March 2018, 75 percent of the shares in the Norwegian Ringsaker remaining shares have been acquired corresponding to a consideration Veggog Takelementer AS (“RVT”) were acquired by Nordic Waterproofof SEK 30 m and Nordic Waterproofing’s ownership is 100 percent. 12 ing Holding A/S’s subsidiary Taasinge Elementer A/S for SEK 38 m on a Intangible assets include the value of existing customer relationships at cash and debt free basis. Nordic Waterproofing has a call option and the the date of the acquisition amounting to approximately SEK 32 m, which 13 minority shareholder has a put option of the remaining 25 percent of the will be amortized, and thus affecting operating profit (EBIT) during shares. The option gives Taasinge Elementer A/S the right to buy the approximately five years following the acquisition. Goodwill includes the 14 shares after 1 January 2024, and the minority shareholder the right to value of market knowledge and synergies from the transaction. No sell the shares after 1 March 2024. For accounting purposes, the portion of the goodwill is expected to be tax deductible. Acquisition-relat15 combined call and put option has been classified as a financial liability ed costs amounted to SEK 2 m in the form of consulting fees in 16 but since the combined call and put option is not equal, a non-controlling connection with the acquisition process. These consulting expenses have interest has been recognized as well. Intangible assets include the value been recognized as administrative expenses in the consolidated 17 of the order book at the date of the acquisition amounting to approxistatement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, and are mately SEK 5 m, which will be amortized, and thus affecting operating excluded from operating result (EBIT) before items affecting comparabil18 profit (EBIT) during approximately one year following the acquisition. ity of the Nordic Waterproofing Group. Goodwill includes the value of market knowledge and synergies from the The acquired business contributed net sales of SEK 78 m and net 19 transaction. No portion of the goodwill is expected to be tax deductible. profit of SEK 7 m to the Group for the period from 5 July to 31 December Acquisition-related costs amounted to SEK 2 m in the form of consulting 2018. 20 fees in connection with the acquisition process. These consulting If the acquisition had occured on 1 January 2018, consolidated expenses have been recognized as administrative expenses in the proforma net sales and profit for the year ended 31 December 2018 21 consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive would have been SEK 2,734 m and SEK 153 m. These amounts have been income, and are excluded from operating result (EBIT) before items calculated using the subsidiary’s results and adjusting them for: 22 affecting comparability of the Nordic Waterproofing Group. • differences in accounting policies between the Group and the 23 The acquired business contributed net sales of SEK 93 m and net subsidiary, and profit of SEK –2 m to the Group for the period from 1 March to • the additional amortization that would have been charged assuming 24 31­ ­December 2018. the fair value adjustments to intangible assets had applied from If the acquisition had occured on 1 January 2018, consolidated 1 January 2018, together with consequential tax effects. 25 26 Purchase ­consideration, Jan 2018 Mar 2018 Jul 2018 2018 2018 SEK m Ugilt Savværk RVT AS Veg Tech AB Other Total 27 Cash consideration 22.9 46.2 183.0 2.4 254.5 28 Call/put option 0.0 9.6 0.0 0.0 9.6 Total purchase consideration 22.9 55.8 183.0 2.4 264.1 29 The acquired companies’ net assets on the acquisition date: 30 Acquisition analysis Jan 2018 Mar 2018 Jul 2018 2018 2018 31 SEK m, unless otherwise stated Ugilt Savværk RVT AS Veg Tech AB Other Total Intangible assets 2.4 5.2 32.0 0.0 39.6 32 Tangible assets 6.6 1.8 41.1 0.0 49.5 Inventories 3.3 6.3 37.8 0.0 47.4 33 Trade and other receivables 0.0 20.5 30.7 0.0 51.2 Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 28.0 9.5 0.0 37.5 34 Other non-interest bearing liabilities –0.3 –30.9 –31.0 0.0 –62.2 35 Deferred tax liabilities –0.5 –5.3 –14.1 0.0 –19.9 Net assets and liabilities 11.5 25.6 106.0 0.0 143.1 36 Non-controlling interests 0.0 –15.4 –0.7 0.0 –16.1 Goodwill 11.4 36.0 77.7 2.4 127.5 37 Cash consideration 22.9 46.2 183.0 2.4 254.5 38 80 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION Acquisition of business –net cash impact, Jan 2018 Mar 2018 Jul 2018 2018 2018 SEK m Ugilt Savværk RVT AS Veg Tech AB Other Total 1 Cash consideration 22.9 46.2 183.0 13.6 265.7 Less cash balances acquired 0.0 –28.0 –9.5 0.0 –37.5 2 Net cash impact – investing activities 22.9 18.2 173.5 13.6 228.2 3 ”Other” includes SEK 11.2 m in connection with the acquisition of 10 percent ot the shares in Taasinge Elementer A/S. 4 5 6 NOTE 15 I NFORMATION ON NOTE 16 RELATED PARTIES THE PARENT COMPANY RELATED PARTY RELATIONSHIPS 7 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S is the Parent Company in the Group. The Group has related party relationships with the associated companies 8 The Parent Company is a Danish company with CVR number 33395361 stated in Note 12. The Parent Company also has a related party domiciled in Vejen. relationship with its subsidiaries; see Note 13. 9 Associated companies are companies over which the Group has a The address of the company’s registered office is Vester Allé 1, DK-6600 significant, but not a controlling influence over the operational and 10 Vejen, Denmark, while the address of the Group’s operational head office financial governance, usually through an interest of between 20 and is Drottninggatan 11, SE-252 21 Helsingborg, Sweden. 50 percent of the number of votes. The vast majority of the associated 11 The following capital owners are listed in the company’s shareholders’ companies in the Group are customers to the Danish subsidiaries, and also franchisees where they have access to the concepts and brands 12 register as owners of at least 5 percent of the votes or the capital: Phønix Tag and Hetag Tagdækning. Mawer Investment Management, Calgary, Canada 13 Svolder, Stockholm, Sweden COMPILATION OF RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Swedbank Robur Funds, Stockholm, Sweden 14 SEK m 2018 2017 Carnegie Funds, Stockholm, Sweden Sale of goods/services and royalties 15 Catella Funds, Stockholm, Sweden to related parties 206.1 188.4 Länsförsäkringar Funds, Stockholm, Sweden 16 Purchases of goods/services from related parties 0.0 0.0 Other (e.g. interest, dividends) 12.1 10.8 17 Receivables on related parties 18 at 31 December 17.6 18.9 Liabilities to related parties at 31 December 0.0 0.0 19 Transactions with related parties are priced on market-based terms. 20 TRANSACTIONS WITH KEY PERSONS IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS 21 Transactions with key persons in management positions are presented in Note 7. These transactions comprise salaries, benefits and pension 22 commitments, as well as participation in the Group’s incentive program. No further transactions or commitments exist that cover key persons in 23 senior positions. 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 81 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 17 INTANGIBLE ASSETS 1 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES the product or process is technically and commercially usable, the Goodwill company may reliably calclulate the expenditure that will be activated, 3 Goodwill is valued at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. and the company has adequate resources to complete development, Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and impairment tested 4 at least once a year. Goodwill that has arisen in the acquisition of that will provide economic benefits in the future. The carrying amount includes all directly attributable expenditures, e.g. for materials and associated companies is included in the carrying amount for 5 participations in associated companies. services, compensation to employees, registration of a legal right, amortization on patents and licences, borrowing expenses in For goodwill in acquisitions that took place before 1 January 2012, 6 accordance with IAS 23. Development expenditures recognized in the the Group has not applied IFRS retroactively in the transition to IFRS, statement of financial position are initially measured at cost less 7 but rather the carrying amount at that date constitutes in continuation accumulated amortization and any impairment losses. the Group’s cost after impairment testing. 8 Customer relationships Other intangible assets Other intangible assets acquired by the Group are recognized at cost Customer relationships acquired by the Group are recognized at cost 9 less accumulated amortization and any impairment losses. Customer less accumulated amortization and any impairment losses. Software that has been developed or extensively adapted on behalf of the Group relationships are amortized straight-line over the expected useful life, 10 is also included among other intangible assets. Amortization of normally 5–7 years, and are included in the statement of profit or loss software is applied straight-line over the useful life, although a 11 item Cost of goods sold. maximum of 5 years, and is included in the statement of profit or loss Order book item Administrative expenses. 12 The order book included in other intangible assets relates to earnings Impairment testing of goodwill in acquired order book. It is amortized straight-line over 12 months 13 The value of recognized goodwill is tested at least once a year with and is included in the statement of profit or loss item Cost of goods regard to possible impairment requirements. The testing requires an sold. 14 assessment of the value in use of the cash-generating unit, or group Research and evelopent of cash-generating units, to which the goodwill is attributable. This 15 Expenditures for development, where research results or other requires that several assumptions regarding future conditions and knowledge is applied to achieve new or improved products or processestimates of parameters are made. A description of these are 16 es, are recognized as an asset in the statement of financial position if provided below. 17 18 Capitalized expenses Customer for ongoing 19 SEK m Goodwill ­relationships Order book Software R&D projects Total 20 At 1 January 2017 Cost 616,0 21.1 0.0 8.4 0.2 3.7 649.4 21 Accumulated amortization and impairment 0,0 –14.6 0.0 –2.5 –0.1 0.0 –17.2 Net book amount 616,0 6.5 0.0 5.8 0.1 3.7 632.2 22 2017 23 Opening net book amount 616,0 6.5 0.0 5.8 0.1 3.7 632.2 24 Acquisitions 106,3 47.9 11.2 0.0 0.1 0.0 165.5 Investments 0,0 0.0 0.0 0.9 0.1 1.0 2.0 25 Reclassification 0,0 0.0 0.0 0.6 3.4 –3.9 0.1 Amortization 0,0 –7.4 –5.6 –1.5 –0.4 0.0 –14.9 26 Exchange-rate differences 10,5 0.9 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 11.6 27 Closing net book amount 732,8 47.9 5.7 5.9 3.4 0.8 796.5 28 At 31 December 2017 Cost 732,8 69.9 11.3 10.0 3.9 0.8 828.7 29 Accumulated amortization and impairment 0,0 –22.0 –5.6 –4.1 –0.5 0.0 –32.2 Net book amount 732,8 47.9 5.7 5.9 3.4 0.8 796.5 30 31 2018 Opening net book amount 732.8 47.9 5.7 5.9 3.4 0.8 796.5 32 Acquisitions 125.6 32.0 7.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 165.2 33 Investments 2.6 0.0 0.0 4.6 0.9 14.7 22.8 Reclassification 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.8 –0.8 0.0 0.0 34 Amortization 0.0 –12.8 –13.7 –2.4 –0.8 0.0 –29.7 Exchange-rate differences 17.5 2.0 0.4 –0.5 0.8 0.3 20.5 35 Closing net book amount 878.5 69.2 0.0 8.4 3.5 15.8 975.4 36 At 31 December 2018 37 Cost 878.5 104.0 19.3 14.9 4.8 15.8 1,037.3 Accumulated amortization and impairment 0.0 –34.8 –19.3 –6.5 –1.3 0.0 –61.9 38 Net book amount 878.5 69.2 0.0 8.4 3.5 15.8 975.4 82 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION Consolidated goodwill consists of strategic business values that has Important arisen in business acquisitions. The main goodwill arose in 2011 in variables Estimation method 1 connection with the establishment of the Group, which is earlier than the Sales growth Forecasts of future sales are based on assessments of date of transition to IFRS. Therefore, goodwill for instance comprises of sales volumes and prices. Forecasts of the develop2 customer relations, brands, the franchise concept and royalty and is ment of volumes and prices in future years are based allocated to segments in accordance with the agreed acquisition prices on current market situations in the various submarkets 3 and on an assessment of how they are expected to for the respective company and business. Effective as of 1 January 2012, the Group’s contracting operations develop in the near future. The forecast largely agrees 4 with external information sources (approx. 2%) and were incorporated. In connection with this incorporation, goodwill was prior experiences, with the difference that the 5 allocated between the segments in relation to expected discounted cash prevailing market situation and thereby tough flows. competition set pressure on volumes and prices for 6 Installation Services. IMPAIRMENT TESTING FOR CASH-GENERATING UNITS CONTAINING Prices on Significant input goods are comprised of petrole7 GOODWILL input goods um-based products. The price trend on these has been The company has identified the following cash-generating units that negative and based on the expected future development 8 contain goodwill: on the commodities market, today’s development has been extrapolated and forecast in five years to increase 9 SEK m 2018 2017 to a level in excess of today’s levels, which have historically been affected by the so-called supercycle Products & Solutions 764.2 625.3 for commodities. The forecast agrees with external 10 Installation Services 114.3 107.5 information sources. Total 878.5 732.8 11 Personnel The forecast for personnel costs is based on expected costs inflation, some real salary growth (historical average) 12 The recoverable amount for the respective segment has been based on and planned efficiency enhancements to the company’s its value in use. This value is based on forecast cash flows established in production (according to a set three-year plan). The forecast agrees with earlier experiences and external 13 company management’s business forecast for the upcoming three years. The cash flows have then been assumed to grow by 2% (2%) per year. The information sources. 14 cash flows have been present value calculated with a discount rate Testing has not led to any impairment losses and company management before tax of 8.9% (10.2%) for Products & Solutions and 7.9% (9.1%) for 15 Installation Services, respectively. assesses that no reasonably possible changes in important assumptions Important assumptions in the business forecast that affect the would mean that the recoverable amount would drop below the carrying 16 estimate of the cash flows are presented below. The important amount. assumptions used and the types of assessments made for the respective The Group’s customer relationships and order book have arisen in 17 segments are similar to each other, even if cost structure and margin connection with business acquisitions. levels differ. The description below therefore applies to both segments. 18 Amortizations are included in the following items in the consolidated statement of profit or loss: 19 SEK m 2018 2017 20 Cost of goods sold 26.5 13.1 Administrative expenses 3.2 1.8 21 Total 29.7 14.9 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 83 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 18 P  ROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 1 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Estimated useful lives: Owned assets Office buildings: 3 Property, plant and equipment are recognized in the Group at cost Framework, facades, roofs and windows 25–57 years less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. The cost Other  25–57 years 4 includes the purchase price and expenditures directly attributable to Industrial buildings: Framework, facades, roofs  25–57 years the asset to put it in place and in the condition to be used in accord5 ance with the purpose of the acquisition. Other  25–57 years Plant and machinery 5–10 years Property, plant and equipment that consist of components with 6 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 5 years different useful lives are treated as separate components of property, 7 plant and equipment. Applied depreciation methods, residual values and useful lives are The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment reviewed at the end of every year. 8 is taken off the statement of financial position upon disposal or divestment or when no future financial benefits are expected from the Leased assets 9 use or disposal/divestment of the asset. Gains or losses that arise Leases are classified either as finance or operating leases. Finance upon divestment or disposal of an asset comprise the difference leases exist when the financial risks and benefits associated with 10 between the selling price and the asset’s carrying amount less direct ownership are essentially transferred to the lessee. When this is not selling expenses. Gains and losses are recognized as other operating the case, it is an operating lease. 11 income/expenses. Assets leased under finance leases are recognized as property, 12 Subsequent expenditures plant and equipment in the statement of financial position and initially Subsequent expenditures are capitalized only if it is likely that the valued at the lower of the leased asset’s fair value and the present 13 future financial benefits associated with the asset will flow to the value of the minimum lease payments upon entering the lease. company and the cost can be reliably calculated. All other subsequent The obligation to pay future lease payments is recognized as a 14 expenditures are expensed in the period they arise. non-­current or current liability. The leased assets are depreciated A subsequent expenditure is capitalized if the expenditure pertains over the respective asset’s useful life while the lease payments are 15 to replacements of identified components or parts thereof. The recognized as interest and repayment of the liabilities. expenditure is also capitalized if a new component has been created. Assets leased under operating leases as a rule are not recognized 16 Any non-depreciated carrying amounts on replaced components, or as an asset in the statement of financial position. Operating leases parts of components, are disposed of and expensed in connection with also do not give rise to a liability. 17 the replacement. Repairs are continuously expensed. Finance lease 18 Depreciation policies The minimum lease payments are distributed between interest Depreciation is applied straight-line over the asset’s estimated useful expense and repayment of the outstanding liability. The interest 19 life; land is not depreciated. Leased assets are also depreciated over expense is distributed over the term of the lease so that each the estimated useful life or, if it is shorter, over the agreed term of the accounting period is charged an amount that corresponds to a fixed 20 lease. The Group applies component depreciation, which means that interest rate for the liability recognized in the respective period. the components’ estimated useful life forms the basis of depreciation. Variable payments are expensed in the periods in which they arise. 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 84 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION Land and Equipment Construction SEK m ­buildings Machinery & tools in progress Total 1 At 1 January 2017 Cost 103.0 130.4 47.9 3.4 284.7 2 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –21.6 –60.3 –22.7 0.0 –104.6 3 Net book amount 81.4 70.2 25.1 3.4 180.1 4 2017 Opening net book amount 81.4 70.2 25.1 3.4 180.1 5 Acquisitions 19.4 8.8 2.8 1.3 32.3 6 Investments 0.4 7.5 3.3 10.0 21.2 Divestments and disposals –0.5 –0.5 0.0 0.0 –1.0 7 Reclassification 0.3 12.0 0.2 –12.6 –0.1 Depreciation –4.2 –16.9 –4.4 0.0 –25.5 8 Exchange-rate differences 1.5 1.0 0.3 0.0 2.8 Closing net book amount 98.3 82.1 27.3 2.1 209.8 9 10 At 31 December 2017 Cost 124.1 159.3 54.3 2.1 339.8 11 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –25.8 –77.2 –27.0 0.0 –130.0 Net book amount 98.3 82.1 27.3 2.1 209.8 12 13 Land and Equipment Construction SEK m ­buildings Machinery & tools in progress Total 14 2018 Opening net book amount 98.3 82.1 27.3 2.1 209.8 15 Acquisitions 27.1 20.7 0.0 1.6 49.4 16 Investments 0.0 18.3 2.7 14.5 35.5 Divestments and disposals 0.0 –0.1 0.0 0.0 –0.1 17 Reclassification 1.9 2.5 0.8 –5.2 0.0 Depreciation –5.5 –22.6 –4.5 0.0 –32.6 18 Exchange-rate differences 2.8 2.3 0.7 0.3 6.1 Closing net book amount 124.6 103.2 27.0 13.3 268.1 19 20 At 31 December 2018 Cost 155.9 203.0 58.5 13.3 430.7 21 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –31.3 –99.8 –31.5 0.0 –162.6 Net book amount 124.6 103.2 27.0 13.3 268.1 22 Depreciations are included in the following items in the consolidated 23 statement of profit or loss: 24 SEK m 2018 2017 Cost of goods sold 27.7 22.0 25 Selling expenses 1.2 1.0 26 Administrative expenses 3.7 2.5 Total 32.6 25.5 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 85 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 19 OPERATING LEASES NOTE 21 TRADE RECEIVABLES 1 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES Expenses concerning operating leases are recognized in profit/loss Trade receivables are financial assets that are non-derivatives, have 3 for the year straight-line over the term of the lease. Variable determined or determinable payments and are not listed in an payments are expensed in the periods in which they arise. active market. Trade receivables are valued at amortized costs. 4 Trade receivables are recognized in the amount expcted to be received, i.e. less expected credit losses. 5 LEASES WHERE THE COMPANY IS LESSEE The provision for expected credit losses is valued to an amount Future payments for leases that cannot be cancelled amount to: that corresponds to the expected credit loss for the remaining 6 SEK m 2018 2017 maturity period. The estimate of the expected credit loss is mainly 7 Within one year 32.8 25.4 based on an individual assessment of the receivable in question Between one and five years 55.2 38.6 together with information about historical losses for similar assets 8 After more than five years 0.0 1.0 and counterparties, taking into consideration potential future events. Total 88.0 65.0 9 The Group has usual short-term payment terms. Of the Group’s operating leases, most pertain to leases for properties 10 and premises where operations are conducted. Trade receivable are recognized after consideration is taken to credit 11 losses arising during the year that amounted to SEK –2.9 m (–3.5). Expensed payments for operating leases amount to: 12 AGE ANALYSIS SEK m 2018 2017 SEK m 2018 2017 13 Minimum lease fees 35.3 26.6 Variable fees 0.0 0.0 Trade receivable not overdue 174.7 147.7 14 Total leasing costs 35.3 26.6 Overdue 1–30 days 56.1 40.8 Overdue 31–90 days 5.7 6.2 15 No leased assets have been subleased. Overdue > 90 days 14.1 5.2 Carrying amount 250.6 199.8 16 PROVISION FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES 17 NOTE 20 INVENTORY SEK m 2018 2017 18 Opening balance –3.9 –1.8 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Reversal of previously applied impairment 19 Inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. losses 0.4 0.8 The cost of inventory is calculated using the first-in, first-out policy Write-off of previous credit losses 0.7 0.5 20 (FIFO) and includes expenses arising in the acquisition of the Credit losses for the year –2.9 –3.5 inventory assets and their transport to their current location and 21 Exchange-rate differences for the year –0.3 0.0 condition. For manufactured goods and work in progress, the cost Closing balance –6.0 –3.9 includes a reasonable share of indirect expenses based on a normal 22 capacity. The net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the 23 operating activities, less estimated costs for completion and to NOTE 22 R  ECEIVABLES FOR ON-GOING 24 achieve a sale. CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS 25 SEK m 2018 2017 ACCOUNTING POLICIES 26 Raw materials and consumables 86.2 61.1 Receivables for on-going construction contracts are projects where Finished goods and goods for resale 259.6 198.5 higher accumulated income is recognized than invoiced income. 27 Total 345.8 259.6 28 SEK m 2018 2017 All inventory items are recognized as cost of goods sold at the time of the Performed revenues for on-going 29 sale or scrapping of products. No additional write-downs have been ­construction contracts 639.8 516.5 made other than the physical scrapping of products identified as being Invoicing on on-going construction contracts –601.0 –472.6 30 obsolete. Total 38.8 43.9 31 SEK m 2018 2017 Receivables for on-going ­construction 32 contracts 54.3 43.9 Payables for on-going contruction contracts –15.5 0.0 33 Total 38.8 43.9 34 The contract assets and liabilites are related to construction contracts 35 with a duration less than twelve months. 36 37 38 86 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 23 OTHER CURRENT RECEIVABLES NOTE 26 A  CCRUED EXPENSES AND 1 PREPAID INCOME ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2 Current receivables essentially consist of amounts expected to be ACCOUNTING POLICIES recovered within 12 months of the reporting date. Accrued expenses are costs where payments are made in later 3 periods. Prepaid income is payments during the period that 4 SEK m 2018 2017 constitute income for subsequent periods. VAT receivables 6.1 3.2 5 Fair value, commodity derivatives 3.2 0.0 SEK m 2018 2017 Balance on tax account 4.0 5.4 Personnel-related expenses 103.1 90.7 6 Other receivables 2.2 2.3 Interest expenses 2.0 1.2 7 Total 15.5 10.9 Customer bonuses 13.0 17.3 Claims 6.0 6.9 8 Other 28.5 17.0 9 NOTE 24 P  REPAID EXPENSES AND Total 152.6 133.1 ACCRUED INCOME 10 ACCOUNTING POLICIES NOTE 27 O  THER INVESTMENTS 11 Prepaid expenses are payments for the period which represents 12 SEK m 2018 2017 costs for subsequent periods. Accrued income are revenue during Financial assets the period in which the payment is made in later periods. 13 Shares and participations 2.1 2.0 14 SEK m 2018 2017 This item is essentially comprised of shares in unlisted companies. The Sales and marketing expenses 1.8 2.4 company has deemed that the fair value of the shares have not been able 15 Energy costs 0.0 0.2 to be estimated with sufficient reliability. Therefore and due to immateriIT 2.3 1.5 ality, the shares have been valued at cost. 1 Insurance 1.9 1.3 Rent 3.1 2.4 17 Supplier bonuses 1.5 0.0 NOTE 28 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 18 Other 7.3 5.7 Total 17.9 13.5 19 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Cash and cash equivalents consists of cash funds and immediately 20 available balances at banks and equivalent institutes and shortNOTE 25 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES term liquid investments with a duration from the time of acquisition 21 of less than three months, which are only subject to an insignificant risk of value fluctuations. 22 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Current liabilities essentially consist of amounts expected to be paid 23 within 12 months of the reporting date. SEK m 2018 2017 The following subcomponents are included 24 in cash and cash equivalents: SEK m 2018 2017 Cash and bank balances 105,6 156.8 25 Personnel-related liabilities 10.5 9.4 Total as per balance sheet 105.6 156.8 VAT liabilities 20.7 18.7 Total as per cash flow statement 105.6 156.8 26 Customer bonuses 4.2 4.6 Advances from customers 0.0 2.9 27 Short term additional purchase price liability 5.7 18.6 Other liabilities 4.9 3.0 28 Total 46.0 57.2 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 87 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 29 EQUITY NOTE 30 EARNINGS PER SHARE 1 SHARE CAPITAL AND NUMBER OF SHARES SEK m 2018 2017 2 Stated in number of shares 2018 2017 Earnings per share before and after dilution 6.30 5.71 3 Issued at 1 January 24,083,935 24,083,935 The calculation of the numerator and denominator used in the above Issued at 31 December – paid 24,083,935 24,083,935 calculations of earnings per share is presented below. 4 Number of shares by class: PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR ATTRIBUTABLE TO PARENT COMPANY 5 SHAREHOLDERS, BEFORE AND AFTER DILUTION Class A shares 24,083,935 24,083,935 6 Total 24,083,935 24,083,935 SEK m 2018 2017 Profit/loss attributable to Parent Company 7 All shares have a quotient value of DKK 1.00 (1.00). Holders of ordinary shareholders, before and after dilution 152.1 136.9 shares are entitled to dividends determined in arrears and the share8 holding entitles to voting rights at the General Meeting with one vote per WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF OUTSTANDING SHARES, share. BEFORE AND AFTER DILUTION 9 11,610 (0) treasury shares corresponding to 0.05 (0.0) percent of the In shares 2018 2017 total share capital were acquired late 2018 in order to secure the 10 longterm incentive programs. Total treasury shares are 11,610 (0). Total number of shares, 1 January 24,083,935 24,083,935 Weighted average number of shares 11 RESERVES during the year, before and after dilution 24,083,935 24,083,935 Translation reserve 12 Since the condition for allocation of performance shares as mentioned in The translation reserve includes all exchange-rate differences that arise in the translation of financial statements from foreign operations that Note 7 were not met at the balance sheet date, the LTIP has no dilution 13 have prepared their financial statements in a currency other than the effect. 14 currency that the consolidated financial statements are presented in. The Group presents its financial statements in SEK. 15 In addition, the translation reserve consists of exchange-rate differences that arise in the revaluation of liabilities that have been taken 16 up as hedging instruments by a net investment in a foreign operation. 17 Hedging reserve The hedging reserve includes unrealised fair value gains and losses on 18 hedging instruments. 19 RETAINED EARNINGS INCLUDING PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Retained earnings including profit for the year include profits earned in 20 the Group. Earlier reservations to the statutory reserve, excluding transferred share premium reserves, are included in this equity item. 21 The item also includes other equity contributed by the shareholders. This includes premiums paid in connection with new share issues. 22 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 23 The Group strives to maintain a strong financial position that contributes 24 to retaining the confidence of creditors and the market, which constitutes a basis for continued development of the business. The Group defines 25 managed capital as total recognized equity. The financial targets for Nordic Waterproofing Group, which are valid 26 as from 2016, include a dividend policy and targets for the capital structure. Nordic Waterproofing aims to have an annual dividend of more 27 than 50 percent of its net profit. The pay out decision will be based on the Company’s financial position, investment needs, liquidity position as well 28 as general economic and business conditions. Net debt in relation to EBITDA before items affecting comparability (measured on a rolling-­ 29 twelve months basis), excluding temporary deviations, shall not exceed 2.5 times. Dividend of SEK 90.3 m (90.3) has been paid to the owners 30 during 2018, why leverage has increased and amounts to 1.5x EBITDA 31 (0.8x) as per the end of the reporting period. 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 88 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 31 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES NOTE 32 O  THER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2 Borrowings are valued at amortized cost. Borrowings are classified Non-current liabilities essentially consist of amounts expected to be as interest-bearing non-current or current liabilities in the balance recovered or paid after 12 months of the reporting date. 3 sheet. 4 SEK m 2018 2017 SEK m 2018 2017 Long term call/put option liabilities 32.3 31.0 5 Non-current liabilities Long term additional purchase price liability 4.6 4.3 Bank loans 416.3 360.3 Other liabilities 1.2 1.8 6 Total 416.3 360.3 Total 38.1 37.1 7 The non-current part of bank loans has been reduced by SEK 1.9 m (2.8) Other non-current liabilities consists primarily of contingent liabilites in 8 with regard to period-allocated arrangement costs for bank loans. relation to acquired companies. 9 SEK m 2018 2017 Current liabilities 10 Current part of bank loans 73.6 0.0 11 Cash credit 57.4 0.0 Total 131.0 0.0 12 The current part of bank loans has been reduced by SEK 1.3 m (0.0) with 13 regard to period-allocated arrangement costs for bank loans. 14 RECONCILIATION OF DEVELOPMENT OF LOANS AND BORROWINGS TO FINANCING ACTIVITIES IN THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT 15 SEK m 2018 2017 16 Interest-bearing liabilities 360.3 353.4 Other financial liabilites 56.3 0.0 17 Loans and borrowings, 1 January 416.6 353.4 Assumed loans and borrowings in acquired 18 companies 0.0 99.0 Proceeds from loans and borrowings 259.3 0.4 19 Repayment of loans and borrowings –95.0 –50.1 20 Fair value adjustment of put options and additional purchase price liabilities 10.0 5.7 21 Period-allocated arrangement costs for bank loans 1.1 0.8 22 Exchange-rate differences 0.2 7.4 Loans and borrowings, 31 December 592.2 416.6 23 whereof: Interest-bearing liabilities 547.3 360.3 24 Other financial liabilites 44.9 56.3 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 89 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 33 F  INANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 1 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Other financial liabilities Financial instruments Borrowings and other financial liabilities, such as trade payable, are 3 A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial included in this category. These liabilities are valued at amortized asset of one entity and a finnacial liability or equity instrument of cost. 4 another entity. The categories to which the Group’s financial assets and liabilities Financial instruments that are recognized in the statement of belong are presented by Note 34 Financial risks and finance policy. 5 financial position include cash and cash equivalents, loan receivables, Recognition of finance income and expenses is also addressed above. trade receivable, other investments and derivatives on the asset side. 6 Derivatives and hedging activities On the liabilities side, there are trade payable, borrowings and Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on the date a 7 derivatives. derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured Recognition in and derecognition from the statement of financial to their fair value at the end of each reporting period. The accounting 8 position for subsequent changes in fair value depends on whether the A financial asset or liability is recognized in the statement of derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature 9 of the item being hedged. The group designates certain derivatives as financial position when the company becomes a party to the instrument’s contractual terms. A receivable is recognized when the either: 10 company has performed and a contractual obligation exists for the • hedges of a particular risk associated with the cash flows of 11 counterpart to pay, even if an invoice has not yet been sent. Trade recognized assets and liabilities and highly probable forecast receivable are recognized in the statement of financial position when transactions (cash flow hedges), or 12 an invoice has been sent. A liability is recognized when the counter-­ • hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation (net investment party has performed and a contractual obligation exists to pay, even if hedges). 13 an invoice has not yet been received. Trade payable are recognized The Group documents at the inception of the hedging transaction the when an invoice has been received. 14 A financial asset and a financial liability are offset and reported in relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various a net amount in the statement of financial position only when there is 15 a legal right to offset the amounts and there is an intention to settle hedge transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives the items with a net amount or to simultaneously realise the asset 16 that are used in hedging transactions have been and will continue to and settle the liability. be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of 17 Acquisitions and disposals of financial assets are recognized on hedged items. the transaction date. The transaction date is the date the company 18 commits to acquire or dispose the asset. Cash flow hedge Financial instruments that are not accounted for at fair value are The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are 19 initially recognized at cost corresponding to the instrument’s fair designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized in other value plus transaction expenses for all financial instruments except comprehensive income and accumulated in reserves in equity. The 20 with regard to those belonging to the category of financial assets at gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immedifair value through profit or loss, which are recognized at fair value ately in profit or loss within other operating income or other operating 21 excluding transaction expenses. A financial instrument is classified at expense. initial recognition based in part on the purpose for which the Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in 22 instrument was acquired. The classification determines how the the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss (for instance financial instrument is valued after initial recognition as described when the forecast purchase that is hedged takes place). The gain or 23 below. loss relating to the effective portion of forward contracts hedging Derivatives are initially recognized at cost and at fair value prices of raw materials is recognized in profit or loss within cost of 24 subsequently. Both realised and unrealised gains and losses are goods sold. However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged 25 recognized in the income statement unless the derivatives are part results in the recognition of a non-financial asset (for example, of hedging of future transactions. Value adjustments of derivatives inventory or fixed assets) the gains and losses previously deferred in 26 for hedging of future transactions are recognized directly in other equity are reclassified from equity and included in the initial measure­ comprehensive income. As hedged transactions are realised, gains ment of the cost of the asset. The deferred amounts are ultimately 27 or losses are recognized in the hedging instrument from other recognized in profit or loss as cost of goods sold in the case of comprehensive income in the same item as the hedged items. inventory, or as depreciation or impairment in the case of fixed assets. 28 Any non-effective part of the financial instrument in question is When a hedging instrument expires or is sold or terminated, or recognized in the income statement. when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any 29 Derivatives are recognized under other receivables or other cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in payables. equity and is recognized when the forecast transaction is ultimately 30 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash funds and immediately recognized in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer available balances at banks and equivalent institutes and short-term expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in 31 liquid investments with a duration from the time of acquisition of less equity is immediately reclassified to profit or loss. 32 than three months, which are only subject to an insignificant risk of Net investment hedges value fluctuations. Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for 33 similarly to cash flow hedges. Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss The category comprises derivative financial assets and liabilities of which Loans in foreign currency are used as hedging instruments. 34 some are designated as hedging instruments as described below. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognized in other comprehensive income and 35 Loans and receivables accumulated in reserves in equity. The gain or loss relating to the Loans and receivables are financial assets that are non-derivatives, 36 have determined or determinable payments and are not listed on ineffective portion is recognized immediately in profit or loss within other operating income or other operating expenses. an active market. These assets are valued at amortized cost. Trade 37 Gains and losses accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or receivable are recognized in the amount expected to be received, loss when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold. 38 i.e. less expected credit losses. 90 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION CARRYING AMOUNTS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY Financial liabilities MEASUREMENT CATEGORY at fair value 1 The table below presents the carrying amounts for financial assets and through profit or loss liabilities by measurement category. SEK m 2018 2017 2 Financial liabilities at fair value 3 Financial assets Other non-current liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Long term call/put option liability 32.3 31.0 4 Long term additional purchase price liability 4.6 4.3 SEK m 2018 2017 Other current liabilities 5 Financial assets at fair value Short term additional purchase price Other current receivables liability 5.7 18.6 6 Commodity derivatives 3.2 0.0 Total financial liabilites at fair value 42.6 53.9 Total financial assets at fair value 3.2 0.0 7 The fair values were calculated based on cash flows discounted using a risk adjusted discount rate (WACC). 8 Financial assets at The decrease in short term additional purchase price liability is amortized cost 9 mainly related to an earn-out payment made in 2018 regarding the SEK m 2018 2017 acqusition of Taasinge Elementer A/S in 2017. 10 Financial assets not measured at fair value Non-current receivables from associated companies 6.7 5.8 Financial liabilities 11 at amortized cost Other non-current receivables 16.3 12.0 SEK m 2018 2017 12 Current receivables from associated companies 10.9 13.0 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value 13 Receivables for on-going construction contracts 54.3 43.9 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 416.3 360.3 14 Other current receivables 12.4 10.9 Current interest-bearing liabilities 131.0 0.0 Current tax assets 2.4 1.9 Payables for on-going construction 15 contracts 15.5 0.0 Accounts receivable 250.6 199.8 Total financial assets not measured Trade payable 129.2 90.7 16 at fair value 353.6 287.3 Other current liabilities 40.3 38.9 Accrued interest expenses 1.4 1.2 17 Total financial assets 356.8 287.3 Total financial liabilites not measured at fair value 733.7 491.1 18 The item “Other investments” is essentially comprised of unlisted shares 19 and participations belonging to the measurement category “Financial Total financial liabilities 776.3 545.0 assets”. For information on carrying amounts for these assets, refer to 20 Note 27. Financial instruments measured at fair value in the balance sheet consist of financial derivatives used to hedge the price risk arising from 21 highly probable future purchases of bitumen products. These are recognized in the balance sheet items Other receivables and Other 22 liabilities. The fair value of these commodity derivatives has been established through a discount of the difference between the agreed 23 price and future prices at the reporting date for the remaining contract period. The fair value measurements belong to level 2 in the fair value 24 hierarchy in IFRS 13. The carrying amounts of financial instruments not recognized at fair value constitute a reasonable approximation of their 25 fair values. 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 91 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 34 F  INANCIAL RISKS AND FINANCE POLICY 1 2 TREASURY POLICY AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT interest-­bearing liabilites comprises of a EUR 37.5 m (37.5) term loan The Group’s treasury policy for the management of financial risks has facility. The loan facility bears variable interest and runs without 3 been established by the Board and forms a framework of guidelines and requiring repayment in instalments. rules in the form of risk mandates and limits for financing activities. The The financing agreement contains financial covenants regarding the 4 CFO is responsible for compliance to the policy and for reporting any net debt/EBITDA ratio as well as interest coverage ratio. The covenants deviations to the CEO, who in turn informs the Board. The Board updates are monitored and followed up on a quarterly basis. At the reporting 5 and establishes the policy once a year, or more often if circumstances date, the Group fulfilled all covenants. require. The Group’s bank loans are raised in EUR and in SEK. 6 The management of financial risks within Nordic Waterproofing is With the aim of managing the liquidity risk, the finance policy centralised to the Group’s finance function (”Group Finance”), which also prescribes that the Group shall have a liquidity reserve consisting of cash 7 serves as the Group’s internal bank. and bank balances, current investments and unutilised credit facilities of The Board has identified the following financial risks as the most at least SEK 40 m. If the liquidity reserve falls below, or is expected to fall 8 significant to the Group: liquidity and financing risk, interest rate risk, below, this amount the Board shall be informed. At the reporting date, 9 currency risk, raw material price risk and credit risk. cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 105.6 m (156.8). Out of the Group’s total credit facilities in the form of overdraft facilities of EUR 10 LIQUIDITY AND FINANCING RISK 14,4 m (14,4), corresponding to SEK 148.0 m (141.8), SEK 57.4 m (0) was Financing risk is defined in the finance policy as the risk that loans utilized at the end of 2018. 11 cannot be refinanced when necessary, that financing cannot be obtained The table below shows the maturity structure for the Group’s or that refinancing is only possible at unfavourable terms. It is incumbent financial liabilities including derivative liabilities. For each period, due 12 on Group Finance to continuously forecast the Group’s liquidity dates are presented for capital amounts and payment of interest. For requirements and to continuously maintain contracts with relevant credit liabilities with variable interest, the future interest payments have been 13 institutions to maintain access to competitive financing. estimated based on the variable spot rate that applied on the reporting Nordic Waterproofing’s principal external financing agreement is date. 14 valid until June 2021. On 31 December 2018, the Group’s non-current 15 2018 Contractual payments of capital amounts and interest 16 SEK m Nominal amounts Jan–Jun 2019 Jul–Dec 2019 2020 2021 to 2024 After 2024 Interest-bearing liabilities 17 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Bank loans – term loan facility 371.2 – – – 371.2 – 18 Bank loans – revolving loan facility 45.1 – – – 45.1 – 19 Current interest-bearing liabilities Bank loans – term loan facility 73.6 73.6 – – – – 20 Cash credit 57.4 – – – 57.4 – 21 Interest 20.1 4.3 4.0 7.9 4.0 – 22 Non-interest-bearing liabilities Non-current non-interest-bearing 23 liabilities Long term call/put option liability 32.3 – – – 32.3 – 24 Long term additional purchase price liability 4.6 – – 1.2 3.4 – Other long term liabilities 1.2 – – – 1.2 – 25 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities 26 Short term additional purchase price liability 5.7 1.2 4.5 – – – Trade payable 129.2 129.2 – – – – 27 Accrued interest expenses 2.3 2.3 – – – – Other current liabilities 1.7 – 1.7 – – – 28 Total 744.4 210.6 10.2 9.1 514.6 0.0 29 Less bank balances –105.6 –105.6 – – – – 30 Net 638.8 105.0 10.2 9.1 514.6 0.0 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 92 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION 2017 Contractual payments of capital amounts and interest SEK m Nominal amounts Jan–Jun 2018 Jul–Dec 2018 2019 2020 to 2023 After 2023 1 Interest-bearing liabilities 2 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Bank loans 360.3 – – – 360.3 – 3 Interest 20.8 3.0 3.0 5.9 8.9 – 4 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 5 Non-current non-interest-bearing liabilities 6 Long term call/put option liability 31.0 – – – 31.0 – Long term additional purchase price liability 4.3 – 0.3 0.7 2.9 0.4 7 Other long term liabilities 1.8 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.9 0.5 8 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities Trade payable 90.7 90.7 – – – – 9 Accrued interest expenses 1.5 1.5 – – – – 10 Total 510.4 95.3 3.4 6.9 404.1 0.9 Less bank balances –156.8 –156.8 – – – – 11 Net 353.6 –61.5 3.4 6.9 404.1 0.9 12 INTEREST RATE RISK called a translation reserve. In 2018 the translation differences 13 Interest rate risk consists of the risk that a change of market rates has a amounted to SEK 32.4 m (19.8). negative impact on the consolidated statement of profit or loss or Part of the Group’s borrowing in EUR is used to hedge the Group’s net 14 statement of financial position. The Group’s bank loans run with variable investments in the same currency, i.e. the translation exposure related to interest in the form of EURIBOR 3M plus a margin. subsidiaries in Finland, Belgium and the Netherlands. The assets for 15 these subsidiaries are at the reporting date SEK 325.8 m (274.2) Sensitivity analysis, interest rate risk 16 compared to oustanding loans in EUR of SEK 163.1 m (156.3). The part of An increase/decrease of EURIBOR 3M by 100 interest rate points would exchange rate gains/losses on the loans in EUR related to the hedge of have increased/decreased the Group’s annual interest expenses by translation exposure is recognized in other comprehensive income, while 17 approximately SEK 3.8 m (2.0) based on the size of the bank loans and the remaining part of the exchange rate gains/losses is recognized as finance lease liabilities less bank balances at the reporting date. finance income/expenses in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. 18 Gains/losses on the loans in EUR related to the hedge of translation CURRENCY RISK 19 exposure recognized in other comprehensive income amounted to Currency risk consists of the risk of negative impact on the consolidated statement of profit or loss, statement of financial position or statement SEK –6.8 m (–4.5). 20 The net translation differences, which mainly relate to Denmark and of cash flows as a result of exchange-rate changes. Exposure to currency risk can be divided into transaction exposure and translation exposure. Norway, amounted to SEK 25.6 m (15.3). At the reporting date the 21 accumulated translation differences after tax recognized in the Transaction exposure translation reserve amounted to SEK 50.1 m (23.0). 22 Transaction exposure is the risk of a negative impact on the consolidated The treasury policy does not allow translation exposures to be hedged profit due to changes in exchange rates that affect the value of a using currency derivatives. 23 commercial transaction in a foreign currency relative to the functional currency for the Group company making the transaction. The Group has Sensitivity analysis, currency risk 24 The Group has a significant exposure in DKK, EUR and NOK against SEK, significant cash flows in foreign currencies (DKK, EUR, NOK and USD) that arise in the ordinary course of the Group’s business. However, of which the exposure in EUR is the most significant. The Group’s 25 exposure in EUR against SEK is affected by part of the Group’s bank inflows and outflows of those foreign currencies are naturally well loans being raised in EUR, as well as net investment hedge arrange26 balanced and any net transaction exposure is therefore considered ments. A 10 percent strengthening/weakening of the EUR against the insignificant. Accordingly, only cash flows that are unusual for the Group 27 SEK would have affected the Group’s net financial items by SEK +/– 3.9 m are currency hedged, such as binding significant contracts in foreign (2.7), given the net liabilities that were outstanding on the reporting date currencies with longer durations than apply for normal transactions. As (less cash holdings). Other comprehensive income would have been 28 at 31 December 2018, there were no outstanding currency hedges. affected by translation differences of SEK +/– 16.3 m (11.8) including the Translation exposure 29 effect of hedge arrangements metioned above and as set out in the Translation exposure arises in the translation of the statements of below schedule: 30 financial position and statements of profit or loss for foreign subsidiaries SEK m 2018 2017 to SEK, which is the Group’s presentation currency. The translation 31 exposure is related to the subsidiaries in Finland, Belgium, the Bank loan in EUR 163.1 156.3 Netherlands, Denmark and Norway as the functional currency for these Bank overdraft in EUR -38.5 27.4 32 subsidiaries are EUR, DKK and NOK. A strengthened SEK compared to Gross exposure in EUR 124.6 183.7 EUR, DKK and NOK will lead to negative translation differences and a Hereof designated as net investment hedge 33 weakened SEK will lead to positive translation differences. In accordance instrument -163.1 –156.3 with the accounting policies these translation differences are recognized Net exposure in EUR -38.5 27.4 34 in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a special reserve, 35 36 37 38 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 93 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION The effect on the profit and loss statement and comprehensive income credit ratings from external credit rating companies. If deemed viable in 1 can be summarized as follows (illustrating a 10 percent weakening of the relation to risk exposure, credit insurance can be used. EUR against SEK): In 2018, no single customer accounted for more than 2.8 (3.7) percent 2 of consolidated sales, and the five largest customers accounted for 13.0 SEK m 2018 2017 (13.2) percent of consolidated sales. 3 Profit and loss statement On the reporting date, there is no significant concentration of credit Exchange gain on bank loan 16.3 15.6 exposure. The maximum credit risk exposure is apparent from the 4 Exchange gain on bank overdraft 3.9 2.7 carrying amount for receivables in the statement of financial position. Gross effect on profit and loss statement 20.2 18.3 The commercial credit risk is presented in Note 21. 5 Hedge part of gain on bank loan -16.3 –15.6 Financial credit risk 6 Net effect on profit and loss statement 3.9 2.7 The financial activities in the Group entail an exposure to credit risks. The Group’s exposure to financial credit risk is primarily comprised of 7 Other comprehensive income receivables from banks in the form of bank balances. In addition to this, Translation loss on subsidiaries in EUR exposure arises through receivables from counter-parties linked to 8 countries (Finland, Belgium and the positive market values on derivative contracts entered into. Netherlands) -32.6 –27.4 9 Hedge part of gain on bank loan 16.3 15.6 10 Net effect on comprehensive income -16.3 –11.8 NOTE 35 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 11 Total effect on profit and loss statement and comprehensive income -12.4 –9.1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES 12 A 10 percent strengthening/weakening of the DKK against the SEK would A contingent liability is disclosed when there is a possible commitment that originates from events occurred and the existence have affected the Group’s net financial items by SEK +/– 3.3 m (8.5), given 13 of which is confirmed only by one or more uncertain future events the cash holdings on the reporting date, and other comprehensive beyond the Group’s control, or when there is a commitment that is 14 income would have been affected by translation differences of SEK not recognized as a liability or provision on the grounds that it is not +/– 39.8 m (40.4). A 10 percent strengthening/weakening of the NOK likely that an outflow of resources will be required or cannot be 15 against the SEK would have affected the Group’s net financial items by calculated with sufficient reliability. SEK +/– 1.2 m (3.8), given the cash holdings on the reporting date, and 16 other comprehensive income would have been affected by translation differences of SEK +/– 1.8 m (3.9). SEK m 2018 2017 17 Contingent liabilities RAW MATERIAL PRICE RISK 18 Raw material price risk consists of the risk that changes in the price of Guarantees for the benefit of subsidiaries 116.8 39.4 raw materials have an unexpected impact on the consolidated statement Guarantees for the benefit of associated 19 of profit or loss, statement of financial position or statement of cash companies 44.4 42.5 Total contingent liabilities 161.2 81.9 flows. Nordic Waterproofing is primarily exposed to the risk of price 20 fluctuations on four kinds of raw materials: bitumen, SBS, polyester and Security in the form of guarantee commitments have been made for the 21 EPDM. In 2018, these materials accounted for 58 percent (64) of the benefit of Group companies’ completion guarantees for contractor Group’s total raw materials costs. The largest exposure is in bitumen, the projects of SEK 116.8 m (39.4) at the reporting date. 22 price of which is the most volatile in the short term. Derivative instruA security of total DKK 17.3 m (17.1) (corresponding to SEK 23.8 m ments based on HSFO (High Sulphur Fuel Oil) are used to hedge the (22.6) at the reporting date) have been made for the benefit of the Danish 23 Group’s exposure to the price of bitumen, as there is a high correlation associated companies’ credit commitments. These guarantees are, between the bitumen and HSFO price. As from December 2015 hedge 24 however, limited per company and amount to a maximum of DKK 2.5 m accounting is applied as conditions for qualification are fulfilled. (2.5) (corresponding to SEK 3.4 m (3.3)) for an individual associated 25 Sensitivity analysis, bitumen price company. In addition to this, Group companies have guaranteed A 10% increase/decrease in the price of bitumen would have impacted completion guarantees regarding associated companies’ project 26 the statement of profit and loss in an amount of SEK +/– 18.0 m (12.1) corresponding to a maximum of DKK 15.0 m (15.0) (corresponding to SEK without taking into consideration the effect of fair value changes on any 20.6 m (19.8) at the reporting date). 27 outstanding bitumen derivative contracts. Expressed as changes in the On 31 May 2017, the Danish Competition Council decided that Nordic underlying HSFO price, a 10 USD per ton increase/decrease would have Waterproofing A/S, Icopal Danmark ApS, Danske Tagpapfabrikanters 28 impacted the statement of profit and loss by approximately SEK +/– 3.6 m Brancheforening and TOR had violated the Danish Competition Act. The (3.6). alleged violation consisted in a so-called restrictive agreement in the 29 As at 31 December 2018, the expected purchases of bitumen for form of an industry standard, “TOR-anvisningerne”, and the associated delivery during January to December 2019 were hedged by means of derivapproval scheme, “TOR Godkendt”. 30 atives, equivalent to 30,480 tons or approximately 76% of the expected Nordic Waterproofing A/S and the other parties disputed the Council’s annual purchasing volume (at the corresponding period the preceding decision and brought the case before the Danish Competition Appeals 31 year, there were no outstanding hedge agreements). Board. On 12 September 2018, the Appeals Board decided to remit the 32 A 10% increase/decrease in the price of bitumen would have case to the Council for re-evaluation. According to the Appeals Board, impacted the fair value of outstanding derivative instruments in an the Council had failed to demonstrate with the requisite certainty that 33 amount of SEK +/– 7.5 m (0.0), which would have affected other Nordic Waterproofing A/S and the other parties had violated the Danish comprehensive income for 2018. Competition Act. In addition, the Appeals Board stated that technical 34 standards normally have positive economic effects. CREDIT RISK The Competition Council has still not decided whether the case will 35 Commercial credit risk be re-opened or finally closed. If the Council decides to re-open the Commercial credit risk is comprised of the risk of losses if any of the case, the entire administrative process has to be repeated before a new 36 Group’s customers become insolvent and cannot fulfil their undertakdecision can be made by the Council, which would be subject to a new ings. Credit risk is managed locally at the respective business unit appeal to the Appeals Board and, in turn, to the courts. Accordingly, at 37 through internal procedures and controls for the evaluation and check of present, it is not possible to predict if the case will be re-opened or, in 38 94 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION that case, what the final outcome would be. In the event that the NOTE 37 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Competition Council decides to finally close the case, Nordic Waterproof1 ing A/S will not be ordered to pay a fine. The initial decision by the Competition Council has resulted in two ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2 civil law proceedings raising claims (in solidum) totaling DKK 136.3 m. The statement of cash flows shows how income and changes in However, both proceedings have been suspended to await the Council’s balance sheet items affect cash and cash equivalents, i.e. the cash 3 decision as to whether the case is being re-opened or finally closed. generated or used in the period. Since it is the Council’s initial decision, which forms the basis of the civil Cash from operating activities converts income statement items 4 law proceedings, the Council’s choice is expected to determine whether from the accrual basis of accounting to cash basis. As such, starting with operating profit/loss, non-cash items are reversed and actual 5 the civil law proceedings will be continued or discontinued. In the light of the Appeal Board’s decision to remit the case to the payments included. Further, change in working capital is taken into 6 Competition Council, it may be concluded that even though the civil account as this shows the development in money tied up in the proceedings are still pending, there are at present no substantive basis balance sheet. 7 for the claims made. Additionally, it should be noted that Nordic Cash from investing activities shows payments related to the Waterproofing A/S does not consider the claims raised substantiated and purchase and sale of long term investments. This includes fixed 8 justified. assets such as purchase and construction of new production sites, intangible assets and financial assets. 9 Cash from financing activities reports repayment of loans, finance leases and payment of dividends. 10 NOTE 36 A  UDIT FEES AND EXPENSES Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and bank balances. The statement of cash flows is presented in accordance with the 11 SEK m 2018 2017 indirect method commencing with operating profit/loss for the year. PwC Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated to SEK at the 12 Statutory audit 2.5 2.4 average exchange rate for the respective month. 13 Other assurance services 0.3 0.3 Tax consulting 0.8 1.1 14 Other services 3.4 5.7 Cash and cash equivalents SEK m 2018 2017 15 Total 7.0 9.5 The following subcomponents are included in cash and cash equivalents: 16 Other auditors Cash and bank balances 105.6 156.8 Statutory audit 0.3 0.3 17 Total as per statement of financial position 105.6 156.8 Tax consulting 0.0 0.0 Total as per statement of cash flows 105.6 156.8 Other services 0.0 0.0 18 Total 0.3 0.3 Adjustment for non-cash items 19 Non-statutory services delivered by the Group’s Danish auditors, SEK m 2018 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers Stats­autoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab, are Depreciation/amortization 62.3 40.3 20 included in the table above and amount to SEK 1.0 m (0.7) consisting of Participations in associated company review of quarterly report, accounting advice related to aqusitions and earnings –21.1 –15.1 21 general accounting advice. Reversed impairment losses 0.0 0.0 Exchange-rate differences 6.2 6.6 22 Other items –8.5 –8.1 23 Total 38.9 23.7 24 25 NOTE 38 E  VENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE 26 On 26 February 2019, Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S’s Swedish 27 subsidiary, Nordic Waterproofing Group AB, acquired 100 percent of Distri Pond Group for EUR 11.3 m on a cash and debt-free basis. Sellers 28 were the company’s management and founders as well as some private investors, and the acquisition was primarily financed through an 29 extension of Nordic Waterproofing’s existing credit facilities. Distri Pond is consolidated within the segment “Products & Solutions” in the Nordic 30 Waterproofing accounts as from 26 February 2019. Acquisition-related 31 costs amounted to approximately SEK 2 million in the form of consulting fees and bank agreement fees in connection with the acquisition process, 32 and will affect the income statement during the first quarter. The acquisition is expected to have a minor positive impact on the earnings 33 per share of Nordic Waterproofing in 2019. Distri Pond is located in Belgium, with the two operating companies Distri Pond NV and Pond 34 Technics & Training BVBA. The company is a leading distributor of pond systems in the Belgium market, with annual sales of approximately SEK 35 110 m and 23 employees. 36 37 38 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 95 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS SEK m Note 2018 2017 Net sales 6.1 5.9 Administrative expenses –20.1 –18.7 Operating profit –14.0 –12.8 Financial income – dividend received from subsidiaries 104.5 100.0 Financial expenses –0.1 –0.4 Net finance items 104.4 99.6 Profit before tax 90.4 86.8 Tax 2 3.1 2.9 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 93.5 89.7 Proposed distribution of profit, see Note 6. PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION SEK m Note 2018 2017 Assets Investments in subsidiaries 3 544.6 523.6 Total non-current assets 544.6 523.6 Other current receivables from Group companies 6.7 6.2 Current tax assets 8.5 7.2 Cash and cash equivalents 33.6 31.2 Total current assets 48.8 44.6 TOTAL ASSETS 593.4 568.2 Equity Share capital 30.0 30.0 Treasury shares –0.8 0.0 Retained earnings including profit for the year 457.3 437.7 Proposed dividend for the financial year 96.3 90.3 TOTAL EQUITY 5 582.8 558.0 Liabilities Trade payable 0.5 1.0 Accrued expenses 4.4 3.5 Other non-interest bearing liabilities 1.9 0.8 Other current liabilities to Group companies 3.8 4.9 Total current liabilities 10.6 10.2 TOTAL LIABILITIES 10.6 10.2 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 593.4 568.2 Information on the parent company’s contingent liabilities, see Note 7. Information on the fees paid to the auditors, see Note 8. Information on subsequent events, see Note 9. Information on remuneration of the Executive Board and Board of Directors, see Note 7 in the Consolidated financial statements. 96 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Share Treasury Retained SEK m capital shares Dividend earnings Total Equity as at 1 January 2017 30.0 0.0 90.3 423.5 543.8 Paid dividend – – –90.3 – –90.3 Profit/loss for the financial year – – – 89.7 89.7 Proposed dividend for the financial year – – 90.3 –90.3 0.0 Exchange differences for the year in translation of foreign operations – – – 14.8 14.8 Equity as at 31 December 2017 30.0 0.0 90.3 437.7 558.0 Treasury Retained SEK m Share capital shares Dividend earnings Total Equity as at 1 January 2018 30.0 0.0 90.3 437.7 558.0 Paid dividend – – –90.3 – –90.3 Repurchased own shares – –0.8 – – –0.8 Profit/loss for the financial year – – – 93.5 93.5 Proposed dividend for the financial year – – 96.3 –96.3 0.0 Exchange differences for the year in translation of foreign operations – – – 22.4 22.4 Equity as at 31 December 2018 30.0 -0.8 96.3 457.3 582.8 NOTE 1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING NOTE 3 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES PRINCIPLES SEK m 2018 2017 The accounting principles are the same as last year. Accumulated cost The parent company’s financial statements are prepared according to Opening balance, 1 January 523.6 509.4 the Danish Financial Statements Act applying to entities in reporting Exchange-rate differences for the year 21.0 14.2 class D. Closing balance, 31 December 544.6 523.6 Investment in subsidiaries are measured at cost. Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S applies an exemption whereby the Holdings in subsidiaries parent company is not required to prepare a separate cash flow Refer to note 13 in the notes for the consolidated financial statements. statement. See the consolidated cash flow statement for the Group. Dividend received from subsidiaries are recognized as financial income For other accounting principles refer to note 1 and to the Accounting in the profit and loss statement. policies in the notes for the consolidated financial statements. Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S holds 100 percent of the shares in Nordic Waterproofing Group 1 AB, which had a result for 2018 of SEK 84.4 m (85.4) and a shareholders equity at 31 December 2018 of SEK 656.1 m (676.7). NOTE 2 TAXES SEK m 2018 2017 Current tax expense (–) / tax revenue (+) NOTE 4 RELATED PARTIES Tax expense for the period 3.1 2.9 Adjustment of tax attributable to earlier years 0.0 0.0 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S is the Parent Company in the Group. 3.1 2.9 The Parent Company is a Danish company with CVR number 33395361 domiciled in Vejen. Deferred tax expense (–) / tax revenue (+) The address of the company’s registered office is Vester Allé 1, 6600 Deferred tax for temporary differences 0.0 0.0 Vejen, Denmark, while the address of the Group’s operational head office Deferred tax resulting from changes is Drottninggatan 11, 252 21 Helsingborg, Sweden. in tax rates 0.0 0.0 The following capital owners are listed in the company’s sharehold0.0 0.0 ers’ register as owners of at least 5 percent of the votes or the capital: Total reported tax expense 3.1 2.9 Mawer Investment Management, Calgary, Canada Svolder, Stockholm, Sweden Swedbank Robur Funds, Stockholm, Sweden Carnegie Funds, Stockholm, Sweden Catella Funds, Stockholm, Sweden Länsförsäkringar Funds, Stockholm, Sweden 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 97 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION NOTE 5 EQUITY NOTE 8 AUDIT FEES AND EXPENSES 2018 2017 SEK m 2018 2017 Stated in number of shares PwC Issued as at 1 January 24,083,935 24,083,935 Statutory audit 0.5 0.5 Issued as at 31 December – paid 24,083,935 24,083,935 Other assurance services 0.3 0.3 Tax consulting 0.0 0.0 Number of shares by class: Other services 0.7 0.4 Class A shares 24,083,935 24,083,935 Total 1.5 1.2 Total 24,083,935 24,083,935 Non-statutory services delivered by PricewaterhouseCoopers Stats­ autoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab SEK 1.0 m (0.7) consist of review of All shares have a quotient value of DKK 1.00 (1.00). quarterly report, accounting advice related to aqusitions and general Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to dividends determined in accounting advice. arrears and the shareholding entitles to voting rights at the General Meeting with one vote per share. NOTE 9 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING NOTE 6 PROPOSED DISTRIBUTION OF DATE PROFIT Refer to note 38 Events after the reporting date in the notes for the consolidated financial statements. SEK m 2018 2017 Proposed dividends 96.3 90.3 Retained earnings –2.8 –0.6 Total 93.5 89.7 NOTE 7 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Contingent liabilities The parent company is jointly liable, together with the other Danish group companies, for tax payments relating to the jointly taxed income as well as other Danish withholding taxes in the form of tax on dividends, royalty and interest. Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S is the administration company in relation to the joint taxation. 98 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents Contents Statements and reports | FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION STATEMENT BY THE EXECUTIVE BOARD AND THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors and the Executive Act. Management’s Review has been In our opinion, Management’s Review Board have today considered and adopted prepared in accordance with the Danish gives a true and fair statement of the the Annual Report of Nordic Waterproofing disclosure requirements for listed development in the operations and financial Holding A/S for the financial year 1 January– ­companies. circumstances of the Group and the Parent 31 December 2018. In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Company, of the results for the year and of The Consolidated Financial Statements Statements and the Parent Company the financial position of the Group and the have been prepared in accordance with Financial Statements give a true and fair Parent Company as well as a description of International Financial Reporting Standards view of the financial position at 31 December the most significant risks and elements of as adopted by the EU and further require2018 of the Group and the Parent Company uncertainty facing the Group and the Parent ments in the Danish Financial Statements and of the results of the Group and Parent Company. Act, and the Parent Company Financial Company operations and consolidated cash We recommend that the Annual Report Statements have been prepared in accordflows for the financial year 1 January– be adopted at the Annual General Meeting. ance with the Danish Financial Statements 31 December 2018. Vejen, 2 April 2019 EXECUTIVE BOARD Martin Ellis President and CEO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Ulf Gundemark Allan Lindhard Jørgensen Chairman Mats O. Paulsson Jørgen Jensen Riitta Palomäki Kristina Willgård 100 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION | Statements and reports INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the shareholders of Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S OUR OPINION consolidated statement of cash flows, the Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial consolidated statement of changes in equity Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Statements give a true and fair view of the and the notes, including summary of Code) and the additional requirements appliGroup’s financial position at 31 December significant accounting policies. cable in Denmark. We have also fulfilled our 2018 and of the results of the Group’s The Parent Company Financial Stateother ethical responsibilities in accordance operations and cash flows for the financial ments of Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S with the IESBA Code. year 1 January to 31 December 2018 in for the financial year 1 January to 31 To the best of our knowledge and belief, accordance with International Financial December 2018 comprise the profit or loss prohibited non-audit services referred to in Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU statement, the statement of financial Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 and further requirements in the Danish position, the statement of changes in equity were not provided. Financial Statements Act. and the notes, including summary of Moreover, in our opinion, the Parent significant accounting policies. Appointment Company Financial Statements give a true Collectively referred to as the “Financial Following the admission of the shares of and fair view of the Parent Company’s Statements”. Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S for listing financial position at 31 December 2018 and on Nasdaq Stockholm, we were first of the results of the Parent Company’s BASIS FOR OPINION appointed auditors of Nordic Waterproofing operations for the financial year 1 January We conducted our audit in accordance with Holding A/S on 27 April 2017. We have been to 31 December 2018 in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) reappointed annually by shareholder Danish Financial Statements Act. and the additional requirements applicable resolution for a total period of uninterrupted Our opinion is consistent with our in Denmark. Our responsibilities under engagement of 2 years including the Auditor’s Long-form Report to the Audit those standards and requirements are financial year 2018. Committee and the Board of Directors. further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the Financial KEY AUDIT MATTERS What we have audited Statements section of our report. Key audit matters are those matters that, in The Consolidated Financial Statements of We believe that the audit evidence we our professional judgement, were of most Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S for the have obtained is sufficient and appropriate significance in our audit of the Financial financial year 1 January to 31 December to provide a basis for our opinion. Statements for 2018. These matters were 2018 comprise the consolidated statement addressed in the context of our audit of the of profit or loss and consolidated statement Independence Financial Statements as a whole, and in of comprehensive income, the consolidated We are independent of the Group in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not statement of financial position, the accordance with the International Ethics provide a separate opinion on these matters. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 101 Contents Statements and reports | FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Goodwill and other intangible assets The Group has recognized intangible assets totaling SEK 975 In addressing the risk, we considered the appropriateness of million at December 31 2018, comprising goodwill of SEK 879 Management defined cash-generating units (CGUs) within the million, customer relationships of SEK 69 million, software of business. We assessed whether there were factors requiring SEK 8 million and other of SEK 19 million. Management to change their classification since the prior reporting period. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. Other intangible assets are assessed for impairment annually, and if indicators We assessed whether the models applied by Management to exist, an impairment test is performed. calculate the value in use of the individual cash-generating units comply with the requirements of IFRS. We recalculated the model The assessment of the carrying values of intangible assets is to ensure mathematical accuracy. dependent on future cash flows and if these are below initial expectations, there is a risk that the assets will be impaired. The We assessed the appropriateness of the discount rates applied reviews of carrying values performed by the Group contain a and underlying assumptions and discussed Management number of significant judgements and estimates such as sales judgement, as relevant. growth, prices on input goods and discount rates. We performed our own sensitivity analysis around key estimates We focused on this area because the impairment assessments of to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions that either these assets are dependent on complex and subjective judgeindividually or collectively would be required for the intangible ments by Management. assets to be impaired. Refer to Note 17 (Intangible assets). We assessed the Group’s disclosures of the quantitative and qualitative considerations by comparing these disclosures to our understanding of the matter. Contingent liabilities On 31 May 2017 the Danish Competition Council decided that We inquired with both Management and financial staff in respect Nordic Waterproofing A/S, Icopal Danmark A/S, Danske Tagpapof the potential risks related to the competition case, inspected fabrikanters Brancheforening and TOR had violated the Danish relevant correspondence, inspected the minutes of the meetings Competition Act. Nordic Waterproofing A/S and the other parties of the Audit Committee and Board of Directors, requested disputed the Council’s decision and brought the case before the external legal confirmation letter and obtained a representation Danish Competition Appeals Board. letter from the Management. On 12 September 2018, the Appeals Board decided to remit the We assessed the disclosure regarding contingent liabilities as case to the Council for re-evaluation. contained in Note 35 (Contingent liabilities). The Competition Council has still not decided whether the case We used professional skepticism by challenging Management’s will be re-opened or finally closed. According, at present, it is not judgement comparing responses to our inquiries with relevant possible to predict if the case will be re-opened or, in that case, correspondence, other audit evidence obtained and our general what the final outcome will be. knowledge of the Group and its activities. The initial decision by the Competition Council has resulted in two civil law proceedings raising claims. However, both proceedings have been suspended to await the Council’s decision. The outcome of the case cannot be predicted with certainty, but a decision that goes against the company’s expectations could have an adverse effect on the consolidated financial position and results of operations and cash flows. We focused on this area, because of the significant level of judgement and uncertainty related to this contingent liability. Refer to Note 35 (Contingent liabilities). STATEMENT ON MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW Management is responsible for Manageconsider whether Management’s Review is Based on the work we have performed, in ment’s Review. materially inconsistent with the Financial our view, Management’s Review is in Our opinion on the Financial Statements Statements or our knowledge obtained in accordance with the Consolidated Financial does not cover Management’s Review, and the audit, or otherwise appears to be Statements and the Parent Company we do not express any form of assurance materially misstated. Financial Statements and has been prepared conclusion thereon. Moreover, we considered whether in accordance with the requirements of the In connection with our audit of the Management’s Review includes the Danish Financial Statements Act. We did not Financial Statements, our responsibility is to disclosures required by the Danish Financial identify any material misstatement in read Management’s Review and, in doing so, Statements Act. Management’s Review. 102 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION | Statements and reports MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR applicable in Denmark, we exercise Parent Company to cease to continue as THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS professional judgement and maintain a going concern. Management is responsible for the preparaprofessional scepticism throughout the • Evaluate the overall presentation, tion of consolidated financial statements that audit. We also: structure and content of the Financial give a true and fair view in accordance with • Identify and assess the risks of material Statements, including the disclosures, International Financial Reporting Standards misstatement of the Financial Stateand whether the Financial Statements as adopted by the EU and further requirements, whether due to fraud or error, represent the underlying transactions ments in the Danish Financial Statements design and perform audit procedures and events in a manner that achieves fair Act and for the preparation of parent responsive to those risks, and obtain presentation. company financial statements that give a audit evidence that is sufficient and • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit true and fair view in accordance with the appropriate to provide a basis for our evidence regarding the financial Danish Financial Statements Act, and for opinion. The risk of not detecting a information of the entities or business such internal control as Management material misstatement resulting from activities within the Group to express an determines is necessary to enable the prepafraud is higher than for one resulting opinion on the Consolidated Financial ration of financial statements that are free from error, as fraud may involve Statements. We are responsible for the from material misstatement, whether due to collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, direction, supervision and performance fraud or error. misrepresentations, or the override of of the group audit. We remain solely In preparing the Financial Statements, internal control. responsible for our audit opinion. Management is responsible for assessing • Obtain an understanding of internal the Group’s and the Parent Company’s ability control relevant to the audit in order to We communicate with those charged with to continue as a going concern, disclosing, design audit procedures that are governance regarding, among other as applicable, matters related to going appropriate in the circumstances, but not matters, the planned scope and timing of the concern and using the going concern basis for the purpose of expressing an opinion audit and significant audit findings, including of accounting unless Management either on the effectiveness of the Group’s and any significant deficiencies in internal intends to liquidate the Group or the Parent the Parent Company’s internal control. control that we identify during our audit. Company or to cease operations, or has no • Evaluate the appropriateness of We also provide those charged with realistic alternative but to do so. accounting policies used and the governance with a statement that we have reasonableness of accounting estimates complied with relevant ethical requirements AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE and related disclosures made by regarding independence, and to communiAUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management. cate with them all relationships and other Our objectives are to obtain reasonable matters that may reasonably be thought to assurance about whether the Financial • Conclude on the appropriateness of bear on our independence, and where Statements as a whole are free from Management’s use of the going concern applicable, related safeguards. material misstatement, whether due to basis of accounting and based on the From the matters communicated with fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s audit evidence obtained, whether a those charged with governance, we report that includes our opinion. Reasonable material uncertainty exists related to determine those matters that were of most assurance is a high level of assurance, but is events or conditions that may cast signifisignificance in the audit of the Financial not a guarantee that an audit conducted in cant doubt on the Group’s and the Parent Statements of the current period and are accordance with ISAs and the additional Company’s ability to continue as a going therefore the key audit matters. We describe requirements applicable in Denmark will concern. If we conclude that a material these matters in our auditor’s report unless always detect a material misstatement when uncertainty exists, we are required to law or regulation precludes public discloit exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud draw attention in our auditor’s report to sure about the matter or when, in extremely or error and are considered material if, the related disclosures in the Financial rare circumstances, we determine that a individually or in the aggregate, they could Statements or, if such disclosures are matter should not be communicated in our reasonably be expected to influence the inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our report because the adverse consequences of economic decisions of users taken on the conclusions are based on the audit doing so would reasonably be expected to basis of these Financial Statements. evidence obtained up to the date of our outweigh the public interest benefits of such As part of an audit in accordance with auditor’s report. However, future events communication. ISAs and the additional requirements or conditions may cause the Group or the Vejle, 2 April 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab CVR no 33 77 12 31 Lars Almskou Ohmeyer Morten Elbæk Jensen State Authorised Public Accountant State Authorised Public Accountant mne24817 mne27737 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 103 Contents Statements and reports | FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION FINANCIAL DEFINITIONS Key performance indicator according to IFRS INTEREST COVER RATIO R12 Profit after net financial items plus interest The last recent twelve months/rolling EARNINGS PER SHARE expenses in relation to interest expenses. twelve-month period. Profit after tax for the period attributable to Parent Company shareholders divided by the ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED average number of outstanding shares for Statement items that are non-recurring, EBIT as a percentage of average capital the period. have a significant impact on profit and employed, calculated as the average of the therefore constitute important adjustments period’s opening and closing balances. Key performance indicators not defined for understanding the underlying developaccording to IFRS ment of operations. RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED BEFORE ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY CAPITAL EMPLOYED NET DEBT Operating profit (EBIT) before items affecting Total assets less non-interestbearing Interest-bearing liabilities less cash and comparability as a percentage of average provisions and liabilities. cash equivalents. capital employed, calculated as the average of the period’s opening and closing EBIT NET DEBT/EBITDA BEFORE ITEMS balances. Operating profit. AFFECTING COMPARABILITY Net debt in relation to EBITDA before items RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED BEFORE EBIT MARGIN affecting comparability. ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY AND EBIT as a percentage of net sales. EXCLUDING GOODWILL NET DEBT/EQUITY RATIO Operating profit (EBIT) before items affecting EBITDA Net debt in relation to shareholders equity. comparability as a percentage of average Operating profit before depreciation, capital employed, excluding goodwill, amortization and impairment of tangible and OPERATING CASH CONVERSION calculated as the average of the period’s intangible assets. Operating cash flow as a percentage of opening and closing balances. EBITDA before items affecting comparability EBITDA MARGIN for the period. RETURN ON SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Operating profit before depreciation, Profit after tax attributable to Parent amortization and impairment of tangible and OPERATING CASH FLOW Company shareholders as a percentage of intangible assets as a percentage of net EBITDA before items affecting comparability average shareholders’ equity, excluding sales. plus dividends from associated companies, ­ on-controlling interests. n less cash flow related from investments EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO intangible and intangible assets, cash flow RETURN ON SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Shareholders’ equity, including non-­ from changes in working capital and income BEFORE ITEMS AFFECTING controlling interests, as a percentage from associated companies. COMPARABILITY of total assets. Profit after tax attributable to Parent ORGANIC GROWTH Company shareholders including reversed FTE Net sales growth adjusted for enterprises items affecting comparability as a percentFull Time Equivalent. acquired and sold off and any exchange rate age of average capital employed, excluding changes. No adjustments have been made non-controlling interests. GROSS MARGIN for number of working days. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales. GLOSSARY BIM (Building Information Modeling) synthetic rubber, is an elastomer charactercomes in two basic forms: rigid (sometimes BIM is a process of creating and using an ized by a wide range of applications. abbreviated as RPVC) and flexible. intelligent 3D model to inform and convey project decisions. BIM solutions can project, FLAT ROOF SBS visualize, simulate and collaborate, resulting Roofing with a gradient of less than Styrene-Butadiene-Styrene, an elastomeric in greater clarity for all stakeholders approximately 14°. compound which is added to bitumen to throughout the life cycle of the project. BIM increase the flow characteristics and makes it easier to achieve project and FTE improves the low-temperature flexibility and business goals. Full Time Equivalent. fatigue resistance of roof felt. BITUMEN PITCHED-ROOF TPO Bitumen, also known as asphalt, is a sticky, Roofing with a gradient of more than Thermoplastic olefin (TPO), or olefinic black and highly viscous liquid or semi-solid approximately 14°. thermoplastic elastomers refer to polymer/ form of petroleum which constitutes the filler blends usually consisting of some waterproofing component in roof felt. PVC fraction of a thermoplastic, an elastomer Polyvinyl chloride is the world’s third-most or rubber, and a filler. EPDM widely produced synthetic plastic polymer, EPDM rubber (ethylene propylene diene after polyethylene and polypropylene. PVC monomer M-class rubber) a type of 104 Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S | ANNUAL REPORT | 2018 Contents FINANCIAL ­INFORMATION | Statements and reports NORDIC WATERPROOFING ON THE INTERNET, IN YOUR MOBILE AND ON YOUR TABLET Keep track of Nordic Waterproofing’s performance via the INFORMATION ABOUT ANNUAL Group’s website at www.nordicwaterproofing.com. GENERAL MEETING 2019 The Annual General Meeting of Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S will take place on Wednesday, 24 April at 11:00 a.m., ANNUAL REPORT SUBSCRIBE TO INFORMATION at Radisson Blu Metropol Hotel, Nordic Waterproofing only distributes a Via e-mail, you can choose to subscribe Carl Krooks gata 16, Helsingborg, paper version of the Annual Report to those to our financial reports, press releases Sweden. who have specifically requested a copy. If and share information. you wish to receive a paper copy of the PROGRAMME Annual Report, it can be ordered on the FINANCIAL PRESENTATIONS – WATCH 10:00 a.m. Registration and light company’s website. LIVE ON DEMAND refreshments Watch presentations in conjunction with 11:00 a.m. Annual General Meeting NEWS ABOUT PRODUCTS quarterly reports or other events. ­commences AND SOLUTIONS The majority of presentations can be At www.nordicwaterproofing.com you can followed live or watched later on our NOTIFICATION TO ATTEND THE ANNUAL follow the development and successes of the website. GENERAL MEETING various products and solutions that we offer The complete notification convening the our customers. Annual General Meeting will be available on the company’s website www.nordic­ waterproofing.com/en/shareholder-­ FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2019 meetings/. Week commencing 1 April Annual Report 2018 To participate in the meeting and to be 24 April Annual General Meeting able to exercise their voting rights, 2 May Interim Report, January–March 2019 shareholders must be included in the 25 July Interim Report, January–June 2019 share register maintained by VP 31 October Interim Report, January–September 2019 Securities A/S by Wednesday, 17 April 2019 at the latest, and notify the company of their intention to participate by the same date. Shareholders who have registered their shares with a trustee must have temporarily registered their shares in their own name by Wednesday, 17 April 2019. Please note that specific information applies to shareholders who hold their shares through Euroclear Sweden AB. PROPOSALS TO ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2019 The Board of Directors and the CEO Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S is a Danish public limited liability company domiciled in Vejen, Denmark. Corporate propose that shareholders be paid a cash registration number: 33395361. LEI code: 549300EJEXC4KOSUI651. The Group’s operational headquarters are in dividend of SEK 4.00 per share (3.75). Helsingborg, Sweden. Friday, 26 April 2019 is proposed as the The Annual Report is published in Swedish and English. The English language version is the original and in the case of discrepancies between the versions, the English version shall prevail. The printed version of the Annual Report is only record date for the dividend. If the Annual distributed to shareholders who request a copy. The Annual Report is also available in its entirety at the company’s website General Meeting resolves in accordance www.nordicwaterproofing.com. The 2018 Annual Report was published in April 2019. with the proposal, the dividend is All values are expressed in Swedish kronor. Kronor is abbreviated to SEK and millions of kronor to SEK million. Unless otherwise stated, figures in parentheses relate to the preceding financial year, 2017. expected to be distributed by Euroclear This report contains future-oriented information based on Nordic Waterproofing’s current expectations. No guarantee can Sweden AB on Thursday, 2 May 2019. be provided that these expectations will prove correct. Accordingly, results could differ materially from those implied in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, changes in economic, market and competitive conditions, change in the regulatory environment and other government actions, fluctuations in exchange rates and other factors. This annual report was produced in collaboration with RHR/CC in Malmö, Sweden. 2018 | ANNUAL REPORT | Nordic Waterproofing Holding A/S 105 Contents Nordic Waterproofing is one of the leading providers in the waterproofing market in northern Europe. The Company provides high-quality products and solutions for waterproofing in Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Norway, Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland, the United Kingdom, Germany and Latvia. Nordic Waterproofing also provides installation services through whollyowned subsidiaries In Finland and through part-owned franchise companies in Denmark. The Company markets its products and solutions under several brands, all with an extensive heritage, most of which are among the most established and well-recognized brands in waterproofing in their respective markets, such as Mataki, Trebolit, Phønix Tag Materialer, Kerabit, Nortett, RVT, SealEco, SPT-Painting, Taasinge Elementer and Veg Tech. Nordic Waterproofing is listed in the Mid Cap segment on Nasdaq Stockholm with the stock ticker NWG. In 2018, the Group had revenues of SEK 2,680 m, with 1,033 employees and operations in 10 countries. NORDIC WATERPROOFING HOLDING A/S. COMPANY REG. NO. 33395361 DROTTNINGGATAN 11, SE-252 21 HELSINGBORG, SWEDEN W W W.NORDICWATERPROOFING.COM
