2018 Report Corporate Social Responsibility Making a diﬀerence to people’s health and quality of life, today and tomorrow Ferring Corporate 1 Social Responsibility Contents One Section 04 A message from Per Falk President and Chief Science Oﬃcer 06 Our CSR Statement 07 Implementing CSR every day 08 The Ferring Philosophy 09 The Ferring Mission Statement 10 Our Industry 12 Our Business 16 People & Values 17 Patient-Centricity 18 Our CSR Heritage 19 Ferring women in science and leadership Two Section 20 Our Progress Report 21 Our Journey to Date 22 Our CSR initiatives, UN Global Compact, UN SDG’s – How they ﬁt together 24 CHAMPION: a commitment to women and families 26 People 28 Business Ethics This report describes Ferring’s commitment 30 Environment to Corporate Social Responsibility and our 32 Community 34 The Road Ahead progress during 2018. Ferring Corporate Social Responsibility © 2019 Ferring, the Ferring logo and other Ferring product names included herein are trademarks of Ferring B.V. 2 3 Section One Section One – Welcome Welcome to our 2018 CSR Review. Through our #projectfamily conversation, Ferring is working with stakeholders in the ﬁeld to drive I am proud to be representing the change, and help people build families around the business for the ﬁrst time, on issues world. Those who have access or can aﬀord it still represent a very small percentage in the world. that are integral to how we think and I am humbled by the work we have done through work at Ferring. CHAMPION, and our commitment to develop Last year was an important year of transition for a heat stable treatment to prevent post-partum us all in diﬀerent ways, and I am grateful to my haemorrhage (PPH) and make it available to predecessor Michel Pettigrew for handing me low and lower-middle income countries at a a sound legacy on which to build. This legacy subsidised access price. However, our work here is rooted in both our values, as deﬁned by the has just begun, and we need to ensure that we Ferring Philosophy, as well as the value that we get this potentially life-saving treatment to the bring to our patients, employees, communities, women who need it most. We need a new model and all other stakeholders whose lives we touch here that can deliver aﬀordable medicine to those through our work. who need it – be it India or Kenya. This demands creative partnerships, advocacy and policy Our business has been steadily evolving over the change. Here we can play our part, and we can last ten years to ensure that the patient and their learn from other disease areas such as diabetes, unmet needs are always ﬁrmly at the centre of where companies are delivering access through our work, from the ﬁrst research stage through to both commercial value-driven models as well as distribution and commercialisation of our treatments. strong sustainability programmes. We are working to better anticipate, and respond to, their needs eﬀectively, and in 2018 we created In the coming year, I want to see us better align a Chief Patient Oﬃcer (CPO) role to help us do this. our CSR eﬀorts with the business. CSR is a key driver for employee engagement, so let’s build a We’re also excited to be building new medical better volunteering culture; let colleagues take the frontiers in the ﬁeld of microbiome therapy through initiative, let’s learn from others. We also need to our acquisition of Rebiotix. It’s an area which build on our commitments to the Global Compact oﬀers enormous potential to improve lives – by and the Sustainable Development Goals to addressing unmet needs in our current focus create stronger partnerships in projects such as therapy areas, and beyond. It demands new Welcome CHAMPION and others. technology, new relationships and new thinking. It’s a blue ocean, and we’re pleased to be one of This letter has aﬀorded me a great opportunity the ﬁrst to jump in. to renew those commitments, share with you my thoughts on our progress so far and my vision for And then there is reproductive medicine and a future Ferring in which CSR enables us to be the women’s health, representing over 40% of our best business we can be. I greatly look forward to business, where our mission remains to be hearing your views. I’m here to listen and learn. the world-leading and most trusted healthcare company. From fertility to safe birth, our key Per Falk A message from Per Falk challenge here is access, and ensuring that women and their families have access to quality treatments. President and Chief Science Oﬃcer 4 5 Implementing CSR everyday at Ferring As a multinational we have to show the government and Section One – CSR statement local communities our good intentions, to promote the wellbeing of society. There is a At Ferring we believe that CSR should be part of everybody’s job. Aside from our real importance and meaning to formal CSR governance structure, which includes our Taskforce, a CSR Advisory our CSR work. Group and our CSR Board Sponsors (Per Falk and Jean Duvall) we have a global network of CSR Ambassadors across nearly 20 countries. This year we reached Yi Jiang, Director, out to colleagues around the world to ask their views on CSR at Ferring. Corporate Communications Ferring China Our CSR Statement We don’t have a formal policy, People come ﬁrst at Ferring but it’s a silent rule... everyone in our kitchen wants to make this happen. We all want to help create a greener environment. The Ferring Philosophy places people at the heart of what we do. Kristian Petersen, We will address the needs of and support those on whom we have an Head Chef, Ferring Denmark impact in the communities where we operate. Our philosophy and values determine not just what we do, but how we conduct ourselves in the marketplace, with our patients, employees, regulators, business partners and local communities. We aim to listen with respect and act with integrity. We believe that in a resource-constrained, environmentally challenged Great CSR helps to attract great world, it is our duty to minimise our impact on the environment wherever talent. What’s more, our brand reputation continues to rise. we operate. Gaurav Shukla, Our approach rests on the belief that in order to have a healthy tomorrow, HR Director, Ferring India we must think beyond the needs of today. We aim to harness our research and expertise to secure a better future for all. We aim for CSR to be part of There’s no hierarchy in the our culture, at the heart of our volunteers – we come from all Making a diﬀerence to people’s health business strategy. Once it is, it happens naturally, you don’t levels and functions. It’s a great group dynamic. and quality of life, today and tomorrow. have to add it on. Citlalli Pedroza, CSR Sibylle Bollen, Assistant to Plant Director, Switzerland, HQ Ambassador, Ferring Mexico 6 7 Section One – Our Philosophy and Mission The Ferring Philosophy Ferring Mission Statement – the basis of how we do business Our philosophy, ‘People come ﬁrst at Ferring’, is the foundation of our business and Driven by its entrepreneurial spirit As a privately owned, specialty our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). It sets out what we expect and enabled by a decentralised healthcare company that operates of ourselves (towards our patients, employees, physicians and partners), as well as organisational setup, Ferring will globally, Ferring will grow revenues at a the expectations we have of those who make up the Ferring community. harness its world-class competencies rate that is 50% faster than the industry in science and business with other average. We will strive for eﬃciencies People come ﬁrst at Ferring because: • that colleagues will never knowingly do innovative technologies to create in our business and create ﬂexibility to Patients using our products and physicians anything to compromise their position as solutions for patients and doctors invest in opportunities to build our future. Ferring employees; prescribing them have a right to expect that: • that all who represent Ferring will do so in By developing an understanding We are, and continue to be, part of a • we will only make available those products in ways that generate respect for the company of people’s needs, we will deliver transparent and aligned company. We which we have full conﬁdence; and its employees. personalised healthcare solutions, strive to best address the needs of • we will oﬀer the best possible products at the integrating pharmaceutical products patients, stakeholders and customers most reasonable cost; Ferring asks its employees to: with diagnostics, data, devices, by collaborating across functions, • Ferring’s employees will always display courtesy • always do what is right, proper and ethical, experimenting and sharing our practices, education and support services to and respect, and act professionally; and encourage your colleagues to do so; optimise health outcomes. and continuously learning. We are Ferring seeks the loyalty of these patients and • speak out when you think that wrongs are always guided by the Ferring Philosophy. physicians, and we are prepared to earn this being committed in Ferring’s name; Ferring will be the world-leading, loyalty anew every day. most trusted healthcare company in • be loyal, but only to that which is just, Ferring expects that its employees will create equitable, honourable and principled – reproductive medicine and women’s value for the company and its stakeholders. and true to the Ferring philosophy. health, and a leader in specialty areas Ferring employees, at all levels, have No statement of principled behaviour can within gastroenterology and urology. Each ‘The Ferring Philosophy gives us a strong a right to expect from the company ever cover every situation, or deal with every of us at Ferring will contribute to providing start. It is present everywhere. It shapes our contingency. It can only set the tone, making each innovative solutions to help people live and their colleagues: individual responsible for applying that tone to his interaction with doctors, employees, suppliers better lives. We will devote signiﬁcant • respect, support and encouragement; or her everyday practice. We strive to set that tone and partners. Combined with our Mission, you with ﬁve simple words: research and development investment to • a work environment that is safe, stimulating new therapeutics, life cycle management feel that sense of responsibility every day.’ and rewarding; • the freedom to make mistakes and to admit to ‘People come ﬁrst at Ferring.’ and next generation healthcare solutions. Armin Metzger, them without fear of retribution; Executive Vice President, Head • that the highest standards of integrity will be Our CSR Statement is based on the ﬁrm of Global Technical Operations maintained at all times; foundation of our Philosophy (see page 18). and Chief Production Oﬃcer 8 9 Our Industry In a world characterised by ageing • The emergence of personalised (or precision) medicine has huge potential populations, health and lifestyle to transform health outcomes and challenges, a corresponding growth decrease costs. Tailoring treatment to an Section One – Our industry in long-term chronic diseases and individual patient’s environment, lifestyle and genes is already transforming the way diseases such as ever-increasing healthcare costs, cancer and mental health conditions are treated. A drive for deeper sector collaboration is vital Ferring and its industry peers must • In taking on these responsibilities, rise to the challenge. the industry must also be vigilant of Our central challenge as an industry, is this: ethical concerns and data privacy. In an how can we help deliver aﬀordable and quality increasingly data-driven world, these concerns healthcare for a population that will reach over nine will only grow, and we have a duty above all to billion by 2050? The implications of this challenge protect our patients’ and employees’ data and are considerable, but so too are the opportunities. privacy (the latter also deﬁned as a human right by the UN Declaration of Human Rights). • Improving the value of healthcare by delivering better health outcomes to • Ultimately our industry’s job is to patients at lower costs is a critical enable people to lead healthier lives imperative. Technological advancements are and access the care they need to transforming care, but for whom and at what fulﬁl their potential. That job must start by cost? We have a long journey ahead to build improving our ability to listen to patients; use the sustainable heath systems globally that put data they share with us to shape more responsive people at the centre and ensure that healthcare R&D approaches and clinical decision-making is inclusive. which in turn empowers patients and ultimately drives better care outcomes. • With the rise of longer-term chronic illnesses comes a corresponding • Ferring operates in an ecosystem that need to develop longer-term and is dependent on collaboration to work more patient-centric relationships. eﬀectively. Scientists, doctors, healthcare These enable us to respond to all stages of a workers, NGOs and governments all have a patient’s journey – from prevention, diagnosis vital role to play. At the World Economic Forum and treatment through to cure and ongoing (WEF) this year leaders in healthcare agreed maintenance of health. that we are at a critical turning point. A drive for deeper collaboration in the sector is vital to codify and disseminate what we’ve learned, share best practice, and continue to drive towards a sustainable and aﬀordable healthcare for all those in need. 10 11 Ferring Pharmaceuticals is Together they pioneered the development of products based upon natural peptide hormones a research-driven, specialty produced by the body’s own pituitary glands. biopharmaceutical group. This legacy has served us well. Today, peptides Section One – Our business remain the backbone of many of our therapeutic We are committed to helping people around treatments, and Ferring’s own resilient, global the world build families and live better lives. community is committed to developing Headquartered in Saint-Prex, Switzerland, personalised, patient-centric treatments that work Our business Ferring is a leader in reproductive medicine and on the body’s own terms. women’s health, and in specialty areas within gastroenterology and urology. Ferring has been Ferring employs more than 6,500 people worldwide, developing treatments for mothers and babies has its own operating subsidiaries in nearly 60 for over 50 years and has a portfolio covering countries and markets its products in 110 countries. treatments from conception to birth. As a privately owned business we take pride in The company was ﬁrst established nearly 70 being able to make the right decisions for the years ago in Malmö, Sweden by Dr Frederik business at the right time. Not only does this Paulsen and his wife Eva Paulsen, who named the remove the short-pressures of quarterly business company after the strong, closely-knit community results, but it also has a positive eﬀect on how of people originating from the island of Föhr who Ferring colleagues approach their work days. called themselves Feringers and spoke Fering. There is certainty built in to our work. This is the beneﬁt of retaining a long-term perspective, an asset essential to doing good science. Distribution of Ferring’s total global sales by region (2018) 33% 33% 20% Global presence Over 6,500 employees R&D Centres ‘Our business has been steadily 11 Research and Development centres 8% evolving over the last ten years Manufacturing network from one of a more classic 12 Manufacturing sites pharmaceutical approach to one Global marketing & sales USA 6% increasingly focused on our true Marketing and Sales in 56 countries Latin America and Canada value to society.’ Global reach Distribution in 110 countries Europe Per Falk Middle East,Turkey and Africa President and Chief Science Oﬃcer Revenue 2018 revenue of €1.9 billion Asia Paciﬁc 12 13 A strategy that responds to Technology and improved access to information New growth, new opportunities Collaborative partnerships for better means that patients are better and more readily changing needs informed than ever. This demands of us an ability The emergence of new and dynamic growth areas value and better outcomes to adapt both the way we do research as well as such as gene therapy, microbiome therapy and It is our belief that collaborative partnerships are The ever-changing dynamics of our industry Section One – Our business the way we work with our patients. the growing challenges over antibiotics resistance the best way to create value for both patients, the keeps us on our toes. For many years we have oﬀer Ferring new opportunities – both to leverage public purse, and all of the stakeholders involved focused on our peptides research and life-cycle management, a legacy which has stood the Focus on patient-centricity its own existing strengths and build on the in delivering our therapies along the way – from strengths of others, and to reach our patients with research partners through to doctors on the frontline. test of time. However, against a backdrop of In recognition of our need to respond more innovative treatments. ageing populations in key markets, changing eﬀectively to patients, we have created a new role Ferring is also supported by other ongoing lifestyles and corresponding changes in disease in the organisation focused on patient-centricity. In April 2018, Ferring announced its acquisition of partnerships with world-leading research demographics, we have to be alive to the evolving Ed Trott, our new Chief Patient Oﬃcer (CPO) is Rebiotix, a company dedicated to harnessing the organisations in the ﬁeld of microbiome research needs of patients and to respond in kind. charged with developing a strategy that goes power of the human microbiome. Both companies including the Karolinska Institute and Science beyond the traditional forms of patient involvement share a common commitment to exploring and for Life Laboratory, the Centre for Translational For example, the growth of chronic diseases and advocacy and puts the patient back into the understanding the human microbiome to develop Microbiome Research, Intralytix, The Pasteur demands that we pay more attention to speciﬁc centre of our business (please see page 17 for new solutions for patients suﬀering from a range Institute, the University of Lille, MyBiotics Pharma, disease areas and accompany our patients on more details). of chronic diseases, including paediatric ulcerative March of Dimes and Metabogen. In addition, longer and more tailored therapeutic journeys. colitis (UC), multidrug-resistant urinary tract infections Ferring also has an ongoing partnership with Roche (UTIs) and Clostridium diﬃcile Infection (CDI), a on personalised fertility treatment, and with the chronic illness caused by bacteria that infects the World Health Organization (WHO) and MSD for 2018 Sales Overview bowels and causes diarrhoea.1 Rebiotix’s proprietary Mothers to provide access to Ferring’s heat-stable 2018 Sales overview Microbiota Restoration Therapy™ (MRT™) drug carbetocin to prevent post-partum haemorrhage. platform delivers healthy, live, human-derived 9% microbes into the gastrointestinal tract in a readyLooking ahead Orthopaedics 1% to-use, easy-to-administer form. One of its leading We aspire to be a business that brings better and Other therapies, RBX2660 is in Phase 3 development. more patient-centric solutions to those who need 5% Our global capabilities and reach mean that if them. Our strategy for doing this is to: Endocrinology 46% approved we can enable better access for patients • Address patient, provider and payer needs 23% Reproductive to this treatment and any future-approved human through innovation and lifecycle management that Gastroenterology medicine and microbiome treatments. This oﬀers a chance for creates both value and better access. women’s health a better quality of life for patients worldwide and lends strategic value to Ferring’s leadership in • Develop a sustainable pipeline of new molecules, gastroenterology. sourcing peptides internally, proteins both 16% internally and externally, and biologics externally. Urology €1.9 billion ($2.4 billion) • Leverage our existing global commercial and ‘Our role is to understand scientiﬁc expertise and identify external late the realities of the patient’s stage projects and products that strengthen journey and to accompany our portfolio. R&D investment in all therapeutic areas them on that journey.’ • Attract and retain world-class talent who identify with our values and our purpose. Ed Trott, Chief Patient Oﬃcer Reproductive medicine and women’s health 17% of revenue Urology Gastroenterology 1 This infection most commonly aﬀects people who have recently been treated with antibiotics. It is one of the most common healthcareOther associated infections in the US, aﬀecting more than 500,000 people and causing approximately 29,000 deaths each year. Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDCP, 2015) 14 15 People and Values Section One – People and Values “People and Values embraces a broad range ur Leadership Principles of functions – Compliance, Ethics, Human O g Philosophy Ferrin Resources, Performance Management and Corporate Development. We want people to be Ed Trott, Chief Patient Oﬃcer able to see the connection between our values, the Ferring Philosophy, and their jobs. A greater focus on The values part is about keeping the Philosophy Performance Empowerment patient-centricity alive every day: People Come First at Ferring We achieve We create leaders means that we’re looking out for our patients, “Many of Ferring’s products are designed for excellence and intrapreneurs payers, physicians and employees. We have to chronic conditions – this means we are with our maintain those fundamental values even more patients for the long-term. as we develop a performance-driven culture. Purpose Our focus on patients is driven primarily by Ultimately we want people to be passionate We share one Innovation the recognition that we must get better at about their work. mission, we are We experiment and incorporating patient input and perspective into We need to support our employees so that guided by the early research, protocol and product design – Ferring build our future they can feel a true sense of purpose. We Ferring philosophy really understanding their personal experiences, have strong foundations in the Philosophy Mission listening better. At the commercialisation stage, it – we must build on those.” is imperative that we assess Real World Evidence and Patient Reported Outcomes in order to Jean Duvall Transparency Accountability identify and address unmet patient needs. We own everything Executive Vice President, We listen and we do with Patients need continuity, a better experience, and share Chief People and Values Oﬃcer courage empowerment. Engagement with patient advocacy organisations and conducting patient advisory Collaboration boards will be one way we do this. But ﬁrst we Our Leadership Principles We are in this need to help people understand what patientthat guide our central Mission together centricity is. It’s a new, exciting and collaborative With a shared sense of purpose, space that will enable us to work with peers and empowered to be more entrepreneurial, Pe in g competitors. Ultimately, by bringing the patient o ple r encouraged to act with accountability, c o m e fir s t a t F e r closer to us it could enable colleagues at every level to see for themselves, the contributions they transparency and a collaborative spirit, we aspire to deliver with excellence. make that directly impact patients’ quality of life.” 16 17 Marianne Kock, Managing Director IPC and Senior VP, Global Regulatory Aﬀairs “At high school I loved chemistry. I went on to study chemical Section One – Our heritage engineering and pharmacy, and then chose to focus on pharmacy... If Eva Paulsen were alive today she would be pleased to see many women in managerial roles, but she’d say we still have more work to do especially in top management. I think women tend to approach problems diﬀerently, we come with a diﬀerent culture and mindset. Ultimately decision-making is much better with diversity.” Mirjam Mol-Arts Senior VP, Global Development “As a medical doctor my primary interest has always been ﬁnding new solutions for patients – to cure them or help them live Our Heritage better lives. A more balanced representation of both men and women in science can only strengthen our ability to discover and develop these new treatments. Much has improved over the years for women in science – we are very well represented in Ferring.” Tamara Vukmirovic, VP, Head of Global Regulatory Aﬀairs, CMC Spotlight on Ferring women in science and leadership “When I started out, I thought that working on the pharmacy side was a good way to make a diﬀerence. I began as a student at Ferring in Global Regulatory Aﬀairs and have been here ever since. On CSR – my favorite example is CHAMPION – making a life-saving drug available to women in developing countries. Eva Paulsen, Every year on February 11th the world celebrates specialty. Together with her husband and coAdditionally, it would be great to see more young girls, who co-founder of Ferring International Day of Women and Girls in Science. founder Dr Frederik Paulsen, she then went on to may not have privilege or the resources to ﬂourish, becoming While more girls are attending school than before, develop the peptide technologies on which Ferring scientists so they can make a diﬀerence one day.” they are still signiﬁcantly under-represented in was built. She was also behind the development STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, & of the heartburn medication Gaviscon® and Mathematics) subjects in many parts of the world; Ferring market-leading IBD treatments. today, statistics show that only 30% of scientiﬁc Elinor Erez, Associate VP, Head of Biotech As Chairman of Ferring S/A, she was much Development-BTG, Global Pharmaceutical R&D (GPRD) and technology researchers are women2. respected for her pioneering spirit, ethical principles Science is the backbone of our business, and and great commitment to people-centred science. “I was ﬁrst inspired by science at 19 years old when James Ferring would not be where it is today without In celebrating her past contributions to science Watson came to our University to present his work on the the contributions of Eva Paulsen, co-founder of and to Ferring, we also aim to celebrate and inspire discovery of DNA. It was then that I realised what an impact Ferring, who would have turned 100 in 2018. our current and future scientists, many of whom science can make on the world. I became motivated to make a are women with the same commitment to helping diﬀerence as well. I started at Ferring-BTG in 2010 as a young A brilliant scientist, she graduated in civil Research Scientist. Today I head the GPRD function in BTG and people live better lives through science. engineering in 1942 with chemistry as her work with my team to ensure the products we deliver will create better health solutions for the world.” 2 The UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS); UIS is the UN depository for global statistics in the ﬁelds of education, science and technology, culture and communication. 18 19 This summary report shares our • Made steady progress on our key EHS Section Two Photo credit: Jade L Shields Sr. measures on water, energy, waste as well as our high-level progress on our goals. health & safety record It also serves as our annual • Continued to support and celebrate locallySection Two – Our progress report Communication on Progress (CoP) driven initiatives by colleagues in nearly 60 countries where we operate – everything from to the UN Global Compact, to which meat-free days to the introduction of hybrid cars we remain fully committed. – enabling people to follow their passions Over this past year, we have: • Developed a draft set of KPIs to measure our progress which we now plan to pilot internally • Paved the way for the next phase of our CHAMPION project development by completion We have learned that meaningful progress demands of the clinical trial for our heat-stable formulation time and attention. After a year of organisational of carbetocin, for the prevention of Post Partum change, we adapted to doing the right thing Haemorrhage (PPH), and publication of the results wherever possible. This means that on some issues we still have more to do – such as development of a • Initiated a new approach to roll out responsible CSR training module and better communication to supply chain strategy and engage more deeply inform and engage our stakeholders. We undertake with suppliers to carry those commitments into the next year. 2016 ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), started 2014 formulating a global signature ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● programme on maternal health. CSR objectives are built into Created the role of Senior Director, Ferring’s Global Business Plan Industry Affairs & CSR Our Progress 2014 2016 2018 Successful completion of CHAMPION Trial Report 2012/13 2015 2017 Our CSR journey to date ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● 2012 2015 2017 ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Ferring formally launches its CSR Published our first CSR Review, First phase launch of our new Strategy and Statement launched our global CSR Champions Responsible Procurement Network, and completed our first Principles; CSR management stakeholder outreach and materiality moves into the Department of 2013 Global Ethics and Privacy ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● assessment CSR Guidelines developed. Global projects inventory compiled 20 21 Our CSR initiatives, UN Global We have been a proud member of the Global Compact since 2016. The Compact’s 10 Principles reﬂect accepted global best practice The UN Sustainable Development Goals provide businesses, governments and society with ambitions that seek to address the world’s Compact, UN SDGs – in four key areas: Labour, Human Rights, challenges – from child poverty and education Environment and Anti-Corruption. We bring these through to climate change and sustainable food Section Two – Our CSR initiatives Principles alive through our four CSR Pillars, systems. We are committed to playing our part, How they ﬁt together particularly in supporting maternal and child health as well in all relevant policies, guidelines and targets under Goal 3: Healthy Lives and Wellbeing. Standard Operational Procedures (SOPs) in key We also have a role to play in Goals 5, 13 and 17. functions such as Ethics & Privacy, Environment, Health and Safety (EHS), and Procurement. Our CSR strategy must be seen against a are important global initiatives that oﬀer a universal backdrop of our wider commitments to the UN framework for how to approach our social, Global Compact and the UN Global Goals. These environmental and economic responsibilities. Philosophy: Our CSR Statement Our CSR Pillar Objectives Our CSR activities People come first Making a difference to Specific to each of our four pillars Aligned to pillar objectives people’s health and quality at Ferring of life, today and tomorrow UN Global Compact Principles 1–10 Human rights People P1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and P2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. UNGC Labour P. 1, 2,10 P3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Ferring UNGC UNGC Business CSR P4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Community P. All P. 3, 4, 5, 6,10 Ethics compulsory labour; P5: the eﬀective abolition of child labour; and P6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of UNGC P. 7, 8, 9,10 employment and occupation. Environment P7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; P8: businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Environment P9: encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption P10: work against corruption in all its forms, including Our four CSR pillars encompass the UN Global Compact extortion and bribery. Principles (P1-10), which together inform our CSR statement 22 23 Post-partum haemorrhage (PPH), or ‘This is an important step forward excessive bleeding after childbirth, is in PPH prevention and these the leading direct cause of maternal results pave the way for heatSection Two – CHAMPION death worldwide. stable carbetocin to potentially save the lives of thousands Every year, 14 million women are aﬀected by PPH, and while most deaths are preventable, of women, especially in areas approximately 70,000 women die per year. where cold-chain transport and Almost 99% of PPH-related deaths occur in low storage is not feasible.’ and middle-income countries, where refrigeration of medicines, including the current accepted Professor Klaus Dugi treatment for PPH, oxytocin, can be diﬃcult to Executive Vice President achieve and maintain. and Chief Medical Oﬃcer CHAMPION A commitment to women and families Our response Ferring’s heat-stable carbetocin As a responsible corporate citizen, we have a commitment to play our part in contributing to UN Global Goal 3 (Ensure healthy lives and promote Together with our partners MSD for Mothers and the WHO, we collaborated on the largest clinical study conducted in the prevention of PPH, involving wellbeing for all at all ages). This Goal includes a nearly 30,000 women across ten countries. target to reduce the number of maternal deaths to In June 2018, the results from that study, under 70 per 100,000 globally. published in the New England Journal of Medicine Ferring has a treatment that can make a diﬀerence. demonstrated that our heat-stable formulation of Researched and developed as a solution to carbetocin is as eﬀective as the current standard address unmet needs in women’s health, heatof care, oxytocin, for the prevention of PPH. This stable carbetocin remains eﬀective at high exciting ﬁnding means that Ferring will now be temperatures, addressing a signiﬁcant limitation of seeking registrations in key countries of need, and oxytocin which must be stored and transported start to manufacture heat-stable carbetocin. at 2 – 8°C. Once approved, the heat-stable Our plan is that pending successful submissions formulation of carbetocin will be made available in countries such as India, Kenya and Nigeria, at an aﬀordable and sustainable access price in we can start to introduce carbetocin into key public-sector healthcare facilities in lowand lowermarkets of need in 2020. middle income countries.This price is a subsidised price of $0.31 +/10% per ampoule of 100 µg heat-stable carbetocin. This is comparable to the current United Nations Population Fund price for oxytocin of $0.27 per unit (10 I.U.). See more @ ferringresponsibility.com Photo credit (All three above): Joni Kabana, Kabana Photography 24 25 People ‘It’s our job to ensure that there Section Two – Our Pillars is humanity in healthcare. A value which today some have forgotten. The Ferring Philosophy People Introduction is our diﬀerentiator. It’s a unique mindset that drives the company Objective We take our inspiration from the Ferring Philosophy, which states that ‘People – from the therapeutic products Support, develop come First at Ferring’. With these ﬁrm foundations, we aim to ‘support, develop and meet people’s needs and meet people’s needs and rights.’ This means everyone we work with, we develop to the employees we and rights or whose lives we touch – our patients, colleagues, physicians, those in our hire. We strive to help improve community and our suppliers. people’s lives and you can see this in everything we do.’ Paul Navarre, CEO, Ferring US ‘Our job is to ensure that patients, employees, payers, physicians and all Our Progress • To enable a more personal dialogue between our new President and Chief Science Oﬃcer, by our global in-house medical experts, about the need to help build families and support them on those we work with, or impact in some Policies and Practices Per Falk and employees, a new discussion their journey from conception to a safe birth. In platform initiated by him on MyWorkplace connecting and amplifying all our eﬀorts (including way, know that we’re looking out for them, CHAMPION, March of Dimes and others) we have (OneFerring) invites feedback and ideas on and have their best interests at heart.’ Internally, we have a wide range of policies and any topic. signiﬁcantly helped to increase conversations processes whose purpose is to support and about fertility, premature and safe birth. Jean Duvall enable all our employees, wherever they are in the • On Access to healthcare issues, sustained Executive Vice President, world. These continue to evolve and adapt as we advocacy work by our US oﬃce has helped Innovation grants to support research in learn and grow. to see the Preventing Maternal Deaths Act our therapy areas – USA Chief People and Values Oﬃcer signed into law in 2018. The US team has also • Employee wellbeing at work; building on our successfully advocated to support insurance We believe it is important to support good scientiﬁc better workplace initiatives, Ferring Denmark coverage for IVF and Fertility Preservation research in areas where we feel able to contribute. is providing employees with opportunities to legislation, now passed in Mississippi. Ferring’s Innovation Grants Programme is an improve their health and to ensure physical wellannual initiative of the Ferring Research Institute (FRI) based in San Diego. This year, the programme being at work – installing treadmills with tables to facilitate light walking while working, and various Selection of our initiatives focused on reproductive medicine and women’s health, gastroenterology and hepatology, urology devices for standing and changing positions at Project Family and biomarker discovery. The 8 projects and the desk. Employees were also oﬀered access to individuals selected represent the cutting edge of a nutritionist to advise on healthier eating. Issues around fertility, premature birth and safe research and innovation in their respective ﬁelds. • Given our global reach, diversity in the birth can have a profound impact on entire workplace is something that we both value and families, but our research revealed that they were often discussed as ones for women only, leaving Support for IBD – Hungary celebrate. We are constantly looking for ways men and broader families missing from the global In May 2018, Ferring Hungary celebrated World to improve this and are working on a means to conversation. As a family-owned private company IBD Day in cooperation with Patient Associations measure our progress in this area. that makes families possible, Ferring was uniquely and competitor companies at the Budapest zoo. • We recognise the importance and value of placed to change this. Project Family was our More than 400 patients participated in the event. improving our record in progressing women approach to putting families – of every shape Ferring Hungary had a stand with staﬀ volunteers to senior management positions. We have and size – front and centre. Ferring’s Project providing advice for visitors suﬀering from IBD, and benchmarked ourselves and will start formally Family is a worldwide conversation led by our activities for kids, including face-painting. Over a reporting next year on our progress. Corporate Communications team and supported third of our oﬃce were engaged with this event. See full project list @ ferringresponsibility.com 26 27 Business Ethics Section Two – Our Pillars Beyond our legal responsibility to respect global and local laws wherever we work, we also have a duty of care to everyone whose lives we touch in the process – colleagues, patients, doctors and collaborative partners. This means behaving ethically in all interactions we have with them, as Introduction Business Ethics well as respecting and safeguarding their privacy. Objective Conduct As a global company with a worldwide footprint, we have a duty to ensure we 6 A set of principles covering labour & human rights, transparency ourselves ethically practice good ethics wherever we operate. This means upholding the universality & anti-corruption https://www.unglobalcompact.org.uk/the-tenin the market principles/ place of good ethics enshrined in the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles6 and committing to continually raise awareness, engage and empower colleagues to make the right decisions in the workplace. Our valued partners from Massone, Francisco Massone and Angel Veltri ‘Building an ethical approach to managing procurement has to start with Our Progress • Introduced Privacy by Design (PbD) as our framework and methodology to enable privacy as Building better transparency a mindset embedding it directly into technology, In 2018, Ferring launched a corporate standard how we work ourselves ﬁrst – raising Policies and Practices operating procedure (SOP) on cross-border systems and practices at the design phase. awareness, understanding our risks and transparency reporting. The SOP describes the The core responsibility for Ethics at Ferring rests • Appointed a Global Data Protection Oﬃcer, responsibilities, changing mindsets. We with our Global Ethics and Privacy Oﬃce. However, responsible for informing and advising Ferring cross-border procedure for reporting direct and indirect transfers of value (ToV) and other beneﬁts cannot expect our suppliers to do the we believe that good ethics are not just about rules with regard to its obligations on GDPR and in kind made to healthcare professionals (HCPs), same, if we are not setting an example.’ and compliance. They are also about developing an other applicable national data protection laws. healthcare organisations (HCOs) and other relevant ethical mindset – which is everyone’s job. Oversight external stakeholders. Along with the corporate Eric Espinasse rests with the Chief People and Values Oﬃcer and A new Code of Conduct SOP, Ferring has launched a global reporting the Ethics and Compliance Board Committee. We Chief Procurement Oﬃcer are also supported by a global network of Ethics In 2018, Ferring’s Code of Conduct was launched platform to ensure transparency and compliance. Coordinators who help us to foster a culture of in 15 languages worldwide. The Code of Conduct good practice and build an ethical mindset. A core has a strong focus on anti-corruption and sets out Towards a more sustainable procurement set of policies and Standard Operating Procedures the overarching policies that Ferring requires its strategy (SOPs) are brought to life through various employees to comply with. With our Supplier Conduct Principles already engagement tools such as our Ethics E-Learning in place, we now recognise the need to drive platform and the Ferring AlertLine. And as always, Strengthening our standards on anti-bribery these into the business and supply chain more our inspiration comes from the Ferring Philosophy, eﬀectively. Our new Chief Procurement Oﬃcer will which lies at the heart of our approach. Ferring takes its responsibility to mitigate bribery bring these Principles to life. Our plan is to build a risks very seriously. In 2018, we launched a longer-term strategy that will embed a culture of corporate standard operating procedure (SOP) responsible procurement at Ferring. On Privacy on cross-border interactions with external stakeholders. The SOP describes the crossWe have a duty above all to protect the personal border procedure for interacting and exchanging data of our patients, external stakeholders anything of value with our external stakeholders and employees. In order to live up to this – including healthcare professionals (HCPs) and responsibility, we have taken a number of steps: healthcare organisations (HCOs). The SOP covers • Launched a Global Privacy Policy and all Ferring’s entities and goes beyond industry principles for privacy. standards in its regulation of beneﬁts of all kinds. See full project list @ ferringresponsibility.com 28 29 Environment ‘What really drove the successful Section Two – Our Pillars pilot of swapping from normal cars to hybrid cars was the energy and buzz that was created by our staﬀ... The Introduction Environment overall investment was small in Objective Minimise our Last year was a critical year for focusing minds on the environment. The new comparison the ﬁnancial savings environmental Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report called for “rapid and the employees made in car tax.’ footprint far-reaching” transitions if we are to prevent serious consequences of climate change. There is a job for everyone to do. Moving to more sustainable sources of Shahed Ashraf, Regional HR energy, protecting natural resources and minimising our footprint are prerequisites Director Ferring UK for a healthy, sustainable business environment. Equally, we have a commitment to ensure a safe and healthy working environment for all our employees. ‘What better way to visualise how to Our Progress Total CO2 savings made are still being calculated but it will be signiﬁcant. From our FCT operations in on the company car list. Those who drive hybrids or electric cars have reduced their CO2 emissions revalorize and create beautiful art from Scotland, 2018 saw an impressive 37% reduction on average from 5.6 tonnes to 1.97 tonnes On carbon emissions – a 15% reduction against our manufacturing plastic waste than a 2010 baseline, in line with our targets. in emissions. Contributing to this are a number of annually. That is a 65% reduction per driver each through a competition with local artists.’ factors, including various energy saving schemes, year. Currently around 17% of employees drive On water – despite an overall increase due to US as well as the uptake of renewable energy in hybrid cars and we aim to increase this to at least Caroline Serra, Global Environment, and India factories becoming operational, we are Scotland’s energy generation. 50% within the next 3 years. making steady progress towards a 5% reduction Health and Safety Director by 2023 against a 2017 baseline, with site-based Weekly vegetarian day – Denmark targets in place. Celebrating World Environment Day ONGOING On waste – an overall slight increase due to new The head chef in our Copenhagen IPC oﬃce Kristian Petersen and ANNUALLY production site activities; our recycling and reuse In 2018 the UN selected the host rates have steadily improved. his team has pioneered a weekly vegetarian day, country, India, with the theme: inspired by a desire to reduce the company’s Beat Plastic Pollution If you can’t reuse it, refuse it. On health and safety – our Lost Time Incidence carbon footprint. The canteen showed that the Rate (LTIR) of 0.45 improved on our target of 0.48, We hosted an active day to rally awareness involving production of 1 kg beef resulted in emissions sustained by a steady safety training culture across colleagues from around the world, including India, equivalent to driving 170km, compared to a 1km all sites. However, we cannot be complacent. New Israel, UK and the US. In addition to inspirational drive for the production of 1kg of carrots. We factory operations demand that we are vigilant in speakers, we organised workshops and activities on haven’t yet worked out our total CO2 emissions strengthening a safe work culture. savings yet, but we plan to. It has not only raised a range of issues, including zero waste, electric cars, awareness of our food footprint, but colleagues are tree planting and a plastic art exhibition. Selection of our initiatives also realising the beneﬁts of healthier eating. Energy eﬃciency drives – BTG (Israel) Reducing employee emissions on Reducing and recycling our water use – and Ferring Controlled Therapeutics the road – UK Ferring India (FCT, Scotland) ONGOING ONGOING We have introduced a new water Our BTG operations represent a signiﬁcant amount With a busy sales team spending treatment process in India called of our total energy use at 39%. As a result, we many hours on the road, reducing zero-liquid discharge (ZLD) in which all wastewater is have initiated a range of energy eﬃciencies our CO2 emissions is something we feel we can act puriﬁed and recycled through advanced ultraﬁltration, designed to reduce emissions, including a steam on. In 2018 Ferring UK installed 6 hybrid/electric reverse osmosis, evaporation and ionization, leaving generator, the installation of a new chiller, and a car charging points at our West Drayton head us with zero discharge. At present we are recycling heat exchanger for biological waste treatment. oﬃce. Additionally, we made hybrid cars an option 80 to 100 m3/day of treated water. See full project list @ ferringresponsibility.com Caroline Serra with art piece ‘Pure Plastic Soup’, created by Swiss-based artist Marie-Christine Czuray 30 31 Community Section Two – Our Pillars We try to encourage causes that are either close to employees’ hearts, or in areas where we have a particular expertise or skill – health, science education, or operations. Some of these projects are initiated or managed by our global network of CSR Ambassadors. Introduction Community Objective Engage with and Ferring is only as healthy as the communities in which we operate. We have an support the communities ongoing commitment to supporting the local communities around us, and many around us colleagues around the world play their part in doing this. Not only does this strengthen our relationship with those communities, but it also gives colleagues the chance to make a personal or team contribution on Ferring’s behalf, and feel proud in doing so. ‘CSR is an important driver to engagement... it’s about our Our Progress children from remote rural villages to attend school and complete their primary education. The South Their activities range from building houses for those in need, to mentoring veterans, community East Asia Leadership Team spent the afternoon soup kitchens and maintaining local parks. contribution back to society, our This year we had over ﬁfty formal submissions with these children as part of their Leadership reputation in the community.’ of CSR projects around the world. We can only Summit. They also donated stationery, activity One Ferring Campaign – South Korea showcase a few here, but please go to www. books and a ﬁrst aid box. This activity not only Alex Chang, Senior Vice President, ferringresponsibility.com to see the others. Owing provided a fun occasion and sense of hope for the Every year about 1 million babies die on their day to the decentralised nature of our operations, Ferring Asia Paciﬁc we do not yet have a global volunteering policy; children, but it was also a meaningful engagement of birth, and 2.6 million lose their lives within a month. This project is about supporting premature however, we have encouraged individual markets for the senior leadership team. babies in countries where premature births are to develop their own approaches. In addition to high such as Mali and Tajikistan. Ferring Korea Donation of unused medication – Israel the US and Belgium, our Asia Paciﬁc Region and employees undertook to knit hats for Save the Hungary now formally encourage volunteering in Children’s Hat Knitting Campaign, timed for World This project donates unused medication for their respective communities. Prematurity Day in November. Wool hats are free distribution to those in need. The mission known to retain the baby’s body heat and act as Selection of our initiatives of BTG’s charity partner, “Haverim Le’Refuah” (Friends for Health) is to deliver medical treatment an incubator during the early vulnerable stages to those who cannot aﬀord to buy medicine. of its premature life. 60 Ferring Korea colleagues Humanitarian support – Indonesia knitted about 80 hats. BTG employees serve as ambassadors for In 2018, a devastating earthquake and tsunami the programme, collecting unused drugs from hit Indonesia. The earthquake destroyed neighbours, family and friends. These are Protecting bees – Switzerland, HQ infrastructure and homes, killed 2500 people then distributed by Friends for Health under Our oﬃce enjoys the perfect environment for and left over 16,000 survivors homeless. Ferring the supervision of pharmacists and doctors’ hosting bees. Bees pollinate nearly 90% of the Indonesia made a donation to the Indonesian Red prescriptions. Drugs that have reached expiry plants and food that we cultivate, but they face Cross which was used for purchasing medicine dates are safely disposed of. a challenging future, and a risk of extinction. for the survivors. Motivated by this cause, employees at our ‘Living the Philosophy’ – US headquarters have established their own inhouse Engagement with children’s primary Through its “Living the Philosophy program” Beekeeper Association, involving colleagues from school Malaysia Ferring US makes 12,000 paid hours (or two days diﬀerent departments and levels of seniority. We Asrama Desa Pukak is a hostel for primary school each per person) available each year for its nearly take care of our bees and harvest the honey too, children in Pukak, Kiulu, Malaysia, enabling 900 employees to volunteer in their communities. proceeds from which go to a chosen charity. See full project list @ ferringresponsibility.com 32 33 Section Two – The road ahead Drawing inspiration from beyond the oﬃce We operate in a world with ﬁnite Building new initiatives that respond to a changing world and that are responsive to what resources and must support a colleagues and our external stakeholders tell us society with multiple challenges and is important to them; changing mindsets and inequalities. This demands a business behaviours, working towards greener travel and zero single plastic oﬃce waste. driven by core values and motivated Strengthening our CSR governance will by its contribution to society. enable us to broaden and deepen a sense of We have the ﬁrm foundations of our Ferring responsibility for, and accountability to, our goals. Philosophy at the heart of who we are and CSR Among our plans are appointing a new Executive is an integral part of that identity. As to the ‘what’ Committee Sponsor to champion our ongoing and the ‘how,’ this is a job for a core team of eﬀorts, and strengthen and empower both our committed colleagues around the world, with full CSR teams and functions. support of senior management. Engage and Learn will remain a key component Looking ahead to the coming year, our key of our strategy; under the stewardship of People watchwords are: sustain, build and strengthen. & Values, we will further embed both the policy We already have some great examples of the and practice of CSR in our training programmes, encourage uptake of our volunteering policy and The road ahead work we do around the world, and it’s important we learn from and build on those. At the same develop a volunteering strategy aligned to our time, we must ensure we remain focused on company mission. what we can achieve, whilst being mindful of Communicate and measure our progress. what there is still to do. This means piloting a newly-developed set of high level internal KPIs and developing new ways of In the year ahead, we are committed to: communicating our story. Sustaining and supporting our existing CSR Finally, our President and Chief Science Oﬃcer, programmes such as our signature Per Falk, is equally passionate about our plans. programme CHAMPION (to provide an We remain committed to our journey with the UN aﬀordable, heat-stable treatment for post-partum Global Compact and put our trust in our Ferring haemorrhage) so that they continue to inspire and colleagues to continue this next stage of the ‘As William Clay Ford Jr said, “Creating a strong business and deliver real change where it’s needed. Forging journey with us. building a better world are not conﬂicting goals – they are new partnerships will be key. Our renewed focus on patient-centricity will ensure that we ﬁnd even both essential ingredients for long-term success.”’ better ways to support our patients. Living our Jade L Shields, Sr values and adhering to UN Global Compact Jade L Shields, Sr principles in the supply chain means that we must Vice President, Values and Learning build on our work with suppliers to enable more Vice President, Values and Learning (Global Data Protection Oﬃcer) ethical practices. (Global Data Protection Oﬃcer) 34 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Printed onto 100% post-consumer recycled paper. This product is carbon neutral. 2018 Review ‘La famille des neiges’ by Juana-Maria Mercier was displayed Photo credit: Joni Kabana, Kabana Photography in the Ferring headquarters on World Environment Day 2018. Ferring 36 Corporate Social www.ferring.com Responsibility #ProjectFamily
