.' , Communication on Progress for FY 2018-19 of Hindustan Copper Limited 1, ASHUTOSH CHOWDHURY AVENUE KOLKATA 700 019 miAlJ1tt f~ S>WH <t>'i R f<.o1f' 12:-s HINDUSTAN COPPER LIMITED _l('tR'l~ ('lI«I mom ~ ~) SANTOSH SHARMA (A GOVT. OF INDIA ENTERPRISE) Chairman and Managing Director <1111 ~AMRA BHAVAN 1,~~~ 1, ASHUTOSH CHOWDHURY AVENUE ~IKOLKATA 700 019 ~/Phone : (033) 2283-2725/2281-6222 mlFax: (033) 2283-2862 , { >ffitE-ma~ : santoshshanna@hinduslanoopper.com CIN : No. : L27201WB1967GOI028825 Date: 30.09.2019 Dear Stakeholders, In September 2015, the United Nations launched a new agenda for sustainable global development towards 2030 with a set of Global Goals intended to eradicate poverty and improve lives. HCLhas been committed to the UN Global Compact corporate responsibility initiative and its ten principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We firmly agree that these principles need reinforcement on a global scale, and in partnership with a spectrum of stakeholders engaged in the UN Global Compact Network. In this first annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the ten principles into our business strategy, culture and operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. In step with societal developments and the company's growth, HCLis committed to being a responsible business leader in a globalised world. The Global Goals are ambitious, as they should be. It is a tall task to safeguard the world's global health and development challenges. To succeed, governments, civil society organisations and the Industry need to work together as partners in the implementation, as we have done in the framing of the goals. HCLis contributing actively through its' responsible business practices towards achieving the Ten Principles of UN Global Compact and shall continue to play an important role in coming years to support them. It's our endeavour to put best efforts for sustained growth, expansion and prosperity of the Company benefitting all stakeholders. I call upon you all to be an active partner in the journey to support the UN Global Compact and its principles. With wilrm regards, Yours Sincerely, Wl---Santosh Sharma Chairman-Cum-Managing Director Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Commitment HCL being a Government of India company, owes its allegiance to the Constitution of India, which resolves to secure to all its citizens justice, liberty, equality and fraternity and which also supports the fundamental human rights as envisioned in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. HCL stands committed to protecting human rights at its workplaces. Systems The sub-stratum of the HR Manual ensures that its employees enjoy the fundamental human rights. HCL has in its management system provisions for health, safety, housing and education. Comprehensively covering all these aspects, HCL has appropriate systems in place. Actions Health HCL gives full and free medical care to its employees and the eligible members of their families. Under the HCL Contributory Post Retirement Medical Scheme, the retired employees and their spouses get medical facility. Safety Being basically a mining organization, HCL attaches greater importance for safety of the employees. In its mining projects, HCL has its own Training Centres equipped with the infrastructure as required under the Mines Vocational Training Rules. These centres cater to the needs of basic training, refresher training, and training for skilled trades and also for those injured on duty. Sufficient number of workmen inspectors are nominated/appointed for mining operations, mechanical installations and electrical installations in terms of the statutory requirement Occupational Health Centres have been provided in the projects. Doctors have been given specialized training in occupational health. Periodical medical examinations of employees are done in accordance with the prescribed schedule. • Safety appliances such as safety shoes, helmets, etc, are provided to employees periodically. Every month safety committee meetings are conducted and accident analysis is discussed and remedial measures implemented. Housing HCL provides accommodation for the employees and the members of their families on nominal rents. Education HCL trains its employees regularly to update themselves, professionally, managerially and technically. HCL encourages its employees to better their educational and professional qualification by giving suitable incentives, study leave, etc. • HCL takes care of the school education of the employees' children in its projects and gives incentives and scholarships for their higher education. As its projects are located in remote areas, HCL has arranged for quality schooling facilities at the projects itself. The schooling facilities available at the project are extended to the children of the surrounding villages as well. Performance during the year 2018-19 HCL has provided health care to its employees and the dependent members of their families. During the year, against a training target of 5016 mandays, 9635 mandays of training was achieved. 302 employees who retired from the Company were given service certificates and suitable mementos during farewell parties, specially arranged in their honour, in appreciation of their service to HCL. 73 wards of employees were given scholarship for Higher Education in FY 2018-19. Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment HCL being a Government of India company owes its allegiance to the Constitution of India, which resolves to secure to all its citizens justice, liberty, equality and fraternity and which also supports the fundamental human rights as envisioned in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. HCL stands committed to protecting human rights at its workplaces. Svstems HCL inherits the Government regulations and, therefore, protecting human rights and ensuring that it is not complicit in human rights abuses, is a natural extension to all its policies and programmes. The security arrangement in the mines of the company is given to the specialised Security agencies, which owes equal allegiance to the Constitution of India and is duty bound to protect human rights. A Grievance Redressal procedure is in vogue. • A separate Committee for redressal of grievances of women employees under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 has been constituted. Actions & Performance during the year 2018-19 No case of human rights violation has been reported during the year. Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Commitment HCL stands committed to the protection of freedom of association among its employees and business partners. Systems HCL employees' are categorised into Executives and Non-Executives. Non-Executive is further classified into Technical and Clerical. 1. HCL have five Units, three Regional Offices and a Corporate Office at different location throughout India. Four Units and the Corporate Office have a recognised Union and all the recognised Unions are affiliated to the Central Trade Unions of India. HCL have formed an apex body, viz. NJCC (National Joint Committee for Copper) for the purpose of Collective Bargaining and to discuss major issues related to production and productivity and also suggestions from the forum are obtained for improving the production. 2. The details of such Recognised Unions, Unit-wise, are as given below. a) Khetri Copper Complex (KCC) at Khetrinagar, Rajasthan Khetri Tamba Shramik . Sangh (KTSS), affiliated to All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC). b) Indian Copper Complex (ICC) at Ghatsila, Jharkhand ICC Workers Union (ICCWU), affiliated to All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC). c) Malanjkhand Copper Project (MCP) at Malanjkhand, Madhya Pradesh Bhartiya Khanij Mazdoor Sangh (BKMS), affiliated to Bharat Majdoor Sangh (BMS). d) Taloja Copper Project (TCP) at Taloja, Maharashtra Engineers Workers Association (EWA), affiliated to Indian National Trade Union Congress. e) Tamra Bhawan, Corporate Office Kolkata Hindustan Copper Head Office Staff Union (HCHOSU), affiliated to Indian National Trinamool Trade Union Congress (INTTUC) 3. HCL is totally committed to workers' participation in the management. In pursuit of such commijment, Committees/Councils, both statutory and non-statutory, are functioning at the shop level, project level and at corporate ievel. 4. Non-executives and Executives have their own associations at unit level and at the corporate office. Actions Decisions related to workmen such as wage settlement, incentives, bonus, line of promotions, working conditions, welfare measures, etc are taken in consultation with the representatives of unions/ Associations, both at the unit level and at the corporate level. Perfonnance during the year 2018-19 All the workmen are subject to collective bargaining agreements and the Non-executives and executives are governed by understanding/consultations. No mandays were lost during the year because of rift or strike by employees due to the effectiveness of Collective Bargaining. The unanimous decisions taken at the Joint Committees are implemented and monitored. Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Commitment HCL stands committed not to resort to any form of forced and compulsory labour. Systems No employee is required to deposit any sum of money for employment in HCL. HCL adheres to the statutes of India such as Mines Act, Factories Act which embodies some of human rights principles such as prevention of child labour, forced labour. Actions Appointment orders issued by the company very specifically state the various important conditions of appointment. • Printed copies of Service Regulations and other rules are distributed to all Units for reference and use by every employee. The workmen in particuiar are given a copy of the certified Standing Orders precisely containing their general terms and conditions governing service conditions. The Personnel Manual is available in the Intranet site for reference. Employees are given incentives for achieving higher levels of output. Workmen have the additional facility of over-time payment for working beyond the prescribed working hours. Performance during the Year 2018-19 No form of forced or compulsory labour was resorted to. Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. Commitment HCL stands committed not to engage any child labour and do all that it can to abolish it from its surroundings. Systems For appointment in the company, the minimum age prescribed and scrupulously followed is 18 years. • Age verification is done with reference to approved documents in accordance with the practices prescribed by the Govemment of India. All employees are paid much above the minimum wages prescribed from time to time. Free and complete health care is given to all the employees and the members of their families. Free schooling facilities are provided at projects. Scholarships and hostel accommodation allowance, etc, are given for children's higher education. • Skill development programme for training and increasing the employability of local qualified youth is being organized in adjoining villages of a) Ghatsila, East Singhbum District, Jharkhand. b) Malanjkhand, Balaghat District, MP. c) Khetri, Jhunjhunu District, Rajasthan. Actions All contractors are forbidden to engage child labour. • Government enforcement agencies like Inspectors from Labour Department inspect the sites of construction to check for employment of child labour. • Records of the labourers engaged by the contractors are kept at worksites. Performance during the year 2018.19 No child labour was employed by HCL. • No child labour was allowed to be employed by the contractors working for HCL. • HCL does not trade with organisations engaging child labour. Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment HCL is a Government company and stands committed to follow the policy of non-discrimination in all matters recruitment, employment opportunity, promotion, etc. Systems The Constitution of India, under Article 15, Article 16, unambiguously prohibits discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth. As a Government company, HCL is bound to follow the Government directives, which are abundantly clear against any discrimination in any matters. HCL is an Equal Opportunity Employer and encourages workplace diversity. As a measure of protecting and improving the conditions of the downtrodden, special provisions have been made in terms of the Government directives in respect of candidates belonging to Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Backward class, both in recruitment and promotion. HCL Recruitment and Promotion Rules provide for qualifications, skill and experience required for candidates for recruitment and promotion at various levels. The grievance procedure in the company is designed in a very simple and easy to handle way for the employees to get grievances, if any, to be resolved quickly. Unions and Associations representing the various levels of employees have easy access to the management to discuss and resolve discriminations, if any, quickly and effectively. Actions • The company periodically assesses and evaluates job contents and job requirements. Liaison Officers have been appointed in all the Units and Corporate Office of the Company who are responsible for the redressal of grievances of SC, ST and OBC employees. Performance during 2018-19 • No discrimination was resorted to in respect of employment and occupation. The Government directives against discrimination were adhered to in all matters. The special provisions in respect of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward classes made by the Government by way of Directives have been adhered to. As on 31st March, 2018 the manpower position was: o Total number of employees 2195 o Scheduled Caste employees 390 (17.77%) o Scheduled Tribe employees 298 (13.58%) o Backward Class employees 313 (14.26%) o Women employees 163 (7.43%) o Persons with Disability employees 26 (1.18%) l Principle 7: Business should support a pre-cautionary approach to environmental challenges. Commitment As a responsible corporate citizen, HCL believes in maintaining ecological balance and is committed to ensure that its environmental systems and practices are aligned with international best practices. All major production projects of HCL i.e. Indian Copper Complex, ICC; Malanjkhand Copper Project, MCP; Khetri Copper Complex, KCC; Taloja Copper Project, TCP and Gujarat Copper Project, GCP are aligned to the environmental standards. This standard enables HCL to manage its environmental impacts while adhering to the requirements not only of the standard itself but also to those of national and international norms, I~gislation, and regulations. It also forms the foundation for continuous improvement in environmental performance. Sustainable Development Policy 1. We, at HCL, aim at being responsible miners with commitment to sustainable development in all our locations. We ensure that the sustainable development ethos are considered and integrated in all our decision-making processes and business planning. 2. We believe that market competitiveness on a long run can be achieved only by adopting the best practices of health, safety and environmental management, community management, and actively engaging our stakeholders in addition to the economic performance of the organization. 3. We comply in full with the laws and regulations where we operate. We aspire to be a benchmark by adopting international standards in the field of Sustainable Development. 4. HCL Sustainability Policy is integrated with Environmental Policy, Occupational Health and Safety Policy, Community Development Policy and together they provide the broad framework for driving business in a responsible manner. System: In order to ensure pollution-free environment, HCL has built the following programmes into the day-to-day working of the mines: • Environmental norms as laid down by the Ministry of Environment and Forests and the State and the Central Pollution Control Boards are meticulously followed. • Regular physical monitoring for all environmental parameters, like micrometeorology, ambient air quality, surface and ground water quality and ground water levels, work zone and ambient noise levels and soil quality through recognised environmental laboratories of MoEFCC/CPCS. • Detailed Sio diversity conservation studies, carbon foot print, Energy audits, Water audit, SMI audit, etc. • Environment up-gradation works like afforestation at project sites, reclamation of waste rock dumps and mined out areas. • Disaster Management Plans for the tailing dams at the projects. Industrial Risk insurance for tailing dams constructed at projects. • Protection measures for explosives' magazines at the projects. Public Liability Insurance towards handling explosives and other hazardous material. Actions • A separate cell for environment management with qualified environment engineers/ scientists has been set up at projects to extensively monitor and effectively implement environment management programmes. • Expert organizations in the area have been engaged to measure and report periodically the various parameters. Pollution Control Measures Covered • Maintaining Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) System. All the effluent water generated from different sources like Mine Pit, Overburden Dump seepage, Tailing Dam seepage and Oil skimmer are collected in well-constructed concretized sumps with installation of adequate capacity pumping and pipeline arrangement. These collected waters are recycled and reused directly in the Copper Concentration Process and no effluent is discharged to outside water bodies. • Desilting and maintenance of seepage sumps and garland drain done regularly. • Judicious and scientific planning of direct excavation, waste rock dumping and infrastructure areas. • Constructing ameliorative measures like retention wall, check dams, digging contour trenches etc. to minimize land erosion. • Effluent Treatment Plant (HRT) for treating effluent & reusing the effluent into process. • Dewatering of mine: Water is re-cycled and used for backfilling, suppression of dust, tree plantation etc. Excess mine water is recharged in the ground after primary treatment. • Maintaining zero liquid discharge from plant and reusing the STP treated effluent into process. • Regular water sprinkling and grading of haul roads, scientific afforestation for abating air pollution. • Water sprinklers are deployed for dust suppression on roads. Sprinkling of water is being carried out at regular interval. The sprinkling frequency is every two hours during the summer seasons and at least three times in a day during all other seasons except monsoon. • Water spraying system at ore handing unit. • Creating green belts & maintaining the existing ones; density open scrublands, good arboriculture, and following avenue plantation practices for improving the overall environment as well as aesthetic value. • Importance of value index of the region is envisaged and also to eradicate effects of visual intrusion by proper landscaping & increase of aesthetic value. • Monitor all environmental parameters such as PM,o, PM2s, S02, NOx, CO, Fugitive dust emissions in ambient air, water quality as per IS standards in respect of Plant, discharge water from auto shops and service centres, tailing dam discharge water etc., on regular basis following the Statutory Acts and their amendments of the Gol. • Preparation and timely submission of six-monthly reports to MOEF&CC, GOI Regional offices and annual environmental reports to respective state pollution control boards. • Creating environment awareness amongst all the employees and their children and the local population through celebration of Mines Environment & Mineral Conservation (MEMC) week under the aegis of Indian Bureau of Mines & World Environment Day celebrations. • Undertaking of peripheral village community development works like improving roads, constructing school buildings, extending schooling and medical facilities available in the projecltownships to the local people round the clock. • Obtaining consents for establishment and operation of mines / plants from the respective state pollution control boards. • Monitor all environmental parameters such as PM10, PM2.5, S02, NOx, Fugitive dust emissions in ambient air, Noise level, water quality and Ground water level of dug wells as per CPCB, SPCB guidelines and IS standards in respect of recycled water, Surface & Ground water in and around mining lease area on regular basis following the Statutory Acts and their amendments of the GOI viz., • Continuous ground water levei monitoring with the help of Automatic Water Level Recorder (AWLR) at mines. The results are submitted to the Central Ground Water Board, Regional offices. • Regular monitoring of ground water levels and quality by engaging NABL and MOEFCC certified laboratories. • Preparation and timely submission of six-monthly reports to MOEF, CGWB, GOI Regional offices. • Providing safe drinking water to the township dwellers and extending drinking water supply to popuiation of neighbouring villages. • Obtaining consents for establishment and operation of mines / plants from the respective state pollution control boards. • Obtaining environmental clearances for new / expansion projects from central Govt. • Beneficiation plant is discharging the tailing slurry (non-hazardous) into the tailing pond. After settlement of slurry, clear water is reclaimed and this water after primary treatment is used in the beneficiation plant. • Vetiver turfing has been done over tailing embankment to control emission of tailing dust and also to achieve soil stabilization through phytore mediation. • Massive plantation done through MP Rajya Van Vikash Nigam limited. • Hazardous waste and Biomedical waste generated are handed over to the party authorized by MPPCB. • Scientific study undertaken by institutes of national repute like CSIR-NEERI, Nagpur, CSIRCIMFR, Nagpur, ICAR-IISS, Bhopal and CSIR-AMPRI, Bhopal etc. Performance during the year 2018-19 • Obtained Consent to Operate (CTO) for 3 MTPA opencast mine granted by MPPCB vide order no AW-49535 on 12.02.2019. • Obtained Consent to Operate (CTO) for Concentrator plant granted by MPPCB vide order no AWH-48567 on 17.07.2018. • Obtained Hazardous Waste authorization granted by MPPCB vide order no AWH-48567 on 17.07.2018 • Obtained Consent to operate (CTO) and Biomedical waste authorization for MCP hospital granted by MPPCB vide order no AWHB-62572 on 12.03.2019. • Mining Lease validity extended by District collector vide order no 892/Mineral/19 on 07.06.2019. • Obtained Consent to Establish (CTE) for 3.29 MTPA CoT Beneficiation plant granted by MPPCB vide order noCTE-48383 on 01.06.2018. • Obtained Consent to Operate (CTO) for 3.29 MTPA CoT Beneficiation plant granted by MPPCB vide order no AW-50209 on 15.07.2019. • Consent to Operate of KCC Hospital was obtained from RSPCB on 23.07.2018 and is valid from 23.05.2018 to 30.04.2023. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility . Commitment HCL stands committed to promoting greater environmental responsibility in mining and processing of minerals in its projects for sustained development. HCL's Sustainable Development Policy states: 1. We, at HCL, aim at being responsible miners with commitment to sustainable development in all our locations. We ensure that the sustainable development ethos are considered and integrated in all our decision-making processes and business planning. 2. We believe that market competitiveness on a long run can be achieved only by adopting the best practices of heallh, safety and environmental management, community management, and actively engaging our stakeholders in addition to the economic perfomnance of the organization. 3. We comply in full with the laws and regulations where we operate. We aspire to be a benchmark by adopting international standards in the field of Sustainable Development. 4. HCL Sustainability Policy is integrated with Environmental Policy, Occupational Health and Safety Policy, Community Development Policy and together they provide the broad framework for driving business in a responsible manner. Systems • Environmental aspects are carefully considered and appropriately incorporated. at the planning stage of a project itself. • Training programmes are arranged for employees on environmental awareness. Actions • Withdrawal water from mines is re-used for the backfilling, Drilling, Dust suppression, tree plantation etc. • Automatic Water Level Recorder (AWLR) installed for monitoring of ground water level. • Copies of the Environmental Policy Distributed/displayed printed of the company among its employees and local communities. • Dust Blocker chemical used in tailing pond to prevent the dispersion of tailing nearby area. • Installation of digital display board at Kendadih mine. • Implemented Integrated Management System (IMS) at Malanjkhand Copper Project covering > Quality Management System Standard as per ISO 9001 :2015 > Environment Management System Standard as per ISO 14001 :2015 and > Safety Management System Standard as per OHSAS 18001:2007 • MCP regularly organising technical session for employees and other stakeholders through Malanjkhand Technical Association (MTA) by involving scholars from multidisciplinary field related to mining. • Also various internal as well as external training programmes are conducted/being attended by employees from across the organization. Performance during the year 2018-19 o Construction of recharge pits for recharging the excess mine water withdrawal during mining operations. o AWLR (Automatic water level Recorder) have been installed at mining for estimation of ground water level. o Plantation and maintenance of perennial saplings. o Construction of 02 nos. solar based rural mini water supply system and repair of motor of drinking water structure in villages around mines. o Construction of 100 nos. of household toilet, Installation of Sanitary napkin vending machines and also awareness among local people regarding clean environment. o Lubricants used in mines are disposed off to agencies duly authorized for recycling as per HWM Rules and its amendments issued by the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India. o 200 KW roof top solar plant has been installed at Admin building & Hospital in KCC & was inaugurated on 14.01.2019 by Shri Anil Mukim, Secretary, Ministry of Mines. o During the year 54,585 units were generated through Rooftop Solar Plant which saved around 44 tonnes of Carbon Dioxide emission. Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment We, the Hindustan Copper Limited (HCL), a Government of India(Gol) Enterprise under the administrative control of Ministry of Mines are engaged in Exploration, Mining, Ore Beneficiation, Smelting, Refining and casting of refined copper metal into downstream products. HCL's Environmental Policy: HCL affirms its commitment to maintain clean and sustainable environment through continually improving its environmental performance as an integral part of its business philosophy. In order to achieve this goal, we stand committed to: • Adopting Environment friendly alternatives in all our activities; • Conduct operations in an environmentally responsible manner, to comply with applicable legal and other requirements related to environmental aspects; • Gradually phase out inefficient operations with modern environment friendly alternatives; • Comply with all applicable laws governing environment protection through appropriate mechanisms; • Minimize waste generation and promote recovery, recycle and reuse; • Actively participate in Social, Welfare and Environmental development activities of the locality around its Units and enhance environmental awareness amongst stakeholders; • Ensure Environmental related information dissemination and training to employees and contractors; and • Encourage our business partners to follow environment friendly practices. Systemsl Actions • Wet drilling is adopted to mitigate the effect of dust on the work force. • Main mine haul roads are regularly graded and water is sprinkled to suppress dust. • Water sprinkling system at primary crusher and transfer points. • Water scrubber at secondary & tertiary crushing and screening area. • Transportation of ore and tailing are allowed only in vehicles covered with tarpaulin sheet. • Material transport within the plant is carried out by covered conveyor. Subsequently the Concentrate is dispatched by covered trucks. • Water sprinkling on crushed ore. • Rubber screens and rubber linings are provided at transfer points and along conveyor system to control noise and dust generation. Performance during the year 2018-19 • During the FY 2018-19. MCP has recycled and reused 36% of total process water consumption through ZLD system. • Ambient Air Quality levels of PM1O& PM,.5 are well below the permissible levels prescribed by MOEFCC ICPCB. o PM10 59.44 ug/m3 o PM,s 24,20 ug/m3 • Saving of 208050 units of electricity by replacement of conventional lamps by LED lamps. • Generation of 54585 units of electricity by 41 KW Roof top solar system • Plantation of 3520 nos of saplings along 7.5 m width of Ml boundary achieved. Sustainable Development Performance • Based on the need based assessment, sustainable CSR plan was prepared and same was approved by the Board. In the plan, major activities like (i) water supply, (ii) skill improvement training, (iii) agriculture support, (iv) irrigation support, (v) SHG group production unit, (vi) vermin-composting (vii) Construction of Toilets and urinals and (viii) health check-up program was identified and same has been implemented. • Total replacement of Sodium vapour and florescent bulb to lead bulb. • Plantation of 800 no's plant saplings in-front of GT Plant at Khetri Copper Complex • Massive plantation done through MP Rajya Van Vikash Nigam Limited. • Scientific study undertaken by institute of national repute like CSIR-NEERI, Nagpur, CSIRCIMFR, Nagpur, ICAR-IISS, Bhopal and CSIR-AMPRI, Bhopal etc. • As a part of natural resource conservation measure MCP has reduced the intake of fresh water from 22730 m3/d to 17000 m3/d from Banjar River. • Mineral Resource Department, Govt. of Madhya Pradesh as per recommendation of Indian Bureau of Mines, Nagpur has granted permission to sell the overburden waste rock for utilization as building material, road construction and other infrastructure development activity. • For effective utilization of Copper ore tailings generated from concentration process, MCP has devised a process of Developing Advanced Paver Block from Copper Ore Tailings by the help of CSIR-AMPRI, Bhopal. • MCP has constructed 3.29 MTPA Copper Ore Tailing (COT) Recovery plant to use the tailing to recover silica, copper concentrate, magnetite and other precious metals. After operation of the plant there will be about 60% reduction in generation of tailings. • MCP has also entered into MoU with MOil to supply silica produced from COT Recovery plant for filling the void created in the UG mines of MOIL. • Replacement of conventional lamps by lED lights and harnessing renewable energy resource through roof top solar power system. • Plantation in and around Ml area through Madhya Pradesh Rajya Van Vikash Nigam Limited. • Replacement of conventional lamps by lED lights and harnessing renewable energy resource through roof top solar power system. • Plantation in and around Ml area through Madhya Pradesh Rajya Van Vikash Nigam Limited. Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment Vigilance Department performs its activities within the guidelines provided in the Vigilance Manual of the Central Vigilance Commission and undertakes impartial and fair verification of complaints, at the same time providing priority to preventive vigilance through various suggestions for further systematic improvements. Systems o The Vigilance Dept. at the Corporate Office is headed by Chief Vigilance Officer and assisted by two Vigilance Officers. Full time Vigilance Officers are posted in ICC and KCC Units and part time Vigilance Officers are posted in MCP and TCP Units. The Unij Vigilance Officers are reporting to the CVO. o The Chief Vigilance Officer has status equal to that of a Functional Director of the Company. The CVO is from All India Services I other Central Services and is appointed by the Government of India on deputation for a fixed tenure. o Vigilance activities are undertaken by the Vigilance Officers under the guidance of CVO. o Surprise, regular checks, CTE type inspections are undertaken as a preventive vigilance measure. o Verification of complaints are undertaken under the guidance of the CVO. o All the executives of the Corporation have to submit Property Returns on annual basis as on 31 December of previous year. Both movable and immovable property returns submitted by the executives are checked randomly. o Private foreign visits by employees are monitored. o Continuously following up for updating existing Materials Management Manual. o Regularly providing suggestions for system improvement to improve transparency in the working procedure. o Identification of sensitive posts have been undertaken in HCL based on vigilance inputs. o All the implemented modules of ERP are operative. Procurement action, Financial Management, Marketing of Copper products etc. are being undertaken through IT enabled systems. o Time to time various suggestions were rendered to the department concemed for updating the Procurement Manual. Continuous follow-up is being undertaken for the updation of the Procurement Manual. o System for on-line submission of Annual Property Returns by all the executives is in place. o System for lodging of online complaints in company's portal. o HCL is an Integrity Pact Signatory for all procurement above a threshold value. Signing of the Integrity Pact by the intended vendors is a pre-requisite of the NIT. Once the order is placed, the successful vendor has to enter into an Integrijy Pact with HCL. As per the execution policy of the Integrity Pact Agreement, HCL has appointed Independent External Monitors (IEMs) as per CVC guidelines. Actions • CVO had conducted several Review Meetings during the year 2018-19 for monitoring the progress of complaint verification and also for identifying the areas requiring surprise and regular checks. The reports submitted by the different Units were also discussed to apprise all the Vigilance Officers regarding possible areas of corruption and ways to combat the same. • Surprise, regular inspections and CTE type inspections were undertaken regularly. The deficiencies and deviations, if any, noticed during the inspections were brought to the knowledge of the Management for corrective actions. • Pending disciplinary cases were reviewed in the regular meetings held with the CMD and follow-up actions were initiated wherever required. • Agreed Lists of officers are being prepared in consultation with the respective CBI Branches and the listed officers are placed in non-sensitive areas of work. • List of Officers' of Doubtful Integrity is prepared based on extant guidelines of Ministry of Home Affairs and the officers figuring in the list are not posted in sensitive areas. • Many system improvements procedures have been suggested as a part of preventive vigilance, such as, installation of CCTV in sensitive locations, procurement and award of contracts, ensuring transparency in recruitment, disposal of surplus and obsolete plant,1 machineries etc. • Vigilance Awareness week was observed in the Corporate Office and all units of HCL. Various competitions, seminars and lecture programmes were arranged to create awareness of vigilance amongst the employees during the week. • Training programme was conducted for executives on Materials Management and Procurement. • The progress on vigilance activities and disciplinary cases were appraised through a Note to Board of Directors for review. Performance during the year 2018-19 Vigilance Department performs its activities within the guidelines provided in the Vigilance Manual of the Central Vigilance Commission and undertakes impartial and fair verification of complaints, at the same time providing priority to preventive vigilance by developing adequate checks and balances through various suggestions for further systematic improvements. Various programmes were conducted for awareness on vigilance matters for the employees of the Corporation. Executives from both Vigilance Department and functional departments were also nominated for various training I workshops to enhance their knowledge in different spheres of vigilance management as well as systematic and transparent functioning. To promote interaction between the Vigilance Units of different organizations and also to enlighten the vigilance functionaries, a 1-Day Seminar Sharing of Best Practices in Vigilance was organized at Jawaharlal Nehru Aluminum Research Development & Design Centre (JNARDDC), Nagpur on 18.09.2018 by JNARDDC and Hindustan Copper Limited. The Seminar was attended by about 25 Vigilance Officers of Western Coalfields limited, Manganese Ore India Limited, South Eastern Coalfields limited, Mineral Exploration Corporation Limited, NIMH and Hosts JNARDDC and HCL. The Seminar was marked by interactive participation from executives of all the organizations on different aspects of vigilance administration. Presentation of Case Studies and System Improvement Measures were also provided by different organizations. 1 HCL is standing on the threshold of a massive expansion drive and to achieve the same, capacity building is essential. At this critical juncture, the stress needs to be provided on streamlining the systems and procedures as well .as adoption to the iatest government guidelines in the changing scenario. To achieve the same and to increase awareness amongst key executives dealing with contracts and procurements, an in-house training program was organized in collaboration with one of the premier insmutes having faculty members w~h decades of experience in public procurement including critical imports and technological innovations. Competition ensures both quality and profitability and hence emphasis is also being provided for streamlining of the tendering processes and reduction of cost through more competitive bidding procedure. A campaign for creating awareness was taken up by organizing the Vigiiance Awareness Week from 29.10.2018 to 3.11.2018 at all Units and at Head Office. Stress was given on preventive vigilance with a view to minimize scope for corruption and assisting the management in improving the systems and procedures. • During the year, in 1 case, major penalty has been imposed and in 2 cases minor penalty has been imposed. • During the year, 2 complaints were received from the Commission for Investigation & Report. Since then, reports have been submitted to the Commission on both these complaints. Further, in another complaint, pending since previous year, report was also submitted to the Commission. Based on Commission's advice on the Vigilance Report so submitted, major penalty proceedings are to be initiated against 2 executives and minor penalty proceedings against 7 executives in a composite case. Another Major Penalty Proceeding has been initiated against an employee of KCC Unit based on discrepancy noticed during checks and inspections. • CVO has also submitted 3 reports to the Ministry of Mines on issues noticed during surprise checks & inspections and also on verification of complaints. • During the year, the Hon'ble Judge, CBI Court, Mumbai has discharged a case against a HCL executive as it was adjudicated that the Sanction for Prosecution was not obtained from the Competent Authority. Not being satisfied, the matter has been taken up with CBIIACB, Mumbai for filing a Revision Petition against the said discharge order. Several documents were also provided in support of the contention that Sanction for Prosecution was appropriately granted by the Competent Authority. Legal opinion is also being sought for challenging the discharge order from the end of HCL. • In a long pending CBI Court Case regarding receipt of adulterated fuel and acceptance of short supply (less than invoice quantity) at KCC Unit of HCL, on receipt of the Conviction Report, the matter was immediately brought to the notice of the Unit with an advice that as loss to HCL has been established in Court of Law, all withhold payments of the transporter should be forfeited and withheld terminal benefits of the ex-HCL employee, who was convicted, should also be forfeited. At the same time, it was reiterated that there .should not be any business dealings with the transporter company including its sister and allied firm(s), ifany. • During the year (April'18 March'19), apart from regular inspections and surprise checks, 4 CTE type inspections were conducted on major works I high value contracts including disposal of obsolete plant and machineries, transportation contracts, plantation of saplings for afforestation projects etc. • The Vigilance Awareness Week-2018 was celebrated between 29th October to 3 ' November, 2018 as per guidelines prescribed by CVC. The theme of this year's celebration was Eradicate Corruption-Build a New India . Detailed instructions I guidelines were issued to all concerned both in the Corporate Office, as well as Units and City Offices to observe the Week in a befitting manner. To commemorate the occasion, appropriate banners were displayed at prominent places at Corporate Office and all other Units & Offices of HCL, to create awareness on the issue. Banners were also displayed at public places in the Projects and also during the various outreach activities, organized during the Vigilance Awareness Week, for widespread message towards public awareness. In the website of HCL, a hyperlink was provided with the CVC website for facilitating on-line pledge (e-pledge) by all employees and members of the public. Total 337 e-pledges were administered by HCL during VAW-2018. Pamphlets were also distributed to create publicity regarding the various activities undertaken in the Un~s of HCL. Messages regarding Vigilance Awareness Week were also posted in the Twitter handle and Facebook accounts of the Company. In HCL, the Vigilance Awareness Week was inaugurated by administering the integrity pledge, separately in all Units and Offices of HCL on 29.10.2018. Immediately after the pledge, the messages as received from various dignitaries and the Central Vigilance Commission were also read out to the gathering. The messages were also displayed prominently on the Notice Boards of the Company in all the Units and Offices. On 30.10.2018, an interactive seminar was organized at the Corporate Office by the Materials & Contract Division, where officers present were sensitized about the different aspects of procurement process including e-tendering, e-procurement, e-auction and the various preventive measures and guidelines on procurement matters. The objectives and advantages of the ERP system were also discussed. Similar interactive seminars were also conducted at KCC Unit (Khetri Copper Complex, Dis!: Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan) on 29.10.2018 [Topic Fair Practices in Public Procurement ] and at TCP Unit (Taloja Copper Project, Dis!.: Raigad, Maharashtra) on 31.10,2018 [Topic HCL's Procurement Policies]. In accordance with the various CVC instructions for greater outreach and wide dissemination of the concept of vigilance and promotion of public participation in the fight to eradicate corruption, several programmes were conducted to create general awareness amongst students and public at large, including specific programmes for stakeholders of the Company. Accordingly, a Customer Grievance Redressal Meet was organized at Taloja Copper Project on 01.11.2018. The Unit Head, Mr. V.K. Singhal, chaired the meeting. To promote outreach amongst students, various competitions were organized by the Corporate Office as well as the Units. At Kolkata Slogan and Poster Writing Competitions, on the theme of VAW-2018, were organized at International Management Institute (IMI), Shri Sikshayatan School and at Andhra Association School. Approximately 130 participants attended in these competitions, all of whom were administered the Integrity Pledge prior to the competitions. KCC Unit also organized Intra-College Essay Writing Competition in 3 local colleges in which around 80 students participated. Another Essay Wri1ing Competition, separately in Hindi and English, was organized amongst students of local schools. 09 schools participated in the programme. At the ICC Unit, Elocution Competition was organized amongst the students of 3 local schools separately in which 73 students participated. The programme was attended by large number of students and staff in each school. Further, Essay Writing Competition amongst the children, studying in Classes IX XII, of employees of HCL ICC Unit, was organized on 05,11.2017, wherein 27 children participated. Several competitions were also organized amongst the employees of different Units and Offices. The same includes Quiz Competitions amongst the employees of MCP and TCP Units, separate Elocution Competitions amongst executives and workmen at KCC Unit and Essay Writing Competitions at ICC Unit and Delhi Office. Slogan writing competition on the theme of VAW-2018 was arranged for employees at GCP Unit. TCP Unit also organized a speech competition among the employees on the topic Eradicate Corruption-Build a New India . Prizes were distributed to the winners of the different competitions. Apart from administering the integrity Pledge during the Pledge Taking Ceremony, organized at all Units and Offices of HCL, the students participating in the various competitions were also administered the Integrity Pledge. They were also encouraged to visit the Commission's website and record the pledge electronically. The concept of Integrity Clubs was also disseminated amongst the participating educational institutions. The observance of VAW-18 concluded with a Valedictory Session at Indian Copper Complex, Ghatsila, Dis!.: East Singhbhum (Jharkhand); Khetri Copper Complex, Khetrinagar, Dist.: Jhunjhunu (Rajasthan). •••
