GLOBAL CROSSVALUE PLATFORM INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Marubeni Corporation Fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 Editorial Policy Integrated Report 2019 is meant to serve as a tool for communicating with stakeholders and gaining the trust of greater society. To provide a systematic explanation of the Marubeni Group’s corporate value, this report is compiled in the form of an integrated report that describes our quest to create both corporate and social value. We hope that this report will give readers an understanding of our business strategies as well as our commitment to helping resolve social issues through our business activities. Furthermore, the notation for the fiscal year covered in this report is FYE 3/2019 (April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019). Disclaimer Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This material contains forward-looking statements about the future performance, events or management plans of Marubeni Corporation and its Group companies (the Company) based on the available information, certain assumptions and expectations at the point of disclosure, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. These are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and factors, including, but not limited to, economic and financial conditions, factors that may affect the level of demand and financial performance of the major industries and customers we serve, interest rates and currency fluctuations, availability and cost of funding, fluctuations in commodity and materials prices, political turmoil in certain countries and regions, litigation claims, changes in laws, regulations and tax rules, and other factors. Actual results, performance and achievements may differ materially from those described explicitly or implicitly in the relevant forward-looking statements. The Company bears no responsibility for any possible damages arising from the use of information in this material, nor does the Company have any obligation to update these statements, information, future events or otherwise. This material is an English language translation of the materials originally written in Japanese. In case of discrepancies, the Japanese version is authoritative and universally valid. Note Regarding Accounting Standards The Company adopted U.S. GAAP up until the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, and IFRS from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. “Profit attributable to owners of the parent” is described as “Consolidated Net Profit”/“Net profit” in this report. Communication Framework Linkage Financial Information Non-Financial Information Stakeholder ● One-on-one meetings (for analysts, institutional investors) ● Lectures by experts Engagement ● Earnings briefings (for analysts, institutional investors) ● Public meetings ● Business briefings and tours (for analysts, institutional investors) ● Stakeholder dialogue ● Briefings for individual investors ● General meeting of shareholders Reports ● Financial Results Integrated Report ● Sustainable Development Report ● IR Materials ● Corporate Governance Report ● Consolidated Financial Statements with Independent Auditors’ Report ● Business Report Online Resources ● Investor Relations ● Sustainability https://www.marubeni.com/en/ir/ https://www.marubeni.com/en/sustainability/ ● Our Way to Sustainability ●Global Environment & Climate Change ●Respect for Human Rights ●Supply Chain Management ●Social Contribution ●Human Resource Development & Utilization ●Sustainability Initiatives through Our Business ●Social Contribution Activities CONTENTS INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 002 Marubeni’s History 004 Marubeni’s Performance and Growth Capabilities 008 Marubeni’s Value Creation Process CHAPTER 1 CHAPTER 3 STRATEGY OPERATING ACTIVITIES 010 Message from the President & CEO 074 Organization 014 GC2021 Medium-Term Management Strategy in the 076 Business Divisions President & CEO's Words 076 Lifestyle Division Column 078 ICT & Real Estate Business Division 021 Chain of Command Flattened to Three Layers 080 Forest Products Division 024 Concepts of Horizon 3 and White Space 082 Food Division 026 Next Generation Business Development Division: 084 Agri Business Division Business Development Organization for the Creation of 086 Chemicals Division New Business Models Focused on the Next 10 Years 088 Power Business Division 028 Message from the CFO 090 Energy Division 032 Risk Management 092 Metals & Mineral Resources Division CHAPTER 2 094 Plant Division MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION 096 Aerospace & Ship Division 098 Finance & Leasing Business Division 034 Sustainability 100 Construction, Auto & Industrial Machinery Division 034 Our Views on Sustainability CHAPTER 4 036 Sustainability Dialogue Dialogue with Stakeholders at Marubeni Sustainability CORPORATE INFORMATION Information Session 102 Performance Highlights 040 Fundamental Materiality 104 Financial Data 041 Organization 105 Non-Financial Data 042 Environmental & Social Materiality 106 Consolidated Financial Results at a Glance 052 HR Strategy 108 Financial-Related Graph Data 056 Corporate Governance 110 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 001 056 Members of the Board Position and Business Results 058 Corporate Governance at a Glance 113 Business Risks 060 Corporate Governance System 116 Consolidated Financial Statements 070 Corporate Management 124 Global Network 126 Major Subsidiaries and Associates 131 Company Profile 132 Stock Information 133 Independent Assurance of Environmental and Social Data Marubeni’s History         Marubeni has been taking on the INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 challenge of creating new value In 2018, Marubeni commemorated the 160th anniversary of its founding. Over the years, we have been creating new value while embracing countless challenges and undergoing self-transformation. MARUBENI CORPORATION Such challenges and transformation are truly the grounds upon which Marubeni’s current foundations as a sogo shosha (general trading company) were built. Looking ahead, Marubeni will boldly navigate the next era to evolve beyond the general-trading-company mold by variously endeavoring to advance society and industry while continuing to unremittingly embrace challenge and transformation.  002 1872 Itoh Chobei Shoten Kishimoto Shoten, Ltd. Kureha Cotton Spinning Co., Ltd. Founder Chubei Itoh established Benchu, 1918 a drapery shop in Osaka 1921 1941 1944 Itochu Shoten, Ltd. Marubeni Shoten, Ltd. Sanko Kabushiki Kaisha Ltd. Daiken Company, Ltd. Founded Benchu C. Itoh & Co., Ltd. Daido Boeki Kaisha Ltd. 1858 Marubeni's founder, Chubei Itoh, commenced linen trading business in Omi Prefecture  Company Creed Fairness—Act with fairness and integrity at all times. Innovation—Pursue creativity with enterprise and initiative. Harmony—Give and earn the respect of others through cooperation. Management Philosophy In accordance with the spirit grounded in Fairness, Innovation and Harmony, the Marubeni Group is proudly committed to social and economic development and safeguarding the global environment by conducting fair and upright corporate activities. Corporate Principles Marubeni Corporation, as a business enterprise, will actively pursue its business interests through the exercise of fair and lawful competition. As a company, Marubeni will also continue to play its part in the growth of the global economy, while always striving to enrich the society within which it operates. In order to achieve these goals, Marubeni is committed to the following six basic principles of business: 1. Conduct Fair and Open Business Activities 2. Develop a Globally Connected Company 3. Create New Value Through Business Vision 4. Respect and Encourage Individuality and Originality 5. Promote Good Corporate Governance 6. Safeguard Ecological and Cultural Diversity Split into four companies Iida & Co., Ltd. Totsu Co., Ltd. Increased transaction volume of machinery 003 due to the enactment of (Textile and iron and (Iron and steel product trader) and metals & mineral resources Excessive Economic Power steel product trader) Nanyo Bussan Co., Ltd. Deconcentration Law (Nonferrous metals product trader) C. Itoh & Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Nail Works, Ltd. 1955 Kureha Cotton Spinning Co., Ltd. Marubeni-Iida Co., Ltd. 1949 1972 Marubeni Co., Ltd. was established Marubeni Corporation Changed trading name to Marubeni Corporation Moved Tokyo Head Office to Takebashi Osaka Head Office Marubeni’s Performance and Growth Capabilities Key Performance Indicators Record-High Consolidated Net Profit for the Second Consecutive Fiscal Year All Quantitative Targets Achieved under GC2018, INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 the Previous Medium-Term Management Plan In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, consolidated net profit hit ¥230.9 billion, a record high for the second consecutive year, with a ¥19.6 billion or a 9% increase year on year. MARUBENI CORPORATION •Adjusted net profit, net profit excluding one-time items, also reached an all-time high of approximately ¥256.0 billion FYE 3/2017 FYE 3/2018 •Core operating cash flow totaled positive ¥373.2 billion, Consolidated net profit Consolidated net profit a record high •Positive free cash flow after delivery of shareholder returns ¥155.4 billion ¥211.3 billion totaled ¥245.8 billion •The net DE ratio improved 0.14 points compared to the end of the Free cash flow after delivery of Free cash flow after delivery of previous fiscal year, to 0.90 times shareholder returns shareholder returns (Two-year cumulative) +¥336.1 billion +¥494.6 billion Net DE ratio Net DE ratio 1.20 1.04 004 times times ROE ROE 11.1 % 14.0 % Annual dividend per share Annual dividend per share ¥23 ¥31 FYE 3/2019 Consolidated net profit billion All-time high Free cash flow after delivery of shareholder returns (Three-year cumulative) billion Achieved GC2018 target Net DE ratio times Achieved GC2018 target ROE Achieved GC2018 target 005 Annual dividend per share Record high Marubeni’s Performance and Growth Capabilities Key Performance Indicators increase Targeting Further Growth 300.0 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 (Target) Launch of GC2021 Medium-Term Management Strategy Marubeni formulates and executes medium-term management plans aimed at 240.0 MARUBENI CORPORATION resolving societal issues and creating new (Forecast) value. Looking back, some of these achieved 230.9 record-high profits in every year of the plan, 210.9 211.3 while some plan targets had to be revised due 205.7 to drastic changes in the external environment. Net profit Going forward, Marubeni will address various (Billions of yen) challenges head on while working to create 172.1 new value. In May 2019, we announced the GC2021 155.4 Medium-Term Management Strategy (for the 147.2 three-year period between the fiscal years ending March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2022). 136.5 119.3 111.2 See page 014 for more details of the 105.6 GC2021 Medium-Term Management Strategy. 95.3 006 62.3 07.3 08.3 09.3 10.3 11.3 12.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 20.3 22.3 “G”PLAN SG2009 SG-12 GC2015 GC2018 GC2021 Financial Targets (FYE 3/2022) Consolidated net profit (FYE 3/2022) billion Core operating cash flow (Three-year cumulative) billion Free cash flow after delivery of shareholder returns (Three-year cumulative) GC2021 Global crossvalue platform billion or more FYE 3/2022: Net DE ratio of around 0.7 times New investments (including CAPEX) (Three-year cumulative) Approx. billion (On the condition of achieving targeted FCF after delivery of shareholder returns) ROE 007 or more Marubeni’s Value Creation Process   FUNDAMENTAL MATERIALITY OUR ACTIVITIES INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Human Capital with Business Divisions High Social Value Consumer Products Group Robust Management MARUBENI CORPORATION Foundation ● Lifestyle Division ● ICT & Real Estate Business Division Governance for ● Forest Products Division Coexistence with Society Food, Agriculture & Chemicals Group ● Food Division ● Agri Business Division ENVIRONMENTAL & SOCIAL MATERIALITY ● Chemicals Division Power Business, Energy & Metals Group ● Power Business Division ● Energy Division ● Metals & Mineral Resources Division Climate Change Machinery, Infrastructure & Financial Business Group Sustainable & ● Plant Division Sustainable Resilient ● Aerospace & Ship Division 008 Forestry Value Chains ● Finance & Leasing Business Division ● Construction, Auto & Industrial Human Rights & Co-development Machinery Division with Communities CDIO ● Next Generation Business Development Division See “Fundamental Materiality” on page 040 and “Environmental & Social Materiality” See pages 074-101 “Operating Activities” on page 042 for more details on “Fundamental Materiality” and “Environmental & Social Materiality,” for more details on the activities of our 14 business divisions. respectively. OUR VISION 009 ● We anticipate the issues and challenges facing society and create innovative solutions for our customers and for the world, breaking down barriers between sectors, between internal and external, crossing borders, building on our existing business models and expanding into new markets. ● We will generate new value by freely combining our Group’s strengths, internal and external expertise, individual dreams and visions, taking the Marubeni Group as one single platform. See pages 014-015 “What is the Global Crossvalue Platform?” for more details of our vision. Message from the President & CEO Seizing upon changing, uncertain times as growth opportunities, we will forge our own path and elevate Marubeni to new heights. In addition to anticipating issues and challenges facing society and INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 providing solutions to society and customers, we will challenge new growth domains and new business models by transcending the status quo and conventional wisdom. MARUBENI CORPORATION Masumi Kakinoki President & CEO 010 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION CHAPTER 1 011 Message from the President & CEO I n speaking with people both inside creating as a team. We do not fear failure. We and outside of Marubeni since becomnever let failure become an intractable crisis. ing president in April 2019, I keenly feel Additionally, we cultivate human capital by the magnitude of the expectations placed on providing opportunities to bounce back from Marubeni. failure. As long as Marubeni workplaces are I believe that meeting such expectafilled with hard-working young people warmly tions is our raison d’être. I believe a general supported by their seniors, I have absolute trading company is an essential partner that confidence that we can meet expectations as continually bridges gaps in society. In the a leader that continually bridges gaps. 20th century, we bridged geographic gaps The Marubeni Group adopted a vision through trade. In the 21st century to date, we of its future self as a Global Crossvalue Plathave been bridging gaps between current form in June 2018. We did so to reaffirm our INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 value and future value through investment. commitment to anticipating issues and chalOver the past few years, we have entered a lenges facing society and creating innovative new era of rapid economic, technological and solutions for society and customers, even in political change. Going forward, the Marubeni the coming era of uncertainty, through verGroup aims to bridge the new gaps (societal tical evolution and horizontal expansion that issues) that arise between the present and break down various barriers, including bean obscure future. It is difficult to know what tween sectors, inside and outside the ComMARUBENI CORPORATION form these gaps will take, where they will lie pany and national borders. As a first step or how big they will be. Additionally, gaps toward realizing this vision, we unveiled our interact with each other, abruptly joining toGC2021 Medium-Term Management Strategy gether or splitting apart. in May 2019. We aim to be a value-creative We live in a challenging era. Nonetheless, group that transcends the general trading I believe Marubeni is expected to continue company framework. To do so, we will simulto be a bold leader even amid such an entaneously pursue both sustained growth by vironment. Marubeni will remain a company strengthening existing businesses and explothat propels society forward. The Marubeni sive growth by creating new business modGroup aims not only to create timely soluels with sights set 10 years ahead. tions by anticipating societal challenges and In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, the emerging needs of customers but also Marubeni earned consolidated net profit in to co-create and realize dreams by anticiexcess of ¥230 billion, a second consecutive 012 pating the dreams of society and customers. record, to achieve our GC2018 medium-term The key to doing so is teamwork, as I tell all management plan target. Our earnings powMarubeni Group personnel. Our teams need er and financial foundation are now stronger to hit the ground running, with everyone than ever before in Marubeni’s history of over playing a valuable role. We cannot afford 160 years. We are heading into an unknown to have even a single member who lacks world. I believe uncertain times call for a commitment or enthusiasm. We must forge management approach that places priority ahead no matter what, thinking, acting and on Marubeni’s Creed of “Fairness, Innovation STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION and Harmony.” This creed calls on us to act Career History April 1980 Joined Marubeni Corporation with fairness and integrity at all times, pursue June 2009 Senior Operating Officer, Power Projects & creativity with enterprise and initiative, and Infrastructure Division; Senior Corporate Officer, Abu Dhabi Trade House Project Department give and earn the respect of others through April 2010 Executive Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Power cooperation. There are no words more fitting Projects & Infrastructure Division to the current era or more conducive to susApril 2013 Managing Executive Officer; Chief Operating Officer, Corporate Planning & Strategy Department, Global tained growth in corporate value. I believe that Strategy & Coordination Department, and Research Institute; Chairman of Internal Control Committee; upholding our Company Creed will in turn genVice Chairman of Investment and Credit Committee erate even greater expectations of Marubeni June 2013 Managing Executive Officer, Member of the Board and further reinforce Marubeni's raison d'être April 2014 Managing Executive Officer April 2017 Senior Managing Executive Officer and clarify its path forward. As president, I will April 2018 Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Executive make every effort to realize this aim. Officer, Power Business & Plant Group June 2018 Senior Executive Vice President, Member of the Board April 2019 President and CEO, Member of the Board CHAPTER 1 013 President & CEO Masumi Kakinoki on Strategy GC2021 Medium-Term Management Strategy in the President & CEO's Words INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 MARUBENI CORPORATION Q1 What is the Global Crossvalue Platform? A1 Clarification of the Marubeni Group’s raison d’être. I n June of 2018, the year in which trading to investing. However, we We feared that perpetuation of the Marubeni commemorated the started to experience a major sense status quo could call Marubeni’s rai160th anniversary of its establishof crisis in response to society’s son d’être into question. In response, ment in 1858, the Marubeni Group changing values, the digital revowe initiated radical reforms after adopted Global Crossvalue Platform lution and drastic changes in the discussing how to best navigate as a long-term vision to aspire toindustrial structure and competitive the whole Marubeni Group through 014 ward. landscape. Under our existing orthese changing times and how to In simple terms, building a Global ganizational structure based mainturn threats into opportunities. The Crossvalue Platform will involve radly on product verticals, we were Global Crossvalue Platform is the ical reform of Marubeni's businesses concerned about the possibility of Marubeni Group’s commitment to its and organizational structure. Until sooner or later losing the ability internal and external stakeholders — recently, Marubeni grew by creating to provide solutions to problems, a clarification and reaffirmation of its and providing various solutions to obsolescence of our existing busiraison d’être when launching these society and customers while transness models and the risk of asset reforms and a commitment to conforming its business model from holdings becoming stranded assets. tinually grow corporate value on a STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Group-wide basis. that current business models would a global scale. The Marubeni Group The Global Crossvalue Platform survive for another 2-3 years, 4-5 itself aims to create solutions for was formulated through repeated years or in some cases 10 years, but society and customers by anticipatface-to-face discussions among there were few business models that ing the issues and challenges facing not only the Corporate Managefrontline employees were confident society while evolving vertically and ment Committee but also frontline would survive beyond 10 years. I expanding horizontally as a single Marubeni Group employees who crecontinue to communicate with all mega-platform encompassing a ate solutions that only Marubeni can Marubeni Group personnel, constantly wide variety of businesses. deliver. encouraging them to depart from We will challenge new busiWe extensively engaged in the status quo, think hard about crenesses by dismantling outdated frank discussions with employees ating value throughout the Marubeni organizations and transcending conwho have built our existing business Group, embrace challenges without ventional wisdom. We will realize a models, asking them how long they being afraid to fail and break free of Marubeni Group that challenges new expect those business models to last existing organizational silos. growth domains and new business under an organizational structure The “platform” in Global models. based predominantly on product Crossvalue Platform is a generator of verticals, the conventional trading new businesses based on cross-polcompany framework. We were told lination of various forms of value on Long-Term Direction CHAPTER Our vision: Global crossvalue platform Value creation company going beyond the boundaries of the current Sogo Shosha Pursue growth engines and create new business models by proactively addressing the 1 challenges of customers and society through vertical evolution and horizontal expansion Global Changes and Major Trends toward 2030 Concurrent Opportunities and Threats 015 · Millennial generation and changing values Opportunities · Technological innovation, digital transformation · New growth opportunities arising from changes · Geopolitical risk and the shifting balance of world powers Threats · Transformation of the industrial structure · Risk of existing business models becoming obsolete · New business ecosystems · Limitations inherent in solutions based on product-oriented business lines Ability to identify opportunities and threats, Discontinuous changes, Disruptions to the status quo anticipate the future and drive change GC2021 Medium-Term Management Strategy in the President & CEO's Words Is the GC2021 Medium-Term Management Strategy a plan to Q2 realize your Global Crossvalue Platform vision? It is not a mere plan, but a strategy. It is a first step toward A2 realizing our vision. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 W e formulated the GC2021 after delivery of sharholder returns, penditures* that, for example, extend Medium-Term Management net debt/equity ratio and ROE. With the useful lives of existing assets. Strategy as a first step toward imour financial and earnings foundaHorizon 2 supports sustained plementing our Global Crossvalue tions steadily strengthening, we begrowth through the pursuit of stratePlatform with the aim of long-term lieve we have now laid the groundgies distinctive to the Marubeni Group corporate value creation with our work for GC2021’s new challenges. in existing business domains. Business MARUBENI CORPORATION sights set on 2030. Additionally, Our basic policy under GC2021 divisions finished formulating their restrategies toward realization of our is to simultaneously pursue both spective visions and strategies at 2018. 10-year vision in various business dosustained growth by strengthening These strategies are now in the exemains have already been extensively existing businesses and explosive cution stage. New investments made discussed and shared between mangrowth by creating new business in existing business domains in the agement and frontline business units. models with our sights set 10 years course of executing these strategies GC2021’s three-year term is those ahead, all predicated on building and are Horizon 2 investments. strategies’ execution phase. GC2021 maintaining a strong financial founWe have designated Horizons 1 is accordingly a medium-term mandation as a cornerstone for growth. and 2 as the Marubeni Group’s core agement strategy, not a mere plan. To do so, we have incorporated three earnings drivers for achieving susThe Global Challenge 2018 growth horizons into GC2021 as a tained growth during the GC2021 (GC2018) medium-term managenew concept for Marubeni. These execution period. ment plan, GC2021’s precursor, was three growth horizons are one of Horizon 3 targets explosive launched in April 2016 and revised GC2021’s distinguishing features. growth toward 2030. To realize such 016 in May 2017, largely in response to Horizon 1 supports sustained explosive growth, we have defined a changes in the external environment. growth through improvement of concept we call White Space, which In its final fiscal year (ended March existing businesses. Specifically, we refers to new business models and 31, 2019), we achieved the revised will endeavor to grow earnings by growth domains that the Marubeni quantitative targets, including conmaintaining or upgrading the value of Group has yet to exploit. Because solidated net profit, free cash flow existing businesses through capital exWhite Space represents a new fronSTRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION tier for the Marubeni Group, we recchallenge White Space businesses flows to implement our three growth ognize that Horizon 3 investments in pursuit of another round of explohorizons with differing timelines, all may not have realistic prospects of sive growth. Through this approach, in the aim of strengthening existing contributing to earnings during the we seek to increase the Marubeni businesses and creating new busiGC2021 execution period. NonetheGroup’s value not only on a single ness models. less, we will boldly engage these year basis but over oneto three-dehighly promising growth domains cade timeframes by always chalto achieve explosive growth toward lenging new business models with 2030. Beyond the explosive growth different timelines corresponding to stage, Horizon 3 businesses will be the three growth horizons. *Capital expenditures are additional investments treated as Horizon 1 or Horizon 2 Organizationally, we have carin existing assets to maintain or increase their value. existing businesses, meaning that ried out structural reforms and realwe will further expand and upgrade located human (organizational) capSee page 024 for more details on them. Meanwhile, we will continue to ital. We will explicitly allocate cash “Concepts of Horizon 3 and White Space.” Basic Policy of Management Strategy (Corporate Value Enhancement and Growth Horizons) Horizon 3 CHAPTER White Space Explosive New business models and growth domains growth currently not yet focused on toward 2030 1 Corporate Value Horizon 2 Pursuit of strategies in existing GC2021 business domains Sustained 017 (First Stage) growth Horizon 1 material factor Improvement of of current earnings existing businesses and beyond GC2021 Medium-Term Management Strategy in the President & CEO's Words How do you plan to allocate capital Q3 in pursuit of growth? We will realize a virtuous cycle toward cash-flow A3 maximization by allocating capital based on growth horizons. U nder GC2021, we will further at least ¥100 billion after delivery of selective approach to new investstrengthen cash flow manageshareholder returns, and use it to pay ments and capital expenditures. ment in pursuit of long-term corpodown debt. By doing so, we expect During GC2021’s term, we plan to inINTEGRATED REPORT 2019 rate value creation. We will work to to achieve our target of reducing vest some ¥900 billion, allocated as maximize core operating cash flow*, our net debt/equity ratio to around follows to the three growth horizons. our root source of cash generation, 0.8 times by March 31, 2020, one and aim to generate cumulative year ahead of schedule. By March 31, Horizon 1: ¥200 billion allocated to positive core operating cash flow of 2022, the end of GC2021’s third and expenditures required to improve ¥1,200 billion during GC2021’s threefinal fiscal year, we expect our debt/ existing businesses year term. equity ratio to improve to approxiHorizon 2: ¥500 billion allocated to MARUBENI CORPORATION In terms of capital allocation, mately 0.7 times. new investments aimed at strengthwe will maintain financial discipline We have been consistently ening and expanding our foundaand further strengthen our financial allocating capital to growth opportions in pursuit of strategies in existfoundation by achieving three-year tunities since GC2018’s inception. ing business domains cumulative positive free cash flow of We plan to maintain a strategically Horizon 3: ¥200 billion allocated to new investments in White Space, defined as new business models and Cash Flow Management growth domains not yet exploited by the Marubeni Group, for realization Cash In-flow Cash Out-flow of explosive growth toward 2030 Divestment Debt ¥250.0 bn Repayment Through this approach that Shareholder Returns aims to generate cash flow with Working differing timelines, our allocation of 018 Capital capital to growth opportunities will Horizon 3 Core ¥200.0 bn realize a virtuous cycle that maximizOperating CF es core operating cash flow and, in ¥1,200.0 bn New Investments, Horizon 2 turn, further increases our capacity CAPEX ¥500.0 bn to invest. ¥900.0 bn Horizon 1 *Core operating cash flow: Operating cash flow ¥200.0 bn excluding Net increase/decrease in working capital and others Three-year cumulative CF target STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION What is your stance toward new investments Q4 under GC2021? A4 SPP: Strategy × Prime × Platform A s part of GC2021, we have tivation of frontline Marubeni Group or organic growth with the aim of formulated a trio of new busipersonnel. long-term earnings growth. ness policies we call SPP —Strategy Platform policies involve leverAfter instilling these new SPP × Prime × Platform— as basic princiaging the Marubeni Group’s platbusiness policies in our workforce ples common to all of the Marubeni form to substantially grow its busias values common to all personnel, Group’s business models. nesses. In White Space businesses including both employees and manStrategy policies involve closing in particular, we believe we must agement, we will work to maximize the gap between the status quo and create new value by synergistically the value of the Marubeni Group’s our vision. It expresses our renewed combining a wide variety of internal overall portfolio businesses by seleccommitment to staying intensively and external expertise. Additionally, tively making SPP-based new investstrategy-focused. we treat businesses with promising ments, strengthening existing busiPrime policies involve proacprospects of geographic, market nesses and expediting recoupment tively executing strategies across all or product-line expansion as platof previous investments and asset Marubeni Group businesses. If we forms. We will pursue expansion of turnover. were to merely invest in businesses, such businesses through M&As and/ we would have much fewer opportunities to create solutions to the CHAPTER challenges and issues facing society New Business Policies (SPP)： and customers. We would also have less growth potential. We have acStrategy × Prime × Platform 1 cordingly made a commitment in the form of our Prime policy, which means proactively formulating and executing with the aim of increasing 019 the value of our businesses. When investing in businesses that are too large for us to acquire a majority stake, we will take the initiative to Business Policies add value to these businesses by teaming up with like-minded partners in mutually complementary strategies. Additionally, we believe our Prime policy increases the moGC2021 Medium-Term Management Strategy in the President & CEO's Words Q5 What are your specific growth strategies? We will meet the challenge of expanding into White Space A5 in addition to pursuing further growth in existing business domains based on our growth horizons. G C2021 does not designate formulated their respective growth ues, digital technologies, industrial any strategic growth sectors strategies in accord with GC2021’s structure and the competitive landbecause our business divisions are basic policies, namely the growth scape, we must speed up our own pursuing their own respective strathorizons and SPP business policies. processes and expedite the impleegies to create new value. When Organizational aspects of the ment of growth strategies. GC2021 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 formulating GC2021, we placed prigrowth strategies’ implementation therefore includes organizational reority on strategies devised by our were also extensively discussed in forms. Specifically, we flattened the business divisions based on their the process of formulating GC2021. chain of command from four layers experience addressing the needs We concluded that for the Marubeni to three so that business divisions and wants of customers and sociGroup to be able to anticipate dizare able to implement their strateety. The business divisions of course zyingly fast changes in societal valgies more swiftly. The three layers MARUBENI CORPORATION Horizon 1 Horizon 2 Horizon 3 Improvement of existing businesses Pursuit of strategies in existing business domains White Space Business Strategies of the Existing 13 Business Divisions (Existing Business Domains ＋ White Space） Consumer Products Power Business, Energy & Metals Lifestyle ICT & Real Estate Business Forest Products Power Business Energy Metals & Mineral Resources •Global ODM business for SPA brands; Direct-to-consumer sales business (SPA, •Total Energy Solutions Business, especially renewable energy power and natural e-commerce, etc.） gas/ new energy value-chain businesses, in recognition of a low-carbon society •ICT business; Domestic and overseas housing development/sales and asset •Global Power-retail/ Power-service related businesses; community-based utility management business; Technology-enabled solutions such as 5G etc. & service; distributed power generation and energy businesses value-added service for condominium residents and other customers •Superior upstream interests; Initiatives for environmental and circular economy •Musi Pulp Project’s competitiveness and profitability; Packaging manufacturing businesses and sales business overseas 020 Food, Agriculture & Chemicals Machinery, Infrastructure & Financial Business Food Agri Business Chemicals Plant Aerospace & Ship Finance & Leasing Business •Sales and marketing of specialty products in the food and chemical sectors; Construction, Auto & Industrial Machinery expanded presence in the life science field in particular in chemicals •Strong presence in social infrastructure business; Infrastructure fund business •Production and manufacturing capabilities •Finance and leasing businesses that transcend industrial verticals; Next-generation •Helena Agri-Enterprises; Global agri-input business including Asia and South financial services businesses America; North American grain origination business •Functions in machinery & industrial domains by enhancing high-value-added services See pages 076-101 for more details on growth strategies of our divisions. STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION consist of Marubeni’s president, Development Division. Its mission growth by expanding existing busiDivision COOs and departmental is to create new White Space businesses and business domains. At general managers. Additionally, our ness models from the standpoint of the same time, they will pursue the previously product-based business Group-wide optimization. It will deWhite Space of Horizon 3 in close divisions were reorganized along velop growth strategies with a staff coordination with the Next Generabusiness-model lines, centered on of some 100 reassigned from other tion Business Development Division. steadily implementing each growth business divisions. strategy. Our previous structure of The other four groups and 13 six groups comprising 16 business business divisions will deploy the See “Next Generation Business Develdivisions was reorganized into four Three Growth Horizons in their reopment Division: ­—Business Development Organization for the Creation of groups comprising 13 business divispective growth strategies. In HoriNew Business Models Focused on the sions. Additionally, we newly estabzons 1 and 2, they will steadily progNext 10 Years” on page 026 for more details on the Next Generation Business lished the Next Generation Business ress along the path of sustained Development Division. Column Chain of Command Flattened to Three Layers Evolving vertically and expanding horizontally by strengthening and expanding existing businesses and cross-pollinating Since April 2019, Marubeni has embarked on structural rebusiness divisions to implement strategies faster. forms to implement new growth strategies toward the realTo promote horizontal expansion (cross-pollination ization of the Marubeni Group’s Global Crossvalue Platform among existing businesses, entry into new business dovision. mains), Marubeni established the Next Generation Business First, to evolve vertically (strengthen and expand exDevelopment Division under its Chief Digital Innovation isting business domains), the Marubeni Group flattened its Officer (CDIO). In addition to being conducive to horizontal chain of command from four layers (President, Group CEOs, expansion, the new organizational structure will allow Group Division COOs and departmental general managers) to three CEOs to manage their groups and supervise business diviCHAPTER layers (President, Division COOs and departmental general sions from more of a company-wide perspective. managers). The flatter organizational structure will enable Horizontal Expansion 1 021 Takeo Kobayashi Akira Terakawa Ichiro Takahara Hajime Kawamura Hirohisa Miyata Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer Senior Executive Vice President, Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Food, Member of the Board Chief Executive Officer, Machinery, Member of the Board Consumer Products Group Agriculture & Chemicals Group Chief Executive Officer, Power Business, Infrastructure & Financial Business Group CDIO Energy & Metals Group Key Features of Organization Reforms • Aggregation of agri-input business & North American grain origination business to pursue further growth in the agribusiness domain • Reorganization of Power Business Division and Energy Division under the same business group to pursue total energy solutions • Reorganization of finance and leasing businesses under the same business division to pursue new financial solutions • Establishment of Next Generation Business Development Division to create new business models from the point of view of Group-wide optimization GC2021 Medium-Term Management Strategy in the President & CEO's Words Q6 What is your shareholder returns policy? We will flexibly buy back shares after achieving our net A6 debt/equity ratio of around of approximately. F or dividends, we maintain a In addition, after achieving a In addition to maintaining consolidated dividend payout net debt/equity ratio of approxiand enhancing the value of existratio of ‘25% or more’. We treat the mately 0.8 times, we will buy back ing business, we believe that profit INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 dividend forecast we disclose at the shares as an additional shareholder growth driven by new investments beginning of every fiscal year as a returns policy. The buyback will be is important to long-term growth in minimum dividend for that fiscal done flexibly based on our ability to shareholder value. During GC2021’s year. Under GC2021, we are targetgenerate core operating cash flow, three-year term, we plan to allocate ing consolidated net profit of ¥300 the primary source of capital allocasome ¥900 billion to new investbillion in the fiscal year ending March tion, and after evaluating our growth ments (including CAPEX), including 31, 2022. Although we don't plan to investment pipeline. Horizon 3 investments. We aim at MARUBENI CORPORATION change our dividend payout ratio of strategic investment in prime assets ‘25% or more’, we expect to increase to lead to growth in shareholder our dividends by growing profits. returns through future profit growth and share price appreciation. Shareholder Returns Consolidated Consolidated Flexible dividend Share price dividend Share price share 022 payout ratio: appreciation payout ratio: appreciation buybacks 25% or more 25% or more After achieving GC2018 a net DE ratio of GC2021 around 0.8 times STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Q7 What are the management indicators and financial targets of GC2021 ? Consolidated net profit, cash flow, ROE and pursuit of A7 sustained growth in market capitalization. T he main management indicator and new investments to add another Under GC2021, we are pursuing of GC2021 is consolidated net ¥20-¥30 billion, giving us a ¥10-¥20 sustained growth in market capprofit. We aim to earn consolidated billion buffer built into our target. italization as a new management net profit of ¥300 billion in the fiscal Other targets include threeindicator/target not included in any year ending March 31, 2022, GC2021’s year cumulative positive core opof our previous medium-term manfinal year. It is ¥60 billion higher than erating cash flow of ¥1,200 billion, agement plans. We did so to signal our ¥240 billion consolidated net three-year cumulative positive free internally and externally that we will profit target for the fiscal year endcash flow of ¥100 billion or more pursue growth in market capitaling March 31, 2020, and we are confiafter delivery of shareholder returns, ization through efforts to increase dent that it can be attained through and net debt/equity ratio at March corporate value as a value-creative steady execution of our ongoing 31, 2022, of around 0.7 times. corporate group that transcends the growth strategies. During GC2021’s Additionally, we have set a mintrading company framework in purterm, we expect improvements to imum ROE target of 10% in light of suit of our Global Crossvalue Platexisting businesses to add about our cost of capital. Our ROE is curform vision. We believe management ¥50 billion to consolidated net profit rently in the vicinity of 14%. has a responsibility to grow market capitalization. Management Indicators, Financial Targets CHAPTER Consolidated net profit FYE 3/2022 Three-year ¥300.0 bn 1 Core operating CF cumulative ¥1,200.0 bn Cash flow FCF after delivery of Three-year +¥100.0 bn (FYE 3/2022: Net DE ratio of shareholder returns cumulative or more around 0.7 times) 023 Approx. Horizon 3 ¥200.0 bn Horizon 2 ¥500.0 bn New investments Three-year ¥900.0 bn Horizon 1 ¥200.0 bn (including CAPEX) cumulative (On the condition of achieving targeted FCF after delivery of shareholder returns) ROE 10% or more Pursue sustained growth in market capitalization GC2021 Medium-Term Management Strategy in the President & CEO's Words Column Concepts of Horizon 3 and White Space Marubeni will achieve explosive growth toward 2030 by creating new business models in White Space. M arubeni will pursue long-term corporate value as “dramatic growth” were initially also proposed, but creation with its sights set on 2030. To convey Marubeni decided to publicly commit to pursuing “exploits commitment to doing so to internal and external sive growth” to exceed internal and external stakeholders’ stakeholders, Marubeni incorporated into GC2021 a baexpectations by transcending its previous boundaries. sic policy of explosive growth through creation of new Marubeni will generate explosive growth on Horizon 3, business models with sights set 10 years ahead. The term the objective of which is White Space—new business INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 “explosive growth” is the outcome of extensive discussion models and growth domains the Marubeni Group has yet during the GC2021 formulation process. Alternatives such to exploit. In contrast, the objective of Horizons 1 and 2 White Space: New business models and growth domains currently not yet focused on Horizon 3 Existing 13 Business Divisions and Next Generation Business Development Division MARUBENI CORPORATION Explosive Middle Income Healthcare Next-Generation growth Demographic in Asia & toward 2030 Wellness Social Infrastructure Consumer Contact Marketing Functions Urbanization & Real & Virtual Smartification, Environment Solutions & Low-Carbon Society Aggregation Specialty Products, Informal Sector in Community-Based Life Science Asia & Africa Next-Generation Utility Services, Sector Financial Distributed Power Education, Service Generation Sport, Develop platforms 5G, Digital Entertainment Strengthen functions Technology, Blockchain Address the challenges of Innovation Initiatives 024 customers and society Business Model Canvas 15% Rule Idea Box and pursue growth engines ● ● ● ● Business Plan Contest ● Marubeni Academia Marubeni’s functions, resources External alliances and and global networks in-house capabilities ●Business Foundation ●Business Expertise ●Distribution and Marketing ●Logistic Networks ●Creditworthiness and Trust ●Product Development ●Technology ●Neutrality ●Project Management ●Corporate Venture Capital (CVC) STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION is sustained growth through efforts to steadily increase know-how, assets and other resources and capabilities. the value of existing businesses by strengthening and With respect to the rising middle income demographic in expanding them. Marubeni will ferret out growth engines Asia in particular, Marubeni aims to go beyond its existing from White Space on Horizon 3. While Marubeni defines B2B business models by newly developing B2C models. “explosive growth” as multifold growth in a business’s In other areas as well, including “healthcare & wellness,” value within a 10-year timeframe, it does not intend to be“the informal sector in Asia & Africa,” and “education, come involved in high-risk/high-return businesses. sport and entertainment,” Marubeni will work to develop A wide range of Horizon 3 growth opportunities exvarious new growth opportunities it has yet to challenge. ist one step beyond Horizons 1 and 2, domains in which In pursuit of its vision of becoming a Global Crossvalue the Marubeni Group can fully utilize its strengths. The Platform, Marubeni aims to transform into a company that key is to identify future growth engines by addressing transcends the general trading company model to realize and anticipating the challenges and issues of society and explosive growth through the creation of new business customers and proactively cultivating and growing busimodels instead of clinging to its existing mindset, hesitant nesses from a long-term standpoint. The aim of explosive to branch out into new domains. growth is to grow businesses into core businesses many As already mentioned, Marubeni’s consolidated net times more valuable within a 10-year timeframe, even if profit in the fiscal year ended March 2019 exceeded ¥230 they do not contribute to earnings in their first years. billion, a second consecutive record-high, achieving the GC2018 medium-term management plan’s target. The adjacent infographic concretely depicts White Marubeni’s earnings power and financial foundation Space to help internal and external stakeholders underare currently stronger than ever before in its 160-year hisstand it better. tory. However, Marubeni has never previously extended its operations beyond the general trading company model or The white and blue balloons are growth domains its own traditional business lines. Looking at the domains and business models that are new to the Marubeni Group. represented by the white and blue balloons, we keenly They are areas we are targeting under GC2021. The busirealized during the GC2021 formulation process the vastness domains represented by blue balloons are ones ness of yet-to-be-exploited domains that extend beyond CHAPTER already incorporated into the newly formulated GC2021 Marubeni’s existing operations. At the same time, we bebusiness strategies. They represent White Space the came convinced that domains in which Marubeni has the Marubeni Group will challenge as an extension of existing business domains, leveraging its strengths. The white balloons alongside the blue balloons represent domains in potential to generate explosive growth are expanding. Marubeni will generate the explosive growth in this White Space through coordination between its newly estab1 which the Marubeni Group does not yet have a presence, lished Next Generation Business Development Division areas in which the Marubeni Group will strive to develop and the 13 existing business divisions and cross-pollination of businesses from scratch under GC2021. The biggest white the Group’s internal resources with external functions in 025 balloons are “rising middle income demographic in Asia” the aim of creating new business models from the standand “expanding next-generation social infrastructure.” point of Group-wide optimization. Marubeni will endeavor to create new business models See “Next Generation Business Development Division: in these two domains with major growth prospects by Business Development Organization for the Creation of New Busicapitalizing on its platform encompassing its expertise, ness Models Focused on the Next 10 Years” on page 026 for more details on the Next Generation Business Development Division. GC2021 Medium-Term Management Strategy in the President & CEO's Words Column Next Generation Business Development Division: Business Development Organization for the Creation of New Business Models Focused on the Next 10 Years Confronting Societal and Customer Challenges, Pursuing Next-Generation Growth Engines T he Next Generation Business Development as the division’s shared value, we will pursue meaDivision was established in April 2019 with sures that stimulate innovation, such as focusing a total of about 100 employees as a new business on speed, thinking and acting on one’s feet with division developing next-generation businesses no fear of minor failures, while avoiding the creby seizing upon underlying growth opportuniation of obstacles to organizational awareness. Masayuki Omoto ties in societal challenges. We will develop new We will work in close cooperation with all 13 busiChief Operating Officer, Next Generation Business business models in next-generation growth areas, ness divisions as we pursue the development of INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Development Div. including the Asian middle-class, next-generation next-generation businesses that will be the founsocial infrastructure, healthcare and entertaindation for next-generation earnings. ment, which are all expected to grow robustly Overseas Bases of Next Generation around the world going forward. We will also Business Development Division create new business models by pursuing the inCountry Location house utilization of AI, blockchain and other U.S. New York, Silicon Valley digital technologies and by combining them with China Shanghai, Shenzhen MARUBENI CORPORATION Marubeni’s business base and partnerships. With Singapore Singapore “creating business valued by the next generation” Estonia Tallinn Growth Theme for Next Generation Business Development Division Next Generation Social Healthcare & New Business Asia Business Dept. Infrastructure Dept. Medical Business Dept. Development Dept. Digital Innovation Dept. ● Asian middle-class ● Smart cities ● Healthcare ● Entertainment ● Digital strategies ● Digital platforms ● New materials ● Medical ● Ag Tech ● Innovation strategies ● CVC Business functions Corporate functions 026 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Establishment of a Corporate Venture Capital Fund Marubeni established a Corporate Venture Capital Fund oration and co-creation with start-up companies more (CVC) firm called Marubeni Ventures Inc. This firm will actively and with greater speed. Marubeni believes that look to invest in start-up companies around the globe. it can support and accelerate the resolution of sociIn using Marubeni Ventures Inc. to invest in start-up etal challenges, and also deliver new value to society companies that create innovative businesses, Marubeni through collaboration with selected start-up companies. will accelerate innovation beyond existing business Marubeni will achieve this by combining the disruptive models and create new businesses that will become the innovation of start-up companies with its own knowlrevenue base of the next-generation, and achieve exploedge, experience and expansive business network. sive growth looking toward 2030 as stated in GC2021 In addition to the CVC activities, Marubeni will facilMedium-Term Management Strategy. itate partnerships with start-up companies as a means of This CVC will allow Marubeni to promote collabcreating innovative business with a global reach. Establishment of a Pharmaceutical Product Wholesaler in China Marubeni, in conjunction with Shanghai Fosun Pharmasolving societal challenges. ceutical (Group) Co., Ltd. (Fosun Pharma), established Additionally, Marubeni and Fosun Pharma have joint venture Fobeni Healthcom Pharmaceutical Jiangentered into a comprehensive strategic alliance to supsu Co., Ltd. (Fobeni), targeting pharmaceutical distriply high-quality pharmaceutical resources to overseas bution business between Japan and China. markets in Asia and Africa as well as in Japan and ChiIn China, the spread of chronic diseases resulting na. These resources include the first biosimilars* develfrom rising living standards and lifestyle changes has oped in China by the Fosun Pharmaceutical Group and become a societal challenge. As China has recently high-quality pharmaceutical raw materials manufacbeen developing a medical insurance system, foreign tured in China. Marubeni and Fosun Pharma will aim at pharmaceutical companies including Japanese ones further expanding business in the healthcare field. are increasingly motivated to enter this market. Fobeni will deliver high-quality Japanese pharma*Biosimilars are pharmaceutical products verified to be of the same quality, efficacy, and safety as biopharmaceuticals (pharmaceuticals manufactured using genetic recombination and other biotechnologies) ceuticals leveraging Fosun Pharma’s nationwide sales and approved as being similar to biopharmaceuticals. network in China and promote business aimed at reEstablishment of a Russian-Japanese Health Checkup and Prevention Center in Russia CHAPTER Marubeni and Russian Railways*1 signed a memorandum for the establishment of a Russian-Japanese health checkup and prevention center (the Center), with the support of Center act as a flagship facility for the promotion of health checkups and preventative medical care in Russia, and are committed to having such medical care 1 2 the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare* and in cooppractices take root in the country leveraging the exeration with Kameda Medical Center (Kameda*3). tensive hospital network of Russian Railways. The two The average life expectancy of Russian people companies will also work together to help Russian peois below the average for developed countries. One of ple to prevent diseases and lead healthier lives. 027 the possible causes could be that preventative medical care, including regular health checkups, are not wide*1. Rgovernment. ussian Railways is a railway company wholly owned by the Russian Russian Railways has the world's 4th longest railway spread in the country. total extension and also owns the largest hospital group in Russia, which comprises more than 170 medical institutions. It is under such circumstances that Marubeni and Russian Railways have agreed to open the Center in * 2. The establishment of the Center is one of the projects of the “cooperation to raise medical standards in Russia and help extend healthy life expectancy of the Russian people” portion of the “Eight-Point CoopKhabarovsk, Russia in 2021. The Center will provide higheration Plan”, which Japanese Prime Minister Abe presented to Rusquality preventative medical services, including health sian President Putin for promoting Japan-Russia economic exchange at the Japan-Russia Summit Meeting in May 2016. checkups, with the help of Japanese medical institutions. Marubeni and Russian Railways plan to have the * 3. Manages Kameda General Hospital, etc. Message from the CFO We aim to increase corporate value by pursuing strategic investments and expediting asset turnover while strengthening our financial foundation. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 During the term of our previous medium-term management plan GC2018, we Q1 implemented various initiatives to maximize cash flow with the aim of further strengthening our financial foundation, which we set as a top priority. These initiatives included increasing the earnings power of existing businesses, screening prospective investments more selectively and expediting asset turnHow are you approaching over. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, such efforts resulted in all-time MARUBENI CORPORATION financial discipline record consolidated net profit (¥230.9 billion) for a second consecutive year, while implementing the substantial positive core operating cash flow of ¥373.2 billion and positive free GC2021 strategy? cash flow (FCF) of ¥245.8 billion after delivery of shareholder returns. We consider core operating cash flow to be the most accurate measure of our earnings power. We used the cash thus generated to both pay down debt and build Cash Flows/Net DE Ratio Core operating cash flow (Left scale) Free cash flow after delivery of shareholder returns (Left scale) Net DE ratio (Right scale) (Billions of yen) (Times) 1.20 400 390.0 1.20 373.2 336.1 324.0 1.04 300 0.90 Approx. 028 264.2 245.8 0.8 times Approx. 200  times. 0.60 158.6 100 100.0 0 0 17.3 18.3 19.3 20.3 22.3 (Forecast) (Target) STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Nobuhiro Yabe Senior Managing Executive Officer, Member of the Board CFO; Chief Operating Officer, Investor Relations and Credit Ratings; Chairman of Investment and Credit Committee; Chief Sustainable Development Officer; Chairman of Disclosure Committee up equity by accumulating profits, reducing our net debt/equity ratio at March 31, 2019, to 0.90 times, a 0.14-point improvement from a year earlier. We had set a target of reducing our net debt/equity ratio to around 0.8 times by March CHAPTER 31, 2021 at the latest. We now expect to achieve this target by March 31, 2020, one year ahead of schedule. We have been strengthening our financial foundation more rapidly than planned. We believe we have solidly laid the groundwork for our GC2021 Medium-Term Management Strategy. The quantitative targets of the GC2021 strategy include three-year 1 cumulative positive core operating cash flow of ¥1,200 billion, positive threeyear cumulative FCF of at least ¥100 billion after delivery of shareholder returns, and reduction of our net debt/equity ratio to around 0.7 times by March 029 31, 2022, through FCF-funded debt repayments. With our operating environment changing at an ever-faster pace, we need to maintain a strong financial foundation with enough risk-bearing capacity to enable us to continue our investment activities and realize sustained growth. Deleveraging is crucial to maintaining and upgrading our credit ratings as a company that borrows globally. We aim to further strengthen our financial foundation by continuing to rigorously manage our cash flow and interest-bearing debt no matter how our environment changes going forward. Message from the CFO During the three-year term of the GC2018 plan, we made strategically selective Q2 new investments totaling cumulative ¥287.3 billion (excluding capital expenditures*), mainly in non-resource businesses. Specific examples include equity investments in Creekstone Farms Premium Beef LLC, a U.S. beef processor/supplier; Saide Tekstil Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., a Turkish company that plans, manufactures What is your and sells apparel, among other products; and Orffa International Holding B.V., one investment strategy of Europe’s largest distributors of functional feed additives. We are also launching a containerboard manufacturing and packaging material sales business in Vietnam. under GC2021? Meanwhile, we recouped a cumulative ¥636.9 billion over the same threeyear period by rigorously divesting assets that no longer made strategic sense or lacked sufficiently promising prospects. New Containerboard Manufacturing and Packaging Material Sales Business in Vietnam Building a wholly owned Aiming to capture growing INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 containerboard manufacturing containerboard demand in the subsidiary in Vietnam burgeoning Vietnamese economy Marubeni has established Kraft of Asia Global containerboard demand is expectPaperboard & Packaging Co., Ltd., and ed to remain buoyant against a backcommenced construction of a plant in Ba drop of solid economic expansion and Ria-Vung Tau Province, Vietnam. The plant e-commerce growth. With a population is scheduled to be commissioned into comin excess of 93 million, Vietnam is the mercial operation in the latter half of the third-most populous ASEAN country. Its MARUBENI CORPORATION fiscal year ending March 31, 2021. It is slateconomy is growing robustly by virtue ed to have annual production capacity of of a combination of domestic demand 350,000 tons when operating at full capacgrowth driven by national income growth ity from 2022. and recruitment of many foreign-owned Marubeni has been accumulating exexporters. Containerboard demand in pertise in the containerboard business overVietnam has been growing at a comseas in addition to its experience managing pound annual rate in excess of 10%, faster and operating domestic subsidiaries Koa than in other ASEAN nations with more Kogyo Co., Ltd., and Fukuyama Paper Co., developed papermaking industries such Ltd., (respectively 79.95% and 55% owned as Thailand and Indonesia. Vietnam is exby Marubeni). Marubeni aims to expand pected to become the ASEAN bloc’s bigoperations in the growing Vietnamese congest containerboard-consuming country tainerboard market by playing the lead role by the mid-2020s. in their management while capitalizing on its sales network and Koa Kogyo’s production technology and know-how. Artist rendering of the factory 030 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION During the three-year term of GC2021, we plan to cumulatively invest some ¥900 billion split among three growth horizons. We intend to allocate ¥200 billion to capital expenditures to maintain and increase the value of existing businesses (Horizon 1), ¥500 billion to new investments to expand existing business domains based on the respective strategies of business divisions (Horizon 2) and, with sights set 10 years ahead, ¥200 billion to investments in new growth domains and business models (Horizon 3) while leveraging strengths cultivated in existing businesses. In accordance with this allocation plan, we will stringently adhere to our new “SPP” business policies irrespective of the business model involved, strictly maintain investment discipline and strategically screen new investments based on a thorough understanding of their risk/return profiles. Faced with an increasingly uncertain competitive environment, we must make smart investment decisions and manage our operations from a forward-looking standpoint. We will accordingly discuss and understand the strategic attributes of businesses and the essence of their business models more deeply than in the past in addition to conducting quantitative due diligence. We aim to maximize the value of the Marubeni Group’s overall business portfolio by exhaustively pursuing strategic fit in the businesses in which we invest and expediting asset turnover. *Capital expenditures are additional investments in existing assets to maintain or increase their value See “Q4. What is your stance toward new investments under GC2021?” on page 019 for more details on the “SPP” business policies. At Marubeni, we have long managed our operations with a strong focus on Q3 cost of capital. In pursuit of profitability in excess of our cost of capital, we use PATRAC (Profit After Tax less Risk Asset Cost) as a proprietary KPI and, in making investment decisions, confirm on a case-by-case basis whether investment deals can generate returns commensurate with their risk. Even after making investments, What are you doing CHAPTER we monitor them individually using PATRAC and flexibly reallocate management to improve capital resources by replacing unprofitable or inefficient assets. efficiency in pursuit of corporate value To promote effective utilization of shareholders’ equity, one of the GC2018 plan’s quantitative targets was ROE of at least 10%. In the fiscal year 1 ended March 31, 2019, Marubeni achieved this target with an ROE of 13.9%. creation? GC2021 likewise includes an ROE target of at least 10% as a minimum benchmark. We will continue to manage our operations with a cost-of-capital consciousness. 031 PATRAC（Profit After Tax less Risk Asset Cost）  Consolidated Risk assets (required 10% risk asset cost (its objective is net profit shareholders’ (cost of capital) long-term expansion) equity) リスク・リターン 連結純利益 売上高 総資産 リスク・リターン Risk Management In conducting its diverse business activities, Marubeni manages risks through a multifaceted approach encompassing micro, macro, quantitative and qualitative perspectives. In an environment where exchange rates, resource prices and other financial and commodity market variables remain prone to substantial volatility, Marubeni practices integrated risk management by quantifying its maximum risk on a consolidated basis and keeping this maximum risk within the amount of total equity, which represents its risk-bearing capacity. While rigorously screening prospective investments on a case-by-case basis and monitoring them after they have been funded, Marubeni is also upgrading its internal control systems to prevent unforeseen losses. See Internal Control on page 068 for more details of the internal control system. Marubeni’s Risk INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Management Overview of Marubeni’s Quantitative Integrated risk management Risk Management MARUBENI CORPORATION Framework for management  Quantification of Group-wide risk ● Credit risk ● Market risk ● Country risk  of individual deals Micro ● Consensus-based Macro decision-making  ● Investment criteria Monitoring ● Handling of unquantifiable risks ● Internal controls ● Compliance Qualitative Integrated Risk Management Marubeni practices integrated risk management across od is, at present, within the amount of total equity which is its diverse operations spanning a broad range of sectors the source of funds for unforeseen circumstances. and geographic areas. Its integrated risk management incorporates both a macro view of the entire Group and Credit Risk Management a micro focus on individual risks. In conducting inteMarubeni analyzes counterparties’ credit risk both quan032 grated risk management encompassing all of its Group titatively and qualitatively and manages its credit risk in assets, Marubeni uses the VaR (value at risk) method to accordance with the degree of risk involved. Specifically, calculate its maximum risk. Marubeni uses a credit scoring model based on its own Integrated risk management synthesizes various proprietary algorithms and ranks customers in terms of risk factors to quantify risk as a single monetary value. creditworthiness based on their financial statement data Marubeni precisely quantifies risk through computerized and other relevant considerations, such as country risk simulations that reflect the latest information. Based on and creditworthiness, including that of the parent comthe asset holdings of the Marubeni Group, maximum pany. Utilizing these creditworthiness rankings together downside risk (risk assets), as quantified by the VaR methwith qualitative assessments, Marubeni sets credit limits STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION for individual counterparties. Marubeni also calculates Management of Individual Deals, Investment allowances for credit losses based on collection periods, Decision-Making Process seeks to earn returns commensurate with risk and takes For individual deals such as significant business investprecautions against losses. ments, Marubeni has a risk management regime spanning every step from entry through exit-based consenMarket Risk Management sus decision-making and monitoring. The various commodities in which Marubeni deals inWith regard to new deals, business groups must clude crude oil, natural gas and grains, which pose a risk first submit project summaries and business plans. In of substantial earnings volatility due to market price response, the relevant corporate staff groups submit fluctuations. To avoid excessive risk exposure to any sinopinions on the result of risk analyses from both a quangle commodity market, Marubeni currently manages the titative and qualitative perspective. They are then disrisk of such commodity price fluctuations by managing its cussed by the Investment and Credit Committee. The commodity market positions that have commodity-byInvestment and Credit Committee applies PATRAC*, the commodity basis limits, and by regularly monitoring its risk-adjusted profit after tax, as one guideline for quantipositions in every commodity it trades. tatively evaluating the deal while taking into account the feasibility of individual deals, risk analyses and compaCountry Risk Management ny-wide concentration risks. The deal is then forwarded Recognizing and managing the positive or negative imto the Corporate Management Committee for further pacts of unfolding events on individual countries and scrutiny and approved by the President. Deals that exbusinesses amid an ever-changing, increasingly complex ceed a certain materiality threshold are approved by a global business environment has become more importBoard of Directors’ resolution. ant than ever for Marubeni, given its ongoing aggressive investment in overseas businesses. Marubeni currently * Pdeveloped ATRAC (Profit After Tax less Risk Asset Cost): A performance indicator by Marubeni to measure the extent to which returns exceed a minimum risk-adjusted return target categorizes countries based on their degree of risk in hypothetical scenarios in which financial risk escalates Once an investment has been made, the business simultaneously across multiple countries. Marubeni mangroup monitors it. Highly material investments, however, ages both its overall exposure to each category of counare monitored more closely to facilitate early problem tries and the risk of concentrated exposure to any single detection and corrective action. The Investment and country or region, the latter by controlling its exposure Credit Committee, Corporate Management Committee to individual countries. and the Board of Directors periodically receive reports CHAPTER on the current status of investments. The strategic, growth and profit potential of these investments is examined, with necessary investments considered from 1 a variety of multifaceted angles and the determination regarding whether to revise and move forward or withInvestment Decision-Making Process draw made in accordance with a consensus-based deciInvestment criteria sion-making process. 033 Deal Board of  Directors Monitoring Periodic checks for divergences between actual outcomes and scenario envisioned at the time of investment, Corporate early problem detection and corrective action Deal Management  Committee Deal Investment Monitoring, and Credit  Committee exit criteria Selection Funding of investment Follow-up Sustainability Our Views on Sustainability Company Creed Fairness: Act with fairness and integrity at all times. Innovation: Pursue creativity with enterprise and initiative. Harmony: Give and earn the respect of others through cooperation. Management Philosophy In accordance with the spirit of the Company Creed of “Fairness, Innovation and Harmony,” the Marubeni Group is proudly committed to social and economic development and safeguarding the global environment through fair and upright corporate activities. Our Management Philosophy clearly expresses our views on sustainability. To us, sustainability means proINTEGRATED REPORT 2019 actively engaging in environmental and social issues and challenges, delivering solutions through innovation, and living by the Management Philosophy. Corporate value is composed of financial and non-financial value; non-financial value in particular is Company Creed steadily growing in importance. With regard to sustainability, such issues as climate change, the depletion MARUBENI CORPORATION of forestry resources and human rights issues pose grave threats to social and environmental sustainability. Adopting and implementing clear mediumand longterm corporate policies regarding these issues is directly related to increasing non-financial value and corporate Management Philosophy value. Until now, to increase corporate value, each of our businesses has generally created its own innovative Fundamental Materiality business model in anticipation of the challenges facing society. From now on, however, we will further fortify our traditionally strong businesses (vertical evolution) and also leverage internal and external expertise in order to Human Capital with generate better results than would otherwise be posHigh Social Value 034 sible (horizontal expansion). This is the concept of our “Global crossvalue platform;” it will provide solutions Robust Management for social and environmental problems and guide us Foundation in working toward a better tomorrow by providing a framework for promoting social and economic developGovernance for Coexistence ment and conserving the global environment. with Society We have published the Sustainable Development Report 2019, which shows our basic policies, activities, case studies, and performance data on our corporate sustainability. https://www.marubeni.com/en/sustainability/report/ STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Proactively Engaging in Environmental & Social Issues and Challenges BUILDING A BETTER TOMORROW CHAPTER Environmental & Social Materiality 2 Climate Change 035 Sustainable & Sustainable Resilient Value Forestry Chains Human Rights & Delivering Solutions Co-Development through Innovation with Communities Sustainability Dialogue Dialogue with Stakeholders at Marubeni Sustainability Information Session Marubeni’s Basic Views on Sustainability wide-ranging issues, all of which are closely related to Our planet and society face various threats to their the sustainability of business activities, is now a high sustainability. The Earth’s average temperature has priority issue globally. We believe that explicitly setting risen about 1°C since the Industrial Revolution. Deforand implementing mediumand long-term policies adestation is progressing at a rate equivalent to 27 soccer dressing such issues will create nonfinancial value and, fields per minute. Extreme climate events and natural in turn, directly lead to growth in corporate value. disasters regularly occur throughout the world. MeanOur views on sustainability are clearly expressed while, nearly half of the global population subsists on by our Management Philosophy: “In accordance with less than $5.50 per day and 4.3 million children are the spirit grounded in ‘Fairness, Innovation and Harmoreportedly ensnared in forced labor. Addressing such ny,’ the Marubeni Group is proudly committed to social Marubeni’s views and INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 policies on sustainability In March 2019, Marubeni held a sustainability dialogue to explain its sustainability initiatives and gather candid input MARUBENI CORPORATION from stakeholders to incorporate into future initiatives. The analysts, institutional investors and ESG professionals in attendance asked numerous specific questions. See page 039 for highlights of the Q&A session. 036 Nobuhiro Yabe Senior Managing Executive Officer, Member of the Board; CFO; Chief Operating Officer, Investor Relations and Credit Ratings; Chairman of Investment and Credit Committee; Chief Sustainable Development Officer; Chairman of Disclosure Committee STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION and economic development and safeguarding the global 1. Climate Change environment by conducting fair and upright corporate Marubeni aims to help realize a low-carbon society by activities.” The very act of practicing our Management mitigating global warming through its global renewable Philosophy through the proactive provision of solutions energy and related businesses. to environmental challenges and emerging social needs In September 2018, the Marubeni Group pledged constitutes sustainability for the Marubeni Group. to cut its FYE 3/2019 coal-fired power net generation In April 2018, Marubeni formed a Sustainability capacity of approximately 3GW in half by 2030 and Management Committee (the Committee ) that reannounced we will no longer enter into any new coalports directly to the President. The Committee met 23 fired power generation business as a general principle. times over the year through March 2019. Through many We strive to accelerate expansion of our portfolio of rounds of lively discussion on how to best put our renewable energy generation business. We have adoptManagement Philosophy into practice, the Committee ed a target of doubling the ratio of power generated by reached the conclusion that Marubeni itself must first renewable energy sources in our own net power supply become a sustainable entity. The Committee completed by 2023. Additionally, we aim to grow our green revea materiality assessment that identified “human capital nue (revenue from businesses that contribute to climate with high social value,” “robust management foundachange countermeasures) from roughly ¥700 billion at tion” and “governance for coexistence with society” present to around ¥1.3 trillion by the fiscal year ending as three categories of Fundamental Materiality for March 31, 2024. As new measures to counter climate accomplishing the goal of ensuring sustainable growth change mitigation initiative, the Marubeni Group affor the Company and “building a better tomorrow.” The firmed the TCFD*2 recommendations in February 2019 in Marubeni Group is now leveraging these three categorecognition of the importance of climate-related finanries of Fundamental Materiality with a focus on creating cial disclosure. Going forward, we will endeavor to better its own innovative business models and highly practical understand the financial impacts of risks and opportunisolutions. ties brought about by climate change, and also engage in improved climate-related financial disclosure. In Pursuit of Solutions to Environmental and *2. Tlished CHAPTER CFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures): EstabSocial Demand by the Financial Stability Board (FSB). After setting its three categories of Fundamental Materiality, Marubeni identified the following four Environmental and Social Materiality categories. It needs to pursue the attainment of the Sustainable Development See pages 042-044 for more information on Climate Change under Environmental & Social Materiality. 2. Sustainable Forestry 2 1 Goals (SDGs)* adopted by the United Nations General Marubeni owns tree plantations with some 140,000 Assembly in 2015 and resolve sustainability issues of implanted hectares, mostly in Indonesia and Australia. The portance to governments, the private sector and civil sototal gross project area is equivalent to about 1.5 times 037 ciety. Leveraging its Fundamental Materiality will enable the area of Tokyo Metropolis. Marubeni is contributing to Marubeni to pursue its Environmental and Social Matesustainable forest conservation through its tree plantariality together with innovative solutions that contribute tions around the world. to the attainment of the SDGs. In February 2019, Marubeni announced a commitment to sustainable forestry in the form of a new Forest *1. Sestablished ustainable Development Goals (SDGs): As a first step, in 2001 the UN the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) with a target date Management Policy and Product Procurement Policy of 2015. Subsequently, in September 2015 the UN Sustainable Developfor forest-derived products. In these policies, Marubeni ment Summit established the SDGs under the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. They are a set of international goals covering the peripledged both internally and externally: “No conversion od from 2016 through to 2030, and consist of 17 goals and 169 targets. of natural forests in forest plantation developments,” Sustainability Dialogue INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 “No handling of procured products produced from ille4. Sustainable and Resilient Value Chains gally logged timber,” and “biodiversity conservation.” In The Marubeni Group has revised its Basic Supply Chain managing its forest product operations, Marubeni has a CSR Policy, first adopted in 2008, and formulated a zero-tolerance policy on human rights violations such as new Basic Supply Chain Sustainability Policy. We now child labor and is strongly committed to harmonious covisit suppliers in countries or industries that pose a high MARUBENI CORPORATION existence with local indigenous people. degree of environmental or social risk and inspect their Going forward, Marubeni aims to help build a ciradherence to guidelines on matters such as observance cular economy by innovatively utilizing forest resources of laws, respect for human rights, conservation of the while meeting diverse environmental needs with environment, safety and health. When visiting suppliers, solutions tailored to countries and regions’ respective we conduct multifaceted inspections customized to the characteristics. supplier’s local and operational circumstances, and also report the inspection results to the supplier. Our aim See pages 045-047 for more information on Sustainable Forestry under Environmental & Social Materiality. in doing so is to build sustainable and resilient supply chains by collaborating with diverse suppliers. We be3. Human Rights and Co-Development with Communities lieve that such initiatives foster confidence in Marubeni’s The Marubeni Group has formulated and published a reliability from the perspective of stakeholders while Group-wide Basic Policy on Human Rights based on the also generating more new business opportunities. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights enSee pages 050-051 for more information on Sustainable & dorsed by the United Nations Human Rights Council in Resilient Value Chains under Environmental & Social Materiality. 038 2011. Pursuant to this policy, the Group aims to eradicate human rights violations such as child labor and forced The Marubeni Group is firmly convinced that praclabor. The Marubeni Group will conduct human rights ticing our Management Philosophy based on these four due diligence*1 on business projects etc. while respectcategories of Environmental and Social Materiality will ing the human rights of persons affected in any way by contribute to “building a better tomorrow.” Through our business activities. these sustainability initiatives, the Marubeni Group aims to newly create and increase nonfinancial value and con*1. Human rights due diligence: a process undertaken to identify, prevent, mitigate and address adverse impacts on human rights. tinuously grow its corporate value. See pages 048-049 for more information on Human Rights and Co-Development with Communities under Environmental & Social Materiality. STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Main Questions and Answers at Marubeni Sustainability Information Session Q1 You said that the Sustainability Management Committee has met many times. Q3 As the power business cuts its coal-fired power net generation capacity from Who is on the committee and how did roughly 3GW to around 1.5GW, will you they shape Marubeni's views and polilook to replenish the reduced capacity cies on sustainability? with renewable energy generation businesses? A1 The Sustainability Management Committee’s members were appointed from frontline BusiA3 Currently, the Marubeni Group's net generaness Divisions to cross-organizationally incortion capacity totals around 12GW, about 3GW porate diverse viewpoints from business units of which is generated from coal-fired power where value creation takes place. Additionally, generation businesses. Given our current profan External Director and two External Audit it levels, we do intend to replenish the reduc& Supervisory Board Members serve as advition in coal-fired power generation capacity sors to the Committee. External consultants with renewable energy generation business, are also involved with helping the Committee but we are also working to expand the scope do its job, including through pre-meeting of our entire operations. We realize that to do preparations. In addition to the previously so, we must generate new businesses by prementioned 23 Committee meetings, the Comvailing over international competition. In addimittee engaged in discussion 70 times, includtion to renewable energy generation businessing preparatory meetings before and after es, including offshore wind power businesses Committee meetings, in the fiscal year ended in Japan and overseas, we plan to expand our March 31, 2019. The External Director and Auportfolio of other non-coal-fired power gendit & Supervisory Board Members serving in eration businesses as well. We intend to also an advisory capacity attended nearly all of the expand our operations outside of the IPP* 2 23 Committee meetings. They actively particibusiness, including through our UK subsidiary pated in discussions and offered advice. SmartestEnergy Ltd. *2. IPP: Independent Power Producer Q2 What is the composition of your existing roughly ¥700 billion of green revenue and how will you double it? Q4 Will the newly identified materiality have any effect on your decision-making CHAPTER process for investments in new A2 We define green revenue based on the FTSE and other ESG rating companies’ methodolbusinesses? 2 ogies. Our green revenue currently consists mostly of sales from businesses dealing in powA4 As part of our decision-making process for new investments, we check and monitor new invester generation from renewable energy sources; ments from a sustainability standpoint, like a sales from water businesses and other busicompliance check. If, for example, a business’s nesses contributing to efficient use of resourcinvestee or partner company was committing 039 es; sales of products certified as contributing human rights violations, we would examine to sustainable forestry, fisheries, etc.; sales whether to continue our business with that from businesses contributing to propagating party. EV (electric vehicles); and sales from businesses contributing to waste reduction. In terms of specific measures to double green revenue by the fiscal year ending March 31, 2024, doubling the ratio of power generated by renewable energy sources will be the biggest driver. Fundamental Materiality The Marubeni Group has identified three categoRobust Management ries of Fundamental Materiality for living by our 2 Foundation Management Philosophy, building a better tomorrow, and accomplishing the goal of ensuring We have identified Robust Management Foundation as sustainable growth for the company. the second category of Fundamental Materiality, as we believe it is necessary both for maximizing the potential of our human capital and for maximizing corporate value. We must build a foundation that facilitates the activities of our human capital and establish a truly Robust 1 Human Capital with Management Foundation. If we cannot accomplish this, High Social Value our human capital will not be able to continue innovating and providing solutions. Enabling our human capital 2 Robust Management Foundation to use our management foundation to the fullest will ultimately lead to maximizing corporate value. 3 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Governance for To us, Robust Management Foundation means: Coexistence with Society ◉ A fundamentally sound management foundation with a strong brand presence, reputation, sales foundation and network, and financial footing. A corporate climate and culture that is capable of proHuman Capital with ◉ 1 High Social Value ducing abundant Human Capital with High Social Value, and can enable that human capital to engage in meanMARUBENI CORPORATION We regard human capital as our most valuable asset in ingful work. meeting environmental and social demand, and proac◉ An environment that places importance on the ability tively providing solutions. We define “Human Capital to create diverse values and generate quality solutions with High Social Value” as individuals who are essenwithin a diverse and inclusive organization. tial not only to the company but also to society. We will nurture Human Capital with High Social Value, and thereby bring about innovation and provide solutions. Governance for Coexistence 3 with Society To us, Human Capital with High Social Value means: ◉ Individuals who observe laws and act in conformity We will endeavor to increase corporate value based with accepted international customs, and who also on a Robust Management Foundation in which Human maintain high ethical standards for the good of Capital with High Social Value develops innovative ideas society. and continues providing solutions. ◉ Innovative individuals with the foresight, insight and Within that framework, and given social expecta040 creativity needed to anticipate social change. tions and demands, we believe that strengthening our ◉ Individuals with sound judgment and the ability to corporate governance system for improved coexistence make correct decisions and act quickly. with society is important to all of our stakeholders. We ◉ Individuals with the communication skills to truly will deepen our engagement with diverse stakeholders, address the demands of society, with a sense of purenhance the effectiveness of the Board of Directors’ pose and responsibility, while also being attuned to the oversight function, and bring greater transparency to realities of the marketplace. These attributes are the our management in order to build a governance framefoundation of decision-making, decisiveness and the work that allows for improved coexistence with society ability to execute. and works toward achieving sustainability. STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Organization As part of its organization to promote sustainability Starting April 1, 2019, we take the following steps initiatives, the Marubeni Group has a Sustainability Manto enhance our sustainability management organization: agement Committee under the supervision of the President. The Committee discusses policies and measures ◉ A Chief Sustainable Development Officer (CSDO) concerning our sustainability initiatives and ESG risk serves as the head of the Sustainability Management management and reports to the Board of Directors at Committee. least once a year. To incorporate the views of external ◉ A Sustainability Management Department is newly parties, the Committee also includes External Directors established within the Corporate Staff (CS) Group to and External Audit & Supervisory Board Members in an coordinate sustainability management among the advisory role. A Director heads the Sustainability ManBusiness Division, the CS Group, and our branches, agement Committee, and the Board of Directors, by reoffices and overseas corporate subsidiaries. ceiving periodic reports on important issues pertaining ◉ A Sustainability Leader in charge of sustainability manto the sustainability initiatives discussed by the Comagement is appointed in each business division, each mittee, oversees sustainability-related issues evaluated department within the CS Group, and at each branch, from the viewpoints of the appropriateness of our ESG office and overseas corporate subsidiary. A Sustainrisk management and compatibility with society. ability Manager is also appointed in each business department. Sustainability Management Organization Planning, reporting, approval Board of Directors President Sustainability Management Committee CHAPTER Advisory body to the President. It discusses basic policies and other matters pertaining to sustainability. Committee head: CSDO Environment Committee 2 Sustainability Domestic and Business Divisions Management CS Group Overseas Branches Department & Offices 041 Domestic and CS Group Business Divisions Overseas Branches Departments Sustainability Leaders & Offices Sustainability Leaders Sustainability Leaders Business Departments Sustainability Managers Execution Environmental & Social Materiality The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)*1 adopted by the United Nations in September 2015 1 are goals for achieving sustainability and leaving the world a better place for future generations shared by governments, the private sector and Climate Change civil society. In recognition of this, the Marubeni Group has identified the following categories of 4 Environmental and Social Materiality in which it can truly make a valuable contribution. Sustainable & 2 Resilient Value Sustainable Forestry In addition to the 17 goals and 169 targets of 3 Chains the SDGs, and taking into consideration stakeholders’ expectations and interests as well as the environmental and social impact of our business, our Human Rights & categories of Environmental and Social Materiality Co-Development are based on the criteria described below. Building with Communities INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 on initiatives set out through our Fundamental Materiality, we will contribute to achieving the SDGs and work toward building a better tomorrow. Importance to stakeholders *1. Sestablished ● ustainable Development Goals (SDGs): As a first step, in 2001 the UN the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) with a target ●  Impact and scope of our business activities on date of 2015. Subsequently, in September 2015 the UN Sustainable Dethe environment and society velopment Summit established the SDGs under the 2030 Agenda for ● Impact on our earnings Sustainable Development. They are a set of international goals covering MARUBENI CORPORATION the period from 2016 through to 2030, and consist of 17 goals and 169 targets. 1 Climate Change Climate change, which is responsible for phenomena Coal-Fired Power Generation and Renewable Energy such as global warming, changes in the natural environGeneration Businesses ment and more frequent natural disasters, is a global The Marubeni Group has 12GW net power generation issue with a broad impact on social and environmental capacity (as of March 31, 2019) and is a leading indepensustainability. dent electric power operator. We announced our policy 042 Marubeni has business operations throughout on coal-fired power generation and renewable energy the world, and views climate change as a serious risk. generation businesses on September 18, 2018 as part of However, we also believe that it presents business our proactive climate change countermeasures. opportunities. We see contribution to climate change mitigation and adaptation as a category of Environmental and See page 044 for Notification Regarding Business Policies PertainSocial Materiality. We contribute to climate change ing to Sustainability (In Relation to Coal-Fired Power Generation countermeasures mainly through the following policies: Business and Renewable Energy Generation Business). STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION We view climate change-related transfer risk as a busi● Sales from businesses (recycling-related, etc.) contribness opportunity, and we aim to increase our “Green uting to waste reduction Revenue” of ¥700 billion in FYE 3/2018 to ¥1.3 trillion ● Sales from businesses (water business, etc.) contributby FYE 3/2024. ing to efficient use of resources Green Revenue, a part of our business contribution to climate change countermeasures, includes the following: The Marubeni Group recognizes the importance of climate-related financial disclosures. As new measures ● Sales of products certified as contributing to sustainto counter climate change, in addition to affirming the able forestry, fisheries, etc. recommendations of the TCFD*2, we will endeavor to ● Sales from businesses (real estate, etc.) contributing to better understand the financial impact of both the risks lessening environmental impact and opportunities brought about by climate change, and ● Sales from businesses dealing in power generation also engage in improved climate-related financial from renewable energy sources disclosure. Sales from businesses contributing to propagating EV ● *2. Tlished CFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures): Estabby the Financial Stability Board (FSB). (electric vehicles) Actual Initiatives Related to TCFD Marubeni endorsed the intent of the TCFD Consortium (“the Consortium”) in which the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, the Financial Services Agency, and the Ministry of the Environment support as observers, and joined the Consortium as a member in May 2019. The Consortium is intended to facilitate discussions among corporations and financial institutions that endorse TCFD recommendations for initiatives aimed at more efficient disclosure of corporate information as well as information disclosure leading to appropriate investment decisions by financial and other institutions. In addition, the Marubeni Group is conducting scenario analysis to analyze the impact that climate change is likely to have on its businesses and finances. The Marubeni Group will analyze the risks, opportunities and impacts on its businesses from climate change based on a Current Policies Scenario and the 2.0°C Scenario, and will use the results in considering business plans and strategies. CHAPTER The Case of our Initiatives • In feed ingredients procurement in the Food Division, taking into account the possibility of increases in product prices and transportation costs due to a decrease in production volume in the agriculture and livestock industries resulting from climate change, the Marubeni Group is actively responding to the risks that accompany climate change by viewing them as opportunities. This response includes geographic diversification of suppliers and cus2 tomers, cultivation of new production regions, research and development of alternative and new products, and acquisition of new partners. • In the power generation business of the Power Business Division, in September 2018 Marubeni released the Notification Regarding Business Policies Pertaining to Sustainability (In Relation to Coal-Fired Power Generation 043 Business and Renewable Energy Generation Business) to promote reduction of GHG emissions from its power generation portfolio, based on transition risks such as changes in the energy mix of each country under the 2.0°C Scenario, tightening of regulations, changes in systems, and changes in stakeholder awareness. On the other hand, the increase in renewable energy projects, upgrades and efficiency improvements of existing power plants, the increase in energy storage and power system stabilization projects, and the increase in distributed power sources will present business opportunities, and we will therefore take a more active approach in the area of clean energy generation. Furthermore, Marubeni recognizes the financial impact from changes such as insurance premium increases as a transition risk based on the Current Policies Scenario, and will use it for reference when formulating mediumand long-term strategies. Environmental & Social Materiality September 18, 2018 Notification Regarding Business Policies Pertaining to Sustainability (In Relation to Coal-Fired Power Generation Business and Renewable Energy Generation Business) Marubeni Corporation (hereinafter, “Marubeni”) recog3. P  roactive Involvement in Renewable Energy nizes that climate change is a major issue shared by all Generation Business of humanity. It is a problem that threatens the co-exisLooking forward to the expansion of the renewable tence of the global environment and society, a problem energy generation business, Marubeni will strive to that has an enormous effect on Marubeni’s business expand the ratio of power generated by renewable and its shareholders, and a problem that Marubeni energy sources in its own net power supply from believes must be dealt with swiftly. Therefore, as part approximately 10% to approximately 20% by 2023. of Marubeni’s promotion of sustainable management, Furthermore, Marubeni will contribute to the transition and in order to contribute fight global climate change, towards a low-carbon society by promoting the Marubeni has established new business policies (hereexpansion of the handled volume of renewable energy inafter, “Policies”) regarding its coal-fired power gensources pertaining to energy trading. An example of eration business and its renewable energy generation this is SmartestEnergy Ltd.*1, a wholly-owned subsidiINTEGRATED REPORT 2019 business. ary located in the United Kingdom that manages approximately 3GW of total energy, which is pur1. T  he Process of Pulling Out of Coal-Fired chased from independent generators; about 80% of Power Generation that 3GW is generated by renewable energy sources. As a global player in the power business, Marubeni will reduce its greenhouse gas emissions volume from its Moving toward the achievement of these Policies, power generation portfolio. By 2030, Marubeni will cut Marubeni will work to properly communicate and its FY2018 coal-fired power net generation capacity of cooperate with its diverse stakeholders, and also proapproximately 3GW in half. Additionally, Marubeni will actively disclose updates on Marubeni’s progress in MARUBENI CORPORATION deploy innovative technologies to increase the effireaching these goals. Additionally, given the changes ciency of its portfolio assets, and proactively promote to the external environment, Marubeni will refer to the the reduction of its environmental impact. various international guidelines, beginning with the OECD Export Credits Arrangement, diligently monitor 2. T  he Policy on New Coal-Fired Power measures taken by different countries in terms of coalGeneration Business fired and renewable energy generation business, as As a general principle, Marubeni will no longer enter well as the international state of affairs, and use this into any new coal-fired power generation business. information to periodically review and rework its own However, Marubeni might consider pursuing projects policies from the standpoint of climate change that adopt BAT (“Best Available Technology”, which at countermeasures. present is USC: “Ultra-supercritical steam generating In April 2018, Marubeni launched the Sustainabiltechnology) and are compliant with the policies and ity Management Committee (hereinafter, “the Commeasures of the Japanese government and any counmittee”) under the supervision of the President and try in which the project will be executed (e.g. energy CEO, with the aim to strengthen the company’s sussupply stability, poverty and employment measures tainability initiatives. Since its launch, and while solicitand economic growth policies). Nevertheless, even if ing the opinions of external parties, the Committee has Marubeni does make an exception to take on a project discussed a number of basic policies and measures like this, Marubeni will make proposals on the creation pertaining to Marubeni’s sustainability initiatives, 044 of a low-carbon society, efficient power generation beginning with identification and periodic review of systems and the diversification of energy sources; the materiality. Policies and measures considered as a Marubeni will make efforts to contribute to the resoluresult of these discussions will be announced as part of tion of local issues in the country and/or region in Marubeni’s ESG related data once it has been which the project is executed. compiled. *1. SonmartestEnergy Ltd., established by Marubeni in the U.K. in 2001, purchases power from small to medium sized independent generators, and resells the wholesale market or to retail customers. https://www.smartestenergy.com/ STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION 2 Sustainable Forestry Forests are a precious resource and enrich life on Earth in To build a better tomorrow, we have adopted a Forest many ways. The Marubeni Group currently holds 140,000 Management Policy and a Procurement Policy (for hectares of tree plantations across the world (total gross Wood-derived Products) to conserve and sustainably use project area is 320,000 hectares). These forests are run valuable forest resources. By operating our businesses in according to management methods for sustainable accordance with these policies, we will promote sustainable forestry. forest management and contribute to forest conservation. Forest Management Policy 1. Introduction Marubeni Group (hereinafter the “Company”) promotes 1) Natural Capital sustainable forest management by conducting fair and In implementing sustainable forest management, we upright corporate activities in accordance with the spirit commit to the following guidelines on the principle of of the Company Creed of “Fairness, Innovation and No Deforestation: Harmony”. We recognize that forests are renewable resources that provide various benefits for sustaining •O  nly handling wood resources managed in a sustainlife on earth, and embrace economically viable forest able and appropriate way. management methods with the aim of ensuring the • No conversion of natural forests in forest plantation prosperity of present and future generations. developments. We strive to contribute to the establishment of a • Proactively addressing protection of HCV forests in circular economy by creating innovation in the utilizaour forest management from the viewpoint of biodition of forest resources and responding to the society’s versity conservation. environmental needs that are becoming more diverse. • No forest plantation operations in HCV forests or on The Forest Management Policy (hereinafter the peatland. “Policy”) drives our commitments to sustainable forest • Committing to a “No Burn Policy” that restricts the use management, the protection of forests with high conof fire in forest plantation operations that can potenservation value (HCV*2) and the elimination of unregutially cause forest fires in tropical forest areas. CHAPTER lated forest logging in our business activities. We, • Minimizing the impact of logging and related logging through our focus on on-site operations, are able to access roads construction on ecosystems. create economic benefits and contribute to society by • Proactively addressing the protection of species at conducting sustainable forest management through coexistence and co-prosperity with local communities, as well as supplying environmentally conscious wood risk of extinction included in IUCN’s (International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources) Red List of Threatened Species. 2 resources that respond to society’s needs. • Restricting the usage of alien species only to cases where impact is manageable. 2. Scope • Following international best practices for soil The Policy applies to all woodchip and pulp manufacmanagement. turing and forest plantation operations by Marubeni and • Not using any pesticides classified as Class 1A/1B in 045 its subsidiaries worldwide. the classification scheme of the WHO (World Health Organization), or any substances regulated by the 3. Commitments Rotterdam Convention and the Stockholm Convention We go beyond compliance in our commitments to susas pesticides. tainable forest management. Through this Policy, we • Not using genetic modification technology in forest reaffirm our commitment to comply with all applicable management. laws and regulations relevant to forestry operations and • Effective utilization of trees damaged by natural disasseek to extend this obligation to our contractors and ters such as burned trees, fallen trees, drift wood etc. their employees. *2. HCV forests are forests that have a High Conservation Value in social, cultural and or environmental terms. Environmental & Social Materiality 2) Social Capital 3) International Standards We commit to the social and economic development We promote the main principles outlined in internaof the areas where we operate and seek to identify tional standards relevant to the forestry industry opportunities to create shared values with local com(forest plantations, woodchips and pulp manufacturmunities. We recognize the importance of land use ing) in our own operations as part of our commitment rights for local communities and indigenous people to sustainable forest management. and their right to enjoy a fair share of the benefits obtainable from the commercial use of forest 4) Environmental and Social Risk Assessment resources. Marubeni Group follows the principles We conduct the necessary environmental and social regarding human rights described in the Basic Policy risk assessment prior to the completion of land acquion Human Rights, and conducts the following activities sitions or land developments for new operations. as a responsible party: 4. Governance • C ommitting to provide a safe and productive work 1) Implementation environment, and not tolerating any form for child The Policy is approved by Marubeni’s Board of Direclabor, forced labor, discrimination, harassment or tors. Oversight of the Policy is by the Chairperson of abuse. Sustainability Management Committee with impleINTEGRATED REPORT 2019 • Following the principle of Free, Prior and Informed mentation by the Business Group. Consent (FPIC) when starting new forestry operations on the lands where indigenous and local com2) Links to Other Policies munities hold legal or customary rights The Policy complements other sustainability related • Establishing grievance and conflict resolution mechpolicies of the Company including the Basic Policy on anisms compliant with international standards and Human Rights and Basic Supply Chain Sustainability the regulatory requirements of the host countries of Policy. our forestry operations, as well as engaging in goodfaith dialogue with stakeholders to resolve any issues. 3) Policy Management MARUBENI CORPORATION • Actively carrying out stakeholder engagement on We will review the Policy at least once a year, or as local, national and international scales. new information and knowledge becomes available, in • Respecting the rights of every worker. ways that are consistent with our objectives of sustainable forest management. We are contributing to economic and social development of areas where we operate through the 4) Certification Audit and Monitoring following initiatives: We hold international certification for sustainable forest management and CoC (Chain of Custody) certi•   Creating employment opportunities for local resification to manage distribution and processing. As a dents (priority allocation of contracts for forest result, accredited bodies conduct regular auditing and plantation related work) monitoring of these certifications. • Joint programs with local residents (Joint Forestry, Agriculture and Forest Products Harvesting Pro5) Information Disclosure grams, etc.) In addition to increasing the transparency of our busi•  Support activities for local residents (support for ness activities, we are committed to disclose informaindigenous people, vocational training, disaster pretion on our approach to sustainable forest management vention drills, voluntary provision of daily necessities, on the Company website etc. etc.) 046 •  Educational support (scholarships, construction or renovation and extension of schools, dispatching of teachers, operational support, etc.) • Other community support (support for infrastructure equipment repair, sports events, etc.) STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Product Procurement Policy (Forest-derived Products) 1. Introduction (1) No handling of procured products produced from The Marubeni Group (hereinafter referred to as “we”) illegally logged timber. conducts fair and upright corporate activities in accor(2) No handling of products procured from suppliers dance with the spirit of its Company Creed of “Fairness, involved in serious environmental and social conInnovation and Harmony” and strives to build a sustroversies, such as the destruction of forests with tainable society together with its business partners in high conservation value. line with the “Basic Supply Chain Sustainability Policy.” (3) No handling of procured products produced from We have established the Product Procurement genetically modified wood. Policy (Forest-derived Products) (hereinafter referred (4) Promoting the handling of procured products that to as the “Policy”) to promote the procurement of have been certified under a reliable international timber and related products produced from appropriforest certification system. ately managed forests, thereby realizing the sustainable use of forest resources. In order to promote this Policy, we will investigate the This Policy has been approved by Marubeni’s environmental and social considerations of suppliers Board of Directors. The Chairperson of the Sustainabilas well as their compliance with laws and regulations. ity Management Committee oversees the Policy, and In the event that any non-compliance with this Policy the Business Group is in charge of its effective impleis discovered, consultations and requests for improvementation. We undertake to review this Policy at least ment measures will be made. If the non-compliant annually and revise it as necessary. supplier does not improve, we will review our business relationship with the relevant supplier. 2. Scope We will regularly disclose information on this This Policy applies to the trading of timber and related Policy. We are committed to promoting to society the products by Marubeni and its subsidiaries worldwide. sustainable use of forest resources through appropriSpecifically, it covers raw timber, woodchips (includate communication with our suppliers and customers ing fuel woodchips), pulp, and paper and paperboard and other stakeholders. products (hereinafter referred to as “procured products”). 3. Commitment In cooperation with suppliers and customers, we are committed to ensuring the traceability of procured CHAPTER products while conducting our procurement activities in accordance with the Basic Supply Chain Sustainability Policy and the following principles. 2 047 Environmental & Social Materiality 3 Human Rights & Co-Development with Communities Due to the globalization of economic activity, serious active in a wide range of businesses and conduct global, abuses of human rights against workers and local resimulti-faceted activities. dents are taking place in relevant countries and regions. To build a better tomorrow, we take a sincere Many of these abuses can be remedied or improved by approach to dealing with human rights issues facing the taking human rights into consideration in business activinternational community. As part of our initiatives, we ities, and there are growing expectations that businesses have included the three basic principles of the United should play a role in remedying human rights abuses. Nations’ “Guiding Principles on Business and Human The Marubeni Group does business in 136 locations* 1 Rights: 1) respect for human rights, 2) due diligence on in 67 countries and regions and employs 40,000 people*2 human rights, and 3) redress in our Basic Policy on of many different nationalities and ethnicities. We are Human Rights. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 *1. As of April 1, 2019 *2. As of March 31, 2019 Basic Policy on Human Rights In the spirit of the Company Creed of “Fairness, InnoResponsibility for Human Rights vation and Harmony,” the Marubeni Group is proudly We will carry out our responsibility to respect human committed to promoting social and economic develrights by ensuring that we do not violate human rights. opment and safeguarding the global environment If it should come to light that any of our business activMARUBENI CORPORATION through fair and upright corporate activities. We recities are having a negative impact on human rights, we ognize that respecting the human rights of persons will take appropriate action to remedy the situation. affected by our business activities and endeavoring to take responsibility for doing so are of utmost impor● Human Rights Due Diligence: tance, and to this end we have formulated our Basic We will create and continue using a system for carryPolicy on Human Rights (“the Policy”), based on the ing out human rights due diligence. UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. ● Redress: Our Basic Stance on Human Rights We will create a system (complaint resolution mechaWe support and respect all international rules on nism) for reporting when our business activities have a human rights, including the UN’s International Bill of negative effect on human rights or we have been Human Rights (Universal Declaration of Human Rights involved in human rights violations. If such reports are and International Covenant on Human Rights), the received, appropriate procedures for redress will be ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and taken once the facts are sufficiently ascertained. Rights at Work and the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact. ● Dialogue and Discussion: We will engage in sincere dialogue and discussion with Scope of Application relevant stakeholders in order to promote initiatives in 048 This Policy applies to all executives and employees of line with this Policy. the Marubeni Group. We also ask that stakeholders (vendors, service providers, contractors, third-party ● Compliance with Relevant Laws: manufacturers, joint venture partners, outsourcing We will observe the laws and regulations of the counpartners, customers and other business partners and tries or regions where we conduct business activities. local communities) and other related parties observe If national laws are in contradiction with internationally the intent of the Policy and take appropriate action if a recognized human rights, we will pursue solutions in negative effect on human rights caused by them is which we can respect human rights principles. directly related to the business activities of the Marubeni Group. STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION ● Education and Training: ● Information Disclosure: We will conduct appropriate training and skill developWe will report on our initiatives, etc. for fulfilling our ment for our executives and employees to ensure that responsibilities to respect human rights through our this Policy is understood and effectively put into pracofficial website and other avenues. tice in all our business activities. The above Policy includes the following policies with ● Policy Regarding Use of Security Services: regard to those who are especially vulnerable to human We are aware of the inherent risk to human rights related rights abuses: to the use of weapons for security. With regard to the use of security services when conducting business activities, ● Policy Regarding the Rights of Children: we will observe the laws of the countries or regions where In addition to supporting the Children’s Rights and Busiwe operate, support international rules and related pracness Principles*3, which are intended to protect children’s tices and endeavor to respect human rights. rights in the course of our business activities, we will *3. Cprinciples  hildren’s Rights and Business Principles: A comprehensive set of formulated by UNICEF, the UN Global Compact and Save the undertake social contribution activities to strengthen Children covering various actions that enterprises can take in the workchildren’s rights and by so doing will contribute to place, the marketplace and the community in order to promote respect for children’s rights. improving children’s rights. ● Policy Regarding the Rights of Indigenous Peoples: When conducting our business activities in countries or regions with indigenous peoples, we will acknowledge the native culture and history of indigenous peoples, and we will give due consideration to the laws of the country or region in question and the rights of indigenous peoples set out in international rules. CHAPTER 2 049 Environmental & Social Materiality 4 Sustainable & Resilient Value Chains The Marubeni Group deals with thousands of suppliers in As part of our sustainability initiatives, together with conducting transactions and operating a wide range of stakeholders, we, including our business partners, businesses on a global scale. We believe that we make adopted our Basic Supply Chain CSR Policy in 2008 to important contributions to sustainability through environmanage our supply chain. Subsequently, to advance mental conservation and sustainable social development understanding of and cooperation with the spirit of this initiatives throughout our supply chain. To build a better Policy, we sent the Policy to suppliers, conducted surveys, tomorrow, we have identified Sustainable and Resilient and dispatched personnel to suppliers’ manufacturing or Value Chains and working together with our business production sites to conduct direct on-site inspections. partners as an essential category of Environmental and Since we believe that value chain management is importSocial Materiality. In addition to managing the supply ant, we will continue taking initiatives toward both suppliINTEGRATED REPORT 2019 chain, we will also involve buyers of our products and ers and buyers of our products to resolve issues in this enhance the strength and competitiveness of our entire area. value chain, which includes not only the Marubeni group In addition, we have revised our Basic Supply Chain but also our business partners. CSR Policy, adopting a new Basic Supply Chain Sustainability Policy to place more importance on climate change countermeasures and respect for human rights. MARUBENI CORPORATION 050 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Basic Supply Chain Sustainability Policy (Revised January 2019) 1. The Marubeni Group, not being satisfied with simply (4) Fair Transactions: strengthening its own sustainability initiatives, sup● Conduct fair transactions and do not inhibit free ports strengthening sustainability throughout its competition. supply chain with the objective of building an envi●  Prevent corruption; offer no bribes or illegal  ronmentally friendly, healthy and sustainable contributions. society. 2. Having set out the Supply Chain Sustainability (5) Safety and Health: Guidelines below, the Marubeni Group asks for the ●  Ensure safe and healthy workplaces and maintain a understanding and cooperation of its business partgood working environment. ners in observing the Guidelines, to promote, together with its business partners, highly effective (6) Quality Control: sustainability initiatives. Further, when calling on its ●  Maintain the quality and safety of products and business partners, the Marubeni Group will commuservices. nicate the Guidelines so that they are fully aware of the Guidelines and will assist business partners’ (7) Information Disclosure: capacity building by making recommendations, ●  Timely and appropriate disclosure of information. requests or providing guidance as necessary and by sharing examples of good practices. 4. As part of this Policy, the Marubeni Group has set out the following procedures for dealing with ven3. Supply Chain Sustainability Guidelines dors that do not meet labor standards. (1) Observance of Laws: ●  Observe the laws of the countries where business (i) When it comes to light that a vendor has failed is conducted and laws relating to business to meet labor standards relating to (1) Obsertransactions. vance of Laws, (2) Respect for Human Rights or (5) Safety and Health, we will as necessary, ask (2) Respect for Human Rights: the vendor to: ●  Respect human rights without discrimination, ●  Ascertain the facts, and harassment of any kind, abuse or other inhumane ●  If the facts are true, prepare a report on the treatment. background of the issue and improvement CHAPTER ●  No child labor or forced labor. measures. ●  Proper management of employees’ work hours,  Depending on circumstances, we may also breaks and holidays and prohibition of excessive inspect the vendor. overtime work. ●  Payment of the legally mandated minimum wage and endeavoring to pay at least a living wage. No (ii) If we determine that improvement measures are insufficient, we will request that further mea2 inappropriate wage abatement. sures be taken. ●  Respect for employees’ right to unionize for the purpose of labor-management negotiations and (iii) If, despite implementing steps (i) and (ii) above, right to collective bargaining. the situation does not improve, we will examine whether to continue our relationship with the 051 (3) Conservation of the Environment: vendor. ●  Recognize that climate change issues are important and respond appropriately. ●  Protect the natural environment. ●  Reduce environmental negative impact, prevent pollution. HR Strategy 1. GC2021 Group HR Strategy To build a better tomorrow, the Marubeni Group has The key terms here are “Human Capital with High identified “Human Capital with High Social Value” as an Social Value,” a “Diversity & Inclusion,” and “Culture essential category of Fundamental Materiality. for Individuals' Development and Productivity.” The We regard human capital as our most valuable as“Marubeni HR Ecosystem” is a place where “Human set in meeting environmental and social demand, and Capital with High Social Value” creates new value, the proactively providing solutions. We define “Human Cap“Diversity & Inclusion” of our human capital increases ital with High Social Value” as individuals who are esour value creation power, and a “Culture for Individuals' sential not only to the company but also to society. We Development and Productivity” provides for open innowill nurture Human Capital with High Social Value, and vation to bring together internal and external ideas—this thereby bring about innovation and provide solutions. is what we aim to build. The GC2021 Medium-Term Management Strategy In order to achieve this, we are proposing and imincorporates a new Group HR strategy based on the plementing various policies and measures that will enINTEGRATED REPORT 2019 mindset as described above. Under this Group HR stratable us to strongly align our management strategies and egy, the goal is to create a “Marubeni HR Ecosystem” HR systems, construct policies and programs to develop that promotes the involvement of every single Marubeni diverse human capital and create a cohesive environGroup employee in creating new value as part of the ment that goes beyond the boundaries of companies “Global crossvalue platform.” and organizations. MARUBENI CORPORATION Marubeni Group HR Strategy 1 Human Capital with High Social Value ● Creating new value Execute Marubeni Group HR strategy where 1 ● Highly regarded and essential to every single Marubeni Group employee is society and customers involved in creating new value as part of 2 Diversity & Inclusion “Global crossvalue platform” Marubeni ● Respect for diverse values HR ● Value creation capabilities utilizing various Priorities Ecosystem ● HR systems strongly aligned with individual abilities and experiences 2 3 management strategy 3 Culture for Individuals’ Development and ● Employee development & Workplaces for Productivity ● Workplace environments for invigorating diverse human resources human resources ● Health and productivity management & Workstyle reforms ● Open innovation to bring together internal ● Environment going beyond the boundaries of companies and organizations and external ideas 2. HR Development Initiatives 052 The Marubeni Group is upgrading its HR development training curriculum since the fiscal year ended March programs, which consist mainly of on-the-job training 31, 2017, including by establishing and subsequently supplemented by off-the-job training. strengthening Marubeni Global Academy (MGA) to supMarubeni conducts on-the-job training through port the realization of the Marubeni Group's HR strategy. such means as assigning trainees to posts that promote Marubeni will further upgrade its HR development prohands-on experience and recommending young persongrams on a Group-wide basis by continuing to develop nel for overseas assignments that will help them develMGA programs and improve their content. op professionalism early in their careers. For off-the-job Specifically, MGA trains Marubeni Group personnel training, Marubeni has been revamping its Group-wide through the following programs. STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Composition of MGA programs A) Business Skills: Programs aimed at imparting skills and knowledge fundamentally required to conduct business B) Leadership and Management: Programs aimed at improving relationships with internal and external associates and strengthening communication skills conducive to stronger leadership in conducting business C) Selection-based Programs: Intensive investment in selected personnel to cultivate human resources capable of serving in head office executive positions and C-suite positions at major domestic and overseas operating companies D) Career Support Programs: Career-focused programs that provide input/follow-up at designated points in time Marubeni Global Academy Selection Category Business Skill Leadership Management Career Support Program Short-term Executive Program New Graduates/Employees(MidPractical basic knowledge Internal certification tests Preparation for overseas Test for promotion to Marubeni Master Course BENInovation Program management Cross-Culture studies Subordinate training Career development 4th year studies for Business investment Investment analysis New General Manager of ） Logical thinking Management Class Program Department studies (Overseas Business School career) studies and follow up Practical M&A Presentation assignment Mental Health OJT Support New General Manager of fundamentals Compliance Facilitation 4th year studies for Language Section studies fundamentals Test for promotion in administrative class Administrative Class Top Management General Manager of Department General Manager of Section Middle Management Pre Management Grade Administrative CHAPTER Class Jr. Professional Grade New Employee 3. Human Capital × Mechanisms × Time Management Class Administrative Class uct or area of business, but who have the ability to grasp Both Management and Administrative Class 2 The Marubeni Group is always pursuing new work styles the issues affecting society and our clients from a varithat fit its culture in the aim of generating innovation. In ety of angles, transcending the boundaries of business order to promote a method of working that will enable divisions, and the creative power to then fully utilize us to grasp the needs of our ever-changing society and Marubeni’s various business infrastructures or platforms 053 clients, create solutions that fit with the times and creto create solutions. As a means to develop leaders like ate new distribution channels, Marubeni is carrying out this, we have established Marubeni Academia. We also initiatives under the themes of “Human Capital,” “Mechhave launched the External Personnel Exchange Proanisms” and “Time” in pursuit of synergies generated by gram, through which we are further expanding and combining the three. strengthening interpersonal relations with people outside Marubeni. The aim is not only to forge network Human Capital connections with people from external organizations, Looking towards the future, the Marubeni Group needs See column on page 054 for more details on Marubeni Academia. people who are not only experts in their particular prodHR Strategy but by looking at ourselves from an outside perspective, ideas. In addition, we have held the Business Plan Conto identify values and functions which we have not been test and endeavors to commercialize winning business successful at delivering in the past, and to promote the plans as startup ventures. development of human capital who are capable of linkSee column below for more information on the Business Plan ing these to business expansion. Contest. Mechanisms Time In order to generate innovation, we have started by Even with adequate Human Capital and Mechanisms, “knowing the Marubeni Group”. One of the mechanew challenges cannot be started without time. nisms we can use for this is the Business Model Canvas, Marubeni has accordingly implemented a 15% Rule as a a website that displays the Marubeni Group’s assets Time initiative. and business models. The site classifies the Marubeni Under the 15% Rule, each employee is granted time Group’s businesses into roughly 300 different business during working hours to come up with innovative ideas INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 models and provides information on each business’s asfor reforming current business or working practices by sets, dealings, network connections, earnings model and overcoming the boundaries of organizational structures. competitors. We also have set up the Idea Box, where This policy allows all employees, regardless of position employees can propose business ideas and potential or assignment, to allocate up to 15% of their working solutions to business challenges. The Next Generation hours towards making plans for new business models Business Development Division helps to refine promising and work processes. MARUBENI CORPORATION Marubeni Academia Marubeni Academia is not a training program. It selects perthe fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, Marubeni Academia’s sonally distinguished individuals with diverse careers from inaugural year, 25 participants from eight countries practhe Marubeni Group’s global workforce in the aim of develticed innovation that maximally leverages the diverse assets oping them into global innovation leaders that will drive the aggregated atop the Marubeni Group’s platform. They are Marubeni Group into the future. Over the course of a year, expected to play a leading role in the Marubeni Group’s init aims to take its participants from thinking about and disnovation initiatives as evangelists. Marubeni Academia has cussing innovation to actually innovating. It is headed by a new group of 25 participants from eight countries in the Chua Taik Him, who has long played a key role in Singapore’s fiscal year ending March 31, 2020, its second year. Marubeni economic development at the Singaporean Economic Deplans to keep the program running on an ongoing basis. velopment Board and International Enterprise Singapore. In Business Plan Contest Awakens Employees' Entrepreneurial Spirit 054 In January 2019, Marubeni held the Business Plan Contest, Challenge, giving those entrants the opportunity to pursue open to all Marubeni Group staff throughout the world. Conan entrepreneurial career path as the Marubeni Group. test winners are awarded a “Ticket for Challenge,” which is an offer of resources, such as funds and human resources, and are given a chance for actual start-up. The first contest held in January 2019 drew diverse new-business ideas ranging from businesses aimed at solving broad societal problems to businesses targeted at specific customers’ day-to-day challenges. 12 ideas made it to the final round of judging from 160 entries in the world. Four plans were ultimately awarded a Ticket for STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION 4. Health and Productivity Management External Accolades With human capital as one of its categories of Funda● Inclusion in Health & Productivity Stock Selection mental Materiality, the Marubeni Group places utmost Marubeni was chosen for inclusion in the Brand of Compriority on its employees’ health and safety to enable panies Enhancing Corporate Value through Health and them to fully utilize their capabilities. Toward this end, it Productivity Management Selection (Health & Productivis carrying out various health management initiatives. ity Stock Selection). Launched in the year ended March 31, 2015, this joint program by the Ministry of Economy, Marubeni Group Health Declaration Trade and Industry (METI) and the Tokyo Stock Ex● Employees are a vital asset for the Marubeni Group, and their health is of paramount importance. The Group has change (TSE) recognizes TSE-listed companies that therefore positioned maintaining and promoting employexhibit excellence in strategically practicing health and ee health as a top management priority. productivity management*, thereby making employee ● The Marubeni Group supports employees’ success by health a management issue. Aiming to help employees working to create an environment where each individual improve their health, Marubeni has been developing can autonomously and proactively take steps to maintain and promote his or her health. These efforts will lead to more sophisticated healthcare management systems the growth of the Marubeni Group. while simultaneously supporting employees in living more fulfilling social and private lives. It was the recogMarubeni Health Promotion Structure nition of these efforts that resulted in the Company’s inMarubeni has established the Marubeni Health Promotion clusion in the Health & Productivity Stock Selection. GoStructure under the responsibility of the director in charge ing forward, we will continue to invest of the Human Resources Department. Health management in employee health to further boost initiatives are carried out by four groups acting in concert: our global competitiveness. occupational physicians (in-company medical clinics), the * Tishea registered term “health and productivity management” trademark of the Workshop for Health Insurance Association, the Human Resources the Management of Health on Company and Department and health and productivity management Employee. promotion officers selected by employees. ● Marubeni Certified as Health and Productivity Marubeni Health Project Management Outstanding Organization (White 500) CHAPTER The Marubeni Health Project carries out various initiaMarubeni was certified as a 2019 Health and Productivtives,  mainly under the following four themes. Theme Initiatives ity Management Outstanding Organization in the large enterprise category (White 500) by Japan’s Ministry of 2 Economy, Trade and Industry and Nippon Kenko Kaigi. 1. Improving health Walking events, healthy menu options literacy in employee cafeterias, etc. The Health and Productivity Management Outstanding Increased subsidization of smoking Organization certification is awarded annually to corpo2. Better prevention of cessation therapies, practical health rations that practice particularly exemplary health and cancer and lifestyle seminars, physical exams and cerebro055 diseases vascular imaging fully paid for by the productivity management based on initiatives tailored to company, etc. local health issues and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi’s health 3. Strengthening Expansion of employee assistance promotion initiatives. It was awarded to Marubeni in mental health program services, support services for measures returnees from mental health leave, etc. both 2018 and 2019. Marubeni will continue to support 4. Strengthening Seminars for improving women’s health its employees’ success and expedite women’s health literacy, establishment of women’s its own growth by creating an enviinitiatives health consultation desks, etc. ronment in which all employees can For more details on the Marubeni Health Project, see page 062 autonomously and proactively mainof the Sustainable Development Report 2019 tain or improve their health. https://www.marubeni.com/en/sustainability/report/ MARUBENI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 056 Members of the Board Corporate Governance STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION CHAPTER 2 057 (From left) Yuri Okina: External Director, Susumu Fukuda: External Director, Nobuhiro Yabe: Senior Managing Executive Officer, Ichiro Takahara: Senior Executive Vice President, Fumiya Kokubu: Chairman of the Board, Yukihiko Matsumura: Senior Executive Vice President, Masumi Kakinoki: President and CEO, Hirohisa Miyata: Managing Executive Officer, Takao Kitabata: External Director, Kyohei Takahashi: External Director CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT A GLANCE As a global company, Marubeni pursues corporate governance best practices adapted to its own organization from a comprehensive, mediumto long-term perspective, recognizing the societal role that INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 companies play and international differences in legal systems and capital market environments. FACTS & FIGURES MARUBENI CORPORATION Structure of the Board of Directors * (As of June 21, 2019 ( As of April 30, 2019)) Current Attendance at Membership on advisory bodies Years served as shareholdings in the Subscription rights meetings of the Governance and Name Nomination Director Corporation* to shares held* Board of Directors Remuneration (Thousands of shares) (FYE 3/2019) Committee Committee Chairman of the Board 7 years 169 1,237 rights 18/19 Fumiya Kokubu President and CEO 1 year 72 572 rights 15/15 Member Member Masumi Kakinoki Senior Executive Vice President 1 year 90 595 rights 15/15 Member Yukihiko Matsumura Senior Executive Vice President Appointed 21 540 rights Ichiro Takahara June 2019 Senior Managing Executive Officer 3 years 55 533 rights 19/19 Nobuhiro Yabe 058 Managing Executive Officer 1 year 37 485 rights 15/15 Hirohisa Miyata External Director 6 years 18/19 Chairman Takao Kitabata External Director 3 years 19/19 Member Chairman Kyohei Takahashi External Director 3 years 19/19 Member Susumu Fukuda External Director 2 years 19/19 Yuri Okina STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Composition of Board of Directors  Board of Directors PERSONS The Board of Directors is made up of 10 directors (four of whom are external). In addition to determining management policies and other important matters, the Board of Directors oversees directors’ execution of their duties. The four external directorships are entrusted to independent, trustworthy outsiders possessing a high degree of specialized knowledge, extensive experience as senior corporate executives, broad  discernment, international expertise and/or other qualifications of value to Marubeni’s wide-ranging business operations. Directors External (independent) Directors External (independent) directors’ backgrounds and specialties Senior corporate executive 1 person Government officials 2 persons External Think tank 1 person  (independent) Derectors Years served as external (independent) director 6 years 1 person 3 years 2 persons 2 years 1 person Composition of Audit & Supervisory Board  Audit & Supervisory Board PERSONS As the Audit & Supervisory Board of a company with auditors, the Audit & Supervisory Board has five members (three of whom are external) and conducts audits in accorCHAPTER dance with audit policies and audit plans. Its three external seats are entrusted to independent, trustworthy outsiders with the requisite knowledge, skills, experience and/or other qualifications of value to Marubeni’s wideranging business operations. Another consideration that factors into selection of external Audit & Supervisory 2  Board members is the degree to which they complement external directors’ expertise and skill sets. Internal Audit & Supervisory Board Members External (independent) Audit & 059 External (independent) Audit & Supervisory Board members’ Supervisory Board Members backgrounds and specialties Lawyer 1 person Senior corporate executive 1 person Government official 1 person  Years served as External external (independent) Audit & (independent) Audit & Supervisory Supervisory Board member Board Members 3 years 1 person 2 years 2 persons Corporate Governance System Basic View on Corporate Governance functions through its external directors and Audit ＆ SuMarubeni is committed to meeting the expectations of pervisory Board members. Marubeni believes that conits shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, local structive engagement with shareholders and investors communities and other stakeholders by striving to inplays an important role in mediumto long-term corcrease its corporate value in the aim of being a proud porate value enhancement. Through such engagement, corporate group that contributes to economic and Marubeni seeks to understand and appropriately resocietal development and preservation of the global spond to shareholders and investors’ perspectives while environment in accord with the spirit of its Compagaining their understanding of its management policies. ny Creed： “Fairness, Innovation, and Harmony.” To do Japan’s Corporate Governance Code was revised in so, Marubeni is endeavoring to improve its corporate June 2018. Marubeni’s corporate governance regime is governance as a cornerstone of sound, transparent and in compliance with the revised Code. Marubeni plans to efficient management. In accord with this fundamencontinue to pursue sounder, more transparent and more tal mindset, Marubeni has set independence standards efficient management to further upgrade its corporate INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 for external directors and Audit ＆ Supervisory Board governance. members and is upgrading its management oversight For further information, please refer to the Corporate Governance Report on the Company’s website. https://www.marubeni.com/en/company/governance/ Changes in Corporate Governance at Marubeni (%) 80 Percentage of external Audit & Supervisory Board members Percentage of external directors MARUBENI CORPORATION 60 40 Appointment of external directors (total: 2 persons) 20 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 ● Adoption of ● Term of directors executive officer changed from Clarification of system two years to one accountability framework Establishment of Committee of Executive Officers ● Establishment of Internal ● Establishment ● Establishment Proceedings conducted by Establishment of Enhancement of Control Committee of Compliance of Investment the Chairman of Marubeni, basic policy for management ● Establishment of Committee and Credit who has no executive authority internal control system 060 transparency and in capacity as the Chair of Disclosure Committee Committee soundness the Board of Directors ● Establishment of CSR & Environment Committee Establishment of Appointment of Participation of Enhancement of Audit Department external directors external directors supervisory and Dramatic increase in (2 persons) in Committee of audit functions Audit Department staff Executive Officers Establishment of Committee of ● Reduction in Heads of Divisions, adoption of number of Enhancement of managing officer system directors decision-making functions STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Corporate Governance System (a) Decision-making speed and efficiency Marubeni is classified as a company with auditors under Marubeni ensures swift and efficient decision-making by Japan’s Companies Act. The configuration of its manappointing directors who concurrently serve as execagement decision-making, executive and oversight funcutive officers and are deeply knowledgeable about its tions is shown in the “Corporate Governance Structure” diverse business activities. diagram on page 062. Marubeni operates a diverse portfolio of business(b) Appropriate oversight functions es globally. To ensure swift and efficient management Marubeni ensures appropriate oversight functions decision-making and appropriate management overthrough such means as filling at least one-third of the sight functions, Marubeni’s current governance model seats on its Board of Directors with external directors, is that of a company with both auditors and a Board of establishing an Audit & Supervisory Board Members’ Directors comprising internal and external directors. Office, promoting coordination of Audit & Supervisory Marubeni will maintain its existing governance Board members, the Audit Department and the accountmodel because it deems the model to be effective in the ing auditor and holding advance briefings on Board of following two respects. Directors meeting agendas for both external directors and external Audit & Supervisory Board members at the same time. Increase in external Audit & Supervisory Board members (total: 3 persons) Percentage of external Audit & Supervisory Board members 60% Increase in external directors (total: 4 persons) Percentage of external directors 40% CHAPTER 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2 ● Establishment of Nomination Committee ● Abolishment of Formulation of standards and ● Establishment of ● Establishment of Governance methodology regarding and Remuneration Committee Sustainability Advisor system independence of ● Implementation of performance Management Committee 061 external executives evaluations for the Board of Directors ● Formulation of appointment criteria for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members ● Increase in external Audit & ● Appointment of ● Increase in external directors (4 persons) Supervisory Board members female external director (3 persons) (1 person) Abolishment ● Change in the Board of Directors Flattened the chain of managing composition, from of command from officer system, four layers to 12 directors to 10 adoption of three layers Group CEO system Corporate Governance Structure (As of June 21, 2019) Board of Directors The Board of Directors is made up of 10 directors (four audit plans, the progress and findings of audits involving of whom are external). In addition to determining Group companies, financial results, matters requiring Marubeni’s management policies and other important attention, developments in the auditing profession and matters, the Board of Directors oversees directors’ exeother relevant matters. cution of their duties. To clarify management responsiAdditionally, the President periodically meets with bility and flexibly build an optimal management team in Audit & Supervisory Board members and reports to response to changes in the business environment, directhem on the status of business execution. Other directors are appointed for one-year terms. tors, Group CEOs, Division COOs and Corporate Staff Audit & Supervisory Board Group general managers annually report to Audit & As a company with auditors, Marubeni has an Audit & Supervisory Board members on the status of business Supervisory Board. Audit & Supervisory Board members execution. oversee directors’ execution of their duties by attending Corporate Management Committee INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Board of Directors meetings and other important manThe Corporate Management Committee, established as agement gatherings and investigating operations and an advisory committee to the President, comprises five the status of assets pursuant to audit policies and audit directors including the President, two senior managing plans formulated at Audit & Supervisory Board meetexecutive officers and a managing executive officer. It ings. Additionally, the Audit & Supervisory Board meets deliberates on important management matters. monthly with Marubeni’s accounting auditor to discuss MARUBENI CORPORATION Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Election and dismissal Election and dismissal Election and dismissal Audit & Supervisory Board of Directors Board Audit Audit & Supervisory Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Members Board Member’s Office 10 (four External) Accounting audit Five (three External) (Cooperation) Nomination Committee Accounting Auditor Governance and Remuneration Committee Appointing, removing, and supervising Accounting audit Audit Department President 062 Corporate Management Investment and Credit Committee Business Group Committee Compliance Committee Business Division Internal audit Committee of Sustainability Management Committee Corporate Staff Group Heads of Divisions Internal Control Committee Domestic and Overseas Branches & Offices Committee of Executive Officers Disclosure Committee (Business Execution System) STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Committee of Heads of Divisions Chair: Takao Kitabata, Director (External) The Committee of Heads of Divisions is made up of the Members: Masumi Kakinoki, President and CEO, President, representative directors, Division COOs, and Nomination Member of the Board Committee Kyohei Takahashi, Director (External) regional CEOs and COOs appointed by the President. It Takashi Hatchoji, Audit & Supervisory deliberates on matters related to business execution, inBoard Member (External) cluding budgets, financial results and funding plans. Committee of Executive Officers Governance and Remuneration Committee The Committee of Executive Officers comprises 33 The Governance and Remuneration Committee serves as executive officers (five of whom are also directors) to an advisory body to the Board of Directors, deliberating announce management policies issued by the Presidecision-making policies and the suitability of standards dent and to discuss financial performance, the results regarding remuneration for directors and auditors, and of internal audits, and other issues that affect business reporting its findings to the Board of Directors. Exterexecution, and to facilitate the exchange of information nal executives are the majority of committee members. between the oversight function and the implementation The committee also assesses and reviews the Board of function. Keeping communication lines open between Directors as a whole, including the Board’s composition the directors and executive officers, external directors and operations, and reports its findings to the Board of also attend these meetings. Executive officers are selectDirectors. ed by the Board of Directors and appointed to one-year Chair: Kyohei Takahashi, Director (External) terms of office. Members: Masumi MasuimiKakinoki, Kakinoki,President Presidentand andCEO, CEO, Nomination Committee Member of the Board The Nomination Committee serves as an advisory body Yukihiko Matsumura, Senior Executive Governance and Vice President, Member Member of of the the Board Board to the Board of Directors, deliberating on proposed canRemuneration Susumu Fukuda, Director (External) Committee didates for appointment as directors and auditors, and Shuichi Yoshikai, Audit & Supervisory Board Member (External) reporting its findings to the Board of Directors. External Tsuyoshi Yoneda, Yoneda, Audit Audit && Supervisory Supervisory executives are the majority of committee members. Board Member (External) CHAPTER Nomination of New President Marubeni is endeavoring to optimize its corporate governance as a foundation that ensures management soundness, transparency and efficiency with the aim of maximizing corporate value 2 in accordance with the Company Creed of “Fairness, Innovation and Harmony.” Toward this end, it has been upgrading management oversight functions through independent external directors. As one such initiative, the Company has been operating a Nomination Committee as an advisory body of its Board of Directors since the fiscal year ended March 2017. The Nomination Committee has four members, three of whom are independent external directors. I serve as the 063 Takao Kitabata Committee’s chairman. Chief External Director In selecting a nominee to serve as the Company’s next president, the Nomination Nomination Committee Chairman Committee spent ample time objectively and impartially discussing multiple candidates from numerous angles and carefully deliberating on their qualifications. After comprehensively assessing the candidates in light of the Company’s operating environment, the Committee decided that (then) Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer Masumi Kakinoki was the most qualified candidate. The Nomination Committee unanimously voted in favor of nominating Mr. Kakinoki and reported his nomination to the Board of Directors. The Board approved Mr. Kakinoki’s nomination in January 2019. Meeting Frequency of Boards and Major Committees (Fiscal Year Ended March 2019) Corporate Management Committee of Heads of Committee of Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Committee Divisions Executive Officers 19 10 32 3 4 Committee Roles and Functions Marubeni has established various committees designed to enhance corporate governance. A brief description of the principal committees and their respective governance roles is given below. Committee Role Chair Meeting Frequency Investment and Senior Managing Executive Projects pending approval, such as investments, are discussed and approved by the Investment and Credit Held three times a month Credit Committee prior to appearing on the Corporate Management Committee’s agenda. Officer in principle Committee Nobuhiro Yabe Compliance Senior Executive Vice The Compliance Committee provides support and guidance with regard to practicing compliance and as such Held four times a year and President Committee develops, maintains, and manages the Marubeni Group’s compliance structure. whenever else necessary Yukihiko Matsumura Sustainability The Sustainability Management Committee defines/redefines materiality inclusive of ESG (environmental, Senior Managing Executive Held once a year in Management social and governance) considerations across all business domains and deals with sustainability-related Officer principle and whenever Committee matters, including ESG compliance. Nobuhiro Yabe else necessary INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 The Internal Control Committee is responsible for developing and monitoring the enforcement of internal Internal Control Senior Executive Vice control policies based on the Companies Act as well as drafting revisions when necessary. It also establishes, President Held when necessary Committee operates, and verifies the effectiveness of internal control systems for financial reports in accordance with the Yukihiko Matsumura Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, while also drafting internal control reports. Disclosure The Disclosure Committee creates disclosure policies, ensures that internal systems concerning legally manSenior Managing Executive dated and timely disclosure are in place, and decides the importance and appropriateness of the information Officer Held when necessary Committee targeted for legally mandated or timely disclosure. Nobuhiro Yabe Functions and Roles of External Directors MARUBENI CORPORATION External directors offer opinions on management Board of Directors and Committee of Executive Officers and advice to improve corporate governance from a meetings from an internal control standpoint. Before high-level perspective grounded in extensive experiattending Board of Directors or other meetings, external ence. directors are briefed on management issues, business External directors attend and actively participate in execution status and the meeting’s agenda items. Major Activities  (As of June 21, 2019) Name Independent Reason for Appointment Advisory Committee Biography Participated in 18 meetings of the Board of Directors • Vice-Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Chief External out of a total of 19 meetings held during the business Chairman of • Director, Kobe Steel, Ltd. (current) Director year under review and made comments actively Y based primarily on his wide experience in governNomination • Chairman of the Board, Sanda Gakuen Junior & Senior High Schools Takao Kitabata ment services and his profound knowledge accumuCommittee • Director, Seiren Co., Ltd. (current) • Director, Zeon Corporation (current) lated through such experience. Participated in all meetings of the Board of Directors Nomination held during the business year under review and Committee, • President, CEO and Representative Director, Showa Denko K.K. Kyohei made comments actively based primarily on his wide Chairman of • Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Y experience from having been an executive of various Governance and Company (current) Takahashi corporate entities and his profound knowledge Remuneration • Advisor, Showa Denko K.K. (current) 064 accumulated through such experience. Committee • Commissioner, National Tax Agency • Vice-Chairman, The General Insurance Association of Japan • Assistant Chief Cabinet Secretary Participated in all meetings of the Board of Directors • Member, National Tax Council, Ministry of Finance held during the business year under review and Governance and • Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Susumu Fukuda Y made comments actively based primarily on his wide Remuneration Insurance Co., Ltd. experience in government services and his profound Committee • Chairman and Representative Director, Japan Real Estate Institute knowledge accumulated through such experience. (current) • Vice Chairman (Representative Director), Japan Tax Association (current) Participated in all meetings of the Board of Directors held during the business year under review and • Chairperson, The Japan Research Institute, Limited (current) made comments actively based primarily on her • Director, Nippon Yusen Kabushiki Kaisha Yuri Okina Y wide experience at a research institute and her pro• Director, Seven Bank, Ltd. found knowledge accumulated through such • Director, Bridgestone Corporation (current) experience. STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Functions and Roles of External Audit & odically meet with the President in addition to attending Supervisory Board Members meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board, Board of DiIn addition to overseeing directors’ execution of their rectors and Committee of Executive Officers. They also duties, Audit & Supervisory Board members help to set up meetings to confer with the Audit Department, improve the effectiveness of internal audits by offering Corporate Accounting Department and the accounting recommendations and advice based on their wealth of auditor and utilize audit-related information received experience. from full-time Audit & Supervisory Board members in External Audit & Supervisory Board members peritheir auditing work. Major Activities (As of June 21, 2019) Name Independent Reason for Appointment Advisory Committee Biography • President, Osaka High Court Participated in all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of the Audit & • President, Tokyo High Court Governance and Supervisory Board held during the business year under review and made comments • Admitted to Tokyo Bar Association Shuichi Yoshikai Y actively based primarily on his wide experience in legal services and his profound knowlRemuneration (current) Committee edge accumulated through such experience. • Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Shoko Chukin Bank, Ltd. • President and Representative Director, Hitachi Research Institute Participated in 18 meetings of the Board of Directors out of a total of 19 meetings and 9 • Representative Executive Officer, meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board out of a total of 10 meetings held during the Nomination Executive Vice President and Executive Takashi Hatchoji Y business year under review and made comments actively based primarily on his wide Committee Officer, Hitachi, Ltd. experience from having been an executive of various corporate entities and his profound • Director, Nitto Denko Corporation knowledge accumulated through such experience. (current) • Director, Konica Minolta, Inc. (current) Participated in all meetings of the Board of Directors and 9 meetings of the Audit & • Commissioner General, National Police Governance and Supervisory Board out of a total of 10 meetings held during the business year under Agency Tsuyoshi Yoneda Y review and made comments actively based primarily on his wide experience in governRemuneration • Director, Japan Exchange Group, Inc. Committee ment services and his profound knowledge accumulated through such experience. (current) Policy on Cross-Shareholdings* (Listed General whether to retain or divest cross-shareholdings based Investment Shares) and Reduction Thereof on the review’s findings. As a general rule, crossThe Company conducts diversified business activities shareholdings are sold if the Board decides that owning across a broad range of sectors through domestic and them is no longer justified. Sales of cross-shareholdings CHAPTER overseas networks. Cooperative relationships with a are reported to the Board of Directors in the fiscal year wide variety of companies are essential to its operations. following the decision to sell. *General The Company annually reviews the justification for owning each of its cross-shareholdings based on a comprehensive assessment of quantitative metrics (return investment shares are equity investments owned for a purpose other than as a pure investment. Voting Standard for Cross-Shareholdings (Listed 2 on investment (income/loss divided by acquisition cost) General Investment Shares) compared against the Company’s weighted-average cost When exercising voting rights on listed shares owned of capital) and qualitative factors (e.g., maintenance or as cross-shareholdings, the Company makes voting strengthening of relationships with investees through decisions primarily from the standpoint of increasing the 065 equity ownership). The Board of Directors then decides investee’s medium/long-term corporate value. Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members’ Compensation Marubeni has established a majority-independent Govercompensation levels. Directors’ compensation is set by nance and Remuneration Committee as an advisory body the Board of Directors’ resolutions within compensation to its Board of Directors. The Governance and Remunerlimits authorized at the General Meetings of Shareholders. ation Committee reviews, and reports to the Board of The composition of, and policies for setting, direcDirectors on, policies for setting directors and executive tors and Audit & Supervisory Board members’ compenofficers’ compensation and the appropriateness of their sation are as follows. (As of June 21, 2019) Applicable Individuals Compensation Policies Compensation-Setting Method • D irectors and executive officers are compensated in part with performance-based compensation. • To share the rewards and risks of share price movements with shareholders and • At the 92nd General Meeting of Shareholders on June 24, have a greater incentive to contribute to share price appreciation and enhance2016, shareholders passed a resolution limiting directors ment of corporate value, directors and executive officers are paid 20% of their Directors: 6 and executive officers’ aggregate annual compensation to total basic and performance-based compensation in the form of stock options Directors: 10 ¥1,100 million (external directors’ share of which is ¥60 instead of cash. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 million). Directors and executive officers’ compensation is • To better align compensation with the GC2021 Medium-Term Management set by Board of Directors’ resolutions within the limit Strategy’s management targets, the indicator used is the sum of 50% of conauthorized at the General Meeting of Shareholders. solidated net profit and 50% of core operating cash flow. External Directors: 4 Audit & Supervisory • At the 88th General Meeting of Shareholders on June 22, Audit & Board members: 2 • External non-executive directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members’ 2012, shareholders passed a resolution limiting external compensation consists solely of fixed basic compensation. They received no directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members’ aggreSupervisory performance-based compensation. gate monthly compensation to ¥12 million. External direcBoard External Audit & tors and Audit & Supervisory Board members’ MARUBENI CORPORATION members: 5 Supervisory Board compensation is set within said compensation limit by members: 3 agreement of Audit & Supervisory Board members. (Internal) Directors’ Compensation Compensation Type Description Fixed/Variable Form of Payment ①Basic • Basic compensation that varies based on individual director’s positions Fixed compensation • Compensation linked to previous fiscal year’s consolidated earnings 80% cash ②Performance• Performance-based compensation is the product of basic compensation and a multiplier 20% stock options • Its amount is set by multiplying basic compensation by a multiplier that increases in proporVariable (fiscal yearly based tion to the previous fiscal year’s consolidated net profit if it was at least ¥100 billion; the mulvariability) compensation tiplier is 0 if the previous fiscal year’s consolidated net profit was less than ¥100 billion (approx. +2 percentage points/every +¥5 billion) • Director bonuses ③Bonuses * Representative directors are paid representative director bonuses in addition to director bonuses Fixed Cash 066 Variable (fiscal yearly • Reflects quantitative and qualitative individual evaluations variability) ④Compensatory stock options • A dding to basic compensation up to 1.5 times an amount equivalent to 10% of basic compensubject to marsation, with three years since allocation as the starting date for the exercise of rights, only in the event that the Company’s market capitalization exceeds market capitalization as of the Fixed ket-capitalizaStock options allotment date after three years and the Company’s market capitalization condition growth tion-based rate is equal to or higher the TSE stock price index growth rate are stock options allocated with exercisability market capitalization conditions than can be exercised conditions STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION (Internal) Directors’ Compensation Mix Contingent Defined compensation compensation Fixed salary Variable compensation ④Compensatory stock Type of options subject to market①Basic compensation ②Performance-based compensation ③Bonuses capitalization-based compensation exercisability conditions Form of 80% cash compensation Cash Compensatory payment 20% compensatory stock options compensation stock options Performance-based Compensation Formula Performance-based compensation multiplier If the sum of 50% of the previous fiscal year’s consolidated net approx.  profit (profit attributable to owners of the parent) and 50% of the previous fiscal year’s core operating cash flow was at least  ¥100 billion, performance-based compensation is equal to basic compensation multiplied by a multiplier that increases in proportion Multiplier is 0 if previous to said sum (i.e., by approx. 2 percentage points per ¥5 billion in fiscal year’s consolidated net profit was less than ¥100 billion excess of ¥100 billion) Sum of 50% of consolidated net profit + 50% of ¥100 ¥105 core operating CF (in ¥100 mil.) billion billion Compensation for External Directors Compensation for external directors, who are independent from business execution, consists solely of basic compensation (no performance-based compensation). Compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members Compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board members, who are independent from business execution, consists solely of basic compensation (no performance-based compensation). Total Compensation Paid to Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members for the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2019 Position Total Amount of Compensation Number of Recipients Cash Compensation Compensatory Stock Options Directors (excluding external directors) ¥500 million ¥111 million ¥611 million 9 CHAPTER Audit & Supervisory Board members (excluding external Audit & Supervisory Board members) External officers ¥80 million ¥101 million － － ¥80 million ¥101 million 2 7 2 Total ¥681 million ¥111 million ¥792 million 18 Notes: • Rounded to the nearest million. • Limits to the amount of executive compensation determined by a resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders are as follows: “Annual pool not to exceed ¥1,100 million for directors (including pool of ¥60 million for external directors)” (at the 92nd General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2016, applicable to 10 directors (of which four are external directors)) and “Monthly pool not to exceed ¥12 million for Audit & Supervisory Board 067 members” (at the 88th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 22, 2012, applicable to five directors). In addition, based on a resolution of the 92nd General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2016 (applicable to six directors), the Company introduced a stock option system for directors (excluding external directors) with an “Annual pool not to exceed ¥220 million for directors. As of June 21, 2019, this rule applied to 15 directors. • The Company submitted a resolution to abolish its system of retirement bonuses for executives at the conclusion of the 83rd General Meeting of Shareholders, held on June 22, 2007, with abolishment accompanied by the decision to close out and pay any remaining retirement bonuses associated with the system. The Company will make these payments to directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members who are eligible under the resolution, paying directors when they have retired both from their directorship and any held post as executive officer, and paying Audit & Supervisory Board members upon their retirement. In the year ended March 31, 2019, retirement bonuses were not paid to the directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members who are eligible to receive a final payment in relation to the abolition of the retirement bonuses plan. Individuals to Whom the Total Amount of Compensation Paid Exceeded ¥100 Million for the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2019 Name Position Total Amount of Compensation Cash Compensation Compensatory Stock Options Teruo Asada Director ¥104 million ¥24 million ¥128 million Fumiya Kokubu Director ¥127 million ¥29 million ¥156 million Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors Internal Control The evaluation of effectiveness of the Board of Directors Basic Internal Control Policy in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 was conducted Marubeni seeks to steadily increase and maximize coras described below: porate value through business activities that are in Framework and Method of Evaluation accordance with its Company Creed and Management 1. Target Philosophy, and to steadily and continuously build and All Directors (10 people) and Audit and Supervisory expand the entire Group’s business foundation. To this Board members (five people) end, Marubeni has established internal control systems, * As of December 2018 which serve as a rational process to ensure improve2. Implementation Method ment of efficiency of business operations, accurate A questionnaire survey was conducted. (Anonymous responses.) financial reporting to stakeholders, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, safeguarding of assets, * The Company utilized an external specialized institution for its implementation. and appropriateness of corporate activities. Marubeni 3. Evaluation Items regularly reviews this internal control system based on (1) Roles and responsibilities of the Board of Directors its structure and operation status to respond to changes (2) Relationship between the Board of Directors and in social conditions and the business environment. senior executives (3) O rganizational design and composition of the In accordance with the Companies Act and its INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Board of Directors and other bodies implementation guidelines, Marubeni has established a (4) Q uality and expertise of Directors and of the Basic Internal Control Policy, which helps to ensure that Board of Directors all business activities are conducted appropriately. Each (5) Deliberation by the Board of Directors year, Marubeni confirms the content and implementa(6) Relationship and dialogue with shareholders (7) Engagement with stakeholders other than tion of this policy, and implements improvements when shareholders necessary. With regard to the internal control report (8) Progress of improvement issues from the fiscal system mandated under the Financial Instruments and MARUBENI CORPORATION year ended March 31, 2018. Exchange Act, the Internal Control Committee conducts 4. Evaluation Process evaluations as stipulated in the practical standards. As The Board of Directors deliberated in view of the results in the year ended March 31, 2018, we submitted our inof the evaluation and review by the Governance and ternal control report for the year ended March 31, 2019, Remuneration Committee concerning the overall Board which concluded that, “internal control is effective.” of Directors, including its composition and operation, based on the responses to the questionnaire. Basic Internal Control Policy (Key Items) ① System necessary to ensure that the execution of duties by Directors and Overview of the Evaluation Result employees complies with laws and regulations and the Articles of Incorporation The Board of Directors deliberated in view of the results ② Systems to preserve and manage information related to the execution of duties by Directors of the evaluation and review by the Governance and ③ Internal regulations for the risk management of losses and other related Remuneration Committee and confirmed that, on the whole, systems the Board of Directors is being operated effectively. The ④ Systems necessary to ensure the efficient execution of duties by Directors ⑤ Systems necessary to ensure the appropriateness of operations by the previous fiscal year’s evaluation identified a need for more Group thorough deliberation on important matters. Measures ⑥ Matters concerning employees assisting the duties of Audit & Supervisory 068 to address this issue that were implemented in the fiscal Board Members, and matters concerning the independence of these emyear ended March 2019 (e.g., improvement in reporting on ployees from Directors ⑦ Systems for Directors and employees to report to Audit & Supervisory Board directors’ execution of their duties, revision of materiality Members and other systems for reports to Audit & Supervisory Board Memstandards for inclusion of individual projects/investments bers on Board meeting agendas) were evaluated positively in ⑧ Other systems necessary to ensure effective audits by Audit & Supervisory Board Members the latest evaluation. Meanwhile, some of the participants expressed expectations of additional initiatives to promote more substantive discussions of Group management policies. Please refer to the corporate website for information on the Company’s basic internal control policy. The Company will continue to endeavor to maintain https://www.marubeni.com/en/company/governance/measure/ and improve its Board of Directors’ effectiveness in light internal_control/ of the latest evaluation and review. STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Compliance As it advances its global operations, Marubeni acts in ees, as well as the presidents of all domestic Marubeni accordance with the belief that compliance goes beGroup companies, make a written statement to adhere yond merely following the letter of the law. In its truest to the code expressed in this manual. As of October sense, compliance means corporations—as good mem2018, the Compliance Manual, now in its 15th edition, bers of society—practicing high levels of ethics, living up is available in English as well as Japanese, and can be to the expectations of stakeholders, and fulfilling their viewed on the Company’s website. social responsibilities. To achieve this type of compliance, Marubeni is reinforcing and regularly improving its Compliance Education and Training compliance systems under the guidance of the CompliThe Marubeni Group conducts education and training ance Committee, which is overseen by the President and programs throughout its organization in accordance CEO. with the Marubeni Group Compliance Manual. SpecificalWe have also established the specialized Complily, we conduct e-Learning programs and group training ance Control Department and are constructing complisessions to teach employees about general compliance ance systems and spreading awareness with an emphatopics, antibribery precautions, and cartel countersis on preventing the occurrence of serious economic measures. In addition, the Chairman of the Compliance crimes within the Group. Going forward, we will continue Committee and representatives from the Compliance to strengthen global compliance systems that encomControl Department make periodic visits to Group compass all Group companies. panies and overseas offices to provide training and raise awareness of compliance. Stringent Application of the Compliance Manual Part of the Marubeni Group’s Company Creed is “FairAbout Japan Fair Trade Commission’s October 2018 Announcement ness.” This symbolizes our pledge to always conduct In October 2018, the Japan Fair Trade Commission (JFTC) ourselves in a fair and upright manner. We have defined announced that Marubeni and its subsidiary Marubeni Mates committed antitrust violations in connection with a bid to Marubeni’s stance on compliance as: “When you are supply uniforms to NTT Docomo for Docomo Shop faced with a choice between integrity and profit, choose employees. The Group has always endeavored to comply with appliintegrity without hesitation.” Based on this stance, cable laws. It takes seriously the fact that it was raided multiple times by JFTC investigators in connection with the relevant Marubeni has compiled the Marubeni Group Compliance transactions. In response, it has conducted an internal investiManual, which specifies the standards of behavior that gation with the cooperation of an external law firm and is further strengthening its compliance and working diligently to Group employees are expected to follow in all their daily CHAPTER prevent recurrence through such means as revising its internal work activities. regulations and reeducating employees on compliance, including antitrust law. Every year, the Company’s executives and employOrganizational Diagram for the Marubeni Group Compliance System 2 Report or consult through regular reporting lines Audit & Supervisory Board of Directors Board Members Compliance reporting and consultation hotline Direct Feedback control President Compliance Committee Reporting Lines 069 (Through Supervisors) Corporate Management Chief Compliance Officer Committee (Chairman of Compliance Committee) Secretariat Report Instruct (Compliance Control Department) Employees Group and Branch Office Compliance Officers “Marubeni Hotline” (Compliance Committee Members) (Compliance Committee) Report/Consult Instruct/Advise “Marubeni Hotline” Marubeni Group Company (Outside Legal Counsel) Reporting Lines Compliance Officer (Through Supervisors) Marubeni Group Marubeni AntiEmployees Corruption Hotline Compliance Access Point (Serious Crimes, such as Bribery) Corporate Management (As of June 21, 2019) Members of the Board ❶ ❸ ❺ INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 MARUBENI CORPORATION ❷ ❹ ❻ ❶ Fumiya Kokubu ❸ Yukihiko Matsumura ❺ Nobuhiro Yabe Chairman of the Board Senior Executive Vice President, Senior Managing Executive Officer, CAO; Senior Operating Officer, Audit Dept.; CFO; Chief Operating Officer, Investor Relations and Senior Operating Officer, Executive Secretariat; Credit Ratings; Chairman of Investment and Credit ❷ Masumi Kakinoki Senior Operating Officer, New Office Building Committee; Chief Sustainable Development Officer; President and CEO Project Dept.; Chief Compliance Officer; Chairman of Disclosure Committee Chairman of Internal Control Committee; 070 Chief Information Officer ❻ Hirohisa Miyata ❹ Ichiro Takahara Managing Executive Officer, Senior Executive Vice President, CDIO; CSO; Regional CEO for East Asia; Chief Executive Officer, Power Business, Vice Chairman of Investment and Credit Committee Energy & Metals Group STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION ❽ ❼ ❾ CHAPTER ❼ Takao Kitabata External (Independent) Director ❽ Kyohei Takahashi External (Independent) Director ❾ Susumu Fukuda External (Independent) Director Yuri Okina External (Independent) Director 2 071 Audit & Supervisory Board Members ❶ ❸ ❺ INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 MARUBENI CORPORATION ❷ ❹ ❶ Kazuro Gunji ❷ Hikaru Minami ❸ Shuichi Yoshikai ❹ Takashi Hatchoji ❺ Tsuyoshi Yoneda Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board External (Independent) Audit & External (Independent) Audit & External (Independent) Audit & Member Member Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member 072 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Senior Managing Executive Officers Executive Officers Kaoru Iwasa Eiji Okada Takayuki Furuya Regional CEO for ASEAN & Southwest Asia; Regional COO for Chief Operating Officer, Plant Div. General Manager, Corporate ASEAN; Managing Director, Marubeni ASEAN Pte. Ltd. Planning & Strategy Dept. Soji Sakai Akira Terakawa Senior Operating Officer for ASEAN & Yoshiaki Yokota Chief Executive Officer, Food, Agriculture & Chemicals Group; Southwest Asia; President, Marubeni Thailand Chief Operating Officer, Vice Chairman of Investment and Credit Committee Co., Ltd.; General Manager, Bangkok Branch Power Business Div. Hajime Kawamura Hisamichi Koga Jiro Itai Chief Executive Officer, Machinery, Infrastructure & Financial General Manager, Chubu Branch Chief Operating Officer, Business Group Construction, Auto & Industrial Yutaka Shimazaki Machinery Div. General Manager, Executive Secretariat, and Managing Executive Officers Corporate Communications Dept. Kosuke Takechi Chief Operating Officer, Mutsumi Ishizuki Minoru Tomita Aerospace & Ship Div. Regional CEO for Europe & CIS; Regional COO for Europe; General Manager, Osaka Branch Managing Director and CEO, Marubeni Europe plc Takao Ando Hidekazu Futai General Manager, Senior Operating Officer, Agri Business Div. Risk Management Dept. Takeo Kobayashi Chief Executive Officer, Consumer Products Group Hidenobu Kumada Tsuyoshi Teragaki Chief Operating Officer, Food Div. Chief Operating Officer, Michael McCarty Chief Operating Officer, Agri Business Div.; Forest Products Div. President & CEO, Helena Agri-Enterprises LLC Jun Hirasawa Regional CEO for China; Satoru Ichinokawa President, Marubeni (China) Co., Ltd. Chief Operating Officer, Akihiko Sagara Chief Operating Officer, Energy Div. Chemicals Div. Makoto Sato Shinichi Kobayashi Regional CEO for Middle East Takashi Imamura Chief Operating Officer, Metals & Mineral Resources Div. General Manager, Research Institute Yuichi Ohira Chief Operating Officer, Lifestyle Div. Jun Horie CHAPTER Regional CEO for the Americas; Regional COO for North & Central America; President and CEO, Marubeni America Corporation Kenichiro Oikawa Chief Operating Officer, Finance & Leasing Business Div. 2 073 Organization (As of April 1, 2019) In April 2019, Marubeni embarked on structural reforms to implement new growth strategies toward the realization of the Marubeni Group’s Global Crossvalue Platform vision. General Meeting of Audit & Supervisory Board Shareholders Business Group Audit & Supervisory Board Members Consumer Products Group Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Members’ Office President Corporate Management Committee Corporate Staff Group Food, Agriculture & Chemicals Group Committee of Heads of Divisions INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Audit Department Committee of Executive Officers Executive Secretariat New Office Building Project Department Power Business, Energy & Metals Group Corporate Planning & Strategy Department MARUBENI CORPORATION Regional Coordination & CSO Administration Department Chief Strategy Officer Research Institute Corporate Communications Department Corporate Accounting Machinery, Infrastructure & Financial Business Group Department Business Accounting CFO Department Chief Financial Officer Finance Department Sustainability Management Department CDIO Chief Digital Innovation Officer Human Resources Department 074 General Affairs Department Information Strategy Department Domestic Branches & Offices CAO Chief Administrative Officer Risk Management Department Legal Department Compliance Control Department Overseas Branches & Offices STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Business Division Reorganizing Business Groups and Flattening Chain of Command (From Four Layers to Three) Lifestyle Division In light of business conditions, we reorganized our business group structure in an attempt to promote optimized and efficient business strategies. We also flattened the chain of command from four layers ICT & Real Estate Business Division (President, Group CEOs, Division COOs and departmental general managers) to three (President, Division COOs and general managers), creating a structure enabling each business division to execute Forest Products Division strategies more quickly. Food Division Agri Business Division Chemicals Division Power Business Division Energy Division Metals & Mineral Resources Division Plant Division Aerospace & Ship Division Aim of Next Generation Business Development Division Establishment CHAPTER The Next Generation Business Development Division will create new Finance & Leasing Business Division business models focused on the next ten years. Specifically, the Asia Construction, Auto & Industrial Machinery Division Business Department, Next Generation Social Infrastructure Department, Healthcare & Medical Business Department, New Business Development Department and the Digital Innovation Department were all 3 established under the division's umbrella to pursue “white spaces” Next Generation Business Development Division (growth areas and business models not currently incorporated into our business), including platform businesses targeting the Asian middle-class, urban development and smart city-related businesses, 075 health and wellness businesses and FinTech businesses with the aim of realizing explosive growth over the next 10 years. In addition to participating in innovation ecosystems located in New York, Silicon Valley, Singapore, and Shenzhen, etc., we will also establish a new European base in Tallinn, Estonia, which is promoting the realization of a digital nation. These efforts are intended to accelerate the incorporation of cutting-edge technologies and business models. See “Next Generation Business Development Division: —Business Development Organization for the Creation of New Business Models Focused on the Next 10 Years” on page 026 for more details on the Next Generation Business Development Division. Consumer Products Group Lifestyle Division PRESENT STATE ANALYSIS Strengths Opportunities • Ability to keep abreast of diversification of con• Expansion of the consumer class in the wake of sumer lifestyles and accurately identify changglobal population growth and rising standards ing trends/needs; advanced design-oriented of living in emerging economies merchandise planning capabilities • Growth in demand for environmentally friendly We globally provide everyday consumer • Long-standing Asia-centric production network materials, products and services amid a trend products and services optimized to the end with stable, timely, right-sized supply toward sustainability user across a wide range of markets and capabilities industries. • Supply chains vertically integrated from raw maRisks terial sourcing through end-product production • Rising costs in key production regions amid INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 • Diverse product lines, including apparel, footeconomic growth in emerging economies Yuichi Ohira wear, lifestyle products, industrial materials and • Relative weakening of existing functions and Chief Operating Officer, Lifestyle Div. textile materials rapid structural changes in distribution networks amid digitalization and IoT proliferation GROWTH STRATEGY O MARUBENI CORPORATION ne of the Lifestyle Division’s core businesses is OEM*1/ODM*2 manufacturing of products such as apparel and footwear. We are focusing on expanding OEM/ODM sales in European markets, in addition to our core domestic market, through Saide Tekstil Sanayi ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi (Saide), a Turkish company in which we acquired an equity stake in 2017. We will expand OEM/ ODM sales in the global apparel market, focusing mainly on growing middleclass demand, by combining Saide’s product planning and short lead-time production capabilities with Marubeni’s merchandise sourcing capabilities in Asia. In the brand marketing business, IFME, a Marubeni’s own brand of children’s shoe, and Merrell, an American outdoor brand, both continue to sell well. The MAJOR PRODUCTS AND AREAS Lifestyle Division aims to develop IFME into an all-around brand by extending its Apparel, footwear product line beyond shoes, deploying digital technologies and expanding points Lifestyle products of contact with customers. Textile materials, industrial materials Utilizing the functions and know-how cultivated in these existing business076 es, we will focus on direct-to-consumer businesses also. Additionally, we will pursue sustainability initiatives such as building circular businesses and proactively utilizing environmentally friendly materials like recycled fibers and organic cotton to help bring about a sustainable society. *1. OEM: Original Equipment Manufacturer; manufacturing of products sold under the contractee’s name or brand *2. ODM: Original Design Manufacturer. An ODM does everything from the development and design to the production of a product that is eventually sold under another firm’s name or brand L STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Supplying on-trend merchandise fast with Saide’s. Specifically, Marubeni is op— Saide (Turkey) timally combining the planning, production and sales channels of Marubeni and Saide has a planning base in London, the Saide to create synergies in ways such as center of fast fashion. In recent years Saide constructing a short lead-time production has been rapidly expanding sales in the scheme for Asian customers. In global European apparel market by providing cusapparel and other lifestyle-related markets tomers with a short lead-time production projected to grow in tandem with populafunction in Turkey, which has a cluster of tion growth and economic development, LIFESTYLE textile manufacturers and is situated next Marubeni aims to expand its sales by upDIVISION to Europe, and a design and planning funcgrading its OEM/ODM services for SPAs*3, tion that reflects the latest global trends. improving its product mix and increasing Meanwhile, Marubeni has established a its price competitiveness. production system that enables stable and *3. SPA: Specialty store retailer of private label apparel right-sized supply of high-quality apparel, footwear, and other everyday consumer goods on a timely basis at competitive prices for the Japanese and other Asian markets. Since acquiring an equity stake in Saide in 2017, Marubeni has been creating new value and maximizing its OEM/ODM business’s value by combining its strengths Saide plans, manufactures and sells apparel, among goods Marubeni’s Strengths Saide’s Strengths Sales channels in Asia Sales channels in Europe Sourcing capabilities Ability to plan merchandise Acceleration of growth through added value CHAPTER Stable right-sized production Short lead-time production 3 Saide 077 Tekstil Sanayi ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi Consumer Products Group ICT & Real Estate Business Division PRESENT STATE ANALYSIS Strengths Opportunities • Proprietary platform capable of meeting diverse • Growth in opportunities to provide new soluconsumer needs; wide range of service offerings tions in response to changes in the everyday (e.g., Internet and property management serenvironment in the wake of advancements in vices for condo complexes, nationwide mobile digital and information technologies We organically integrate specialized knowphone retail chain) how in information and communication • Expertise and know-how in accurately idenRisks technologies (ICT), real estate, logistics tifying increasingly diverse consumer needs; sophisticated deal-structuring and operational • Contraction in domestic demand in the wake of and insurance to provide high-value-added capabilities backed by experience low birthrate and societal aging solutions utilizing new technologies. • Pending consumption tax hike that may dampen INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 domestic consumer demand Tatsuya Abe Chief Operating Officer, ICT & Real Estate Business Div. GROWTH STRATEGY T he ICT & Real Estate Business Division is involved in a broad range of business domains related to consumers’ everyday lives, including telecommunication infrastructure, mobile devices and housing. We provide high-value-addMARUBENI CORPORATION ed solutions and services in response to customer needs that are changing as digital and information technologies evolve. In the ICT business, the ICT & Real Estate Business Division operates system solutions and network businesses, mainly through Marubeni Information Systems Co., Ltd. and ARTERIA Networks Corporation, respectively. They provide solutions for manufacturers, CRM* solutions and high-speed telecommunication lines. The mobile phone sales business, operated mainly by MX Mobiling Co., Ltd., is focusing on improving the efficiency of its carrier shop operations and strengthening its custom solutions for corporate customers. In the real estate business, the ICT & Real Estate Business Division runs a MAJOR PRODUCTS AND AREAS redevelopment/reconstruction business, demand for which is growing in Japan, Network and develops rental properties. In doing so, we are exploiting the track record Systems solutions and expertise we have amassed in developing housing in Japan and overseas. In Mobile sales the REIT business, we are enlarging our investment universe with the aim of ac078 Domestic and overseas housing development J-REIT/Private placement REIT/Private real estate fund cumulating more assets. management business In the logistics business, the ICT & Real Estate Business Division is focusing Property management on digital supply chain management services that optimize supply chains and Logistics improve their visibility. In the insurance business, our main priority is expanding Insurance and reinsurance our domestic and overseas insurance agency operations. In addition to these initiatives, the ICT & Real Estate Business Division aims to achieve further growth by developing value-added service businesses such as smart homes and sharing that cross-pollinate information/communication technologies and real estate, as well as solutions and services that leverage new technologies like 5G. *CRM: Customer Relationship Management I STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Co-owned housing development project in plied over 11,000 dwelling units. Jiaxing City, China (near Shanghai) Marubeni, which has a track record of housing development in Japan and China, will work with the Strongtree Group, a In China, Marubeni has partnered with Zheleading developer in Jiaxing, to promote jiang Strongtree Real Estate Group Co., Ltd. high-quality housing development projects (Strongtree Group), a local developer, to that harness development expertise from develop housing in Jiaxing, a city in ZheJapan while incorporating Chinese culture jiang Province, earning the distinction of and lifestyles. ICT & being the first Japanese company to take REAL ESTATE BUSINESS part in property development in Jiaxing. The project, Marubeni’s 14th in China, is DIVISION a big one, with total floor area of some 220,000m2 (10-building condominium complex with 1,800 units, another building with 360 units of condominium for the elderly and commercial facilities). Marubeni has been actively involved in Chinese housing development projects since the 1980s. Its Architectural rendering of housing development in Jiaxing Chinese projects have cumulatively sup(China) Providing a broad range of services and soluFor corporate customers, the mobile tions across the entire mobile phone lifecycle phone sales business offers various device deployment and management services tailored to customers’ needs from the The ICT & Real Estate Business Division standpoint of improving operating efficienprovides innovative, optimal solutions for cy, reducing costs, mitigating risks and/or every stage of any mobile phone’s lifecycle. strengthening sales capabilities. Our mobile phone sales business opAdditionally, the mobile phone sales erates a nationwide chain of stores as an business is expanding its operations by authorized dealer for wireless carriers. We leveraging expertise and technical capabilare one of the top mobile phone retailers in ities gained from repairing mobile phones. Japan. Recently, we are also pursuing new For example, it now buys and resells used business ventures, including a new store mobile phones and offers mobile phone concept that enables shoppers to experirentals, leasing and warranties, among othCHAPTER ence next-generation technologies such er support services. as VR and IoT and a mortgage brokerage Marubeni is Japan’s only general business that capitalizes on customer service know-how cultivated over many years of store operation. trading company that owns an MVNO (mobile virtual network operator) business. The MVNO business will provide 3 high-value-added communication lines, mainly for various industrial applications. 079 Top: Mobile phone being repaired (Kanagawa Prefecture) Lower left: SIM cards provided MVNO and communication terminal Lower right: Miyamaedaira NTT Docomo Shop, opened in August 2018 (Kanagawa Prefecture) Consumer Products Group Forest Products Division PRESENT STATE ANALYSIS Strengths Opportunities • Value chain encompassing everything from tree • Development of business models aligned with farming through paper end-product sales trend toward ESG and SDGs, most notably • Massive pulpwood plantation and pulp plant in decarbonization and reduction of plastic usage Sumatra, Indonesia, that is in proximity to Asian The hallmarks of our forest products are markets sustainability, renewability and recyclabil• Sales networks in paper, paperboard, pulp and ity. We are expanding our businesses that woodchip markets Risks contribute to the environment and society. • Containerboard manufacturing/sales subsidiaries’ production technology/know-how • Weather/fire risks to tree farming business • Pulp business’s sensitivity to market price INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 • Feedstock supply network for biomass power Tsuyoshi Teragaki plants that help promote the spread of renewfluctuations Chief Operating Officer, Forest Products Div. able energy GROWTH STRATEGY T MARUBENI CORPORATION he Forest Products Division aims to strengthen its earnings foundation, mainly through stable operation of its Indonesian afforestation business and pulp manufacturing business (Musi Pulp Project) and improvement in the profitability of its domestic paper and paperboard manufacturing and sales operations. Additionally, we are building business models that involve developing biomass fuels, including internally sourced wood pellets, that contribute to realization of a low-carbon society; branching into markets for new materials with promising demand growth prospects, like cellulose nanofiber; and selling plasticalternative products in sync with a global trend toward reduction in plastic usMAJOR PRODUCTS AND AREAS age. In Vietnam, the Forest Products Division has decided to invest in a containWood chips and biomass fuel erboard manufacturing and packaging materials sales business with the aim of Pulp and waste paper building a presence in the rapidly growing Vietnamese packaging market. In adPaper and paperboard dition to conventional paper and pulp products, we will broadly focus on ligne080 Building & construction materials and wood products ous materials that embody our products’ hallmarks of sustainability, renewability and recyclability. In the process, we will also broaden our customer base across a wider range of industries, thereby expanding our operations that address and help solve environmental and social problems. F STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Musi Pulp Project (Indonesia) TEL as a pulp manufacturer and even for the sales force that markets and sells TEL’s pulp. However, the Forest Products Division The Forest Products Division operates PT. marshaled its full capabilities and was able Musi Hutan Persada (MHP), a forest plantato start shipping eucalyptus pulp in 2017. tion company, and PT. Tanjungenim Lestari Together, MHP and TEL employ about Pulp & Paper (TEL), a pulp manufacturer, in 2,000 workers. Including affiliated comsouthern Sumatra in the Republic of Indopanies’ workforces, Musi Pulp Project has nesia. MHP’s tree farming operations cover created 10,000 jobs. MHP and TEL are also FOREST PRODUCTS some 300,000ha, equivalent to 1.4 times involved in running a local preschool and DIVISION the land area of the Tokyo metropolis. TEL elementary/middle school. They operate manufactures and exports, mainly to Asia, their businesses in harmony with the local pulp from eucalyptus trees harvested by community. MHP. The Forest Products Division will MHP had been growing acacia trees continue to focus on building sustainable since its inception before switching to relationships with local communities and eucalyptus trees in 2013, when the acacia making positive contributions economically, trees became blighted. The switch was an environmentally and socially by sustainably unprecedented challenge not only for MHP operating its afforestation and pulp manuas a forest plantation company but also for facturing businesses. Musi Pulp Project's Competitive Advantages and Societal Significance Cost competitiveness Low-cost operations by virtue of a production process integrated from tree farming (raw material) through pulp manufacturing; geographic advantage of proximity to huge Asian markets Pulp sales capabilities Global sales network and high degree of trust from the market Operational management capabilities Wealth of human resources and operational know-how in tree farming and pulp manufacturing Integration into local community Created 10,000 jobs, including affiliates’ workforces; runs local preschool and elementary/ middle school Environment Sustainable resource management (Forest certification, ISO 14001, etc.) CHAPTER 3 081 Tree plantation business (Indonesia) Food, Agriculture & Chemicals Group Food Division PRESENT STATE ANALYSIS Strengths Opportunities • Roughly 30% share of Japan’s coffee bean • Growth in demand for high-quality food imports products (e.g., coffee, beef) in emerging market • Owns Iguaçu de Café Solúvel (Iguaçu), a Braeconomies (e.g., China, Asia) zilian instant coffee manufacturer with sales in • Growth in global demand for grains and other We pursue further advancement of the over 40 countries foods value of our businesses by strengthening • Owns high-quality beef suppliers in the U.S. and our value-added sourcing, production and Australia, two top beef-producing countries Risks sales of grains and other foods, taking • Stable worldwide grain supply capacity by virtue of a global network extending from grain • Changes in political or economic conditions in maximal advantage of our global network end-market countries (country risk) INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 origination through sales of subsidiaries and sales channels. • Risk of natural disasters such as crop failures due to abnormal weather Hidenobu Kumada Chief Operating Officer, Food Div. GROWTH STRATEGY T he Food Division’s strategic priorities are strengthening specialty prodMARUBENI CORPORATION uct marketing, upgrading manufacturing functions, boosting its overseas share of revenue and maximizing the value of its livestock feed business and the efficiency of its grain trading operations. We will expand operationally and grow sustainably by building value-added production and processing businesses and improving the efficiency of grain origination and trading operations. In the food products business, we are expanding the scope of our operations by acquiring high-quality food suppliers throughout the world in addition to strengthening existing businesses and expanding domestic and overseas trade. Specific initiatives include expanding the capacity of U.S. beef processor/ supplier Creekstone Farms Premium Beef LLC (Creekstone Farms) and Brazilian instant coffee manufacturer Iguaçu. The latter’s new capacity is slated to be MAJOR PRODUCTS AND AREAS commissioned into operation in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021 to meet Grains in general (corn, soybeans, wheat, rapeseed, etc.) Feed ingredients (soybean meal, rapeseed meal, fish globally growing coffee demand. meal, etc.) In the grain sector, we are strengthening our earnings power by functionally Compound feed leveraging grain origination, storage and distribution capacity in American grain 082 Consumer-use food products, commercial-use food belts to expand sales in markets in which Marubeni possesses strong sales inframaterials, dairy products and agricultural resources Marine products, processed seafood, and fresh and structure. Additionally, the Food Division will move one step closer to helping processed meat achieve the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for society. Toward this Raw ingredients for food (flour, sugar, oils and fats, etc.) end, Marubeni entered into a strategic partnership with an agri-tech startup with Raw materials for beverages (coffee, tea, fruit juice, etc.) proprietary circulatory biomass recycling technology in the fiscal year ended March 2019. The Food Division will continue to focus on cultivating diverse human resources and fostering an open organizational culture to create new business models in response to constant changes in the business environment, including IT innovation and fragmentation of consumer demand into niche markets. F STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Continue building the “Marubeni Premium The Food Division is currently moving Beef” brand in a rapidly growing global marforward with a series of unique initiatives ket for premium beef. that synergistically combine Creekstone — Creekstone Farms (U.S.) Farms and Marubeni's respective strengths. On the sales side, it is expanding sales of Creekstone Farms’ high-quality beef to Marubeni subsidiary, Creekstone Farms, has Japan, China and elsewhere in Asia by built a distinctive business model around way of established Rangers Valley sales supplying premium beef products sourced channels. On the production side, it is FOOD DIVISION exclusively from high-quality Black Angus endeavoring to improve productivity by cattle born and raised in the U.S. and finstrengthening its pre-existing stable sourcished on a predominantly grain-based diet. ing capabilities and sharing know-how Creekstone Farms processes the cattle at gained from the Marubeni Food Division its own full-service facility in Kansas and with Creekstone Farms to help improve the sells it to high-end steakhouses and superbusiness model. markets throughout the U.S.. It also exports Demand for premium quality beef in high quality beef to Asia, Europe and the emerging economy countries is forecasted Middle-East. to rise in the coming years and Marubeni Likewise, Marubeni has long been raiswill take this opportunity to expand its ing and selling high-quality beef in collabobusiness. Using two major beef production ration with its Australian subsidiary Rangers countries, the U.S. and Australia, as bases Valley Cattle Station Pty., Ltd. (Rangers Valof operations, Marubeni aims to strengthen ley). Marubeni Group’s operating compaits position in the growing premium quality nies also produce broiler chickens in Japan beef market with its own “Marubeni Premiand China. This provides Marubeni with vast um Beef” brand. experience and know-how in selling safe and trusted meat products to distributors, supermarkets, restaurants and food processors around the world based on stringent production management standards developed in global markets. Marubeni’s Strengths Creekstone Farms’ Strengths High-value-added cattle (high-end) High added value (upper mid-end) CHAPTER Asian sales channels U.S. sales channels Acceleration of 3 RV brand Creekstone Farms brand growth through added value 083 Cattle-fattening and yield-improvement know-how Food, Agriculture & Chemicals Group Agri Business Division PRESENT STATE ANALYSIS Strengths Opportunities • Subsidiary Helena Agri-Enterprises (Helena), an • Generation of synergies through integration of agri-input retailer with close ties to the commuagri-input and North American grain businesses nities it serves, is ranked second by market share • Agri-input market growth driven by need to in North America increase foodstuff production and limits on With the agri-input and North American • Stable worldwide grain supply capacity by expansion of arable acreage grain businesses paired as a single business virtue of a global network extending from grain division, we will strengthen our earnings collection through sales Risks power by pursuing synergies across both • Risk of changes in farmers income levels or businesses. weather events that impact group companies’ INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 sales Michael McCarty • Country risk due to changes in political or Chief Operating Officer, Agri Business Div. economic conditions GROWTH STRATEGY I MARUBENI CORPORATION n the agri-input business, the Agri Business Division offers services to help farmers increase their profitability and productivity in addition to expanding existing operations through M&As and capital investment. Such services include contract farming and consulting aided by sophisticated IT-enabled agri-tech. We aim to also build new agri-input sales platforms outside of North America. Additionally, we plan to add value operationally by deploying Helena’s service model in other operating companies within the Marubeni Group. In the North American grain business, we aim to strengthen Gavilon and Columbia Grain International’s earnings power, further improve the efficiency of their North American grain collection facilities and create crossvalue through collaboration and affiliation with the agri-input business. MAJOR PRODUCTS AND AREAS Sales of agri-inputs (crop protection products, fertilizers, The Agri Business Division is currently expanding businesses in agri-input seeds, Helena-brand products) product development, contracting and production operations, agri-input retailSubcontracting services for fertilization and crop protecing operations, grain collection and exporting operations and specialty product tion products dispersion 084 operations in Asia—mainly Japan, Malaysia and Myanmar—and in the West— Provision of precision agriculture and other technical services mainly the U.S., the U.K., the Netherlands and Brazil. We will offer even more Contract crop protection products formulation crossvalue by providing optimal solutions to farmers around the world. Fertilizer raw materials Grain & oilseed (corn, wheat, barley, soy, vegetables, edible beans etc.), Procurement and export business in the U.S. A STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Top-tier agri-input retailer in the U.S., the currently expanding its operations further world’s most advanced agri-business market by developing new services such as AGRIn— Helena (U.S.) telligence, a consulting service powered by the state-of-the-art precision agri-tech. Helena sells agri-inputs in the U.S., the world’s biggest agricultural producer. With AGRIntelligence precision agri-tech consultsome 150 million hectares of arable land, ing service equivalent to nearly four times Japan’s Helena offers multi-faceted analysis that total land area, the U.S. market is marked utilizes digital technology to grain better AGRI BUSINESS by extremely diverse agri-input needs. It is visibility into customers’ soil and crop conDIVISION also the world’s most advanced agri-busiditions throughout the U.S. Based on such ness market. Helena continues to evolve in analysis, Helena provides individually cusresponse to an ever-changing market envitomized programs, including which product ronment while further solidifying its status to apply, at which rate, and when, to help within the industry as a top U.S. agri-input customers increase their yield and operatretailer. In addition to selling agri-inputs ing efficiency. and consulting with customers, Helena is U.S. grain collection and export business company; the latter operates grain export terminals on the West Coast. They are wellequipped to agilely meet grain demand Headquartered in the U.S., the world’s top from Japan, among many other countries grain-producing and -exporting country, around the world. Gavilon is a grain collection and sales company with some 140 grain collection sites throughout the U.S. It also operates in major grain belts outside of the U.S., including in Brazil, an increasingly high-profile grain producer in recent years. Marubeni owns two other grain-related companies in the U.S.: Columbia Grain International and Pacificor. The former, like Gavilon, is a grain collection and sales Gavilon grain terminal CHAPTER 3 085 Food, Agriculture & Chemicals Group Chemicals Division PRESENT STATE ANALYSIS Strengths Opportunities • Broad base of customers and suppliers across a • Development of life science and related busiwide range of industries nesses set to grow in tandem with population • Roughly 30% share of global ethylene trade growth • Dutch subsidiary Orffa International’s promi• Entry into solar-power-related businesses that We aim to be a group of sales professionals nence in European feed additives market will promote proliferation of renewable energy that provide added-value to customers • Electronics value-chain businesses that extend and markets by tapping into our trading downstream from scarce resources Risks platform across a broad range of industries. • Partnerships with top industry players in diverse • Trade in petrochemical and other products chemical product trading markets highly sensitive to market price changes INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Satoru Ichinokawa • Downturn in trade due to political or economic Chief Operating Officer, Chemicals Div. risks in the U.S. and/or China, both of which are major importers of chemicals GROWTH STRATEGY ● T MARUBENI CORPORATION he Chemicals Division serves a broad range of industries, reflecting the nature of the products in which it deals. We operate in an opportunity-rich environment in which societal problems and market needs are readily identifiable amid recurring cycles of drastic structural change. Capitalizing on such a business environment, the Chemicals Division aspires to be a group of sales professionals with the ability to conceptualize products/services and offer solutions while maintaining a strong focus on creatively adding value. In the electronic materials business, earnings continue to grow briskly, and the Innovation Promotion Office has been newly established in April 2019 to catalyze novel “chemical reactions” in new fields that go beyond chemical products. MAJOR PRODUCTS AND AREAS Basic petrochemical products and plastic derivatives In the commodity chemical, largely olefin, trading business, an area in which Salt and chlor-alkali products Marubeni has long been one of the top-ranked players in the industry, the ChemLife science products like functional feed additives, icals Division aims to further expand its trading volume by playing a bigger role oleochemicals, multifunctionals for food products 086 in balancing supply and demand and to add maximum value by leveraging loElectronic materials, inorganic mineral resources, fertilizer materials and inorganic chemicals gistics functions and other such services. In the specialty chemicals business, we will delve more deeply into solution-oriented distribution businesses, capitalizing on Marubeni Group sales networks and product capabilities that tap into points of contact with customers. In the life science business, which has particularly promising prospects of sustainable growth in tandem with population growth, we will focus on further expanding its operations around Dutch subsidiary Orffa International Holding B.V., one of Europe’s largest distributors of livestock feed additives. C STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Marubeni’s Global Chemical Businesses Marubeni’s Chemicals Division operates businesses worldwide through four business units and a global network centered on a nucleus of over 20 consolidated subsidiaries and associates. Commodity chemical trading (olefins, vinyl chloride resin, caustic soda, etc.) CHEMICALS DIVISION Expanding operations with a focus on life sciences Expanding environmentally attuned businesses, most • Operates in multiple life science markets, including notably electronic materials and renewable energy functional food/beverage ingredients and feed additives • Globally trades LIB materials essential for storage batteries • Building a nationwide logistics network in China for hazardous chemicals and refrigerated/frozen chemical materials for LCDs • Providing full range of solar power solutions, from Investee: Orffa International (feed additives distributor) equipment sales to project organization Home country: Netherlands Marubeni Group’s equity stake: 80% • One of Europe’s largest feed additives distributors • Pursuing worldwide distribution of feed additives that meet European safety and environmental standards (From left) LCD plant, one of the largest in the world, owned by China’s BOE Technology Group; Lithium-ion through Marubeni’s network batteries manufactured by Northvolt of Sweden; Mega solar power plants in Soo City, Kagoshima Prefecture CHAPTER Handling the world largest volume of olefin products • Roughly 30% share of global seaborne trade volume Global chlor-alkali trader with integrated supply chain extending upstream to feedstock salt business 3 • Owns and hires around 30 gas carriers to provide on-time • World’s top-ranked vinyl chloride resin trader by unit volume delivery service • Major player in global caustic soda market Investee: Dampier Salt (solar salt manufacturer) 087 Home country: Australia Marubeni Group’s equity stake: 21.51% • World’s top industrial salt exporter by unit volume • Roughly 30% share of Asian trading volume Power Business, Energy & Metals Group Power Business Division PRESENT STATE ANALYSIS Strengths Opportunities • Strong area business & marketing forces, proj• Growing prevalence of De-carbonization, ect development hubs and asset management De-centralization and Digitalization (“3Ds”) in teams; IPP*1 business of world-class scale the power sector • IPP business’s proven track record, competitive• Changes of energy mixes and policies in major As a global player in IPP as well as power ness, in-house development and problem-solvcountries service business, we are committed to coning know-how/capabilities • Technological innovations in major power genertribute toward building a sustainable society • Extensive EPC*2 track record (overseas) and ation equipment such as offshore wind and solar through delivering safe and stable electric unique EPC management capabilities power power and services which can preserve the • Vast experience in electric power wholesaling/ • Digital technological innovations such as AI, IoT INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 retailing and Big Data global environment. *1. IPP : Independent Power Producer *2. EPC : Engineering, Procurement and Construction Risks Yoshiaki Yokota • Policy change in liberalized power market-counChief Operating Officer, Power Business Div. tries • High volatility of fuel energy and/or natural resource prices • Weather variation risks that would affect the power supply-demand balance MARUBENI CORPORATION GROWTH STRATEGY T he De-carbonization, De-centralization and Digitalization (“3Ds”) are rapidly gaining prevalence in the power industry. Decarbonization is manifesting as efforts to mitigate climate change in response to a growing commitment to a low-carbon society; decentralization, as dispersion of power sources to enable local power production for local consumption; and digitalization, as adoption of digital technologies that would efficiently operate power plants and deploy renewable energy sources-certification. Seeing such changes in the busiMAJOR PRODUCTS AND AREAS ness environment as the opportunities, the Power Business Division is expanding Power generation business the portfolio scale of the power generation business as its earnings base. As Renewable energy announced in September 2018, we strive to double the ratio of power generatPower service and retails business ed by renewable energy sources in our net power supply by 2023 and increase 088 EPC business and offshore wind turbine installation Wholesale and retail power sales energy value chain type business such as fuel to power IPP projects having proCommunity-based multi utilities service Power digital and new energy solution business curement of LNG or biomass fuel through power generation. In parallel with the power generation business’s expansion, we are diversifying power service business, in which we are expanding retail-power business with various services to those customers and community based multi-utilities service businesses through distributed power supply and off-grid power sources. Additionally, we will proactively deploy digital technologies such as AI and IoT to improve the efficiency of own and major client’ power plants, to operate IT driven power retailing businesses and to provide various digital services to our customers and the businesses’ platform usership. P STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Energy solution business To adapt to diversification and expansion by renewable energy sources (e.g., solar, of the energy business domain, the Power offshore/onshore wind power, geothermal Business Division is committed to be a partand so on) by which we can contribute to ner always providing optimal power/energy a low-carbon society to mitigate climate solutions to meet and satisfy stakeholdchange. We will also actively pursue energy ers’ and society’s expectations and needs. value chain (e.g., fuel-to-power) projects POWER BUSINESS While continuing to strengthen its portfolio that integrate every step from LNG/bioDIVISION in gas fired thermal projects, it is intensively mass fuel sourcing through power generaexpanding its portfolio of power generated tion. Power services & retail business U.K. subsidiary SmartestEnergy Ltd., (Smarticipated since 2018 to supply distributed testEnergy) is a retailer of most of procured power sources in off-grid areas of Africa. power sourcing in renewable energy. We Additionally, we will utilize digital technolplan to expand and diversify SmartestEnogies such as AI and IoT to improve the ergy’s business, both within the U.K. and efficiency of its power plants and other to other countries/regions. We aim to also companies’ power generation assets, also expand community-based multi utilities to pursue businesses that serve IT power service business that provide various utility retailing business and digital solution to its services to the power retailing business’s business platforms’ prosumers (producer/ customer base, as well as the operations of consumers). a new project in which Marubeni has parCHAPTER 3 089 Wind power project in North America Power Business, Energy & Metals Group Energy Division PRESENT STATE ANALYSIS Strengths Opportunities • Competitive upstream interests such as the • Growth in natural gas/LNG and new energy (e.g., Qatar LNG and Sakhalin Projects ammonia, hydrogen) businesses amid transition • One of Japan’s top energy (e.g., natural gas, to low-carbon society LNG, petrochemical feedstock) trading • Changes in sales channels due to shift in LNG With sights set firmly on the advent of a businesses demand toward Asia low-carbon society, we provide compre• New energy businesses conducting demonstrahensive energy solutions to address societal tion projects in Japan and overseas challenges and changing customer needs. • Nuclear energy business that adds value Risks throughout the supply chain • Market fluctuations such as resource prices and INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 shifts in geopolitical trends • Changes in energy demand structure in develAkihiko Sagara oped countries Chief Operating Officer, Energy Div. GROWTH STRATEGY T MARUBENI CORPORATION he Energy Division aims to be a solutions provider capable of addressing societal challenges and changing customer needs on the path toward a low-carbon society. In the natural gas/LNG business, we are aggressively expanding our operations across the entire natural gas/LNG value chain from upstream resource development downward in anticipation of future demand growth. Specific initiatives include ongoing efforts to improve the operational stability and efficiency of existing operations and increase the value of projects. Over the longer term, we will increase the share of natural gas/LNG in our portfolio of upstream interests. In trading, logistics and marketing businesses, we are pursuing further earnings growth, mainly through petrochemical feedstock and natural gas/LNG trading, one of Marubeni’s fortes. Core logistics and marMAJOR PRODUCTS AND AREAS keting subsidiaries, including Marubeni Energy Corporation, Marubeni Ennex Exploration, development, and production of oil and gas Corporation and ENEOS GLOBE Corporation, are swiftly adapting to changes in Natural gas business (production, liquefaction, trade, and infrastructure) their operating environment while endeavoring to add more value to their asset New energy related business (hydrogen, ammonia, holdings. In the new energy business, the Energy Division is working to commer090 municipal solid waste, thermal energy storage) cialize CO2-free energy carriers such as hydrogen and ammonia in Japan and Petroleum & lpg trade, distribution and marketing business overseas. We have been involved in such CO2-free energy carrier supply chains Nuclear energy business (development of uranium since the demonstration stage. In the nuclear energy business, we will provide mines, nuclear fuel cycle, related equipment sales & total solutions by upgrading the entire supply chain from upstream development services) of uranium resources through the back end of the nuclear fuel cycle. E STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Upstream resource businesses and supply supply chains through involvement in gas chains that contribute to stable energy projects around the world, including in Qasupplies tar, Equatorial Guinea, Peru and Papua New Guinea. While continuing to maintain the operating stability of existing projects, the Marubeni is steadily exploring for, develEnergy Division will intensify its overall efoping and producing oil and gas resources forts from upstream through downstream, in the U.S., U.K., India and elsewhere. It is focusing on pursuing new investment opalso strengthening and restructuring its portunities and expanding trade to meet ENERGY DIVISION trading operations to better meet customfuture growth in global LNG demand. It is ers’ changing needs. Another priority is also proactively branching into new busiincreasing the value of oil and gas interests ness domains, including a business that will through appropriate cost management and supply LNG as a maritime fuel in anticipaoperational efficiency upgrades. tion of future demand and gas-to-power With demand for natural gas/LNG projects encompassing everything from projected to grow substantially, the Energy natural gas supplies to power generation Division is working diligently to expand infrastructure as a package deal. and add more value to its natural gas/LNG Developing new energy businesses that will Additionally, the Energy Division has usher in a low-carbon society entered the waste-to-energy business through an equity investment in Fulcrum BioEnergy Inc., a U.S. manufacturer of jet The Energy Division is building new energy fuel from municipal waste. It is also actively businesses in preparation for the advent developing an energy storage business to a low-carbon/carbon-free society. It is ineven out variability in renewable energy volved in demonstration projects and comsupplies from sources such as solar and mercialization of supply chain businesses for wind power. The Energy Division is pursuCO2-free fuels such as hydrogen, ammonia ing various other new energy initiatives in and biofuels. One hydrogen project in which Japan and overseas, most notably trading it is involved is a low-carbon hydrogen supof emission rights, a form of environmental ply chain project that uses conversion and value earned by reducing greenhouse gas storage technologies to turn electric power emissions through such means as installing into hydrogen in Tomiya, Miyagi Prefecture, energy-efficient equipment or using renewCHAPTER Japan. Another aims to build a supply chain able energy. to liquefy and export hydrogen produced from brown coal in Australia. The Energy Division is also ramping up efforts to build a supply chain for ammonia, another promising CO2-free new energy carrier. It is pre3 paring to supply ammonia to Japan from overseas. Hydrogen supply chain project (water electrolysis facility in Tomiya, Miyagi Prefecture) 091 Marubeni Ennex’s Chiba Terminal Power Business, Energy & Metals Group Metals & Mineral Resources Division PRESENT STATE ANALYSIS Strengths Opportunities • Strong earnings foundation rooted in ownership • Long-term growth in demands for metals and minof multiple highly cost-competitive projects eral resources supported by global economic growth • Top-caliber partners committed to increasing • Growth in demand for nonferrous light metals asset values together with Marubeni by virtue of advent of IoT society and proliferaWe support peoples’ daily lives and contrib• One of the world’s top-ranked metal traders by tion of EVs ute to the development of society by securunit volume ing and stably supplying metal resources • Worldwide steel distribution network essential to the global economy. Risks • Market price changes that directly affect busiINTEGRATED REPORT 2019 nesses’ earnings Shinichi Kobayashi • National policies that affect businesses’ progress Chief Operating Officer, Metals & Mineral Resources Div. • Changes in the business environment amid the transition to a low-carbon, circular society GROWTH STRATEGY T MARUBENI CORPORATION he Metals & Mineral Resources Division owns mining and/or refining rights for iron ore, coking coal, copper and aluminum, all of which are essential to economic development. It contributes to Marubeni’s overall earnings through stable operation of its mines and smelters and ongoing cost reductions. The Metals & Mineral Resources Division owns interests in several upstream projects that are highly competitive even by global standards: Roy Hill Iron Ore Project in Australia, Queensland Coal Mines in Australia and Chilean copper mines co-owned with Antofagasta plc., all of which have been designated as core projects. Through a combination of expansion of prime projects and organic growth, including growth in trading volumes, we are focused on building a project portfolio that can stably contribute to earnings even during downturns in MAJOR PRODUCTS AND AREAS metal prices. Development of iron ore, coal, and copper mines In the investment business, we will strengthen cost competitiveness by Smelting and refining of aluminum utilizing AI and IoT technologies, better manage mine operations, develop new Trading of iron ore, coal, ferroalloy, and ferrous raw materials deposits in the vicinity of existing mines and add to holdings of mining interests. 092 Trading of non-ferrous metals, ingots, and related We will also seek to acquire prime new projects based on a long-term perspecproducts tive. We will strengthen our earnings foundation throughout the value chain by Steel product trading and business investment expanding not only upstream but also midstream and downstream operations. Leasing of temporary steel construction materials In the trading business, the Metals & Mineral Resources Division will contribute to solving environmental challenges with global societal implications by stepping up environmental and circular business initiatives. We will focus on expanding businesses in markets with favorable demand growth prospects, capitalizing on trends such as proliferation of EVs and migration to lighter-weight vehicles as opportunities. M STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Growing copper business of copper cathode equivalent, one of the biggest hoards of copper resources owned by any Japanese company. The three ChilWith the age of electro-mobility rapidly ean mines are co-owned with Antofagasta approaching, copper is currently in the plc of the U.K., one of the world’s top copspotlight. Marubeni has been investing per producers. Together with Antofagasta, in copper resources since the 1970s, exMarubeni aims to further increase the panding its operations while amassing a mines’ asset value by expanding their prolong track record and know-how in the duction capacity and developing adjacent METALS & copper business. It currently owns 30% of deposits. The Metals & Mineral Resources MINERAL RESOURCES the Centinela and Antucoya Copper Mines Division will contribute to the development and a 9.21% interest in the Los Pelambres of society by meeting growing copper deDIVISION Copper Mine, all in Chile. Its share of the mand with stable supplies. three mines’ reserves equates to 150,000t Roy Hill Iron Ore Project (Australia) omies with stable supplies of high-quality iron ore, most of which is sold to Japanese and other Asian steelmakers under longDemand for iron, a base metal essential for term agreements. daily life and industry, has been steadily Another distinctive feature of the Roy growing in tandem with global economic Hill mine is that its deposits are located growth. at a shallow depth below ground, making Marubeni owns 15% of the Roy Hill them accessible by low-cost and environIron Ore Project, the largest single iron ore mentally friendly open-pit mining. Once a mine in Western Australia’s Pilbara region. pit is completely mined, it is refilled with With 55 million tonnes of annual producthe overburden removed from the next pit tion capacity located on a vast site bigger to be excavated and then re-covered with than Singapore, the project was developed its original topsoil containing the indigeat a total cost of A$11.0 billion (U.S.$7.9 nous seeds and microorganisms needed to billion). Its integrated mine, rail and port inrevitalize the land. All pits are expected to frastructure are all owned in-house. One of basically be fully restored to their original the world’s most cost-competitive iron ore status by around the time the Roy Hill mine mines, the project is contributing to develshuts down. opment of Asian steel industries and econCHAPTER 3 093 Roy Hill Iron Ore Project (Australia) Machinery, Infrastructure & Financial Business Group Plant Division PRESENT STATE ANALYSIS Strengths Opportunities • A global investment portfolio diversified across • Infrastructure development/replacement transportation, water, energy infrastructure and demand in both developing and developed industrial plant sectors (e.g., railway PPPs*1, countries industrial parks, port operation, water/wastewa• New PPP business opportunities utilizing private We are striving to maximize the value of ter projects, gas transport/distribution, FPSOs*2, capital our businesses through deep involvement waste-to-energy projects) and proven track • Increasingly stringent environmental regulations in managing infrastructure projects while record in EPC*3 and trade and growing environmental consciousness • Project development, structuring, execution and • New infrastructure business opportunities also seeking to realize a carbon-free society management capabilities backed by extensive arising from technological innovation by promoting efficient water and energy track record in infrastructure investment, EPC INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 utilization that contributes to preservation and trade Risks of the earth’s environment. *1. PPP: Public-Private Partnership • Decreased business opportunities due to slow*2. FPSO: Floating Production, Storage and Offloading down in economic growth system Eiji Okada *3. EPC: Engineering, Procurement and Construction • National policies and regulations that affect Chief Operating Officer, Plant Div. investment, EPC and trade opportunities GROWTH STRATEGY MARUBENI CORPORATION T he Plant Division globally operates infrastructure businesses that serve as a foundation for sound, harmonious development of society and industry. Its portfolio includes railway and road PPPs, water and wastewater utilities, desalination plants, gas transport and distribution infrastructure, FPSO facilities for crude oil and waste-to-energy projects. The Plant Division aims to accumulate stable income streams through investments in infrastructure projects and to deepen involvement in managing these projects to maximize their value. Additionally, we are amassing a track record in EPC and O&M*4 through a selective focus on sectors and regions in which we can exercise our strengths. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, the Plant Division launched a fund MAJOR PRODUCTS AND AREAS to invest in overseas infrastructure assets. While capitalizing on synergies EPC for industrial plants (oil/gas/chemical, steel, cement, pulp & paper, sugar, textiles, waste to energy power between the fund business and our other operations, the Plant Division will generation etc.) continue to contribute to the development of social and industrial infrastructure Investments in oil and gas infrastructure projects throughout the world. 094 EPC, operation and maintenance for railway systems Additionally, the Plant Division is pursuing initiatives to meet societal needs Investments in transportation infrastructure projects (railway, road, port, airport, etc.) or respond to societal trends. Such initiatives include waste-to-power and wasteInvestments in the water business (water supply, wasteto-liquid-fuel projects that contribute to progress toward a decarbonized sociwater treatment, desalination, etc.) ety and circular economy, and proof-of-concept toward commercialization of EPC, operation and maintenance for water related an AI-powered water main condition assessment service in Europe. Embracing facilities Circular economy businesses such as waste to energy market changes as opportunities, we will continue to pursue new challenges in power generation, fuel conversion etc. the plant and infrastructure sectors. Management of infrastructure funds *4. O&M: Operating and Maintenance P STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Launch of fund specializing in equity investsectors, focusing specifically on operational ments in overseas infrastructure assets infrastructure projects with stable cash flows in OECD countries. Through such an investment approach, Marubeni has engaged in the infrastructure the fund aims to reduce country risks and business since the 1950s. It has been inproject risks, capture yield and provide volved in construction, operation and manlong-term, stable investment opportunities agement of a wide variety of infrastructure. to pension funds and other institutional In the process, it has amassed not only a investors. PLANT DIVISION wealth of experience and an extensive track “The MM Capital Infrastructure Fund record in infrastructure projects but also a 1” achieved its first close with an investtop-class portfolio of overseas infrastrucment commitment of around ¥20 billion, in ture assets. Marubeni rivals major overseas March 2019. It plans to continue to broadly infrastructure funds in terms of its infrareach out to number of investors and start structure investment record. investing in Australian assets and projects Utilizing its overseas infrastructure developed and owned by Marubeni as seed investment expertise and management assets. It aims to build a portfolio of up to capabilities cultivated to date, Marubeni ¥50 billion by investing in prime assets in partnered with Mizuho Bank, Ltd. and AsE u ro p e a n d t h e set Management One Co., Ltd. in January Americas. 2019 to launch an infrastructure fund. The venture’s first fund is named “MM Capital Infrastructure Fund 1”. It will invest in the transportation and energy infrastructure Energy infrastructure asset in fund’s portfolio (Australia) Marubeni Mizuho AM-0ne Investment Investment LP Investors MM Capital Partners Marubeni (General Partner) Management & Operation Mizuho LP Commitment Equity Investment (JPY) MM Capital Infrastructure Fund 1 (Various Currencies) Other Investors Overseas Infrastructure Project (Cayman) Dividend Dividend (JPY) (Various Currencies) CHAPTER 3 095 Sydney Metro Northwest (Australia) Machinery, Infrastructure & Financial Business Group Aerospace & Ship Division PRESENT STATE ANALYSIS Strengths Opportunities • Product and service lineup encompassing every • Growth in aircraft demand and demand for stage of aircraft lifecycle from development to aircraft O&M services ownership, operation and retirement • Growth in ship demand driven by growth in • Deep insight into customers/markets and seaborne cargo volumes amid a trend toward a We create new value by connecting solutions capabilities gained from operating a borderless global economy Marubeni’s functions with customer broad array of businesses in the aerospace and needs as a comprehensive aero-marine defense industries solution provider. • Management capabilities in businesses that Risks own and operate ships ranging from general • Event risk, including the risk of terrorism, merchant ships to LNG carriers INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 regional conflicts, war, epidemics or other • Ship trading, investing and financing service changes in international conditions and resultant capabilities increases in jet fuel prices Kosuke Takechi • Operational capabilities enabling rapid expan• Fluctuation in newbuild ship pricing and/or Chief Operating Officer, Aerospace & sion into new business domains marine freight rates Ship Div. GROWTH STRATEGY I MARUBENI CORPORATION n the aviation sector, the Aerospace & Ship Division operates a diverse collection of businesses, including aircraft sales, maintenance and support services, parts trading and airport ground handling, in an aviation market that continues to grow against a backdrop of solid growth in passenger traffic. Additionally, we plan to branch out into new businesses, including development of new financing schemes, an intra-airport autonomous vehicle business and businesses related to business jets, with the aim of becoming a value-up trader that optimally manages aircraft-related assets. In the ship sector, we serve fleet operators, shipowners, shipbuilders, financial institutions and other customers around the world. We do so with diverse functions ranging from sourcing and ownership structuring to ship manMAJOR PRODUCTS AND AREAS agement and chartering from ships across multiple businesses, including charter Aircraft & engine parts trading business and fund establishment, development investment brokerage, second-hand ship sales, fleet ownership/operation and trading in not Sales representatives for commercial aircraft and defense only newbuild vessels but also marine equipment. We plan to further strengthen equipment, and space-related projects these functions with the aim of evolving into a comprehensive ship service 096 Business jet sales agency & business, airport related businesses provider. Sale and purchase, chartering, and ownership of merIn the defense and space sector, we aim to expand beyond our existing dechant ships fense equipment distributorship business by entering new business domains and Ownership and chartering of lng carriers, and investramping up our presence in space-related businesses in light of Japan’s changing ments in offshore businesses national security environment. Armed with the ability to create new value by organically connecting our functions with customers’ needs, we will further augment our strengths as an industry-leading provider of comprehensive aero-marine solutions. A STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Comprehensive solution provider to global cultivated over decades in the ship trading maritime cluster business. It also has an LNG carrier business that transports LNG pursuant to longterm charter contracts. Additionally, it is a An industry cluster is a web of direct and hands-on provider of various value-added indirect business relationships among services and solutions, from ship sourcing companies and organizations that drives and ownership structuring to management, business expansion and gives rise to new chartering and selling ships. businesses. One such cluster that is tightly With global cargo volumes projected AEROSPACE & SHIP linked to the global economy is the marto continue growing by virtue of global DIVISION itime cluster (shipowners, shipbuilders, population growth and rising standards of marine equipment manufacturers, financial living in Asia, the Middle East, Africa and institutions and ship operators), which supelsewhere, the global maritime-cluster econports global logistics. The Aerospace & Ship omy is likewise expected to grow steadily. Division possesses strengths accessible to The Aerospace & Ship Division will run its maritime clusters all over the world and has businesses as a group of professionals that a prominent presence as a trusted business continues to create new value, partly by partner. Specifically, Marubeni owns and being first to identify needs in the global operates its own fleet of ships, mainly dry market. bulk carriers, capitalizing on its strengths Main Types of Ships Dealt in Value Chain Financial institution(s)/ Cargo owner insurer(s) Containership Shipbuilder Shipowner Charterer Marine equipment Ship management manufacturer(s) company Bulk carrier LNG carrier CHAPTER 3 097 Machinery, Infrastructure & Financial Business Group Finance & Leasing Business Division PRESENT STATE ANALYSIS Strengths Opportunities • Relationships with top-caliber partners around • Auto and freight demand growth supported by the world robust U.S. economy • Automotive product and industry expertise • Solid growth in global air passenger traffic The Finance & Leasing Business Division has cultivated over decades • Cold chain market growth driven by expansion been formed to consolidate finance and • Wealth of know-how amassed through of middle class in developing countries leasing businesses across the Group into a aircraft and aircraft engine sales and maintenance support Risks single division transcending product • Specialized leasing expertise in specific products verticals. We aim to create new value • U.S. economic slowdown; rising U.S. interest such as refrigerated trailers and freight railcars INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 rates around the finance function. • Collaborations with partners with industry-lead• Temporary slowdown in growth in passenger ing IoT technologies traffic due to, e.g., terrorism or regional conflict Kenichiro Oikawa • Over 20 years of investment know-how as a • Slowdown in middle-class growth due to, e.g., Chief Operating Officer, Finance & domestic private equity fund pioneer emerging market currency depreciation Leasing Business Div. GROWTH STRATEGY T MARUBENI CORPORATION he Finance & Leasing Business Division aims to achieve multi-layered growth through cross-pollination by effectively managing its portfolio of financial businesses while strengthening its asset-side information and knowhow. Its strategy is to maximally deploy internal and external financial resources in pursuit of value creation in accord with the GC2021 Medium-Term Management Strategy’s growth horizons. In its existing business domains, the Finance & Leasing Business Division plans to upgrade portfolio quality. On the individual deal level, we will better serve customers and provide more value by utilizing IT and data in addition to the expertise and know-how we have cultivated to date across various sectors. On the overall portfolio level, we will strategically reallocate capital based on MAJOR PRODUCTS AND AREAS ROE, market size and growth rates, market share, volatility and country risk, Auto finance business among other factors. At the same time, we will focus on horizontally extending Aircraft engine leasing business existing business models. We are already geographically expanding our refrigerLeasing, rental, maintenance, sales, and fleet management of refrigerated trailers ated trailer leasing business, utilizing expertise and IoT services developed in the 098 Leasing, rental, maintenance, sales, and fleet manageU.S. We will do likewise with other businesses. ment of commercial vehicles Additionally, the Finance & Leasing Business Division aims to build Leasing, management, and brokerage of commercial freight railcars next-generation financial business models that synergistically utilize existing Comprehensive leasing & non-bank business assets atop new platforms. We will establish new business models that lead to Corporate investment and fund management business explosive future growth through cross-pollination of, for example, rental/leasing services with fleet management in response to the sharing economy’s growing popularity or, as another example, trade finance with e-commerce to capture expansion of commodity distribution due to middle-class growth. F STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Expansion of general leasing and finance and IBJ Leasing will soundly grow MG business domain Leasing by collaboratively leveraging their respective strengths and know-how, including the overseas networks Marubeni has Marubeni has designated the finance and built as a general trading company and IBJ leasing business domain as one growth Leasing’s sophisticated financial know-how. sector. We aim to develop new leasing *For example, domestic and overseas leasing transactions businesses, mainly overseas, while further within the Marubeni Group growing and expanding existing leasing FINANCE & and finance operations, including its U.S. LEASING BUSINESS aircraft, auto, freight railcar and trailer leasing businesses. DIVISION In March 2019, Marubeni partnered with IBJ Leasing Company, Ltd., to further grow MG Leasing Corporation, a general leasing company in the Finance & Leasing Business Division. IBJ Leasing acquired an equity stake in MG Leasing, opening a new chapter for the latter. Marubeni executed the deal out of a belief that collaborations with strategically compatible partners with top-notch financing capabilities are essential to further grow the Group’s domestic and overseas captive businesses* and expand the leasing and finance business domain overseas. Going forward, Marubeni Real estate asset finance CHAPTER 3 099 Machinery, Infrastructure & Financial Business Group Construction, Auto & Industrial Machinery Division PRESENT STATE ANALYSIS Strengths Opportunities • Sales, investment and operational know-how • Growth in demand for resource development amassed over decades through global business and infrastructure in the wake of economic and activities, a workforce of professionals wellpopulation growth We aim to provide new value by delving versed in their respective industries, a fast infor• Growing diversity of business domains in which mation network linking domestic and overseas AI, IoT, automation and other new technologies deeper into existing businesses, branching are used operating companies, overseas subsidiaries and out into peripheral businesses and the Tokyo Head Office, and strong relationships synergizing asset holdings. of trust with globally top-tier manufacturers Risks • Diverse lineup of products and services, includ• Event risk, including terrorism, regional conflicts INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 ing trading, wholesaling and retailing, that meet and other such changes in international conditions Jiro Itai a wide range of customer needs domestically Chief Operating Officer, Construction, and internationally • Obsolescence of existing markets due to technoAuto & Industrial Machinery Div. logical innovation; risk of competition from new entrants from other sectors GROWTH STRATEGY T MARUBENI CORPORATION he Construction, Auto & Industrial Machinery Division will maximize operating efficiency based on conventional trading and direct investment businesses in four sectors while further strengthening its earnings foundation through expansion of peripheral businesses. In the construction machinery sector, we sell construction machinery products from globally top-tier Japanese manufacturers worldwide. We aim to become an all-around construction/heavy machinery service provider by adding new brands, functions and services to our existing distributorship platform while expanding our customer base and diversifying our business model. In the automotive sector, we aspire to be a service provider that fully utilizes new technologies and data in addition to the industry expertise, customer base, dealer networks and other assets we have accumuMAJOR PRODUCTS AND AREAS lated to date in our existing trading, wholesaling, retailing and parts sales busiSales, services, and financing of construction and mining equipment nesses. In the tire and rubber materials sector, we have built a rubber value chain Automotive trade, distributor & dealer business, and that extends from upstream (rubber raw material sales) through midstream and aftermarket services. downstream (trading in tires and other rubber products, overseas retail busi100 Retail sale of tires & automobile after market service business nesses) with the aim of rising to the top of every market in which we operate by Sale of conveyor belts and other rubber materials & raw developing new merchandise and geographic markets and globally expanding materials existing businesses. In the industrial/production machinery sector, the ConstrucSales and peripheral businesses related to automotive tion, Auto & Industrial Machinery Division aims to build new business models production line and machine tools Sales of industrial machinery and investment in related involving EVs, distributed power sources, smart factories and other next-generbusiness ation technologies, capitalizing on its broad industry connections and company Mobility services & related businesses networks cultivated over decades. In all four of these sectors, we will diversify our operations with the aim of creating new technologies and new industrial businesses that transcend boundaries between existing industries. C STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Renewable energy × mobility business development, power retailing and solar panel and storage battery inspection services. The Construction, Auto & Industrial The Construction, Auto & Industrial MaMachinery Division will seek to provide chinery Division is proactively pursuing value that contributes to the development initiatives to usher in the mobility society of of sustainable communities, economies and the future as encapsulated by the acronym societies by actively embracing technoCASE*, said to be a once-a-century revological innovation and adopting new techlution in the auto industry. It is also worknologies applicable to both the renewable CONSTRUCTION ing on renewable energy solutions, partly energy and mobility businesses. AUTO & INDUSTRIAL through equity investments in startups that *CASE: Connected, Autonomous, Shared, Electric are installing fast charging infrastructure for MACHINERY EVs and developing autonomous delivery DIVISION vehicles. It is combining such investments with new businesses such as car sharing and development of distributed power sources and existing businesses such as solar panel sales, mega solar power plant Advent of mobility society All-around construction/heavy machinery pairs. A crew of some 5,000 specialists service provider provides total support for customer difficulties anytime and anywhere, most notably by keeping machinery working at high Marubeni launched its construction machinutilization rates at mining sites that operate ery business in the 1950s as an exporter of around the clock in harsh environments. Japanese construction machinery. In the The construction machinery business will 1970s, the construction machinery business further increase customer satisfaction and expanded abroad by setting up local sales comprehensively augment its solutions operations in Europe and the U.S. It has menu through such means as being an earsince branched into resource-producing ly mover in the AI/IoT-enabled predictive countries and emerging market economies. maintenance space and establishing itself Today, it not only sells construction machinas a one-stop platform through linkages ery but also offers a full-line of after-sales with Marubeni’s business network (e.g., giservices, including maintenance and reant mining tires). CHAPTER 3 101 Mining machinery sales and service business Performance Highlights Medium-Term Management Plan “G” PLAN SG2009 SG-12 U.S. GAAP Fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 For the year: Revenue, Total volume of trading transactions*1 ¥ 9,554,943 ¥ 10,631,616 ¥ 10,462,067 ¥ 7,965,055 ¥ 9,020,468 Gross trading profit 531,171 596,916 644,803 491,673 522,152 2 Operating profit* 165,020 200,153 234,065 118,926 145,774 Dividend income 20,705 23,645 27,719 23,561 19,200 Share of profits of associates and joint ventures 44,880 55,661 21,973 28,864 71,452 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent (Net profit) 119,349 147,249 111,208 95,312 136,541 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 At year-end: Total assets ¥ 4,873,304 ¥ 5,207,225 ¥ 4,707,309 ¥ 4,586,572 ¥ 4,679,089 Net interest-bearing debt 1,843,445 2,001,977 1,911,607 1,706,397 1,615,634 Total equity 820,839 860,581 623,356 799,746 831,730 Amounts per share (¥, $U.S.): Basic earnings*5 ¥ 72.41 ¥ 84.93 ¥ 64.04 ¥ 54.89 ¥ 78.63 MARUBENI CORPORATION Cash dividends 10.00 13.00 10.00 8.50 12.00 Cash flows: Net cash provided by operating activities ¥ 152,075 ¥ 235,290 ¥ 343,618 ¥ 280,610 ¥ 210,044 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (135,147) (306,855) (387,069) (35,207) (128,495) Free cash flow 16,928 (71,565) (43,451) 245,403 81,549 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 24,819 65,865 257,608 (254,655) (17,010) Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 414,952 402,281 573,924 570,789 616,003 Ratios: ROA (%) 2.52 2.92 2.24 2.05 2.95 ROE (%) 16.94 19.31 16.51 14.52 17.98 102 Net debt–equity (DE) ratio (Times) 2.25 2.33 3.07 2.13 1.94 *1. R“Total eflecting “Total volume of trading transactions” until FYE 3/2013 and “Revenue” from FYE 3/2014 onward. volume of trading transactions” includes all transactions involving the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries regardless of transaction type. *2. Operating profit = Gross trading profit + SGA expenses + Provision for doubtful accounts. “Operating profit” is presented in accordance with Japanese accounting practices for investors’ convenience and is not required by IFRS. *3. Uvailing .S. dollar amounts above and elsewhere in this report are converted from yen, for the convenience of readers only, at ¥111 to U.S.$1, the exchange rate preon March 31, 2019. *4. Including financing through perpetual subordinated loans in the amount of ¥250.0 billion in August 2016. The loans are classified as Total equity (other equity instruments) under IFRS. *5. “Basic earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent” is based on “Profit attributable to owners of the parent” excluding the amount not attributable to ordinary shareholders. STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION GC2015 GC2018 IFRS (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollers)*3 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 ¥ 10,584,393 ¥ 10,509,088 ¥ 7,055,700 ¥ 7,834,295 ¥ 7,300,299 ¥ 7,128,805 ¥ 7,540,337 ¥ 7,401,256 $ 66,678 541,454 528,194 651,063 707,318 670,086 613,880 677,237 729,675 6,574 157,315 122,932 157,462 160,688 104,231 91,597 118,054 173,009 1,559 27,351 30,112 34,917 34,957 18,555 17,512 21,254 37,336 336 81,528 87,790 99,405 89,919 31,824 114,725 148,503 85,278 768 172,125 205,696 210,945 105,604 62,264 155,350 211,259 230,891 2,080 ¥ 5,129,887 ¥ 5,965,086 ¥ 7,256,085 ¥ 7,673,064 ¥ 7,117,686 ¥ 6,896,733 ¥ 6,877,117 ¥ 6,809,077 $ 61,343 1,755,705 1,785,247 2,491,043 2,887,608 2,762,453 2,099,939 1,915,824 1,858,839 16,746 4 4 4 915,770 1,188,379 1,531,231 1,678,713 1,415,202 1,742,758* 1,835,637* 2,071,726* 18,664 ¥ 99.13 ¥ 118.48 ¥ 121.52 ¥ 60.85 ¥ 35.88 ¥ 88.08 ¥ 119.43 ¥ 130.74 $ 1.18 20.00 24.00 25.00 26.00 21.00 23.00 31.00 34.00 0.31 ¥ 172,599 ¥ 295,734 ¥ 291,188 ¥ 170,943 ¥ 359,132 ¥ 324,263 ¥ 253,423 ¥ 284,895 $ 2,567 (273,689) (210,878) (706,585) (331,411) (174,596) 46,504 (49,742) 22,528 203 CHAPTER (101,090) 84,856 (415,397) (160,468) 184,536 370,767 203,681 307,423 2,770 171,913 129,030 196,779 (70,705) (36,268) (258,123) (269,507) (427,420) (3,851) 677,312 919,475 665,498 469,106 600,840 704,972 625,834 509,288 4,588 4 3.51 3.71 3.15 1.41 0.84 2.22 3.07 3.37 21.17 20.74 16.67 7.28 4.39 11.09 13.97 13.92 103 1.92 1.50 1.63 1.72 1.95 1.20 1.04 0.90 Financial Data Net Profit/Total Assets/ROA Total Equity/Net Interest-Bearing Debt/Net Debt/Equity (DE) Ratio Net profit (Left scale) Total assets (Right scale) ROA Total equity (Left scale) Net interest-bearing debt (Left scale) Net debt/equity (DE) ratio (Right scale) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Times) 400 7,673.1 8,000 3,000 2,887.6 2,762.5 3 7,117.7 6,896.7 6,877.1 6,809.1 3.37% 3.07% 6,000 2,099.9 300 1.95 2,071.7 2,000 1,915.8 1,858.8 2 2.22% 1.72 1,742.8 1,835.6 230.9 1,678.7 200 211.3 4,000 1.41% 1,415.2 1.20 155.4 1,000 1 0.84% 1.04 0.90 100 105.6 2,000 62.3 0 0 0 0 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 ROE Net Profit per Share (basic) INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 (%) (Yen) 20 150 130.74 119.43 13.97 13.92 15 11.09 100 88.08 10 7.28 60.85 4.39 50 35.88 5 MARUBENI CORPORATION 0 0 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 Cash Flows Total Equity/Risk Assets/Risk Buffer* Operating cash flow Investing cash flow Free cash flow Total equity (Left scale) Risk assets (Left scale) Risk buffer (Right scale) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 400 359.1 324.3 370.8 284.9 2,500 1,000 253.4 921.7 307.4 2,071.7 170.9 200 1,875 1,835.6 774.5 184.5 203.7 1,678.7 1,742.8 750 46.5 22.5 1,415.2 601.6 1,306.6 0 1,250 1,173.1 1,141.2 1,150.0 500 1,061.2 (49.7) 372.1 (160.5) (200) (174.6) 625 250 242.1 (400) (331.4) 0 0 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 * Risk buffer = Total equity – Risk assets 104 Annual Dividend per Share Total Shareholder Return* (Yen) （%） 40 150.0 125.7 129.9 34 104.2 109.0 31 89.0 30 26 23 21 20 0 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 10 *dividends Total shareholder return for fiscal year N = (Share price at the end of fiscal year N + cumulative amount of per share of up to fiscal year N from four fiscal years prior to FYE 3/2019)/share price at the end 0 of the five fiscal years prior to FYE 3/2019 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 (fiscal year N = any fiscal year between FYE 3/2015 FYE 3/2019) STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Non-Financial Data ENVIRONMENTAL DATA*1 Greenhouse Gas (CO2) Emissions (Energy-Related) Energy Consumption Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices·Scope 1 Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices·Scope 2 Electricity consumption of Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices (Left scale) Marubeni Corporation’s other offices + consolidated subsidiaries·Scope 1 Energy consumption of Marubeni Corporation + consolidated subsidiaries (Right scale) Marubeni Corporation’s other offices + consolidated subsidiaries·Scope 2 (kiloton-CO2) 1,035 Electricity consumption (MWh) Energy consumption (TJ) 1,000 959 15,000 14,384 15,000 907 13,532 12,645 12,740 750 10,000 9,473 9,167 10,000 7,239 500 5,021 5,180 5,000 5,000 20 4.515 4.978 0 0 0 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 Water Withdrawal Waste Generated Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices Others of Marubeni Corporation + consolidated subsidiaries Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices Others of Marubeni Corporation + consolidated subsidiaries (kiloton) (Thousand m3) 120 116 60,000 55,256 109 52,375 51,025 50,529 105 100 50,000 90 40,000 1.0 0.791 200 0.531 97 0 0 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 SOCIAL DATA No. of Employees (Consolidated)*2/No. of Employees (Non-consolidated)*3/Percentage of Males and Females*4 *1. TheForboundaries ● of the environmental data: FYE 3/2015 FYE 3/2016 Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices (Tokyo Head Office, plus Hokkaido, No. of employees (Consolidated) (Left scale) No. of employees (Non-consolidated) (Right scale) Chubu, Osaka, Kyushu, and Shizuoka Branches). Due to the relocation of the Osaka Branch in July 2015, the Percentage of males Percentage of females energy consumption of the office in July is calculated based on figures at both its previous and current site (People) (People) for FYE 3/2016 data. ● From FYE 3/2017 45,000 41,353 42,882 6,000 38,830 39,914 39,952 Marubeni Corporation and its domestic and international consolidated subsidiaries, excluding Helena 4,379 4,437 4,458 4,436 4,418 Agri-Enterprises, LLC, and the subsidiaries that are designated to be liquidated or sold. From FYE 3/2019, the grain procurement and export company based in northern U.S., which was not included in FYE 3/2017 and 30,000 74.1% 73.7% 73.2% 73.2% 73.0% 4,000 FYE 3/2018, has been included. Greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions (energy-related): CHAPTER ● CO2 emission factors stipulated by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures are used for 15,000 2,000 fuel and steam. 25.9% 26.3% 26.8% 26.8% 27.0% ● Emission factors for electricity: 0 15.3 16.3 No. of Employees Who Took Maternity Leave*5/ 17.3 18.3 19.3 0 Emission factors for each electric power provider released by the Ministry of the Environment (actual emission factors) are used for Marubeni Corporation. International Energy Agency (IEA) 2016 emission factors by country (CO2 emissions per kWh from electricity generation) are used for the domestic and international consolidated subsidiaries. ● CO2 emission factors for city gas: 4 No. of Employees Who Took Childcare Leave*6 For FYE 3/2015, emission factors released by the gas companies in each location of the six principal offices are used. No. of employees who took maternity leave No. of employees who took childcare leave From FYE 3/2016, the emission factor stipulated by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermea(People) sures is used. 80 73 ● For FYE 3/2018, kerosene, diesel oil and gasoline are included. In FYE 3/2018, CO2 emissions associated with consumption of kerosene, diesel and gasoline totaled 25 thousand metric tons of CO2. 60 55 54 51 105 45 47 Energy Consumption 42 43 ● 3.6 GJ/MWh is used for heat value per unit for electricity. 40 37 28 ● The heat values per unit described in the Law Concerning the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global 20 Warming are used for fuel. ● Biomass energy is not included. 0 Waste Generated 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 ● Materials with resale or reuse value are not included. The Ratio of Females in Managerial Positions*4 * 2. As of March 31. * 3. Total figures include the number of Marubeni employees assigned to other companies and exclude secondees to Marubeni from other companies (as of March 31). (%) 5.4 5.8 5.9 * 4. Figures for Marubeni Corporation (non-consolidated basis as of March 31). 6 3.7 4.6 * 5. Figures for Marubeni Corporation. Indicate the total number of people who used leave in the fiscal year, including those who used the leave continuously from the previous fiscal year. * 6. Figures for Marubeni Corporation. Indicate the total number of people who started using leave in the applicable fiscal year. 0 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 Consolidated Financial Results at a Glance Operating Results of FYE 3/2019 (Billions of yen) FYE 3/2018 FYE 3/2019 Change Revenue 7,540.3 7,401.3 -139.1 Gross trading profit 677.2 729.7 +52.4 Selling, general and administrative expenses (547.3) (549.0) -1.8 Provision for doubtful accounts (11.9) (7.7) +4.3 Operating profit*1 118.1 173.0 +55.0 Interest expense, net of interest income (21.4) (30.9) -9.4 Dividend income 21.3 37.3 +16.1 Non-operating other-net*2 (11.4) 24.1 +35.4 Share of profits of associates and joint ventures 148.5 85.3 -63.2 Profit before tax 255.0 288.8 +33.8 Corporate income tax (38.4) (49.5) -11.1 Profit for the year 216.6 239.3 +22.7 3 Profit attributable to owners of the parent (Net profit)* 211.3 230.9 +19.6 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 5.3 8.4 +3.1 *1.2. Operating profit is presented in accordance with Japanese accounting practice for investors' convenience and is not required by IFRS. *3. Profit Non-operating other-net is the sum of Gains (losses) in investment securities , Gains (losses) on property, plant and equipment and Other-net . * attributable to owners of the parent is shown as Net profit . Key Factors of FYE 3/2019 Net profit hit ¥230.9 billion, the second consecutive record high, with a Net DE ratio stood at 0.90 times, an improvement by 0.14 points from the +¥19.6 billion or a +9% increase year on year previous fiscal year-end MARUBENI CORPORATION ● Adjusted net profit hit a record high of ¥256.0 billion ● Core operating cash flow hit a record high of +¥373.2 billion ● The +¥19.6 billion of net profit increase is the sum of an increase in adjusted net ● Free cash flow after delivery of shareholder returns amounted +¥245.8 billion profit (approx. +¥26.0 billion: improvements notably in Forest Products in Non-reThe FYE 3/2019 annual dividend per share is ¥34, including a year-end divisources, in Energy in Resources) and a deterioration in one-time items (approx. dend of ¥17, which is an increase by ¥3 from the previous fiscal year. -¥7.0 billion: nonrecurrence of accounting effects of the year-earlier U.S. tax reform and profit declines in the Grain and Power Business) (Billions of yen (change year on year)) Gross trading profit Share of profits of associates and joint ventures ● Energy & Metals 86.4 (+28.4) ● Power Business & Plant 22.1 (-42.8) Improved due to production-volume growth and higher price in the oil and gas development Recognition of an impairment loss from investment in power generating business in Singapore. business. Improved margins in the oil and gas trading business. ● Chemical & Forest Products 226.4 (+23.1) ● Food -24.7 (-33.1) Profit growth in the pulp business due to higher market prices and improved margins in the Recognition of an impairment loss from investment in grain exporting business in containerboard business. North America. ● Transportation & Industrial Machinery 118.8 (-12.7) ● Transportation & Industrial Machinery 33.7 (+7.0) Decreased due to deconsolidation of a former consolidated subsidiary, now an equity-method Increased profit in automotive and ship related business. associate, in the automotive business. Net profit Interest expense, net of interest income -30.9 (-9.4) ● Consolidated net 230.9 (+19.6) Deteriorated due to increase in interest rates. 106 Natural resources 56.0 (+42.8) Dividend income 37.3 (+16.1) Non-natural resources 180.4 (-19.4) Increased in overseas power business and energy business. Other -5.6 (-3.7) Non-operating other-net Net profit amounted to a record high for the second consecutive fiscal year. ● Gains (losses) on investment securities 28.5 (+3.4) Valuation gain on a newly consolidated subsidiary that was previously an equity-method associate in the ICT business. Recognition of gains from a year-earlier sale of securities of offshore wind project in the U.K. ● Gains (losses) on property, plant and equipment -15.2 (-13.7) Recognition of impairment losses on metals-related business and oil & gas development businesses. ● Other-net 10.7 (+45.8) Recognition of gains from the sale of domestic power generating business. Recognition of provision loss from overseas infrastructure project and automotive sector business in North America in the previous fiscal year. STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Cash Flows (Billions of yen) FYE 3/2018 FYE 3/2019 *4. Ccapital ore operating cash flow: Operating cash flow excluding net increase/decrease in working and others. Cash flow from operating activities 253.4 284.9 *5. CingAPEX and others: Additional capital spending to maintain/improve business value of existprojects and others. 4 Core operating cash flow* 324.0 373.2 Increase/decrease in working capital and others (70.5) (88.3) Cash flow from investing activities (49.7) 22.5 New investments (111.3) (66.5) CAPEX and others*5 (101.2) (85.8) Natural resource investments related (24.9) (16.0) Divestment 162.8 174.9 Free Cash Flow 203.7 307.4 Free cash flow after delivery of shareholder returns 158.6 245.8 Cash Dividends Financial Position (Billions of yen) FYE 3/2018 FYE 3/2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 ¥31 ¥34 Total assets 6,877.1 6,809.1 (interim dividend (interim dividend Net interest-bearing debt 1,915.8 1,858.8 Annual dividend paid at paid at ¥12.50 per ¥17.00 per Total equity 1,835.6 2,071.7 share inclusive) share inclusive) Net DE ratio 1.04 times 0.90 times Net Profit by Segments The figures are based on operating segments for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 (Billions of yen) 6 Operating Segment* Net profit Sub-segment FYE 3/2018 FYE 3/2019 Change Food 42.3 (3.1) -45.4 Grain/Food Products Consumer Products Lifestyle/ICT, Logistics & Healthcare/Insurance, Finance & Real Estate 27.0 37.3 +10.3 Business Chemical & Forest Products 41 .9 51.5 +9.7 Agri-Input Business 29.3 23.4 -5.9 CHAPTER Chemical Products/Forest Products 1 2.6 28.2 +15.6 Energy & Metals 21 .9 67.9 +45.9 Energy Steel Products Metals & Mineral Resources (22.4) 8.7 35.6 26.6 11.8 29.4 +49.0 +3.2 -6.2 4 Power Business & Plant 38.9 30.8 -8.1 Power Business 44.8 1 5.0 -29.7 Plant (5.9) 1 6.4 +22.3 107 Transportati on & Industrial Machinery 41 .0 52.0 +11.0 Aerospace & Ship/Automotive & Leasing/Construction & Industrial Machinery Other ( 1 .8) (5.6) -3.7 Consolidated 21 1 .3 230.9 +19.6 Natural resources*7 1 3.3 56.0 +42.8 Non-natural resources*7 1 99.8 180.4 -19.4 Other*7 ( 1 .8) (5.6) -3.7 *6. On April 1, 2018, “Food & Consumer Products” was divided into “Food” and “Consumer Products”. Parts of the “Lifestyle” division of “Consumer Products” and the “Plant” division of “Power Business & Plant” were incorporated into the “Construction & Industrial Machinery” division of “Transportation & Industrial Machinery”. In addition, parts of the “Agri-Input Business” division were incorporated into the “Chemical Products” division. In conjunction with these organizational changes, operating segment information for FYE 3/2018 has been reclassified in the FYE 3/2018 vs FYE 3/2019 comparison. *7. Business fields Resources: “Energy & Metals” group excluding “Steel Products” sub-segment Other: “Other” segment Non-Resources: Other than the above Financial-Related Graph Data Trends in data related to the Marubeni Group's business and financial activities are presented in the following graph data. Yen-Dollar Exchange Rates (Yen/U.S.$) 130 120 110 100 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 90 14.4 15.4 16.4 17.4 18.4 19.4 Three-Month Yen-Denominated Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate (TIBOR) (%) 0.300 0.225 MARUBENI CORPORATION 0.150 0.075 0.000 14.4 15.4 16.4 17.4 18.4 19.4 Three-Month USD-Denominated London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) (%) 3.00 2.25 108 1.50 0.75 0.00 14.4 15.4 16.4 17.4 18.4 19.4 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Crude Oil Price (WTI) (U.S.$ per barrel) 120 90 60 30 0 14.4 15.4 16.4 17.4 18.4 19.4 Copper Price (U.S.$ per ton) 8,000 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 14.4 15.4 16.4 17.4 18.4 19.4 Financial Indicators and Commodity Volumes/Prices  Financial Indicator/Commodity Price FYE 3/2018 FYE 3/2019 Change FYE 3/2020Yearly Sensitivity to *4 CHAPTER Yearly Yearly Assumption Yearly Net Profit Oil WTI (USD/bbl) Copper LME (USD/ton) * JPY TIBOR 3mo (%) 1 54 6,363 0.062 63 6,369 0.069 UP 0.007points +9 +6 57 6,550 0.1 approx. JPY0.4bn/[USD1/bbl]*5 approx. JPY1.0bn/[USD100/ton] 4 Interest Rate USD LIBOR 3mo (%) 1.478 2.497 UP 1.019points 2.6 JPY depreciation Term Average (yen) 110.85 110.91 110 approx. JPY1.2bn/[JPY1/USD] 109 by 0.06yen Currency Mar-31-2018 Mar-31-2019 JPY depreciation Mar-31-2020 Term-end (yen) 106.24 110.99 by 4.75yen 110 FYE 3/2018 FYE 3/2019 FYE 3/2020 Commodity Volume Yearly Yearly Plan Equity Production Volume 28 30 29 *1.2. Total Average of March-to-February Oil, Gas (K boe/day) * (U.S.),ofNorth Oil & Gas Interests at Gulf of Mexico Upper: [Oil & Gas Interests] *2 Sea (U.K.), Indian Sea 33 34 33 Lower: [Total] *3 * sharing contracts on a consolidated basis, 3. Total of equity volume based on production Copper Equity Sales Volume (K ton) 121 133 including above Oil & Gas Interests. Coking Equity Sales Volume (K ton) 6,170 5,668 *4. Sensitivity to the forecast at the start of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020. Coal *5. Sensitivity in Oil & Gas Interests Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Business Results Overview of Business Results generally maintained a stable growth trajectory in the In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, the global econfirst half of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. In late omy generally maintained a stable growth trajectory 2018, however, the ECB announced it would discontinue amid continued stable expansion in developed econoquantitative easing but keep its policy rate at an accommies, most notably the U.S., and continued growth in modative level amid a distinct deceleration in economic emerging market economies such as China, etc. Howgrowth. ever, the global economic outlook turned increasingly Emerging market economies generally continued murky in late 2018 in the wake of financial market volto expand, though their growth was restrained by tightatility, a slowdown in the Chinese economy and ecoer international financial conditions and trade friction, nomic sluggishness in Europe against a backdrop of among other factors. Several emerging market currenU.S.-China trade friction compounded by a recognition cies, most notably the Turkish lira and Argentine peso, that international financial conditions were tightening. In depreciated precipitously in summer 2018. In the second response, the pace of monetary tightening was revised, half of the year, the Chinese economy slowed markedly, mainly in the U.S. Meanwhile, crude oil and other comlargely as a result of the U.S.-China trade conflict. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 modity prices fluctuated with respect to each commodThe Japanese economy continued to benefit from ity in response to supply-side factors and the effects of stable growth in both domestic and external demand trade friction, mainly between the U.S. and China. amid continued improvement in employment, though inU.S. economic expansion continued against a backflationary pressures remained weak and a series of natudrop of a solid employment environment and the effects ral disasters in some areas dampened economic activity. of tax reform stimulus. The Federal Reserve continued Additionally, exports weakened from mid-2018 in to raise its policy rate and reduce its asset holdings amid response to tighter international financial conditions, MARUBENI CORPORATION mild inflation. From October, however, U.S. equity martrade friction and global economic deceleration. The kets turned downward in response to tighter financial Japanese equity market continued to sell off into the conditions and trade friction. From December into Janyear-end and financial market volatility persisted into uary, economic uncertainty was exacerbated by several early January, but further deterioration in markets was factors, including financial market volatility and a partial averted by the Federal Reserve’s policy pivot. Under government shutdown. In response, the Federal Reserve the aforementioned business environment, consolidated revised the pace of its monetary tightening. operating results and financial statements for the fiscal The European economy also went through periods year ended March 31, 2019 are as follows: of heightened uncertainty due to fraught Brexit negotiations and consternation over Italy’s fiscal policy, but it （Millions of yen） FYE 3/2019 FYE 3/2018 Change -139,081 110 Total revenue 7,401,256 7,540,337 Gross trading profit 729,675 677,237 +52,438 Operating profit 173,009 118,054 +54,955 Share of profits of associates 85,278 148,503 63,225 and joint ventures Profit for the year attributable 230,891 211,259 +19,632 to owners of the parent Notes: 1. Figures are rounded to the nearest million yen unless otherwise stated. 2. “Operating profit” is presented in accordance with Japanese accounting practice for investors’ convenience and is not required by IFRS. “Operating profit” is the sum of “Gross trading profit” and “Selling, general and administrative expenses” including “Provision for doubtful accounts.” STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Revenue ing business in North America along with the fact that Revenue was down ¥139.1 billion (1.8%) from the fiscal profit in the previous year was boosted by U.S. tax year ended March 31, 2018 to ¥7,401.3 billion, due mainly reform. to decreases in Chemical & Forest Products and TransAssets corresponding to this segment amounted portation & Industrial Machinery. to ¥1,378.6 billion, a decrease of ¥59.2 billion from the end of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, due to a Gross trading profit decrease in trade receivables and impairment of investGross trading profit increased ¥52.4 billion (7.7%) from ments related to the North American grain export the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 to ¥729.7 billion. business. By operating segment, profits increased mainly at Energy & Metals and Chemical & Forest Products. Consumer Products Gross trading profit increased ¥6.3 billion (5.4%) from Operating profit the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 to ¥123.6 billion, as Operating profit increased ¥55.0 billion (46.6%) from a result of new consolidation of a subsidiary that was the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 to ¥173.0 billion. previously an equity-method associate in the ICT business. Despite non-recurrence of the first half period of Share of profits of associates and joint ventures the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 gain on the sale of Share of profits of associates and joint ventures deequity-method associate in the ICT business, net profcreased ¥63.2 billion (42.6%) from the fiscal year ended it for the year increased ¥10.3 billion (38.2%) year on March 31, 2018 to ¥85.3 billion. By operating segment, year to ¥37.3 billion, largely because of a valuation gain profits decreased mainly in Power Business & Plant and on a newly consolidated subsidiary that was previously Food. an equity-method associate in the ICT business. Assets corresponding to this segment increased Profit attributable to owners of the parent ¥126.2 billion from the end of the fiscal year ended Profit attributable to owners of the parent for the fiscal March 31, 2018, to ¥578.0 billion due to the consolidayear ended March 31, 2019 (also referred to as net profit tion of equity-method affiliates in the ICT business. for the year under review) increased ¥19.6 billion (9.3%) CHAPTER to ¥230.9 billion relative to the fiscal year ended March Chemical & Forest Products 31, 2018. Gross trading profit increased ¥23.1 billion (11.4%) from Business Outlook by Segment Results and financial statements for each operating the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 to ¥226.4 billion, boosted largely by profit growth in the pulp business due to higher market prices and improved margins in 4 segment for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 are as the containerboard business. Net profit for the year infollows: creased ¥9.7 billion (23.1%) from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 to ¥51.5 billion. Food 111 Assets corresponding to this segment increased Gross trading profit increased ¥3.8 billion (2.8%) year ¥38.2 billion from the end of the fiscal year ended on year to ¥139.0 billion, driven mainly by consolidation March 31, 2018, to ¥1,218.2 billion due to an increase in of a U.S. beef processing/sales subsidiary acquired in inventory assets. the first half of fiscal year 2019. Net profit for the year was down ¥45.4 billion ( %) from the fiscal year endEnergy & Metals ed March 31, 2018 to ¥3.1 billion, due to an impairment Gross trading profit increased ¥28.4 billion (49.0%) loss from equity-method investment of grain exportyear on year to ¥86.4 billion, largely as a result of production volume growth and higher price in the oil and Transportation & Industrial Machinery gas development business and improved margins in Gross trading profit decreased ¥12.7 billion (9.6%) the oil and gas trading business. Net profit for the year from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 to ¥118.8 increased ¥45.9 billion (209.3%) from the fiscal year billion, largely as a result of deconsolidation of a forended March 31, 2018 to ¥67.9 billion, largely due to mer consolidated subsidiary, now an equity-method increases in gross trading profit and share of profits of associate, in an automotive business. Net profit for the associates and joint ventures, as well as non-recurrence year increased ¥11.0 billion (26.8%) from the fiscal year of the first half of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 ended March 31, 2018 to ¥52.0 billion, boosted largely decrease in income tax expense due to U.S. tax reform, by a gain on the sale of a domestic power generation which offset the impairment loss of assets on oil and business and growth in profits from equity-method gas development business and metal related business. investments in automotive and ship-related businessAssets corresponding to this segment increased es, as well as non-recurrence of the first half period of ¥21.4 billion from the end of the fiscal year ended the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 loss from a North March 31, 2018, to ¥1,634.8 billion. American automotive business. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Assets corresponding to this segment increased Power Business & Plant ¥20.5 billion from the end of the fiscal year ended Gross trading profit increased ¥5.6 billion (14.2%) from March 31, 2018, to ¥804.8 billion. the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 to ¥45.5 billion, largely by virtue of growth in profits from overseas (Note 1) From the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, Food & Consumer Products plant business and the UK electricity wholesaling/rehas been divided into Food and Consumer Products . Parts of Consumer tailing business. Net profit for the year decreased ¥8.1 Products and Power Business & Plant have been incorporated into Transportation & Industrial Machinery . In conjunction with these revisions, MARUBENI CORPORATION billion (20.9%) from the fiscal year ended March 31, operating segment information for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 has been reclassified. 2018 to ¥30.8 billion, largely as a result of impairment loss in investment of the power generating business in (Note 2) Inter-segment transactions are generally priced in accordance with the Singapore which offset gains on the sale of a domestic prevailing market prices. power generating business coupled with non-recurrence of provision loss from overseas infrastructure projects of the first half period of fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. Assets corresponding to this segment decreased ¥32.6 billion from the end of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, to ¥1,078.4 billion due to impairment of investments related to the power generating business in Singapore. 112 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Business Risks Major risks that could have a serious impact on invesadversely affect the Group’s business results and finantor decisions associated with the business operations cial condition. and other activities of Marubeni Corporation and its To prevent credit risks from materializing, the consolidated subsidiaries are outlined below. The risks Group conducts extensive risk management at the creddiscussed, however, are not inclusive of the full range of it screening stage. Nevertheless, the Company is suspossible risks faced in the broad range of activities enceptible to a variety of credit risks. gaged in by the Group. Any number of additional risks In preparation for the incurrence of possible losses other than those discussed below could also impact when credit risk becomes apparent, the Group estabbusiness performance. Furthermore, risks considered lishes allowances for doubtful accounts based on the to have a low likelihood of materializing have also been estimated amount of loss, the business partner’s creddisclosed, from the perspective of ensuring proactive initworthiness, collateral value, and other set factors. In formation disclosure. Forward-looking statements with the event of such losses, however, the Company cannot respect to the risks discussed below reflect the reasonguarantee that actual losses will not exceed these esable judgment of the Company’s management based on tablished allowances. information available as of March 31, 2019. Investment Risk Impact of Changes in Global Economy and Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries, both indeIndustrial Structure on the Marubeni Group pendently and in collaboration with other companies, esThe Company is a general trading company engaged in tablish new companies and purchase existing enterprises a wide range of business activities through bases in Jain the course of their business operations. Most of these pan and over 60 other countries. Examples include the business investments require sizable amounts of capital. production and procurement of natural resources and The Group may be unable to withdraw from such busiother primary commodities, as well as the manufacture nesses in an optimal manner or time frame, in which case and sale of finished goods and various commercial and it would be obliged to commit additional capital. investing activities in Japan and overseas in many inIn an effort to prevent the occurrence of risks assodustrial fields. They are consequently affected by global ciated with investments and other activities, the Group economic conditions. They also constantly need to deconducts extensive risk management, including checkCHAPTER velop new business models and revamp existing ones ing new investments to determine whether expected in response to changes in the industrial structure driven returns are commensurate with the risks involved. Nevby forces such as technological innovation and diversification of values. A global economic downturn or slowdown or failure to adequately adapt to changes in the ertheless, a decline in the value of these investments or the necessity of additional expenditures of capital could adversely affect the Group’s business results and finan4 industrial structure could adversely affect the Company cial condition. and its subsidiaries’ operating activities, business results and/or financial condition. Concentrated Risk Exposure 113 As part of their commercial and investment activities, Credit Risks Regarding Business Partners Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries are conMarubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries extend credit centrated in specific investment targets, markets, and to business partners in the form of accounts receivable, regions. In the context of the Group’s country risk manadvances, loans, guarantees, and other means. In addiagement, the Company classifies countries according to tion, as a part of its sales activities, the Group concludes their level of risk, and has established transaction manmerchandise supply, subcontracting, operational outagement standards and promotes efforts to ensure optisourcing, and other types of contracts with business mal portfolio management and appropriate risk/reward partners. The incurrence of credit risk due to the inabilratios. Nevertheless, a deteriorating operating environity of business partners to fulfill their credit obligations ment in these markets or regions could adversely affect or a breach of contract by these business partners could the Group’s business results and financial condition. Ability to Procure Funds and Funding Cost ables, and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries engage in the Group enters into forward exchange contracts and fund procurement with an emphasis on maintaining an other derivative transactions. Despite these measures, optimal mix of funding in line with the requirements of fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect the their respective asset portfolios and ensuring liquidity. Group’s business results and financial condition. However, significant disruptions in major global capital markets, shortages of cash flows from operating activi❹Fluctuations in Interest Rates ties, declining profitability, failure in asset-liability manMarubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries procure necagement, or a sharp downgrade in the credit rating of essary business funds through borrowings from financial the Group by ratings agencies could constrain fund proinstitutions, the issuance of corporate bonds, and other curement or lead to an increase in funding cost, which methods of procuring from capital markets. A large porcould adversely affect the Group’s business results and tion of floating rate liabilities is proportionate to operatfinancial condition. ing assets that can counteract adverse impacts of interest rate fluctuations. However, interest rate fluctuation INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Market Risks risks cannot be completely eliminated, and a certain de❶Fluctuations in the Price of Goods and Merchandise gree of exposure remains. Among the liabilities procured Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries handle a varifor interest insensitive assets, such as investment secuety of merchandise. In order to mitigate the risk of flucrities and property, plant and equipment, the portion tuations in market conditions for certain merchandise, at procured floating rates is categorized as unhedged contracts, and scheduled contracts, the Group enters through the asset-liability management practices of into commodity futures and forward contracts. HowevMarubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries. Monitoring MARUBENI CORPORATION er, changes in respective market conditions could admarket movements in interest rates, the Group utilizes versely affect the Group’s business results and financial interest rate swaps and other measures to mitigate the condition. risk of interest rate fluctuations. In addition, the Group participates in energy and There is no guarantee that the Group will be able natural resource exploration and production (E&P) busito completely avoid interest rate risk, even after having nesses and other manufacturing businesses. Fluctuaimplemented these management measures. Therefore, tions in the markets of the products sold through these changes in market interest rates could adversely affect activities could adversely affect the Group’s business the Group’s business results and financial condition. results and financial condition. ❺Fluctuations in Values of ❷Market Liquidity (Liquidity Risk) Marketable Securities Subject to Market Volatility Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries hold a variety To strengthen business relationships and for other purof assets that are subject to market trading, including poses, Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries invest financial instruments. Financial market turmoil and other in marketable securities that are subject to market vola114 factors can cause the market liquidity of held assets to tility. Such securities held by the Group carry the risk of decline dramatically, a situation that could potentially fluctuations in original value due to changes in fair value. trigger a precipitous drop in the value of held assets. Drops in the fair value of these securities could adverseSuch an occurrence could adversely affect the Group’s ly affect the Group’s business results and financial conbusiness results and financial condition. dition. ❸Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates ❻Risks Regarding Employees’ Retirement Benefits Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries conduct As the Group holds domestic and foreign stocks and transactions in a variety of currencies and under a vabonds as pension assets, sluggish performance in secuririety of terms. In order to mitigate the risk of exchange ties markets could decrease the value of those assets or rate fluctuations associated with transactions, receivcould require it to accumulate additional pension assets. STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Such an event could adversely affect the Group’s busiremediation expenses, and legal fees in response to litiness results and financial condition. gation by local residents. In addition, the Group’s social reputation could be damaged. In the year ended March Impairment of Real Estate, 31, 2000, an environmental management system was Machinery and Equipment, introduced to cope with such environmental risks, under and Other Property, Plant and Equipment which various initiatives have been implemented to asMarubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries hold real sess the potential environmental burden and reduce enestate, machinery and equipment, and other property, vironmental risk, including environmental impact evaluplant and equipment for sale and lease to other parations for each new financing and development project. ties as well as for their own use. A decline in the value In the event, however, that some form of environmental of these assets could potentially require the Group to impact occurs, it could adversely affect the Group’s recognize impairment losses. The Group accounts for business results and financial condition. impairment of property, plant and equipment in accordance with IFRS. Nevertheless, a dramatic decline in Natural Disaster Risk asset value could adversely affect the Group’s business Earthquakes and other natural disasters could cause results and financial condition. damage and loss to the Group’s offices and facilities and inhibit the normal business activities of Marubeni and its Laws and Regulations consolidated subsidiaries. While every effort has been In the course of operations, Marubeni and its consolimade to implement appropriate countermeasures, such dated subsidiaries are subject to a broad range of laws as the formulation of business continuity plans, earthand regulations both in Japan and other applicable quake countermeasures, and fire prevention drills, the countries. Changes in or unanticipated interpretations potential for damage from natural disasters cannot be of these laws and regulations could increase the oblicompletely mitigated. Consequently, there is no guargations pertaining to legal and regulatory compliance antee that such disasters will not adversely affect the placed on the Group. Accordingly, changes or altered Group’s business results and financial condition. interpretations of laws and regulations may result in punitive measures, including the interruption of operations, Risk Relating to Terrorists and Violent Groups CHAPTER lower the Company’s credibility, or cause the occurMarubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries conduct rence of other circumstances that could adversely affect business operations globally, and these operations are the Group’s business results and financial condition. Significant Litigation therefore exposed to risk from unexpected situations relating to terrorists and violent groups, as well as trends in politics and social factors. The materialization of such 4 In the course of business activities in Japan and overrisks could adversely affect the Group’s business results seas, Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries may and financial condition. be a party to litigation, disputes, and other legal proOther Risks Inherent and Related to Overall 115 ceedings. When party to such litigation, predicting the outcome is impossible given the inherent uncertainty Marubeni Operations of these matters. The Company cannot guarantee that Negligence on the part of employees charged with such litigation will not adversely affect the Group’s busiexecuting business operations and malfunctions perness results and financial condition. taining to information leakages from computer systems supporting business activities are among other risks, Environmental Risk the materialization of which could adversely affect the Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries conduct Group’s business results and financial condition. business activities globally across a broad range of industries, and environmental pollution as a result of these activities could result in business stoppage, pollution Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Marubeni Corporation As of March 31, 2018 and 2019 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2019 Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 625,834 ¥ 509,288 $ 4,588,180 Time deposits 1,046 250 2,252 Investment securities 0 151 1,360 Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable 1,315,336 1,289,196 11,614,379 Other current financial assets 213,941 182,208 1,641,514 Inventories 835,021 900,472 8,112,360 Assets classified as held for sale 61,452 35,438 319,261 Other current assets 226,141 241,546 2,176,090 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Total current assets 3,278,771 3,158,549 28,455,396 Non-current assets: Investments in associates and joint ventures 1,764,169 1,732,712 15,610,018 Other investments 322,628 292,752 2,637,406 Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable 138,715 132,328 1,192,144 Other non-current financial assets 72,492 79,511 716,315 MARUBENI CORPORATION Property, plant and equipment 905,479 926,092 8,343,171 Intangible assets 293,583 379,941 3,422,892 Deferred tax assets 45,233 45,806 412,667 Other non-current assets 56,047 61,386 553,027 Total non-current assets 3,598,346 3,650,528 32,887,640 Total assets ¥ 6,877,117 ¥ 6,809,077 $ 61,343,036 See “Consolidated Financial Statements with Independent Auditors’ Report for Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2019” on our website “To Investors, IR Library” for more details on the consolidated financial statements. https://www.marubeni.com/en/ir/reports/security_reports/ 116 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2019 Liabilities and Equity Current liabilities: Bonds and borrowings ¥ 611,756 ¥ 478,387 $ 4,309,793 Notes and trade accounts payable 1,374,022 1,273,196 11,470,234 Other current financial liabilities 370,103 275,217 2,479,433 Income tax payable 17,858 17,778 160,162 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale — 359 3,234 Other current liabilities 387,975 421,489 3,797,198 Total current liabilities 2,761,714 2,466,426 22,220,054 Non-current liabilities: Bonds and borrowings 1,930,948 1,889,990 17,026,937 Notes and trade accounts payable 16,713 11,566 104,198 Other non-current financial liabilities 66,316 74,404 670,306 Accrued pension and retirement benefits 79,099 89,764 808,685 Deferred tax liabilities 95,944 107,783 971,018 Other non-current liabilities 90,746 97,418 877,640 Total non-current liabilities 2,279,766 2,270,925 20,458,784 Total liabilities 5,041,480 4,737,351 42,678,838 Equity: Issued capital 262,686 262,686 2,366,541 Capital surplus 135,295 139,898 1,260,342 CHAPTER Other equity instruments 243,589 243,589 2,194,495 Treasury stock (1,379) (1,384) (12,469) Retained earnings Other components of equity: Gains (losses) on financial assets measured at fair value through 1,014,709 82,596 1,163,472 71,912 10,481,730 647,856 4 other comprehensive income Foreign currency translation adjustments 76,253 131,178 1,181,784 Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges (42,274) (33,610) (302,793) Equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,771,475 1,977,741 17,817,486 117 Non-controlling interests 64,162 93,985 846,712 Total equity 1,835,637 2,071,726 18,664,198 Total liabilities and equity ¥ 6,877,117 ¥ 6,809,077 $ 61,343,036 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Marubeni Corporation Fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Fiscal year ended Fiscal year ended Fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2019 Revenue: Sales of goods ¥ 7,361,808 ¥ 7,197,705 $64,844,189 Commissions on services and trading margins 178,529 203,551 1,833,793 Total revenue 7,540,337 7,401,256 66,677,982 Cost of goods sold (6,863,100) (6,671,581) (60,104,333) Gross trading profit 677,237 729,675 6,573,649 Other income (expenses): Selling, general and administrative expenses (559,183) (556,666) (5,015,009) Gains (losses) on property, plant and equipment: INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Impairment losses (5,197) (17,803) (160,387) Gains (losses) on sales of property, plant and equipment 3,728 2,597 23,396 Other-net (35,063) 10,742 96,775 Total other income (expenses) (595,715) (561,130) (5,055,225) Finance income (expenses): Interest income 13,526 15,950 143,694 MARUBENI CORPORATION Interest expenses (34,948) (46,807) (421,685) Dividend income 21,254 37,336 336,360 Gains (losses) on investment securities 25,147 28,517 256,910 Total finance income (expenses) 24,979 34,996 315,279 Share of profits of associates and joint ventures 148,503 85,278 768,270 Profit before tax 255,004 288,819 2,601,973 Income taxes (38,429) (49,535) (446,261) Profit for the year ¥ 216,575 ¥ 239,284 $ 2,155,712 Profit for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥ 211,259 ¥ 230,891 $ 2,080,099 Non-controlling interests 5,316 8,393 75,613 118 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Fiscal year ended Fiscal year ended Fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2019 Other comprehensive income: Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Gains (losses) on financial assets measured at fair value through ¥ 18,191 ¥ (12,485) $ (112,477) other comprehensive income Remeasurements of defined benefit plan 3,916 (7,301) (65,775) Changes in other comprehensive income of associates and joint 2,070 (5,659) (50,982) ventures Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss: Foreign currency translation adjustments (86,554) 47,308 426,198 Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges (2,779) 4,777 43,036 Changes in other comprehensive income of associates and joint (413) 13,639 122,874 ventures Other comprehensive income, net of tax (65,569) 40,279 362,874 Total comprehensive income for the year ¥ 151,006 ¥ 279,563 $ 2,518,586 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥ 145,671 ¥ 270,904 $2,440,577 Non-controlling interests 5,335 8,659 78,009 Yen U.S. dollars Fiscal year ended Fiscal year ended Fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2019 Basic earnings per share attributable to shareholders of the parent ¥ 119.43 ¥ 130.74 $ 1.18 CHAPTER Diluted earnings per share attributable to shareholders of the parent ¥ 119.37 ¥ 130.62 $ 1.18 4 119 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Marubeni Corporation Fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019 Fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 Millions of yen Equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Gains (losses) on Issued Capital Other equity Treasury Retained financial assets Foreign currency capital surplus instruments stock earnings measured at fair translation value through other adjustments comprehensive income Balance at April 1, 2017 ¥ 262,686 ¥ 142,881 ¥ 243,589 ¥ (1,374) ¥ 856,647 ¥ 54,606 ¥ 165,310 Profit for the year 211,259 Other comprehensive income 20,397 (89,057) Purchases and sales of treasury stock 1 (5) Dividends (45,124) Equity transactions with non-controlling INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 (7,587) interests and others Distribution to owners of other equity financial (4,010) instruments Transfer from other components of equity to (4,063) 7,593 retained earnings Transfer to non-financial assets or non-financial liabilities Balance at March 31, 2018 ¥ 262,686 ¥ 135,295 ¥ 243,589 ¥ (1,379) ¥ 1,014,709 ¥ 82,596 ¥ 76,253 MARUBENI CORPORATION Millions of yen Equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Total equity Non-controlling attributable to Total equity interests Gains (losses) on Remeasurements of Other components owners of the cash flow hedges defined benefit plan of equity parent Balance at April 1, 2017 ¥ (40,622) ¥ — ¥ 179,294 ¥ 1,683,723 ¥ 59,035 ¥ 1,742,758 Profit for the year 211,259 5,316 216,575 Other comprehensive income (458) 3,530 (65,588) (65,588) 19 (65,569) Purchases and sales of treasury stock (4) (4) Dividends (45,124) (5,802) (50,926) Equity transactions with non(7,587) 5,594 (1,993) controlling interests and others Distribution to owners of other equity (4,010) (4,010) financial instruments 120 Transfer from other components of (3,530) 4,063 — — equity to retained earnings Transfer to non-financial assets or (1,194) (1,194) (1,194) (1,194) non-financial liabilities Balance at March 31, 2018 ¥ (42,274) ¥ — ¥ 116,575 ¥ 1,771,475 ¥ 64,162 ¥ 1,835,637 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 Millions of yen Equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Gains (losses) on Issued Capital Other equity Treasury Retained financial assets Foreign currency capital surplus instruments stock earnings measured at fair translation value through other adjustments comprehensive income Balance at April 1, 2018 ¥ 262,686 ¥ 135,295 ¥ 243,589 ¥ (1,379) ¥ 1,014,709 ¥ 82,596 ¥ 76,253 Cumulative effect of applying new accounting (1,117) standards and interpretations Profit for the year 230,891 Other comprehensive income (17,594) 54,925 Purchases and sales of treasury stock 0 (5) Dividends (61,611) Equity transactions with non-controlling 4,603 (748) interests and others Distribution to owners of other equity financial (4,035) instruments Transfer from other components of equity to (14,617) 6,910 retained earnings Transfer to non-financial assets or non-financial liabilities Balance at March 31, 2019 ¥ 262,686 ¥ 139,898 ¥ 243,589 ¥ (1,384) ¥ 1,163,472 ¥ 71,912 ¥ 131,178 Millions of yen Equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Total equity Non-controlling attributable to Total equity CHAPTER interests Gains (losses) on Remeasurements of Other components owners of the cash flow hedges defined benefit plan of equity parent Balance at April 1, 2018 Cumulative effect of applying new accounting standards and interpretations ¥ (42,274) ¥ — ¥ 116,575 ¥ 1,771,475 (1,117) ¥ 64,162 ¥ 1,835,637 (1,117) 4 Profit for the year 230,891 8,393 239,284 Other comprehensive income 10,389 (7,707) 40,013 40,013 266 40,279 Purchases and sales of treasury stock (5) (5) 121 Dividends (61,611) (7,350) (68,961) Equity transactions with non3,855 28,514 32,369 controlling interests and others Distribution to owners of other equity (4,035) (4,035) financial instruments Transfer from other components of 7,707 14,617 — — equity to retained earnings Transfer to non-financial assets or non(1,725) (1,725) (1,725) (1,725) financial liabilities Balance at March 31, 2019 ¥ (33,610) ¥ — ¥ 169,480 ¥ 1,977,741 ¥ 93,985 ¥ 2,071,726 Fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 Thousands of U.S. dollars Equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Gains (losses) on Issued Capital Other equity Treasury Retained financial assets Foreign currency capital surplus instruments stock earnings measured at fair translation value through other adjustments comprehensive income Balance at April 1, 2018 $ 2,366,541 $ 1,218,874 $ 2,194,495 $ (12,423) $ 9,141,523 $ 744,108 $ 686,964 Cumulative effect of applying new accounting (10,063) standards and interpretations Profit for the year 2,080,099 Other comprehensive income (158,505) 494,820 Purchases and sales of treasury stock 0 (46) INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Dividends (555,054) Equity transactions with non-controlling 41,468 (6,739) interests and others Distribution to owners of other equity financial (36,351) instruments Transfer from other components of equity to (131,685) 62,253 retained earnings Transfer to non-financial assets or non-financial liabilities MARUBENI CORPORATION Balance at March 31, 2019 $ 2,366,541 $ 1,260,342 $ 2,194,495 $ (12,469) $ 10,481,730 $ 647,856 $ 1,181,784 Thousands of U.S. dollars Equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Total equity Non-controlling attributable to Total equity interests Gains (losses) on Remeasurements of Other components owners of the cash flow hedges defined benefit plan of equity parent Balance at April 1, 2018 $ (380,847) $ — $ 1,050,225 $ 15,959,235 $ 578,036 $ 16,537,271 Cumulative effect of applying new accounting standards and (10,063) (10,063) interpretations Profit for the year 2,080,099 75,613 2,155,712 Other comprehensive income 93,595 (69,432) 360,478 360,478 2,396 362,874 Purchases and sales of treasury stock (46) (46) Dividends (555,054) (66,216) (621,270) 122 Equity transactions with non34,729 256,883 291,612 controlling interests and others Distribution to owners of other equity (36,351) (36,351) financial instruments Transfer from other components of 69,432 131,685 — — equity to retained earnings Transfer to non-financial assets or non(15,541) (15,541) (15,541) (15,541) financial liabilities Balance at March 31, 2019 $ (302,793) $ — $ 1,526,847 $ 17,817,486 $ 846,712 $ 18,664,198 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Marubeni Corporation Fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 2019 2019 Operating activities: Profit for the year ¥ 216,575 ¥ 239,284 $ 2,155,712 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the year to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 120,331 113,541 1,022,892 (Gains) losses on property, plant and equipment 1,469 15,206 136,991 Finance (income) expenses (24,979) (34,996) (315,279) Share of profits of associates and joint ventures (148,503) (85,278) (768,270) Income taxes 38,429 49,535 446,261 Changes in notes and accounts receivable (135,801) 65,190 587,297 Changes in inventories (102,626) (42,777) (385,378) Changes in notes and trade accounts payable 158,159 (127,896) (1,152,216) Other-net 56,719 14,096 126,990 Interest received 9,607 11,414 102,829 Interest paid (35,069) (44,202) (398,216) Dividends received 126,086 152,765 1,376,261 Income taxes paid (26,974) (40,987) (369,252) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 253,423 284,895 2,566,622 Investing activities: Net (increase) decrease in time deposits 171 803 7,234 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 15,647 5,968 53,766 Proceeds from sale of investment property 246 544 4,901 Collection of loans receivable 31,658 33,061 297,847 Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries, net of cash and cash equivalents disposed of 51,722 12,022 108,306 Proceeds from sale of investments in associates and joint ventures, and other 63,366 123,279 1,110,622 investments Purchase of property, plant and equipment (103,176) (93,221) (839,829) CHAPTER Purchase of investment property (406) (69) (622) Loans provided to customers (11,488) (14,872) (133,982) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired Purchase of investments in associates and joint ventures, and other investments Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (22,990) (74,492) (49,742) 7,172 (52,159) 22,528 64,613 (469,901) 202,955 4 Financing activities: Net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings 41,733 (163,088) (1,469,261) Proceeds from long-term bonds and borrowings 229,867 254,166 2,289,784 Repayments of long-term bonds and borrowings (487,202) (436,146) (3,929,243) 123 Dividends paid to shareholders of the parent (45,124) (61,611) (555,054) Net cash outflows on purchases and sales of treasury stock (15) (9) (81) Capital contribution from non-controlling interests 2,420 79 712 Acquisition of additional interests in subsidiaries from non-controlling interests (1,375) (9,425) (84,910) Distribution to owners of other equity instruments (4,010) (4,035) (36,351) Other (5,801) (7,351) (66,227) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (269,507) (427,420) (3,850,631) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (13,312) 3,451 31,090 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (79,138) (116,546) (1,049,964) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 704,972 625,834 5,638,144 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year ¥ 625,834 ¥ 509,288 $ 4,588,180 Global Network (As of April 1, 2019) • Tallinn •Moscow •Risley •Hamburg •London •Nur-Sultan •Düsseldorf •Warsaw •Kiev •Paris •Prague Europe & •Ulan Bator Khabarovsk• •Budapest •Almaty Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk• •Milan •Bucharest CIS Changchun• Vladivostok •Tashkent • •Istanbul Beijing• •Ankara Tianjin• •Dalian •Lisbon • Athens •Seoul • Algiers Qingdao• •Tehran •Islamabad Japan •Casablanca •Baghdad Chengdu Hefei• •Nanjing •Amman •Lahore • •Cairo •Kuwait City Wuhan• •Shanghai •New Delhi Xiamen Doha Guangzhou • • •Dubai •Karachi Kunming• • • •Taipei Riyadh• Dhaka• • •Muscat INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Kolkata• Chittagong •Shenzhen Abu Dhabi • Hanoi • Hong Kong China / East Asia Middle East •Mumbai Nay Pyi Taw• Yangon• •Vientiane • Quang Ngai & Africa •Goa Bangkok• •Manila •Chennai •Phnom Penh Abidjan Accra •Addis Ababa •Ho Chi Minh City • • •Lagos Kuala Lumpur• Southwest Asia Singapore• • Kuching •Nairobi •Jakarta •Luanda • ASEAN MARUBENI CORPORATION Port Moresby Johannesburg• •Maputo Oceania •Perth Sydney• Auckland• Melbourne• Locations of Branches and Offices Middle East & Africa Europe & CIS Southwest Asia Japan 124 Abidjan Dubai Almaty Moscow Chennai Karachi Sapporo Osaka Abu Dhabi Istanbul Athens Nur-Sultan (Astana) Chittagong Kolkata Sendai Fukuyama Accra Johannesburg Bucharest Paris Dhaka Lahore Tokyo Hiroshima Addis Ababa Kuwait City Budapest Prague Goa Mumbai Shizuoka Imabari Algiers Lagos Düsseldorf Risley Islamabad New Delhi Hamamatsu Fukuoka Amman Luanda Hamburg Tallinn Nagoya Naha Ankara Maputo Khabarovsk Tashkent Baghdad Muscat Kiev Vladivostok Cairo Nairobi Lisbon Warsaw Casablanca Riyadh London Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk Doha Tehran Milan STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION •Vancouver •Toronto • •New York •Silicon Valley Omaha •Washington, D.C. •Los Angeles North & •Houston Central America Global •Queretaro •Havana •Mexico City • Guatemala City •Caracas Network •Bogota South America •Lima Salvador• Rio de Janeiro • •São Paulo •Santiago •Buenos Aires CHAPTER 4 ASEAN China / East Asia Oceania North & Central America South America 125 Bangkok Nay Pyi Taw Beijing Seoul Auckland Guatemala City Bogota Hanoi Phnom Penh Changchun Shanghai Melbourne Havana Buenos Aires Ho Chi Minh City Quang Ngai Chengdu Shenzhen Perth Houston Caracas Jakarta Singapore Dalian Taipei Port Moresby Los Angeles Lima Kuala Lumpur Vientiane Guangzhou Tianjin Sydney Mexico City Rio de Janeiro Kuching Yangon Hefei Ulan Bator New York Salvador Manila Hong Kong Wuhan Omaha Santiago Kunming Xiamen Queretaro São Paulo Nanjing Silicon Valley Qingdao Toronto Vancouver Washington, D.C. Major Subsidiaries and Associates The scope of consolidation of Marubeni Group comprises a total of 431 companies: 282 consolidated subsidiaries and 149 associates accounted for by the equity method as of March 31, 2019. The list is based on data current as of March 31, 2019, with recent data reflected. Company Name Business Country/Area Voting Rights Lifestyle Division Consolidated Domestic Marubeni Intex Sale of industrial materials, lifestyle material-related Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries textile goods and products Marubeni Fashion Link Planning, production and sale of textile products Japan 100.00% Overseas Marubeni Textile Asia Pacific Purchase agent of textile products for Japan and other China 100.00% countries Associates Domestic LACOSTE JAPAN Manufacturing and sale of Lacoste-brand apparel and Japan 33.36% other related products Overseas Saide Tekstil Sanayi ve Ticaret Planning, manufacturing and sale of apparel and goods Turkey 45.49% Company Name Business Country/Area Voting Rights ICT & Real Estate Business Division Consolidated Domestic ARTERIA Networks Provision of various network services for businesses and Japan 50.00% INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Subsidiaries condominiums Japan REIT Advisors Utilization of investee assets Japan 100.00% Marubeni Information Systems IT solution provider for full range of IT lifecycle in every Japan 100.00% industry Marubeni Safenet Insurance agency and lending business Japan 100.00% Marubeni Real Estate Development Real estate sales Japan 100.00% Marubeni Real Estate Management Leasing and subleasing of real estate, management of Japan 100.00% office buildings and complex facilities MARUBENI CORPORATION Marubeni Logistics International combined transport operation (NVOCC), 3PL (Third-party Logistics), ocean & air freight forwardJapan 100.00% ing, consultancy relating to logistics MX Mobiling Sales, repair and maintenance of mobile handsets and Japan 100.00% related equipment Overseas Shanghai House Property Development Housing development in Shanghai, China China 60.00% Associates Domestic Koshigaya Community Plaza Commercial facility rental Japan 42.86% Overseas Shanghai Jiaoyun Rihong International Freight transport China 34.00% Logistics Company Name Business Country/Area Voting Rights Forest Products Division Consolidated Domestic Koa Kogyo Manufacture and sales of corrugating medium and Japan 79.95% Subsidiaries linerboard printing paper Fukuyama Paper Manufacture and sales of corrugating medium and core Japan 55.00% 126 board Marubeni Pulp & Paper Sale of paper products Japan 100.00% Overseas Tanjungenim Lestari Pulp and Paper Manufacturer/Distributor of broad-leaved tree-based Indonesia 100.00% bleached hardwood kraft pulp Associates Domestic Marusumi Paper Manufacture and sale of paper Japan 32.16% SMB Kenzai Sales of housing/construction materials Japan 27.50% STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Company Name Business Country/Area Voting Rights Food Division Consolidated Domestic Wellfam Foods Marketing of livestock, meats and processed products Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries Marubeni Nisshin Feed Manufacture and sales of livestock feed Japan 60.00% Pacific Grain Terminal Warehousing, stevedoring and transportation operations Japan 78.40% Benirei Wholesale of seafood products and warehousing Japan 98.76% Yamaboshiya Wholesale of confectionery products to mass-retail and Japan 75.62% convenience stores Overseas Creekstone Holding Holding company of Creekstone Farms Premium Beef LLC, which conducts production, processing and sales of U.S. 100.00% beef, etc. Harrison Grain Investment Investment company specializing in grain businesses U.S. 100.00% Iguaçu de Café Solúvel Manufacturing and sale of instant coffee Brazil 100.00% MBC EUROPE Holding company of Iguaçu de Café Solúvel U.K. 100.00% Associates Domestic Aeon Market Investment Holding company for United Super Markets Holdings Inc., a holding company for supermarket operators in the Japan 28.18% Tokyo metropolitan area SFoods Meat-related production, wholesale, retail, and restaurant Japan 15.29% businesses Kokubu Shutoken Wholesale of foods, alcohol, and other products primarily Japan 20.00% to mass-retail and convenience stores Toyo Sugar Refining Manufacturing and sale of sugar and functional food Japan 39.30% materials Nacx Wholesale of frozen foods primarily to mass-retail and Japan 44.25% convenience stores The Nisshin OilliO Group Processing and sale of edible oil business Japan 15.20% Overseas Acecook Vietnam Manufacturing and sale of instant noodles and other Vietnam 18.30% products CHAPTER Company Name Business Country/Area Voting Rights Agri Business Division Consolidated Overseas Subsidiaries Columbia Grain International Gavilon Agriculture Investment Collection, storage, exporting and domestic sale of grain produced in North America Parent company of Gavilon Group (collection/sales of grain, fertilizer, etc.) U.S. U.S. 100.00% 100.00% 4 Helena Agri-Enterprises Sales of agri-input products and related services U.S. 100.00% Associates Domestic Katakura & Co-op Agri Manufacture and sale of fertilizer; sale of livestock feed Japan 20.84% and materials Sun Agro Manufacture and sale of fertilizer and other products; sale 127 Japan 22.78% of agrochemicals; golf-related business Company Name Business Country/Area Voting Rights Chemicals Division Consolidated Domestic Marubeni Chemix Sales and foreign trade of organic chemicals and fine chemicals Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries Marubeni Plax Sales and foreign trade of plastic products and resins Japan 100.00% Associates Overseas CMK Electronics (Wuxi) Development, manufacture, and sale of printed circuit boards China 20.00% (PCBs) Dampier Salt Production and sale of salt and gypsum Australia 21.51% Shen Hua Chemical Industrial Production and sale of synthetic rubber (SBR) China 22.56% Company Name Business Country/Area Voting Rights Power Business Division Consolidated Domestic Japan Offshore Wind Power Holding company for Seajacks International Ltd. in Japan Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries Marubeni Power Retail Power Retail Business in Japan Japan 100.00% Marubeni Power Development Development and operation of overseas IPP projects Japan 100.00% Marubeni Power Systems EPC Services for power projects overseas Japan 100.00% Overseas Axia Power Holdings Holding company of overseas power assets Netherlands 100.00% SmartestEnergy Electricity aggregation and retail business in the U.K. U.K. 100.00% Associates Overseas Lion Power (2008) Holding company for Senoko Energy Pte. Ltd. Singapore 42.86% Mesaieed Power IPP in Mesaieed, Qatar Qatar 30.00% PPN Power Generating IPP in Tamil Nadu in India India 26.00% TeaM Energy Holding company for the Ilijan, Pagbilao, and Sual power Philippines 50.00% plants in the Philippines TrustEnergy Holding company for the power generation asset portfolio Netherlands 50.00% in Portugal INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Company Name Business Country/Area Voting Rights Energy Division Consolidated Domestic Marubeni Energy Sale of petroleum products, management and leasing of Japan 66.60% Subsidiaries oil terminals and service stations Overseas Marubeni International Petroleum Sales of crude oil and all types of petroleum products Singapore 100.00% MARUBENI CORPORATION (Singapore) Marubeni LNG Development Investment company for participation in LNG project in Netherlands 100.00% Peru Marubeni North Sea Exploration, development, production, and sale of oil and U.K. 100.00% gas in the North Sea Marubeni Oil & Gas (USA) Exploration, development, production, and sale of oil and U.S. 100.00% gas in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico Marubeni Petroleum Sales of crude oil and petroleum products Bermuda 100.00% Marubeni Shale Investment Investment in onshore shale oil and gas development U.S. 100.00% projects in the United States MIECO Sale of all types of petroleum products and natural gas U.S. 100.00% Associates Domestic ENEOS GLOBE Import and sale of LPG, and sale of new energy-related Japan 20.00% equipment Overseas Merlin Petroleum Exploration, development, production, and sale of oil and U.S. 20.37% natural gas 128 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Company Name Business Country/Area Voting Rights Metals & Mineral Resources Division Consolidated Domestic Marubeni Tetsugen Sale of raw materials for steelmaking Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries Marubeni Metals Sales of non-ferrous and light metals Japan 100.00% Overseas Marubeni Aluminium Australia Refining and sales of aluminum ingots Australia 100.00% Marubeni Coal Investment in coal mines in Australia Australia 100.00% Marubeni Iron Ore Australia Investment in iron ore mining operations in Australia Australia 100.00% Marubeni LP Holding Investment in copper mines in Chile Netherlands 100.00% Marubeni Metals & Minerals (Canada) Refining and sales of aluminum ingots Canada 100.00% Associates Domestic Marubeni-Itochu Steel Sales and business management of steel products Japan 50.00% Marubeni Construction Material Lease Leasing, sale, repair, and processing of steelmaking Japan 35.21% materials Company Name Business Country/Area Voting Rights Plant Division Consolidated Domestic Marubeni Protechs Sale of steelmaking and industrial devices, environmentSubsidiaries related business and sale of related devices, and logistics Japan 100.00% for factory construction and machinery installation overseas Overseas Aguas Décima Water/wastewater utility Chile 100.00% Associates Overseas Eastern Sea Laem Chabang Terminal Container terminal operation Thailand 25.00% Southern Cone Water Holding company of Aguas Nuevas S.A., which provides full U.K. 50.00% water supply and wastewater services in Chile Company Name Business Country/Area Voting Rights Aerospace & Ship Division Consolidated Domestic Scarlet LNG Transport Investment, finance, and consulting services for Japan 100.00% CHAPTER Subsidiaries shipping-related businesses Marubeni Aerospace Import and sale of aircraft and related components Japan 100.00% Overseas MMSL Japan Royal Maritime Ship management Ship chartering and trade Japan Liberia 100.00% 100.00% 4 129 Company Name Business Country/Area Voting Rights Finance & Leasing Business Division Consolidated Overseas MAC Trailer Leasing Leasing and rental of refrigerated trailers U.S. 100.00% Subsidiaries MAI Holding Investment in automobile retail finance businesses U.S. 100.00% Marubeni Aviation Holding Investment in Aircastle, an aircraft operating lease Netherlands 100.00% business Associates Domestic MG Leasing General leasing Japan 50.00% Overseas Marubeni SuMiT Rail Transport Investment in railcar leasing business U.S. 50.00% Company Name Business Country/Area Voting Rights Construction, Auto & Industrial Machinery Division Consolidated Domestic Marubeni Techno-Systems Sale, export and import of industrial machinery Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries Overseas Marubeni Auto & Construction Machinery Investment in retail sales business of automobiles U.S. 100.00% America INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Marubeni Auto Investment（U.K.） Investment in retail sales business of automobiles in U.K. 100.00% the U.K. Marubeni-Komatsu Sales distributor for Komatsu construction equipment U.K. 100.00% Associates Overseas Hitachi Construction Machinery (Australia) Sales distributor for Hitachi Construction Australia 20.00% Machinery Co., Ltd. Temsa Íş Makinalari Ìmalat Pazarlama Ve Sales distributor for Komatsu construction equipment Turkey 49.00% Satiş Unipres Mexicana Manufacturer/distributor of pressed auto body parts Mexico 25.00% MARUBENI CORPORATION Unipres U.S.A. Manufacturer/distributor of pressed auto body parts U.S. 25.00% Company Name Business Country/Area Voting Rights Others Consolidated Domestic Marubeni Financial Service Loan and zero-balance transactions; provision of financeJapan 100.00% Subsidiaries related support and consulting for the Marubeni Group Associates Overseas Marubeni Finance America Group finance U.S. 100.00% Marubeni Finance Europe Group finance U.K. 100.00% 130 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Corporate Data Company Profile Company Name (As of March 31, 2019) Marubeni Corporation Securities Code 8002 Head Office 7-1, Nihombashi 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-6060, Japan Tel: 81-3-3282-2111 E-mail: tokb138@marubeni.com Number of Branches and Offices (Including Tokyo Head Office) (As of April 1, 2019) 136 locations in 67 countries/regions Consisting of 12 domestic branches and offices, 57 overseas branches and offices and 29 overseas corporate subsidiaries with 67 offices Founded May 1858 Incorporated December 1, 1949 Paid-in Capital ¥262,686 million Number of Employees 4,418 (Including 617 employees seconded to companies in Japan and 894 employees assigned to overseas sites, employees seconded to overseas companies and overseas CHAPTER trainees. Excluding 432 local employees of overseas branches and offices and 1,468 local employees of overseas corporate subsidiaries) Corporate Website https://www.marubeni.com/en/ 4 IR page https://www.marubeni.com/en/ir/ Sustainability page https://www.marubeni.com/en/sustainability/ 131 Business Year April 1 to March 31 of the following year Regular General Meeting of Shareholders June of each year Stock Information (As of March 31, 2019) Number of Shares Authorized Share Unit Long-Term Credit Rating (As of June 30, 2019) 4,300,000,000 100 shares Credit Rating Agency Long Term (Outlook) Number of Shares Issued Record Date for Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCR) A+ (Stable) and Outstanding Year-End Dividend Rating and Investment Information (R&I) A (Stable) 1,737,940,900 March 31 of each year S&P Global Ratings BBB (Positive) Stock Listings Record Date for Interim Dividend Moody’s Baa2 (Stable) Tokyo, Nagoya September 30 of each year Number of Shareholders Transfer Agent of Common Stock 171,841 Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Major Shareholders Distribution of Shares by Type of Shareholder (%) Stake in the Corporation Others 5.71 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Number of Name of Shareholder Shareholding Shares Held Ratio (%) Foreign individuals Financial institutions (Thousands) and companies 38.50 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust account) 117,801 6.79 31.23 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account) 97,397 5.61 Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 41,818 2.41 Other domestic companies Individuals Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 5) 38,109 2.20 5.10 19.47 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 9) 32,940 1.90 MARUBENI CORPORATION Note: The sum of each ratio may not be 100%, Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 30,000 1.73 because each ratio has been rounded. Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance Inc. 30,000 1.73 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 7) 26,476 1.53 State Street Bank West Client Treaty 505234 26,174 1.51 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 1) 25,412 1.46 Note: The number of shares owned is rounded down to the nearest thousand. The shareholding ratios are calculated after deducting the treasury stock from the number of shares issued and outstanding. The percentages are rounded to the nearest two decimal points. Stock Price/Monthly Volume (Yen) 1,100 900 132 700 500 300 (Thousands of shares) 400,000 300,000 200,000 100,000 0 14.4 15.4 16.4 17.4 18.4 19.4 Stock price (Left scale) Monthly volume (Right scale) STRATEGY MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION OPERATING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE INFORMATION Independent Assurance of Environmental and Social Data Marubeni obtains independent assurance of its environmental and social data to enhance the data’s reliability. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. provided assurance* on the following data posted in the Sustainability section of Marubeni’s website. * Taccordance he indicators to Third-Party Assurance are assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd., through an independent assurance engagement in with ISAE 3000 and 3410. * KEnvironmental PMG AZSA Sustainability’s Independent Assurance Report is available in the Sustainability section of Marubeni’s website. Data https://www.marubeni.com/en/sustainability/environment/env_data/ Employee Data https://www.marubeni.com/en/sustainability/human_resources/employee/ Independent Assurance Process 1 Planning Ascertain assurance engagement’s scope, indicators subject to independent assurance and ●  the criteria to be applied in the preparation of the indicators Determine assurance procedures and schedule ●  2 Execution Conduct interviews and analytical procedures, ask questions based on analytical results and ●  examine evidence (done mainly on site) Review content of disclosure media subject to third-party assurance ●  3 Submission of Assurance Report Confirm completion of all required revisions ●  Conduct internal review (assessment of assurance work’s adequacy by personnel not on the team ●  that performed the work) Submit assurance report ●  Indicators Subject to Independent Assurance Marubeni Group: Energy consumption, Greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions (energy-related), Waste generated, Water withdrawal, No. of employees (Consolidated) CHAPTER Marubeni Corporation:  Amount transported (Unit: Thousand ton-km), CO2 emissions during transport, Intensity (kl crude oil eq per thousand ton-km), No. of employees (of which, Domestic and Overseas), Percentages of male and female, Average age, Average service years, No. 4 of managerial employees (of which, general managers or above), Ratio of female in managerial positions, Ratio of female in career-track positions, Turnover rate, Average total actual working hours per year, Average overtime hours per month, Average use of vacation time per year, Usage of annual paid leave, No. of employees who took 133 maternity leave, No. of employees who took childcare leave (of which, male), Return rate (after childcare leave), No. of employees who took nursing care leave, No. of employees who took volunteer leave, Lost-time injuries frequency rate, Occupational illness frequency rate, No. of occupational accidents or incidents leading to injuries or fatalities, No. of fatal occupational accidents Marubeni Corporation and certified special-purpose subsidiary Marubeni Office Support Corporation: Employment rate of persons with disabilities https://www.marubeni.com/en/ Printed in Japan
