Integrated Report 2019 Eisai is conducting Phase Ⅲ studies for two projects in dementia area. We will strive to deliver new treatments to patients and their families as early as possible. Contents Company Introduction Business Base (ESG Related) 3 Materiality 68 Corporate Governance System 4 The driving force of Eisai: “human health care (hhc)” 72 Interviews with Outside 8 SWOT Analysis Directors 12 History of Eisai 79 Corporate Executives 80 Partnerships Management Strategies 82 Compliance and Risk Management 14 CEO Message 86 Quality Assurance and Stable Supply 20 Value Creation Process 87 Safety Management for Products and Flow 88 Business with Consideration for the Global Environment 22 Medium-Term Business Plan 90 Initiatives for Achieving ‘EWAY 2025’ Sustainable Development Goals （SDGs）and 24 Strategy for Talents Innovation Contribution to UN Global Compact 28 Interview: Progress in Integrating ESG with Appendix Corporate Value 34 Financial Strategy 92 Major Products 94 Consolidated Financial Highlights in the Last 10 Years Value Creating Activities 96 ESG Indices in the Last 10 Years 38 Improving Access to Medicines (ATM) 99 Major R&D Pipeline 42 Development of Potential Next-Generation 102 Status of Shares Dementia Treatments 103 Corporate Information 48 Initiatives for Dementia Area Editor’s Note for Integrated Report 2019 Offering Solutions that Go Beyond Providing Pharmaceuticals 50 Special Feature Lenvima® 56 Global Business Activities 58 Medicine Creation Activities 62 Marketing Activities 64 Special Feature Rapid Growth of the China Business ■ Period Covered This Integrated Report covers business performance from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019. Some sections may include information on activities as recent as fiscal 2019. ■ Reporting Organizations Eisai Co., Ltd. and domestic and overseas consolidated subsidiaries ■ Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors Materials and information provided in this Integrated Report may contain “forward-looking statements” based on current expectations, forecasts, estimates, business goals and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from these statements. Moreover, the target values contained in this report merely express medium-term strategies, intended directions and visions and are not an official earnings forecast. For the official earnings forecast, please refer to the annual financial report (Consolidated Financial Statement) in accordance with the rules set by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Factors that could have a material impact on the future outlook include, but are not limited to, changes in the economic environment and competitive pressures surrounding Eisai’s business environment, revisions to laws and regulations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, uncertainties associated with new drug development and infringements of intellectual property rights by third parties. Although this report contains information on pharmaceuticals (including those under development), the content is not intended for advertising or medical advice purposes. In addition, further details about business risks stated above are described in the Annual Security Report. This English Report was translated from the original Japanese version. In the event of any inconsistency between the statements in the two versions, the statements in the Japanese version shall prevail. ■ Note to Description •Generic names for drugs are given omitting the base or hydrate. ■ Notes to Icons on Each Page •Pages that are strongly related to 6 capitals which comprise Eisai’s corporate value (intellectual capital, human capital, manufactured capital, social and relationship capital, natural capital and financial capital) are marked with corresponding icons. •Pages that are strongly related to 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are marked with SDGs icons. 2 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Materiality Eisai’s corporate philosophy is to give first thought consideration, it is regarded to be more efficient to to patients and their families. Likewise, Eisai focus on long-term investors, beneficiaries of residual provides employees, who are responsible for patient income, as the important stakeholder＊1. With the longcontribution, with opportunities to develop their talents term interests of all stakeholders including patients to enrich their careers and cultivate work satisfaction. and employees taken into account, it is believed that Eisai’s mission is the enhancement of patient identifying the concerns relating to the interests of satisfaction, then revenue and earnings are generated long-term investors and then taking initiatives on a consequently. We place importance on this sequence priority basis, is the fast track to the maximization of of placing mission before the ensuing results. corporate value. On the other hand, in order to sustainably maximize Process for Establishing Materiality and Eisai’s corporate value to fulfil every stakeholder’s satisfaction, Materiality Matrix are shown below. Reviews and and taking into consideration the corporate updates are undertaken as needed. philosophy’s concept of “mission and the results” in ＊1 C  oncept derived from Enlightened Value Maximization Theory (Michael C. Jensen, 2001) ●Process for Establishing Materiality Process 2: Prioritization of issues and creation of materiality matrix We prioritize issues with a particularly high degree of importance, and then Process 1: Identification of issues create a matrix, from the perspectives of “impact on Eisai’s business” We identify issues giving consideration to various types of considering the corporate philosophy and impact on finances, and of guidelines (e.g., Sustainability Accounting Standards for “interest to long-term investors”, which includes financial reporting, Pharmaceuticals by SASB＊2, GRI Guidelines), to Sustainable opportunities to create innovation, and the impact of legal restrictions and Development Goals (SDGs)＊3, to communication with industry norms. stakeholders and to socially responsible investment (SRI) indices (e.g., Dow Jones Sustainability Index). Process 3: Reviews and updates Reviews and updates are undertaken as needed taking into consideration the progress of initiatives toward issues and changes in the business environment. ＊2 SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) is a U.S.-based non-profit organization that identifies materiality by industry for reasonable investors and develops sustainability disclosure standards. ＊3 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a set of international goals under the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted at the United Nations. Sustainable Development Summit in September 2015. For details, please refer to page 90. ●Eisai’s Materiality Matrix Figures in parentheses indicate the corresponding pages in this report. ■Improving access to medicines ■Creating innovative medicines (P.18-19,38-41,90) (P.14-19,42-47,50-55,58-61, Very High ■Offering solutions that go beyond 99-101) providing pharmaceuticals (P.48■Safety management for products 49) (P.87) ■Provision of opportunities to ■Corporate governance system develop careers and talent for (P.68-78) ■Compliance and risk management Interest to long-term investors employees (P.24-27) (P.82-85) ■Financial strategy (P.28-37) ■Ethical and transparent drug creation activities＊4 ■Protection and reinforcement of intellectual property＊5 ■Appropriate pricing＊6 ■Business with consideration for the ■Promoting diversity (P.24-27) ■Promotion based on compliance global environment (reduction of CO2 ■Supporting employee health (P.24(P.83) emissions, waste reduction, efficient 27) and safety management＊7 ■Quality assurance and stable use of water resources)(P.88-89) ■Prevention of bribery and supply (P.86) corruption (P.83) ■Information disclosure＊8 ■Initiatives against counterfeit drugs High (P.86) High Impact on Eisai’s business Very High ＊4-7 Please refer to Eisai’s Corporate Website ＊4 Ethical and Transparent Drug Creation Activities ▶ https://www.eisai.com/company/business/research/discovery/index.html ＊5 Intellectual Property Initiatives ▶ https://www.eisai.com/company/business/research/ip/index.html ＊6 Marketing, Aims to Secure Appropriate Pricing ▶ https://www.eisai.com/company/business/marketing/index.html ＊7 Occupational Safety and Health ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/employee/health_safety/index.html ＊8 Please refer to Article 11 of Eisai’s Corporate Governance Guideline ▶ https://www.eisai.com/company/governance/cgregulations/cgguideline/index.html 3 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 The driving force of Eisai “human health care (hhc)” Established the corporate philosophy in 1992, which is understood and internalized as our core value by employees, both in Japan and overseas All employees are encouraged to spend 1% of their total business hours to interact with patients Socialization with People with Dementia Held an Event to Support Patients with (Facility for Elderly People in Tokyo) Cancer (Medical Center in Philippines) Directors including outside directors and mid-level Together with a patient advocacy group, we held employees had conversation with people with dementia an event to support breast cancer patients in the and recognized that the patients can still express their Philippines. During the event, we held contests such as thoughts and still want to live satisfying lives. the most stylish way to wrap a scarf around the head to cover their hair loss due to chemotherapy and making Christmas cards to encourage patients to express their feelings through messages written on the card. Laboratory tour with Refractory Disease Patients Socialization with People with Intellectual Disability (Tsukuba Research Laboratories in Ibaraki Prefecture) (Facility for People with Disabilities in Shizuoka Prefecture) We invited patients with refractory disease to Tsukuba Employees from overseas, who came to Japan for Research Laboratories and introduced our research training, interacted and empathized with residents in the upstream area for medicine creation. Through of a facility for people with intellectual disabilities. By spending time with the patients, we felt patients’ spending time with people with intellectual disability, difficulties in their daily life and hope for cure, and we had an experience to look back at the origin of our reconfirmed our motivation to contribute to patients. human health care philosophy to contribute to patients. 4 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Eisai’s corporate philosophy reflects our commitment to business activities aiming to increase the benefits to patients, their families, and consumers, who we clearly recognize as the key players in healthcare. This corporate philosophy is summarized by the term “human health care (hhc)”. We believe that, it is important for each employee to first get close to patients and see the situation from their perspectives in order to learn to empathize with their thoughts and feelings that they might not always express in words. Accordingly, all employees are encouraged to spend 1% of their total business hours to interact with patients. Currently, this Corporate Philosophy penetrated in the minds all employees in Eisai group, shared beyond nationality, border, gender and age, and practiced in their daily business. Examples are described below. Socialization with People with Lymphatic Awareness Activity of Metastatic Breast Filariasis (Health Center in India) Cancer (Convention Center in the United States) Eisai’s employees from all over the world gathered in India Employees of our U.S. subsidiary launched a website to socialize with lymphatic filariasis patients. We directly to raise awareness activity of metastatic breast cancer heard from patients the difficulties they face in their daily and provide support to patients. On the website, life and their mental struggles, such as they cannot do breast cancer patients can find tips and advice for house chores or work to earn a living because of their living well and improving vitality. crippled limbs. They also worry about the social stigma that their children suffer because of the parent’s physical deformity. In addition to supplying an anti-filariasis drug DEC (Diethylcarbamazine) tablets at price zero, we sought other ways to assist them in day-to-day life. Plant Tour with People with Rare Diseases New Employees Socialized with People with Dementia  (Kashima Plant in Ibaraki Prefecture) and Their Families (Training Facility in Kanagawa Prefecture) We invited people with rare diseases to Kashima Plant. In the training for new employees conducted in April, these After a facility tour, we had discussions and workshop. new employees spent time with people with dementia and Directly sharing the emotions of patients with refractory their families. They learned that it is important to create diseases improved our motivation. an environment in the local community that co-exist with dementia, and that by focusing on what can be done, this can be realized with their support and the support of people in the area even if they become demented. 5 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Incorporated the corporate philosophy into the Company’s Articles of Incorporation in June 2005 To commemorate our values and goals with shareholders and to operate business, we incorporated the Corporate Philosophy into the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, upon receiving approval at the Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting in June 2005. Articles of Incorporation Article 2 Sequence of Mission and Results Based on the hhc Corporate (1) The Company’s Corporate Philosophy is to give first thought to patients and Philosophy their families, and increase the benefits that health care provides them. Under this Philosophy, the Company endeavors to become a human health care (hhc) company. Mission (2) T he Company’s mission is the enhancement of patient satisfaction. The Company believes that revenues and earnings will be generated by fulfilling Enhancement of patient satisfaction this mission. The Company places importance on this sequence of placing the mission before the ensuring results. (3) The Company strives to fulfill its social responsibilities by positioning compliance (i.e., the observance of legal and ethical standards) as the basis of all business activities. Business activities (4) The Company’s principal stakeholders are patients, customers, shareholders and employees. The Company endeavors to develop and maintain a good relationship with Results stakeholders and to enhance the value of their stake through: Revenues, 1. Satisfying unmet medical needs, ensuring a stable supply of high-quality products, earnings, etc. and providing useful information on subjects including drug safety and efficacy; 2. Timely disclosure of corporate management information, enhancement of corporate value, and a positive return to shareholders; and 3. Ensuring stable employment, offering challenging and fulfilling duties, and providing full opportunities for the development of employees’ capabilities. Initiatives to realize innovation based on the theory of knowledge creation Each employee of Eisai is aiming to realize our Corporate Philosophy “hhc” through daily work by exercising ingenuity based on the theory of knowledge creation. There are two types of knowledge: “tacit knowledge” and “explicit knowledge”. The former is subjective and not easily expressible, while the latter is expressible. The “SECI model” is the core framework of knowledge creation, which creates organizational innovation through the repetitive and mutual conversion of tacit and explicit knowledge. In this model, knowledge creation is captured in four phases: (1) “Socialization(S)”, a process of building up tacit knowledge through directly sharing experience with others. (2) “Externalization(E)”, a process of expressing tacit knowledge through dialogue between individuals and articulation into concepts or iconography. (3) “Combination(C)”, a process to combine explicit knowledge of an organizational level into a model, or narrative. (4) “Internalization(I)”, a process of creating new tacit knowledge through practicing explicit knowledge. It is important to repeat this SECI Model spiral of four phases for strategic Knowledge Creation Spiral knowledge creation. Eisai places particular Tacit Tacit importance on socialization Share direct Socialization Externalization(E) Socialization(S) Externalization Express tacit experience and knowledge in understanding the reality build up tacit Environment E O I through dialogue Explicit of patients (emotions) and knowledge I I and reflection encourages all employees (Empathizing) (Emphasizing) Tacit I Individual I Group I (Conceptualizing) around the world to spend 1% I of their total business hours to Internalization I ) Combination(C) Internalization( Combination interact with patients. Explicit Practice the E Organize Tacit O G model or G relevant concepts narrative and I G Org. G into a prototype, create new E G model or model, or tacit knowledge narrative (Practicing) (Modeling) Explicit Explicit I = (Individual), G = (Group) O = (Organization), E = (Environment) 6 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Business model based on hhc CSR CSV hhc Corporate Social Responsibility Creating Shared Value human health care Value: Economic and social Value: Doing good Value: The common good benefits relative to cost Citizenship, philanthropy, Joint company and community Companies together create value sustainability value creation in tune with community needs Discretionary or in response to Integral to competition No fixation on competition external pressure Profits are gained as the result of Separate from profit maximization Integral to profit maximization common good strived for Agenda is determined by external Agenda is company specific and internally generated Agenda is shared by each company reporting and personal preferences Impact is limited by corporate Realigns the entire corporate Included in the company’s regular footprint and CSR budget budget operating budget Example: Transforming procurement Example: Input of customer Example: Fair trade purchasing to increase quality and yields needs into value chain ＊Compiled by Deloitte Tohmatsu Consulting based on Michael E. Porter, “Creating Shared Value”, Harvard Business Review, and other resources and revised by Eisai. Supervised by Ikujiro Nonaka, Professor Emeritus of Hitotsubashi University. Eisai’s hhc is different from corporate social responsibility (CSR), which mainly involves social contribution activities such as acts of charity that do not directly contribute to business or corporate value. It is relatively close to Creating Shared Value (CSV), a business model that aims to pursue both social value and economic value. Eisai’s mission is to create social value by enhancing patient satisfaction, and economic value in the form of revenue and profit is generated as a result. Eisai places importance on this sequence of placing the mission before the ensuring results. Confirmed the thorough internalization of the corporate philosophy among employees around the world and their high engagement in Eisai through the knowledge creation survey 2017 Eisai began conducting the Knowledge Creation Survey targeting approximately 10,000 employees around the world in September 2017. The survey aims for ascertaining the current conditions of knowledge creation activities at Eisai and its organizational units and realizing the corporate philosophy. To achieve these aims, Eisai has conducted this survey six times since fiscal 1997 under the supervision of Ikujiro Nonaka, Professor Emeritus at Hitotsubashi University. Eisai confirmed the thorough internalization of the corporate philosophy among employees around the world (Figure 1) and their high engagement (attachment or emotional involvement) in the company (Figure 2) based on its analysis of the answers provided to a total of 172 questions asked in the survey. At the same time, employees Figure 1 : L  evel of Sharing of Figure 2 : Engagement in Eisai recognized the importance Corporate Philosophy of “socialization”, a process Completely applicable 5 5 particularly emphasized by Eisai Very applicable 4 3.9 3.7 4 3.8 3.8 3.7 through which they share time with patients and accumulate Applicable 3 3 tacit knowledge. They also Not applicable 2 2 showed a tendency to 1 1 understand the needs to raise Not applicable at all Understanding of Practice of Satisfaction Pride in Current job is rewarding the level of accomplishment Corporate Philosophy Corporate Philosophy with Company Company and satisfying of “socialization” (Figure Figure 3 : L  evel of Importance and Accomplishment of Socialization 3). This is presumably because many employees Extremely important 5 5 Significant majority of time allocated feel the need to understand Very important 4 4.0 4 A large amount of time allocated the true needs of patients through accomplishment of Important 3 2.9 3 A fair amount of time allocated “socialization”. We will revitalize Not very important 2 2 A little time allocated our efforts for “socialization” because “socialization” lies at Not important at all 1 1 No time allocated Importance Level Accomplishment the root of Eisai. Importance Level of Socialization Level of Socialization Accomplishment Level 7 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 SWOT Analysis Strengths Taking on the challenge to promptly expand our contributions to patients by leveraging our strengths 1. Thorough internalization of the corporate philosophy and high employee engagement Confirmed the thorough internalization of the corporate philosophy and high employee engagement in the company worldwide from the results of “Knowledge Creation Survey 2017” Reference P4-7, 14 2. Industry-leading R&D pipeline in the dementia area Phase Ⅲ studies for 2 candidates are underway Eisai is the only company in the world which leads Phase Ⅲ studies of both BACE＊1 inhibitor and anti-Aβ(amyloid beta) antibody Aim for successful development of the world’s first potential disease modifier for Alzheimer’s disease Investigational BACE inhibitor elenbecestat＊2 Investigational anti-Aβ protofibrils antibody BAN2401＊2,3 Lists of Aβ associated pharmaceutical candidates at the stage of Phase Ⅲ study＊4 BACE inhibitor Anti-Aβ antibody Elenbecestat BAN2401 ＊1 Beta-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme Gantenerumab（Roche） ＊2 Co-development with Biogen Inc. ＊3 Licensed-in from BioArctic AB Solanezumab（Eli Lilly） ＊4 The chart created by Eisai based on the information on ClinicalTrials.gov as of July 11, 2019 Reference P15-16, 42-47 8 3. Abundant experience and knowledge in medicine creation in the dementia and oncology areas Accumulated abundant experience and knowledge through medicine creation for more than 35 years (since 1983) in the dementia area and more than 30 years (since 1987) in the oncology area Reference P12-13, 42-47, 50-55, 58-61, 99-101 4. Accumulation of experience and knowledge from global business activities ・Drug creation activities ・Production activities ・Marketing activities Commenced overseas operation in the late 1960s, and accelerated global operation in mid 1990s Currently established a solid business foundation in Japan, the U.S., Europe, China, and Asia Achieved double-digit growth of revenue (based on local currency) for 8 consecutive years and recorded top-class revenue in China among Japanese companies Reference P56-67 5. Expansion of products developed in-house Anticancer agent Anticancer agent Antiepileptic agent Lenvima® Halaven® Fycompa® ® (eribulin mesylate) Injection Revenue 62.6 billion yen 41.3 billion yen 19.3 billion yen in fiscal 2018 (YoY 194%) (YoY 104%) (YoY 132%) Reference P50-55, 92-93 6. Strategic partnerships in the neurology and oncology areas Global partnerships that enable increased probability of success and accelerated development with optimization of development and commercialization expenses ・Neurology area: Biogen Inc. ・Oncology area: Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. Reference P15-17, 42-47, 50-55, 80-81 9 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 SWOT Analysis Weaknesses, Opportunities Weaknesses 1. Delay in creation of major brands with annual revenue of over 100 billion yen Trends in revenue of major brands One of our weaknesses is that we have not been able to create major brands since we (billions of yen) created the Alzheimer’s disease treatment Aricept Ⓡ and proton-pump inhibitor Pariet Ⓡ. 300 However, in-house developed anticancer agent LenvimaⓇ is expected to achieve more than 100 billion yen revenue in fiscal 200 2019 and have the potential to exceed the 116.0 peak sales of AriceptⓇ. In addition, 100 investigational BACE inhibitor elenbecestat＊1 and anti-Aβ protofibril antibody BAN2401＊1, 2 are estimated to have the potential to exceed 0 fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal the peak revenue of AriceptⓇ, considering the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (forecast) expected benefits. Lenvima® Aricept® Pariet® ▶Reference: P42-47,50-55,58-63 ＊1 Co-development with Biogen Inc. ＊2 Licensed-in from BioArctic AB 2. Limited R&D expenses compared with global large pharmaceutical companies Revenue and R&D expenses of top 10 pharmaceutical In 2018 global ranking of revenue of companies and Eisai in fiscal 2018 pharmaceutical campanies, Eisai ranked 5th among Japanese pharmaceutical companies Company A and 30th in the world. We have limited R&D Company B expenses compared with large Company C pharmaceutical companies. In order to Company D overcome this weakness, Eisai promotes Company E strategies to improve productivity and Company F efficiency of drug creation activities. Company G First, Eisai is thoroughly selecting and Company H concentrating on priority projects. We Company I Revenue chose neurology and oncology as the strategic Company J areas of focus that have higher needs from R&D expenses patients and would allow us to utilize our Eisai 642.8 billions yen accumulation of knowledge and know-how. 144.8 billions yen 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 (trillions of yen) We have concentrated R&D resources in those Source: AnswersNews (only available in Japanese) https://answers.ten-navi.com/pharmanews/16219/ areas. The second strategy is utilizing Direct R&D expenses by area R&D expenses inclusive of partnerships. Joint development with partners (fiscal 2018 results)＊ partners’ share of expenses who have diverse experience and know-how is ■ Neurology (billions of yen) very effective in increasing the probability of ■ Oncology 9% ■ Others Partners’ share of R&D expenses success of new drug development and 191.3 R&D expenses accelerate it. Also, partnerships greatly 158.5 46.4 contribute to the dispersion of risk in R&D and 18.9 51% 136.0 investment efficiency. In the consolidated 40% 18.8 income statement for fiscal 2018, our R&D expenses was 144.8 billion yen (ratio to 117.2 139.6 144.8 revenue: 22.5%). However, R&D expenses inclusive of partners’ share of expenses (46.4 Concentrate 91% of the direct R&D expenses into two areas billion yen) was 191.3 billion yen (ratio to ﬁscal 2016 ﬁscal 2017 ﬁscal 2018 revenue: 29.8%). ＊Inclusive of partners’ share of expenses ＊Source: NEW Pharma Future No.19 June to July 2019 10 and Threats Opportunities Expansion of global pharmaceutical market It is thought that population aging, growth in developing and emerging countries, and the creation of ground-breaking drugs will further expand the global pharmaceutical market. The 2019-2024 CAGR (compound annual growth rate) of global prescription drug market is expected to be 6.9%, and the CAGR is to be 11.4% in the oncology area. Expansion of global pharmaceutical market will be a great business opportunity for Eisai, which conducts business activities globally. Worldwide Total Prescription Drug Sales （billions of USD） 1,400 Prescription drugs excl. Generics & Orphan drugs 2019-2024 1,200 Orphan drugs CAGR 6.9% Generics 2010-2018 1,000 CAGR 2.3% 800 842 788 600 698 743 629 659 622 589 571 570 584 570 584 593 400 557 200 191 216 239 118 130 135 150 169 80 84 91 96 100 109 72 60 66 66 69 75 77 80 78 75 79 84 88 92 96 100 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 （year） Reference：EvaluatePharma® World Preview 2019, Outlook to 2024 ©Evaluate Ltd. Threats 1. Innovative competitive products entering the market Each pharmaceutical company invests aggressively into R&D to develop new drugs. The launch of an innovative product by a competitor is a large threat for us. However, it will not necessarily lead to taking growth opportunities from us. Combination therapies are becoming standard, especially in the oncology area. If we demonstrate the scientific rationality of combination therapies of our agents and the new products, we will be able to dramatically increase our growth potential. As for LenvimaⓇ, we are actively developing combination therapies with innovative anti-PD-1 antibodies. ▶Reference: P50-55 2. Increasing pressure to lower drug prices as governments promote policies to reduce healthcare expenditure Many governments around the world are implementing policies to reduce healthcare expenditure, and as a result, there is increasing pressure to lower drug prices, which is a threat to our business. High priced agents are appearing one after another on the market, especially in oncology area, therefore setting reasonable prices is a very important issue. Eisai believes that drug prices should be determined based on the fundamental value provided to patients. We are striving to create drugs that bring genuine value to patients, but at the same time, we believe that the value of innovation should be appropriately reflected in the price. 11 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Aiming to Contribute to Patients around the World History of Eisai 1941 Founded Eisai The founder Toyoji Naito established Eisai and focused on drug creation activities, because he was dissatisfied with how Japan’s drug industry at the time remained overly reliant on imports. Advertisement for Chocola A, the first 1941 Established Nihon Eisai Co., Ltd. Chocola brand product launched in 1951 1955 Changed corporate name Advertisement for Sampoon from Nihon Eisai Co., Ltd. Founder: Toyoji Naito contraceptive launched in 1948 to Eisai Co., Ltd. Late 1960s Commenced full-fledged overseas expansion Yuji Naito was inaugurated as the second President of Eisai in 1966, and promoted overseas expansion proactively. Late 1960s to early 1970s Local subsidiaries established in Southeast Asia Yuji Naito 1980s Established a foundation for global business expansion At a time when the typical strategy for a Japanese Three-hub R&D network established pharmaceutical company to expand business overseas was to 1982 Tsukuba Research Laboratories (Japan) license out its products to pharmaceutical companies abroad, 1989 Eisai Research Institute of Boston, Inc. (U.S.) Eisai was determined to handle all processes regarding its 1992 Eisai London Research Laboratories, Ltd. (U.K.) products on its own, from research, which serves as the fountainhead from which all other product phases flow, through Entry into dementia and oncology areas to manufacturing. Driven by this determination, Eisai was one of the first in the industry to establish R&D bases in Japan, the U.S. 1983 Commenced drug discovery research on dementia and Europe and has strived for the creation of global brands. at Tsukuba Research Laboratories Additionally, Eisai commenced drug creation activities in the 1987 Launched R&D group to develop proprietary anticancer dementia and oncology area at this time. agents at Tsukuba Research Laboratories 1992 Adopted the corporate philosophy of “human health care (hhc)” Tsukuba Research Laboratories Eisai Research Institute of Boston Eisai London Research Laboratories Haruo Naito, the current Representative Corporate Officer and CEO, was appointed President of Eisai in 1988. He began transforming the corporate image and challenging (Billions of yen) employees to adopt new mindsets and attitudes as soon as he began his tenure. Then, in 1990, with clearly recognizing patients, their families and the customers as the 800 key players in healthcare and for pharmaceutical companies, the company announced the concept of “Eisai Innovation.” This advocated taking pride in achieving business through improving the benefits of these stakeholders and challenged each individual employee to change the way they looked at their jobs, their lives and the world with the 600 message “The world is changing. Let us change along with it.” The spirit of this new Haruo Naito (left) was appointed concept was summarized as “human health care (hhc)” and President of Eisai in 1988 incorporated into the company’s Corporate Philosophy in 1992. 400 Trends in consolidated revenue, and the revenue of major products ■Others ■Total of three products (Halaven®, Lenvima® and Fycompa®) 200 ■Pariet® ■Aricept® 0 fiscal 1956 fiscal 1957 fiscal 1958 fiscal 1959 fiscal 1960 fiscal 1961 fiscal 1962 fiscal 1963 fiscal 1964 fiscal 1965 fiscal 1966 fiscal 1967 fiscal 1968 fiscal 1969 fiscal 1970 fiscal 1971 fiscal 1972 fiscal 1973 fiscal 1974 fiscal 1975 fiscal 1976 fiscal 1977 fiscal 1978 fiscal 1979 fiscal 1980 fiscal 1981 fiscal 1982 fiscal 1983 fiscal 1984 fiscal 1985 fiscal 1986 fiscal 1987 fiscal 1988 12 1941年 Late 1990s Growth of two major brands accelerated global business expansion Two products developed in-house, Launched Alzheimer's Launched proton-pump Aricept® and Pariet®, were launched disease treatment Aricept ® inhibitor Pariet ® in late 1990s and expanded 1997 in the U.S. 1997 in Japan globally. Total revenue of these and Europe (U.K.) 1998 in Europe (U.K.) products peaked at ¥470.8 billion in fiscal 2009. Growth of the two major 1999 in Japan 1999 in the U.S. brands accelerated global business (brand name: AcipHex®) expansion, and Eisai established pharmaceutical sales subsidiaries consecutively in major countries Strengthened foundation overseas. Peak Sales in oncology area Additionally, Eisai conducted 2007: Acquired Morphotek, Inc. Aricept ¥322.8 billion (fiscal 2009) ® M&A and established new 2008: Acquired MGI Pharma, Inc. Pariet® ¥ 175.9 billion (fiscal 2007) subsidiaries to strengthen Total ¥470.8 billion (fiscal 2009) foundation in oncology area. 2010: Established H3 Biomedicine Inc. in the U.S. 2010s Value creation through new products developed in-house and partnership model Eisai went through a tough phase due to the loss of exclusivity in LOE (Loss of Exclusivity) in two major brands Aricept® and Pariet®. However, new products developed in-house Aricept® Pariet® has been expanding continuously. Eisai’s financial performance 2010 in the U.S. 2010 in Japan has been improving steadily with the growth of Lenvima® and others. 2011 in Japan 2012 in Europe In ‘EWAY 2025’, a medium-term business plan spanning 10 2012 in Europe 2013 in the U.S. years and commenced in fiscal 2016, Eisai has selected oncology and neurology as its therapeutic areas of focus. Under the Launched new products developed in-house partnership model, development of next generation Alzheimer’s 2010: Launched anticancer agent Halaven® in the U.S. disease treatments is advancing in the dementia area. 2012: Launched antiepileptic agent Fycompa® in Europe Additionally, development of combination therapy of Lenvima® 2015: Launched anticancer agent Lenvima® and immuno-oncology is making remarkable progress in the in the U.S., Japan and Europe oncology area. Formulated partnerships in the dementia and oncology area 2014: Entered into a collaboration agreement with Biogen Inc. for the development and commercialization January 2010: LOE for Pariet® in Japan of Alzheimer’s disease treatments 2018: Entered into global strategic oncology collaboration for Lenvima® with Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. November 2010: LOE for Aricept® in the U.S. (Billions of yen) February 2015: 800 Launched Lenvima® in the U.S. 600 December 1997: Launched Pariet® in Japan 400 January 1997: Launched Aricept® in the U.S. 200 0 fiscal 2000 fiscal 2001 fiscal 2002 fiscal 2003 fiscal 2004 fiscal 2005 fiscal 2006 fiscal 2007 fiscal 2008 fiscal 2009 fiscal 2010 fiscal 2011 fiscal 2012 fiscal 2013 fiscal 2014 fiscal 2015 fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 fiscal 2019 fiscal 1989 fiscal 1990 fiscal 1991 fiscal 1992 fiscal 1993 fiscal 1994 fiscal 1995 fiscal 1996 fiscal 1997 fiscal 1998 fiscal 1999 forecast 13 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 CEO Message To Our Stakeholders Management Based on a Corporate Philosophy The Company’s Corporate Philosophy is to give first It is not easy to understand patients’ true thoughts thought to patients and their families, and to increase and feelings. Of course, we cannot ask a patient in the benefits that health care provides to them. Under the hospital waiting room how they feel. Even for this philosophy, we endeavor to become a human families and relatives, it is actually quite difficult to health care (hhc) company. Since taking up the role as find out a patient’s true pain and needs. Accordingly, CEO, I have directed the company’s management in approximately 10,000 employees worldwide are accordance with the corporate philosophy. A corporate encouraged to spend 1% of their total business hours philosophy is a guide to show, “Who is important to to interact with patients to learn their true thoughts and us, and what do we work for”, not just for within the feelings. We believe that it is important to truly consider company, but also for outside of the company. Our the perspectives of patients and their families, and share corporate philosophy is stipulated in the Articles of thoughts and feelings that might not be expressed in Incorporation, one of the prime documents for the words by talking to patients or having meals together company. with them. 14 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Create Innovation in Neurology and Oncology Areas under the Medium–Term Business Plan ‘EWAY 2025’ Currently, Eisai is focused on achieving 10-year ‘EWAY 2025’ in April 2016. medium-term business plan ‘EWAY 2025’, an initiative In neurology, we had the successful case of to create innovation with strong motivation based launching Aricept® for the treatment of Alzheimer’s on the corporate philosophy “hhc”. Innovation is not disease. We have abundant experience and knowledge something that necessarily happens in science or of medicine creation and disease awareness activities technology. Strong motivations of people are essential. in the dementia area. Also, an industry-leading pipeline ‘EWAY 2025’ is aimed at creating innovation with is our greatest strength. Despite the estimates that the strong motivations to find out patients’ true needs from number of patients is increasing globally, no dementia socialization with them and to fulfill their needs. treatment has been newly approved by the U.S. FDA The concept of “Ricchi” is also incorporated into since 2003. Eisai’s priority is to create new medicines ‘EWAY 2025’. “Ricchi” is an area where real patient to fulfill high unmet needs in the dementia area, and needs are still unmet and no one has achieved that is the motivation that made us decided to focus success, or even remained untapped from “hhc” point on neurology area. of view, then Eisai has an opportunity to become a In oncology area, we launched the anticancer agent frontrunner there. We aim to play a central role in Halaven® in 2010, and Lenvima® in 2015, and have “Ricchi” and constantly innovate. Determining “Ricchi” built experiences and knowledge. Oncology is the area means limiting the scope of our activities and involves in which the world’s large pharmaceutical companies taking risks. However, we believe that focusing on are in fierce competition to develop new treatments. It specific areas will empower the efficiency towards is extremely challenging to be successful in this area. creating innovation. Under these circumstances, we decided to focus on Among the various areas, we have decided to focus oncology, since we believe that successful outcome on neurology and oncology since we commenced is achieved through these two perspectives: “tumor Focusing on Neurology and Oncology Areas microenvironment＊1”, which we have experience and knowledge from the development of Halaven® and Neurology Area Successful case such as launch of Aricept ® Lenvima®, and “driver gene mutation＊2 and abberant Abundant knowledge in dementia area splicing＊3” utilizing technology of H3 Biomedicine, Industry-leading pipeline in dementia area Inc., a precision medicine research & development Oncology Area subsidiary. ® Successful case such as launch of Halaven and Lenvima ® ＊1 S  pecific environment that the immune cells infiltration and angiogenesis induction are occurred around tumor cells. It is considered that various stimulations and nutrition from Tumor microenvironment with experience and knowledge ® ® microenvironment enhance carcinogenesis. from Halaven and Lenvima ＊2 G  enes that play a direct role in the incidence and progression of cancer Driver gene mutation and aberrant splicing of H3 Biomedicine ＊3 A  bnormality in activity to remove unnecessary part from genetic information of DNA Dementia Area — Phase Ⅲ Studies Are Ongoing for Two Projects Regarding investigational anti-amyloid beta (Aβ) Regarding investigational BAN2401＊1, 2, an antiantibody aducanumab＊1, which was being developed amyloid beta (Aβ) protofibrils antibody, the analysis under the collaboration with Biogen, Eisai and Biogen of PhaseⅡ study with 856 patients demonstrated announced the decision to discontinue two Phase Ⅲ reduction of Aβ accumulation in the brain and studies for patients with early Alzheimer’s disease on subsequent improvement of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) March 21, 2019. In spite of the great deal of support biomarkers. As a result, this is the first late-stage on this project, we would like to sincerely apologize study data that has successfully demonstrated the for this result. slowing in clinical decline. These findings suggested However, we have two Phase Ⅲ studies ongoing the potential of BAN2401 as a disease modifying for two projects. Next-generation Alzheimer’s disease treatment. Based on the results of Study 201, the treatments are expected to slow disease progression Phase Ⅲ study (Clarity AD) has been initiated in from earlier stages and for longer periods of time, March 2019. High affinity for Aβ protofibrils which and potentially provide new hope for patients. We will have strong neurotoxicity, is a unique characteristic strive to deliver new treatments to patients and their of BAN2401. The PhaseⅢ study is currently ongoing families as early as possible. and final readout of Primary endpoint is targeted in the first quarter of fiscal 2022. 15 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 As for investigational elenbecestat＊1, a BACE (β first study of a BACE inhibitor to show a statistically -site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme) significant difference in Aβ levels in the brain while inhibitor, two Phase Ⅲ studies (MISSION AD1/2 ) suggesting delay of clinical symptom decline. are ongoing and patient enrollment was completed In addition, these two agents were selected for in March 2019. Final readout of Primary endpoint is prevention studies (A3 study and A45 study) for targeted in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. The PhaseⅡ Alzheimer’s disease planned by Alzheimer’s Clinical study (Study 202) conducted in the U.S. was the Trials Consortium (ACTC), which is one of the world’s experts on Alzheimer’s disease. ＊1 C o-development with Biogen Inc. ＊2 L icensed-in from BioArctic AB Investigational anti-Aβ protofibrils antibody BAN2401 Investigational BACE inhibitor elenbecestat Initiatives to Develop Environment Surrounding Dementia in Japan In order to deliver next-generation Alzheimer’s the legislation for dementia in Japan; the Basic Act disease treatments without delay, we need to improve for Dementia was submitted to the Lower House infrastructure on the medical and social environments. from the Liberal Democratic Party and the Komeito Various issues need be addressed; however, party during the ordinary parliamentary session. The establishing environment for early diagnosis and Outline for Promoting the Dementia Plan focusing initiation of treatment is particularly important since on co-existence and prevention as pillars, has been current studies suggest that accumulation of Aβ, summarized in June 2019. Prior to the G20 Summit in sleep disorders and behavioral disorders may occur June 2019, the Japan Pharmaceuticals Manufacturers long before cognitive impairment appears. Association prepared the proposals regarding global As for cancer, the Cancer Control Act was healthcare issues including dementia and submitted established in Japan; therefore, public expenses cover these to the Government of Japan. Through these most of the primary cancer screenings. With this Act, initiatives, we expect that dementia measure in Japan substantial progress has been made in prevention would make a major step forward. and treatment of cancer. On the contrary, the public We also need to develop new diagnostic methods, expense coverage for diagnosis of dementia has which will enable early diagnosis of dementia as soon not been fully established in Japan. For this reason, as we can. Therefore, Eisai and Sysmex Corporation the philosophy and basic measures of Basic Act are jointly pursuing development of minimally invasive for Dementia are currently under review. Recently, and inexpensive high throughput diagnostics (bloodprogress has been made for the establishment of based diagnostic method). Oncology Area — Expansion of Lenvima® and Pursuit of Further Maximization of Its Value Eisai and Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., The co-development of combination therapy U.S.A. (U.S. Merck) agreed upon a global strategic of Lenvima ® and KEYTRUDA ® (generic name: collaboration for Lenvima® in March 2018. The copembrolizumab) is also steadily ongoing. In July 2019, commercialization is currently progressing smoothly in we received the Breakthrough Therapy Designation major countries. In fiscal 2018, we obtained approval from the U.S. FDA ＊ for the potential first-line for hepatocellular carcinoma around the world, treatment of advanced unresectable hepatocellular including the U.S. and China. As a result, the revenue carcinoma, following renal cell carcinoma and of Lenvima® in fiscal 2018 reached 62.6 billion yen, endometrial carcinoma. 11 of the 13 co-developed 194% YoY. In fiscal 2019, we will expand the range of studies (12 studies are pivotal) for the combination co-commercialization and aim to achieve revenue of therapy of Lenvima® and KEYTRUDA® were initiated 116 billion yen, 185% YoY. approximately 1 year after entering the strategic 16 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix ● Recent transition of Lenvima revenue ● Mid-to long-term perspective of Lenvima revenue ® ® High growth was achieved from approval of Hepatocellular Aim to realize innovative value for patients through carcinoma indication and initiation of co-commercialization accelerating development of combination therapies with with Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. in major KEYTRUDA® countries (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Co-commercialization was initiated in Japan, 500 Europe, China and Asia Hepatocellular carcinoma indication was approved in the U.S., Europe, and China 20 Co-commercialization was initiated in the U.S. ・Comprehensive strategic collaboration was executed ・Hepatocellular carcinoma indication was approved in Japan 10 0 fis c re a l 2 su 0 fis lt 17 fis 0 ca re l 2 c t a al 2 su 0 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q fis t l 18 fo alc rg 0 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 fiscal 2019 re 2 ca 01 st 9 et 21 collaboration, and remaining two studies will be in addition to a one-time $0.2 billion U.S. dollar initiated within fiscal 2019. associated with certain option rights in fiscal 2019. This Furthermore, this collaboration will have a positive collaboration enables further proactive investment in impact on Eisai’s financial position in the medium R&D in oncology and dementia areas. Accordingly, the to long-terms. Assuming the achievement of all achievability of fiscal 2020 target as set in ‘EWAY 2025’ development and commercial goals for all indications, has been enhanced by enabling operating profit of 100 the total amount of upfront, option, regulatory and sales billion yen level on average and 10% level of ROE. The milestone payments have the potential to reach up to achievability of ROE target of 15% level in fiscal 2025 $5.76 billion U.S. dollars (approximately 611.0 billion has been enhanced through continuous growth in yen). We have already recognized $1.38 billion U.S. revenue and operating profit beyond fiscal 2021. ＊A  n U.S. FDA program intended to expedite development and review of drugs for serious or dollars at the end of March 2019, and recognition of the life-threatening conditions. Preliminary clinical evidence demonstrating the drug may have regulatory and multiple sales milestones are expected substantial improvement of at least one clinically significant endpoint over available therapy is required. Transformation of Business Model under the Fourth Industrial Revolution – Establishment of Ecosystem We are currently going through the era of the fourth Success of the “Dementia Ecosystem” does not rely industrial revolution. Under such circumstances, we on digital technique, but on the prospects of building believe that it is necessary to focus on predicting trust relationship with those living with the disease and what may happen to each patient in the future, and their families. In order to gain the credibility of receiving provide new benefit to those living with disease and new benefits and values by participating in Eisai their families. For example, we aim to provide advice, platform, through mutually connecting with those living recommendation and proposals, such as when an with the disease and their families, we will sincerely onset of disease occurs, and how he/she can avoid make effort to meet their expectations. risks of developing dementia or cancer five years later. We aim to develop algorithms related to prevention and prediction utilizing Eisai’s own knowledge, Building Dementia Ecosystem Platform People Living with Dementia and Eisai Co-Create Unique expertise, experiences and clinical data, as well as Value Based on Data People Living with Dementia big data from external organizations. Moreover, by establishing platform in which partners who provide Participation ＝ New Benefit & contents can participate, we aim to provide enormous People’s 「 Trust 」 Value Prevention benefit to those living with the disease and their Information ＝ Prediction families. Especially in dementia area, while pursuing Smart partnership agreements with local governments, we House Eisai Data Medical Service aim to build the “Dementia Ecosystem” along with Sleep Well Platform Care-Giving Supporting Service fitness clubs and insurance companies, in order Tool Private Diagnostic to contribute to the realization of the well-being of Insurance Fitness Club Tool patients and their families who participate in it. 17 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Contribution to Achieve SDGs Through the Initiatives to Eliminate Medical or Care “Gaps” We are working on eliminating the various medical or care gaps that exist throughout the world to fulfill a mission of enhancement of patient satisfaction. In an ideal world, people would have equal access to the treatment/care they need, however things are different in reality. Due to differences in region or income, or the lack of medical systems, there are huge discrepancies in the level of treatment or care available. We are enhancing our initiatives to eliminate these regional, income, and institutional gaps. We believe that the initiatives to eliminate the gaps lead to achieving the United Nations 17 Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs). We are aiming to contribute to achieving four goals in particular among the 17 goals: “1. No Socialization between member of Eisai and patients poverty”, “3. Good health and well-being”, “10. Reduced inequalities” and “17. Partnerships for the goals”. • Contribution to Achieving SDGs 3 and 10 • Contribution to Achieving SDGs 1 Affordable Pricing Policies Initiative to Eliminate Tropical Diseases in Emerging Countries in Impoverished Regions We have been formulating various flexible pricing A representative example of efforts to resolve the gap policies that enable patients in emerging countries is to eliminate Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs). to purchase our products at affordable prices. For NTDs, such as lymphatic filariasis＊ (LF) are serious example, we have introduced “HOPE TO HER medical and social issues. Moreover, due to poverty PROGRAM” in eight Asian countries. In this program, or other reasons, many people afflicted with NTDs our anticancer agent Halaven® is provided based on cannot receive the necessary treatments. We are tiered pricing model, which is a scheme to reduce taking proactive initiatives to relieve patients of their the burden for medicine expenses according to the fears and sufferings. Initiatives for NTDs are not side patients’ income and health insurance systems. This work; it is a major area of focus alongside oncology program has enabled approximately 4,100 patients and neurology. with breast cancer to receive Halaven® over the past In order to eliminate LF, Eisai initiated manufacturing five years. the LF treatment “DEC (Diethylcarbamazine)” tablets, at our Vizag Plant in India. We have provided these • Contribution to Achieving SDGs 17 to the World Health Organization (WHO) at Price Development for New Treatments for Zero. Supply commenced Tropical Diseases Utilizing Partnerships in October 2013, and we Eisai is proactively taking initiatives aimed at have delivered approximately developing new treatments for NTDs. We have 1.8 billion tablets to 28 collaborated with several international research countries by the end of June organizations to obtain specific research technologies 2019. WHO announced that and experience in running clinical studies and elimination of LF was achieved networking with clinical facilities in endemic regions. in 14 countries. Eisai will Eisai’s initiatives for elimination of NTDs are a longcontinue providing DEC tablets term investment with the aim of eliminating regional until LF is eliminated in all the gaps and expanding the productive population and endemic countries. DEC tablets middle-income group in developing and emerging countries, and we will continue to proactively engage in these initiatives. ＊ A disease caused by thread-like worms (helminths) of a pathogen, known as filarial. It is transmitted to humans by mosquitoes. Infection can cause serious damages to the lymphatic system and may cause physical impairment such as elephantiasis which swells and enlarges the foot resembling that of an elephant. Statistics show that more than 120 million people in 73 tropical and subtropical countries are infected with this disease. 18 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Eisai’s Initiatives for ESG Are Highly Evaluated by External Organizations Eisai w a s r ank ed eighth among lar ge global of the board, as well as the chairs of the nomination, pharmaceutical companies in the Access to Medicine audit and compensation committees are all outside Index (ATM Index) 2018, as the result of the successful directors. The CEO is the only board member from activities for Society (S) focusing on initiatives to the management side. There are always having active eliminate gaps were highly evaluated. discussions concerning business supervision from In the Environment (E) category, we have been various perspectives of the outside directors at the making efforts to reduce impact on the global board meetings. In the Jefferies Securities’ Governance environment for years, and as a result, we were Review Report, Eisai has been awarded the first awarded a high evaluation of B rating in the CDP place among the TOPIX500 companies for the third Climate Change Report 2018. “Science Based Targets consecutive year since 2016. (SBT) Initiative” certified our medium to long-term targets Additionally, Eisai has been selected as a member of for greenhouse gas reduction and recognized that the FTSE4Good Index Series for the 18th consecutive the targets were based on scientific grounds. We also year since 2002. Eisai is selected for membership announced our endorsement of Task Force on Climatein all four ESG indices adopted by the Government related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in June 2019. Pension Investment Fund (GPIF): MSCI Japan ESG For Governance (G), we believe that our approach Select Leaders Index, FTSE Blossom Japan Index, for Corporate Governance has always been advanced MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) and compared to other companies. We adopted a Company S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index. Furthermore, Eisai with a Nomination Committee, etc., System in June supports the United Nations Global Compact. Through 2004 to clearly divide functions between supervision undertaking initiatives to embed the Ten principles of of management and execution of business, as well as the United Nations Global Compact in the four areas of ensuring fairness and transparency in management. At human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, Eisai, the majority of the board members are outside we continue to make efforts to increase our corporate directors with a high degree of independence. The chair value. Maximizing Shareholder Value over the Medium– to Long–Term Eisai believes that proactive investment for growth based on medium to long-term ROE management, a stable dividend policy and a global investor relations (IR) strategy are three important measures that make up our financial strategy for maximizing shareholder value. Eisai achieved the target ROE for fiscal 2020 of over 10%, On the other hand, in addition to financial strategy, two years ahead of original schedule which was planned we believe that the initiatives to enhance non-financial in ‘EWAY 2025’, and is generating a historical 10-year capital with a focus on ESG are important to maximize average ROE of 10.2% and positive equity spread＊ corporate value over the medium to long-term. As of 2.2%. In working to realize medium and long-term mentioned above, our initiatives for ESG are highly growth, we will continue to proactively invest in R&D in evaluated by external organizations. We will seek further dementia and oncology areas. Regarding dividends, enhancement of non-financial capital and increase we will maintain our policy of paying stable dividends corporate value, through the management based on with a dividend on equity (DOE) ratio at the 8% level. At a corporate philosophy or initiatives to eliminate gaps the end of fiscal 2018, Eisai’s net debt equity ratio (Net centered on contribution to eliminate NTDs. DER) was -0.32, while the ratio of equity attributable to Eisai would like to undertake our stakeholder’s owners of the parent was 58.6%. We sustain our sound mandate by increasing corporate value continuously financial condition that enables us to invest proactively under the concept of hhc philosophy and compliance. and maintain stable dividends. As for IR strategy, our We ask all our stakeholders for their continued support. activities for years were recognized and we received July 2019 the “IR Grand Prix Award” at the IR Award 2018 held by the Japan Investor Relations Association (JIRA). We Haruo Naito Representative Corporate Officer and CEO intend to disclose information in a timely and fair manner to fulfill our accountability to investors and work to constantly enhance shareholder value. ＊ Equity spread: ROE Cost of equity. Eisai conservatively assumes cost of equity of 8%. 19 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Value Creation Process and Flow Figures in parentheses indicate the corresponding pages of this report. Six Capitals based on the IIRC framework Eisai’s Strategy Map Capital to sustain Eisai Financial perspective Sustainable maximization Financial Capital Pool of funds for use in corporate activities of shareholder value •Net DER −0.32＊ •Ratio of equity attributable to Ordinary general meeting of shareholders owners of the parent 58.6%＊ •Net Debt/EBITDA −1.70 years＊  redit rating A+ (R&I announced in •C June, 2019) (＊end of fiscal 2018) (P.28-37,94-95) Customer perspective Eisai’s mission Intellectual Capital Knowledge-based intangible assets such as pipelines and intellectual property Enhancement of •A bundant experience and knowledge of drug creation patient satisfaction activities and pipeline in the dementia and oncology area Input of capital for value creation (P.42-61,99-101) Output (products and services) Human Capital Creation of innovative medicines in neurology and oncology areas Capabilities and experiences of Eisai’s human assets as well as motivation for innovation (P.42-47、50-55、92-93、99-101) •Thorough internalization of the corporate philosophy Anticancer agent  lobalized human resources •G Lenvima® (More than half of the 10,000-plus employees at Eisai work overseas) Investigational disease Investigational (P.4-7,24-27,56-57) modifying treatment disease modifying for Alzheimer’s disease treatment for Alzheimer’s elenbecestat＊1 disease BAN2401＊1, 2 Manufactured Capital Facilities for the manufacture of products and provision of services Internal business process perspective •Own plants at 9 sites in major regions worldwide Global business activities Utilization of partnerships Quality assurance, stable (P.56-57,86) (P.56-67) (P.80-81) supply, and safety management for products (P.86-87) Social and Relationship Capital Building relationships of trust with society and stakeholders for the common good Develop drug creation, production Aim to improve business efficiency •Initiatives for improving and marketing activities globally and productivity, and to promptly access to medicines highly over many years maximize contributions to patients Build a complete system globally evaluated  (ranked 8th at Access to Medicine Index) •Wide range of partnerships in the world (P.38-41,48-49,80-81,86-87) Learning & growth perspective Internalization of human Natural Capital health care (hhc) philosophy (P.4-7) Environmental resources and processes associated with corporate activities •36.4% reduction of CO2 All employees are encouraged to emission in Japan compared use 1% of their total business hours to fiscal 2005 (fiscal 2018)  ontinuation of zero •C to interact with patients emissions in Japan for eleven Interaction with dementia patients as part consecutive years (fiscal 2018) of new-employee training in China (P.88-89) ＊ 1 Co-development with Biogen Inc. ＊ 2 Licensed-in from BioArctic AB 20 Eisai’s mission is the enhancement of patient satisfaction as defined in the Eisai Articles of Incorporation. In order to fulfill this mission, Eisai utilizes many different types of capital as input and converts them into many different forms of output (products and services) through business activities. Creation of social value by enhancing patient satisfaction leads to generation of economic value in the form of revenue and profit as a result. Through the creation of these outcomes, Eisai is aiming to expand its capital to an extent that is greater than the amount of input. This chart expresses Eisai’s continuous value creation process and flow based on a model that incorporates the IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council) Aim for expansion of capital framework and balanced scorecard. Financial Capital Pursued an optimal capital structure Creation of ROE that exceeds the cost of capital while maintaining financial integrity in the mediumto long-term (P.34-35) •Net DER: −0.3 to 0.3 •Ratio of equity attributable to Expansion of capital to an extent that is greater than the amount of input Sustainable and stable shareholder returns (P.36) owners of the parent: 50-60% •Net Debt/EBITDA: 0-3 years •Maintaining a single A level credit rating  (P.28-37,94-95) Intellectual Capital Initiatives to eliminate medical Contribution to achieve Sustainable •Aim for successful or care gaps (P.18-19) Development Goals (SDGs) (P.18-19, 90) development of the world’s first potential disease modifier ・Regional gaps for Alzheimer’s disease ・Income gaps •Aim for value maximization of Lenvima® by developing ・Institutional gaps combination therapy with anti-PD-1 antibody  (P.42-61,99-101) Offering solutions that go Human Capital Initiatives for improving access •Aim to develop talents capable to medicines (P.38-41) beyond providing of continuously innovating pharmaceuticals (P.48-49) even in a rapidly changing business environment  (P.4-7,24-27,56-57) Medication Supply DEC tablets to administration help eliminate lymphatic support device filariasis free of charge “e-OKUSURI-SAN” Manufactured Capital •Aim to fulfill the mission and responsibility to supply high quality products stably  (P.56-57,86) Enhancement of corporate governance Enhancement of compliance (P.68-78) & risk management (P.82-85) Chair ·Commenced promotion of fullSeven outside directors fledged compliance in fiscal 2000 from the lessons of vitamin Social and Relationship Capital lawsuit •Contribution to the future growth Four inside directors ·Identification of risks and in developing and emerging promotion of prompt and efficient countries and improvement in The seven outside directors supports the response to risks the value of Eisai’s corporate effectiveness of the corporate governance system brand through initiatives to improve access to medicines •Further expansion of useful partnerships  (P.38-41,48-49,80-81,86-87) Promotion of talents innovation strategy (P.24-27) Develop global leaders Promote diversity Promote work style reform Natural Capital •Aiming to Reduce CO2 Emissions across the entire value chain by 30% compared to Fiscal 2016 by Fiscal 2030 “It's time to embrace  (P.88-89) E-GOLD Eisai Diversity” Accumulation of capital for further value creation ＊ Source: Created by Eisai based on Kazunori Ito and Toshiaki Nishihara, “Disclosure and Usability of Information on Integrated Report of Eisai”, The KAIKEIGAKU KENKYU (The Annual bulletin of accounting study) No.43, 2017 and advice from Professor Kazunori Ito 21 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Medium-Term Business Plan ‘EWAY 2025’ Eisai began formulating threeto five-year span medium-term business plans in 1957 and executed plan management based on a mediumto long-term perspective. ‘EWAY 2025’, commenced in April 2016, is Eisai’s first medium-term business plan spanning 10 years. For a pharmaceuticals company that has undertaken new drug development over long periods of time, 10 years is not particularly a long time. Eisai will stay keenly focused on the goals, and aim to expand contribution to patients. A look back at the past three medium-term business plans Key achievements Key issues ●Expanded Alzheimer’s disease treatment ●Unable to launch in-house developed drugs Aricept® and proton-pump inhibitor Pariet® following Aricept® and Pariet® ●Accelerated expansion of business in overseas ●Virtually attained key management targets (net ●Main development themes unachieved Millennium revenue of ¥600.0 billion and operating income •Anticancer agent E7070 Plan of ¥100.0 billion) one year ahead of schedule (FY2002-FY2005) ●Enhanced corporate governance •Adopted a Company with a Nomination Committee, etc., System in 2004 •Added the corporate philosophy of hhc to  the Articles of Incorporation in 2005 ●Attained best ever consolidated revenue (fiscal ●Unable to achieve consolidated financial targets 2009) thanks to expansion of Aricept® and (revenue of ¥1 trillion and operating income of Dramatic Pariet® ¥200 billion) due to delays in obtaining new drug Leap Plan ●Globalization advanced across all functions approvals and unachieved development themes (FY2006-FY2010) ●Strengthened foundation in oncology area ●Main development themes unachieved •Acquired Morphotek, Inc. (2007) •Severe sepsis treatment/endotoxin antagonist •Acquired MGI Pharma, Inc. (2008) Eritoran ●Launched in-house anticancer agent Halaven® •Thrombin receptor antagonist E5555 (2010, in the U.S.) •Aricept® pediatric indications in the U.S. and Europe (eribulin mesylate) Injection •Pariet® long-acting formulation •AMPA receptor antagonist perampanel for Parkinson’s disease ●Launched new in-house drugs ●Unable to achieve consolidated financial targets •Antiepileptic agent Fycompa® (2012 in Europe) that aimed for the highest level of results (revenue Plan •Anticancer agent Lenvima® (2015 in the U.S., of ¥800 billion and operating income of ¥200 Hayabusa Japan and Europe) billion) due to the following factors (FY2011-FY2015) •Insufficient capabilities for responding to changes ® in business environment resulting from the loss of exclusivities for both Aricept® and Pariet® ●Expanded in China and Asia business •Delays in product creation ●New market entry ●Main development themes unachieved ●Strengthened initiatives for improving access to •Halaven® second-line treatment for breast cancer medicines in the U.S. •Halaven® for non-small cell lung cancer ● Trends in revenue and operating profit Revenue (billion yen) Revenue Operating Profit Operating profit (billion yen) 800 ¥800 billion 160 680.0 or more 642.8 600 103.0 120 86.2 ¥102 billion or more 400 80 200 Dramatic 40 Millennium Plan Leap Plan Plan Hayabusa EWAY 2025 0 fisc fisc fiscal 2 al 2 al 2 00 00 2 3 0 fisc fisc fiscal 2 al 2 00 00 00 4 5 6 fisc fiscal 2 al 2 al 2 00 00 00 7 8 9 fisc fisc fiscal 2 al 2 al 2 01 01 01 0 1 fisc fisc fiscal 2 al 2 al 2 01 01 2 3 4 fisc fisc fiscal 2 al 2 01 01 01 5 6 7 fisc 018 for al 20 Me tec 1 bu dium al 2 as 9 fisc sine -te al 2 ss p rm 02 lan 0t ＊ Results up to fiscal 2013 were calculated pursuant to J-GAAP, while results for fiscal 2014 and beyond were calculated pursuant to IFRS. fiscal 2arg 02ets 5 ＊ Fiscal 2020 targets are unofficial figure. As for official guidance, please refer to “Consolidated financial report for fiscal 2019 (Year Ended March 31, 2020)”, which will be released in May 2020. ＊ The reduction of operating profit in fiscal 2007 reflected the acquisition of MGI Pharma, Inc. 22 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix hhc and “Ricchi” : The Core Concepts of Medium-Term Business Plan ‘EWAY 2025’ ‘EWAY 2025’ aims to achieve the following three strategic intents: 1. Aim to support patients’ thought: “I do not want to get sick. I want to know if I get sick, and I want to be cured.” 2. A  im to support patients’ thought: “I want to control my disease in my neighborhood and safely spend the rest of my life with peace of mind.” 3. Focus on a business domain where Eisai can find out “Ricchi” based on the human health care (hhc) needs and fulfill them with Eisai innovation The foundation of these strategic intents is the corporate philosophy, human health care (hhc) which reflects the desire to contribute to patients. Since the inauguration of ‘EWAY 2025’, patient socialization programs have been included into many internal training programs, which has motivated employees to contribute to patients. In neurology and oncology, the two therapeutic areas of focus in ‘EWAY 2025’, Eisai finds out “Ricchi”, where Eisai can become a frontrunner, and has been focusing efforts there. Establishing a center line at “Ricchi” through innovation is a core concept of ‘EWAY 2025’. ● Main Concept of Plan ‘EWAY 2025’ ● What is “Ricchi” hhc Socialization Areas where real patient needs are still unmet, and where Spending time together and Eisai can become a frontrunner sharing experiences with patients “Ricchi” in Neurology area “Ricchi” in Oncology area hhc True Needs Understanding real needs of the patients 1. E  arly and minimally-invasive 1. Tumor microenvironment diagnostics •M  esenchymal cells and tumor Motivation for Innovation 2. N ovel neuro-transmission stromal cells Fulfilling hhc needs with our innovation pathways • Endothelial cells Finding Out “Ricchi” 3. Proteinopathy • Myeloid cells 4. N euro-inflammation and immuno2. D  river gene mutation and genetics aberrant splicing in cancer cells Establishment of Center Line 5. Synapse micro-environment at “Ricchi” by Innovation 6. Neuronal regeneration Interim evaluation of ‘EWAY 2025’– Toward achievement of fiscal 2020 target in the medium-term business plan for operating profit and ROE ahead of schedule The current progress of revenue is below the intended target, mainly due to the delay in the growth of key products including Halaven® and Fycompa®. We are aiming for further expansion of revenue, mainly by rapid growth of Lenvima®. On the other hand, the current progress of operating profit and ROE is over the intended target, mainly due to the positive impact of partnership model (including recognition of one-time payment or milestone payment, sharing of R&D expenses) or selecting and concentrating on priority projects. As for ROE, the fiscal 2020 target in the medium-term business plan was achieved ahead of schedule in fiscal 2018. Regarding operating profit, the fiscal 2020 target in the mediumFiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Medium-term Business Plan term business plan is planned to be Results Forecasts Fiscal 2020 Targets Revenue 642.8 billion 680.0 billion 800 billion level achieved ahead of schedule in fiscal Operating profit 86.2 billion 103.0 billion 102 billion level 2019. ROE 10.4% 11.2% 10% or more Key achievements Key issues ●The results of operating profit and ROE in fiscal 2018 were over the intended target. ●The results of revenue in ●Entered into global strategic oncology collaboration for Lenvima® with Merck & Co., fiscal 2018 were below Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. in 2018 the intended target. ●Accelerating development of next generation dementia treatments ●Main development theme •Initiation of Phase Ⅲ studies for elenbecestat＊1 in 2016 unachieved •Initiation of Phase Ⅲ study for BAN2401＊1, 2 in 2018 •Alzheimer’s disease ●Submitted new drug application for in-house orexin receptor antagonist lemborexant, treatment aducanumab＊1 seeking approval for the treatment of insomnia in the U.S and Japan in fiscal 2018 ＊ Fiscal 2020 targets are unofficial figure. As for official guidance, please refer to “Consolidated financial report for fiscal 2019 (Year Ended March 31, 2020)”, which will be released in May 2020. ＊1 Co-development with Biogen Inc. ＊2 Licensed-in from BioArctic AB. 23 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Human Capital Strategy for Talents Innovation Aiming to Develop Talents Capable of Continuously Innovating Even in a Rapidly Changing Business Environment Yosuke Akita Corporate Officer Chief Talent Officer (CTO) Q: W hat are the strengths of Eisai’s talents? A: I think that the greatest Local employees are assigned to senior management strength is the deep positions at most of Eisai’s overseas subsidiaries. 6 of penetration of our corporate our 30 corporate officers are from outside Japan. The philosophy. I have worked in Executive Committee Meeting, the highest decisionthe United States and Europe as an expatriate, and making body at Eisai, has been conducted in English when I asked local staff there why they had joined for nearly twenty years. We are also focusing on the Eisai, many of them expressed their empathy with development of leaders who would run the business our hhc corporate philosophy. Eisai’s corporate on a global scale. The programs called “E-GOLD” philosophy is not a simple subject. All employees designed for global leaders and “E-ACE” for nextaround the world are striving to achieve the corporate generation talent are important selective training philosophy in our daily business. I think that our schemes led by the CEO and CTO, respectively. 15 of greatest strength is the large pool of employees who the 147 employees who have completed the E-GOLD are proactively determined to work at Eisai. program currently play active roles as corporate Another strength is globalization. More than half officers. of the 10,000-plus employees at Eisai work overseas. Q: W hat are the challenges Eisai must overcome in its strategy for talents innovation? A: Put simply, our challenge is to develop talents system that would encourage drastic changes in the capable of continuously creating innovation even perception and behavior of each of our employees in a rapidly changing business environment. The who take leading roles in innovation. purpose of the personnel system reform implemented The new personnel system promotes and aims in April 2016 was to achieve this goal. to achieve the development of professionals, Eisai's personnel system in Japan in the past had achievement of diverse work styles and promotion been an ability-based grade system. Salaries were of maximization of diverse talents as its three focal designed to increase as employees’abilities improved areas. every year, and the system assumed the company’s Development steady growth and a relatively unchanging business of professionals environment. After the loss of exclusivity for Aricept®, an Alzheimer’s disease treatment, and Pariet®, a Three key proton-pump inhibitor, we faced a harsh business areas of new personnel environment and these assumptions significantly Achievement system Promotion of of diverse maximization of changed. We therefore implemented a new personnel work styles diverse talents Q: W hat is your mission in particular to develop professionals? A: Eisai defines a professional as an individual their abilities using such opportunities. who is self-reliant and capable of generating The system also ensures that employees expected results and solving challenges and who have made substantial achievements as problems. We actively offer various programs to our professionals are fairly rewarded. As a result of employees to become professionals regardless of recognizing and evaluating high-performing employees their age or career stage. After launching the new regardless of their age, the ratio of employees in their personnel system, the opportunities to develop 30s or younger who are in management positions has employees’ abilities have significantly improved. been increasing every year. We believe that our employees are steadily improving 24 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Key programs that started after the launch of new personnel system ●An increase in employees in their 30s or younger who are in management ■Interview for professional development review (all employees) positions in Eisai Co., Ltd. All employees make an action plan to fill the gap between their desired future and the present Figures in parentheses are the ratio to (three year plan), and implement in under the advices and supports of their supervisor. all management positions ■EKKYO program (applicants) 196 persons The program allows employees to experience operations in other departments in the (14%) company (cross-departmental experience). A total of 119 employees participated in the program in three years. ■Mentoring program (applicants) Executives and employees of other departments provide advice as mentors. A total of 71 employees participated in the program in three years. ■Career development program (all employees aged 30, 40, and 50) 77 persons (6%) Training to support the autonomous career development of employees is provided at their milestone ages. ■Professional milestones (employees aged 45 and 55) Promotes the activities as professionals by objectively reflecting on their activities in a 360-degree analysis. End of March 2016 April 2019 Q: W  hat is your mission in particular to achieve diverse work styles? A: We expanded the options that employees can choose based on their values. We also expanded the range of options for employees having some constraints due to personal reasons such as childcare and caregiving and developed an environment for them to exert their abilities to the fullest. Key systems that started after the launch of new personnel system ■ Mobility selection system ∙ A system that allows employees to select the range of their activities based on their life style and/or life events ∙A vailable options include “global selection”, which does not limit the location of work, and “domestic area selection,” which limits work location. ∙E mployees experiencing life events such as childcare, nursing care or marriage are able to select a limitation of work locations for a certain period of time or request support for living together with their spouses upon getting married. ■ Job challenge system ∙ A system for implementing personnel changes through internal offerings to employees in specific positions or roles Mobility selection system: status of use Personnel changes through job challenge system fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 Selection of domestic area 35 34 34 3 3 2 Limitation of work locations 39 33 24 for a certain period of time Support for living together upon marriage 0 3 4 ■ Change in the system for sick leave to enable employees to take half-day leave for cancer, dialysis or infertility treatment (April 2018) ■ Establishment of a system that offers time off for paternity leave, aimed at encouraging male employees to participate in childcare (April 2018) 58 male employees utilized the system in fiscal 2018 Q: D  o you see progress in the promotion of maximization of diverse talents? A: Eisai believes that diversity is the managers and manager candidates. source of innovation and has been As a result, the ratio of women in management developing a climate that allows positions, which was 3.1% at the end of March 2012, employees with a wide range rose every year to 9.4% in June 2019, and we are of values to carry out activities targeting a ratio of 10% by the end of fiscal 2020. regardless of their nationality, “It's time to embrace Furthermore, Eisai was selected for membership in the gender, age or other characteristics Eisai Diversity” MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) in June since the Eisai Diversity Declaration in 2012. 2018. An important issue in promoting diversity is the We are also providing our employees around facilitation of the activities of female employees the world with opportunities for global work in Japan. We have been continuously working to experience. We are growing in line with crossoffer female employees various programs to support border talent development and placement of the right becoming a leader and manager. For instance, people in the right places through the international introducing E-Win, a selective training program for staffing (global mobility) program within the Eisai female employees before promotion to management Group. Moreover, we are running the Global Challenge positions, and a mentoring system, as well as providing Program in our pharmaceutical business division in career seminars for female employees, including those Japan for employees desiring to work internationally in on childcare leave, to meet role models from both in the future. and outside the company. In addition, we are actively Number of participants fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 working on the mid-career recruitment of female in Global Challenge Program 24 28 26 25 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Q: W hy did Eisai implement soliciting voluntary retirement program in 2018? A: Our medium-term business plan ‘EWAY 2025’ For that reason, we implemented voluntary retirement sets out our goal of becoming “a company that program with a premium retirement allowance and changes society through creating medicines and reemployment support. This program eligible for was providing solutions.” We must acquire leading-edge employees aged 45 or above who were employees of technologies in each field and implement reforms Eisai as of April 1, 2018 and had been continuously faster than we have done in the past to build a new employed for five years or more, with the retirement business model on a global scale that will change date of March 31, 2019. There were 300 emploees society. The values of working are also changing applied for the program. We are also planning to significantly. We decided to offer our employees with implement voluntary retirement with retirement dates an option other than to continue working at Eisai. of March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2021. Q: W hat will Eisai be focusing on in terms of talents development and recruitment? A: With the hope of contributing to patients through rate for women tends to be low, we are undertaking a new business model, we will strengthen talents developments to improve the work environment. We will development to acquire skills of cutting-edge continue to strive to raise our employees’ job satisfaction technology in each field, such as artificial intelligence and enhance their skill development opportunities. (AI), the Internet of Things (IoT) and big data. We will acquire knowledge and skills in the company through the recruitment of specialist, such as data scientists with extensive experience, and build the foundation of diverse talents responding to change. While we have focused internal talents development in the past and have not actively recruited specialist. We are now actively recruiting specialist and skilled persons. We will also carry out continuous and stable new graduate recruitment in view of a mediumto long-term personnel composition for efficient succession of the talents base from one generation to another. We will further strive to increase our employees’ job satisfaction and expand their opportunities for skill development. The job retention rate of employees of newly graduates from college is an important indicator of their satisfaction with the company after joining Eisai. Because the ●Changes in the number of newly hired employees in Eisai Co., Ltd. ●Retention rates of new graduates after 5 years in Eisai Co., Ltd. (average of last 10 years) Recruitment of new graduates Mid-career recruitment ＊See page 96 for retention rates after 3 and 10 years. Both the numbers of new 97 92.0% graduates and mid-career 82.6% employees have been 68.1% increasing every year. 57 39 43 34 27 16 fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 fiscal 2019 Total Women Men Q: F inally, please describe the progress of work style reforms. A: We introduced a time management system to Arrangement of Related Acts to Promote Work Style improve the efficiency of how we work with a greater Reform, we unified the “36 Agreement” (agreement focus on time and have continuously worked to on overtime and holiday work) at all of our business reduce long working hours. However, one employee establishments in April 2019 and established interval in a management position passed away and the substitute holidays and paid leave promotion days. demise was certified as a work-related accident in Our employees’ good health is a precondition for February 2019. We are taking this extremely seriously. the company’s sustainable growth, innovation and We renewed our efforts to eradicate long working increased productivity, and the entire company is hours in March 2019 and have been proactively committed to improving our efforts toward work style carrying this out. reforms. As part of our compliance with the Act on the (Interviewer: Hiroko Shinjo, Public Relations Department) 26 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Strengthening efforts to eradicate long working hours (issued March 1, 2019) 1) Reinstitution and company-wide enforcement of compliance with minimum required rules a. R  aise awareness of and thoroughly enforce once again the compliance with the “36 Agreement”＊1 as the most important requirement. b. T  he health management time＊2 is, in principle, up to 80 hours in a single month. If it unavoidably exceeds 80 hours in a month, the advance approval of the corporate officer in charge must be obtained, and the upper limit of health management time (a prohibition of 100 hours or more per month or exceeding 80 hours in two consecutive months) must be established. c. Set appropriate reporting and knowledge of working hours, holidays (taken at least four days per month), and leave (paid leave of at least five days per year) as requirements, and all employees must comply with them. 2) Goal setting and personnel appraisal a. Include the promotion of time management in the goals of all employees and corporate officers in Japan.  As a quantitative target, set the requirements of all employees as the minimum requirement and set the target above such requirements. b. Apply the target of each employee set for the promotion of time management and their level of achievement to their performance evaluation.  Evaluate negatively the behavior of any employee in a management position who has violated the minimum required rules. ＊1 A greement on overtime and holiday works stipulated in Article 36 of the Labor Standard Act. This agreement is applied for general employees. ＊2 “ Health management time” is introduced from the viewpoint of appropriate implementation of measures to ensure health for employees such as managers who are not subject to the regulations stipulated in the Labor Standards Act. Efforts to comply with the Act on the Arrangement of Related Acts to Promote Work Style Reform 1) Revise the 36 Agreement to set the number of hours below the maximum time specified by law and unify it across all business establishments. Monthly limit Yearly limit Special provisions (when resigning the agreement) (hours) (hours) Monthly upper limit (hours) Yearly upper limit (hours) Limit on the number of times ∙ Avg. of multiple months: Law 45 360 80 or below 720 6 ∙ Less than 100/month Eisai 40 360 80 600 6 2) Establishment of interval substitute holidays To secure adequate living and sleeping hours, establish a system to provide an interval substitute holiday on the following day if office work extends to 23:00 or later. Improvement of pension management To support the stable living of employees after retirement, our pension plan is managed by the Eisai Corporate Pension Fund, which is independent of our company, in an organization consisting of the representatives of the company and labor union while monitoring the asset balance for the pursuit of stable assets and profits. The fund announced the acceptance of the Japanese version of the Stewardship Code＊ in February 2018 and launched ESG investment. ＊ Principles of behavior required of institutional investors to fulfill their responsibility as an asset management trustee. Health promotion activities to protect employees’ health In view of protecting the health of our employees, Eisai and the Eisai Health Insurance Society have established the Collaborative Health Project and support employees’ health in cooperation with occupational health physicians, medical staff and other relevant parties. In February 2018, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry selected Eisai as an outstanding Health and Productivity Management Organization in the large enterprise category (White Certified as a childcare 500) for the second consecutive year. In June 2019, supporting company by the we issued the Eisai Health Declaration and are aiming Tokyo Labor Bureau of the to achieve no smoking at all offices by October 2020 Ministry of Health, Labour and as one of our key strategies. Welfare 27 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Interview: Progress in Integrating ESG with Corporate Value Ryohei Yanagi (Left) Kathy Matsui (Right) Chief Financial Officer, Vice Chair of Goldman Sachs Japan Chief IR Officer Co-head of Macro Research in Asia Chief Japan Equity Strategist Kathy Matsui’s Biography Kathy earned an AB, magna cum laude, in Social Studies from Harvard University and an MA from Johns Hopkins University, School of Advanced International Studies. In 1999, Kathy coined the term “Womenomics” and argued widely that diversity is essential for economic growth and innovation. She is a member of several Japanese government-related working groups looking at ways to bring about changes that will unlock the potential of women in Japan. Growing awareness of ROE Matsui I feel that Japanese managements’ awareness Yanagi Since managements of listed companies are of ROE has changed radically over the nearly 30 years responsible for boosting corporate value, awareness I have been observing the markets, especially since of ROE and cost of equity is vital. As you say, the around 2013-2014. I believe this is because, with the Stewardship Code, the Corporate Governance Code, introduction of the Stewardship Code, followed by and the Ito Review had an educational effect, boosting the Corporate Governance Code, the raison d’etre corporate awareness, and ROE has improved to of public companies is being questioned. Previously, around 9%-10% on average, from 4%-5%. there were major differences between companies In the investor surveys I conduct every year, I in terms of their understanding and ways of thinking ask whether investors are satisfied with Japanese about ROE. But now, average ROE has been lifted to companies’ governance. In the 2019 survey, 21% a much higher level. I get the impression that since the said they were. This is a major improvement, since Ito Review was issued, the issue of why companies only 10% said they were in the 2012 survey, before should focus on ROE has become a topic of everyday Abenomics. However, most investors are still not conversation. satisfied. Some Japanese companies might now have In Japan, deflation has continued for over 20 years two outside directors, but this is still far from levels since the bursting of the country’s economic bubble. in Europe and the US, where majority of the board As “cash is king” was viewed as being axiomatic, few is outside directors, and it looks as though investors believed that profits should be returned to shareholders think that management teams’ financial knowledge is via dividend payments and share buybacks. However, insufficient. I think that due to Japan subsequently moving from It is the same with ROE levels. There has been a big deflation to inflation, many are asking why companies improvement, with 17% saying they were satisfied in hold large amounts of cash and cross-shareholdings. the 2019 survey, versus 5% in 2012. However, most 28 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix are still not satisfied, probably due to concerns that ●Global investor survey 2019 the improvement is only temporary or that there is Survey period: February 25-May 29, 2019 Survey targets: 181 major institutional investors globally (100 domestic, 81 overseas) insufficient awareness of cost of equity. Companies Are you satisfied with Japan’s corporate governance are still not sufficiently aiming to enhance corporate in general? value on their own initiative rather than because E A 1% 0% government says they should. In the case of ROE D ■ A. Very satisfactory ■ B. Satisfactory as well, Japanese companies are lagging behind the 12% B 21% ■ C. Unsatisfactory 15% average at European and US firms, and, as with ■ D. Very unsatisfactory C ■ E. Corporate governance is irrelevant to shareholder governance, I think that improvement is only halfway 66% value. there. Most investors say the cost of shareholders equity Are you satisfied with Japan’s ROE in general? should be around 8%, and the average is around that E A level. The idea that if you invest in Japanese stocks, 3% D 0% ■ A. Very satisfactory ■ ROE at the target companies should be at least 8% 9% B 17% ■ B. C. Satisfactory Unsatisfactory has reigned for 10 years. This result was adopted in ■ D. Very unsatisfactory ■ E. ROE is irrelevant. the Ito Review, leading to the creation of the so-called C 71% “8% rule” and, I think, to a general lifting of ROE at Japanese companies. As a pharmaceutical company which develops new drugs at a 10-year span, we view 10-year average equivalent to around a quarter of revenue, and we ROE as a KPI. We tell investors worldwide that our have not cut back investment to secure near-term policy is to secure an equity spread of 2% and achieve profits even when times were tough. As a result, we a 10-year average ROE of at least 8%, 10% if possible, have been able to launch new anti-cancer agent and avoid short-termism—i.e., striving to boost ROE Lenvima®, which we expect to achieve FY2019 in the near-term by excessively reducing R&D and revenue of over ¥100 billion, and I think we will be able personnel expenses and using leverage. to maintain stable ROE of over 10% from now on. This In practice, ROE has fallen below 8% at times. is the reason why I think we need to let global investors However, our ROE was 10.4% in FY2018 and the know that we focus on long-term value creation and FY2019 forecast is 11.2%. We have maintained a high will not fall into short-termism. level of R&D investment, even on a global comparison, On the importance of non-financial information disclosures, including ESG Matsui The ESG (Environmental, Social and Another concern is that some companies focus Governance) concept appears to have taken on too much on their mandatory disclosure obligations considerable importance in financial markets of late. for this kind of data, resulting in the content becoming Third-party surveys point to dramatic expansion of very formulaic. We see differences among companies’ global assets under management in products that incorporate ESG. Japan in particular has seen ESG assets under management rise from just under ¥27 trillion in 2015 to around ¥232 trillion in 2018, so the ESG debate is not something that can be ignored. Against this backdrop, companies are having to change the way they think about ESG and how they disclose data to shareholders if they are to attract capital from global investors. From an analyst’s perspective, however, companies’ ESG disclosures have tended to be insufficient. For example, for many years, I have been involved with diversity, which comes under the Social and Governance components of ESG, and in Japan, even large companies did not disclose basic data such as the gender breakdown of employees or managers until 2016, and there was no mandatory requirement to do so. Even if the ESG concept existed, in most cases there was no data. Disclosure has improved, but we believe companies still do not disclose enough nonfinancial information. 29 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 behavior depending on whether their disclosures are ●Global investor survey 2019 based on a real understanding of the value of ESG, Period: Feb 25th-May 29th, 2019 Target:181 global major institutional investors (Japan 100, Overseas 81) or whether they are just going through the motions to How about the long-term relationship meet regulatory requirements. between ESG (non-financials) value and valuation? Yanagi While ROE is essential in terms of financial E D ■ A. The value of ESG should be 100% factored into PBR information, non-financial information is taking on 5% 2% (part of above 1) via reduction of capital cost or increasing, stabilizing financial performance in future. increasing importance amid the rising tide of interest C 15% A 24% ■ B. The value of ESG should be mostly factored into PBR in ESG. Kathy, you have long been an advocate of the via reduction of capital cost or increasing, stabilizing financial performance in future. creation of value through governance, but also valueB 54% ■ C. Some value of ESG should be factored into PBR. ■ D. The value of ESG is nothing to do with valuation. creation through diversity in your pioneering work on ■ E. Not interested in the relationship between ESG and valuation at all / Not important at all. “Womenomics”. If you ask global investors what they think of ESG at Japanese companies, many will say that in Japan to converting ESG into corporate value. ESG has become ESG for its own sake, and that there As CFO, I proposed a synchronized model is no explanation of its relevance to the value creation regarding financial capital and non-financial capital as required by investors. What investors require is an value relevance based on Eisai’s corporate philosophy explanation of value relevance that combines ROE (human health care, or hhc), prior to the announcement and ESG, as encapsulated in “ROESG,” a concept of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) advocated by Professor Kunio Ito of Hitotsubashi framework in consideration of longer-term capital University. As you say, however, company disclosures efficiency (ROE and equity spread) and sustainability do not go beyond the superficial, and I also have (importance of non-financial capital). concerns that value relevance is not being explained. Technically, shareholders’ equity is the sum of the Every year we ask investors whether ESG should book value of shareholders’ equity (BV) and market be reflected in corporate value. In this year’s survey, value added (MVA) that exceeds BV. The portion that 78% of investors said ESG value should be reflected exceeds PBR of 1X is related to ESG value, or “nonto a large extent, to the portion of PBR above 1X, and financial capital.” of those respondents, 24% said it should be factored First, under the ① Intrinsic Value Model, MVA in 100%. As such, we see a strong possibility that is defined as ESG/CSR value (cost of capital Japanese companies’ PBRs, which tend to be low by reduction effects), customer value, human value, and global standards, at around 1X, could increase if they organizational value. are recognized by global investors through enhancing In contrast to this, the ② IIRC-PBR Model explains disclosure of ESG value and engaging proactively with the relevance of six capitals under the IIRC framework, investors on ESG topics on an ongoing basis. by positioning Book Value of Shareholders’ Equity Against this backdrop, we have been pursuing (BV) as financial capital, and relating MVA to nonESG-focused IR. In recent years, we believe investors financial capital consisting of intellectual capital, human have been recognizing our non-financial value in ESG capital, manufactured capital, social and relationship and other areas, including our drug discovery pipeline, capital and natural capital, based on the assumption human capital, and our social contribution. As you that shareholder value equals long-term total market said, Kathy, we believe deepening dialog with investors capitalization and also equals BV plus MVA. through information disclosure and engagement is key From the ③ Residual Income Model (RIM), it is ●IIRC-PBR Model (Value relevance of the six capitals that compose corporate value) —Net assets (book value on accounting basis) is related to financial capital and Market Value Added (MVA) is related to non-financial capital— Trends in Eisai’s PBR (from the end of fiscal 2008 to May 31, 2019) (Times) Non-financial capital 5 Intellectual Capital Human Capital 4 Manufactured Capital 3 Social and Relationship Capital 2 Market Value Added (MVA) Natural Capital (self-created goodwill) 1 Net assets (book value on accounting basis) Financial Capital 0 End of fiscal 2008 May 31, 2019 30 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix thought that MVA converges in the sum of present mathematically that the present value of residual value of equity spread. Therefore, it can be considered income is a function of ROE. This suggests that the that future financial value creation based on equity portion corresponding to PBR above 1X is the ESG spread over the long term does not conflict with value-added recognized by investors, and that this non-financial capital value such as ESG and MVA should move into line with the relative strength of ROE creation and is not mutually contradictory and can be over the ultra-long term. However, short-termism synchronized. destroys this balance. For example, an attempt to In conjunction with the Non-Financial Capital and double EPS and dividends in a single fiscal year by Equity Spread Value Relevance Model, the Intrinsic excessively reducing near-term R&D and personnel Value Model which relates non-financial capital to MVA, expenses would undermine long-term sustainability. the IIRC-PBR Model and the Residual Income Model For that reason, we use an ROESG approach that (RIM) which implicates the relation between MVA and aims to increase ROE in the long term via investment in equity spread, are mutually complementary through R&D, and in people, with a long-term perspectives. the creation of MVA. This is the ROESG model. In the Residual Income Model, it is proven ●Non-Financial Capital and Equity Spread Value Relevance Model＊1 ① Intrinsic Value Model＊2 ② IIRC-PBR Model Shareholder Value Sustainability Value Reduction of Intellectual Capital Non-Financial Capital cost of equity (Value of ESG/CSR) Market Value Added (MVA) Human Capital Margin improvement Customer Value Manufactured Capital Book Value of Shareholders’ Equity (BV) Human Value Social and Relationship Capital Organizational Value Natural Capital Financial Capital (IIRC framework) ③ Residual Income Model(RIM) Sum of Present Value of Equity Spread (MVA) Residual Income （ ） ∞ ∑ Net income t − CoE × BV t-1 Equity Spead × BV Shareholder Value = BV + ( ROE − CoE ) × BV t =1 (1+CoE)t (Return on Equity attributable (Cost of Equity) to owners of the parent) ＊1 Source based on the following reference: “ROE Revolution and Financial Strategies” CHUOKEIZAI-SHA (2017) ＊2 “Financial Strategies for Maximizing Corporate Value” Doyukan (2009) Let me introduce one of our initiatives as an We are the only Japanese pharmaceutical company example. Improving access to medicines (ATM) is one that has a plant in India, where production costs are of our key focuses in the Social component of ESG. In low. The mass production of 2.2 billion tablets raises particular, we are implementing measures to combat capacity utilization at the plant and improves the skills lymphatic filariasis (LF). LF is a disease transmitted via and motivation of plant employees. As a result, the mosquitoes that causes swelling of the patient’s lower employee turnover rate at our Vizag plant has declined limbs until they resemble those of an elephant. This to 5%, versus the average rate of 15% at other leads to difficulties in working and significant economic companies’ plants in India. Taking into account also the damage. Around 860 million people are at risk globally, enhancement of our brand value in emerging countries, but market demand for treatments has not emerged we anticipate a positive contribution to net present since many of these people belong to the poorest value (NPV) in the very long term. Having explained the income classes. As a result, drugs for LF treatment background of the program, which both contributes have not provided by pharmaceutical companies. In to patients and enhances corporate value in terms of view of our corporate philosophy of contributing to long-term ROE, we have received support from longpatients, we felt that this should not be overlooked, term investors such as overseas pension funds, and and we therefore teamed up with the WHO on a in recent years, it appears that the percentage of Eisai project to provide 2.2 billion DEC (diethylcarbamazine) shares held by ESG investors has been increasing. tablets free of charge by 2020. We have already Matsui That is a good example. provided 1.8 billion tablets, and will continue to provide until LF is completely eliminated. We have received some criticism that this damages shareholder value, but we view the project as a long-term investment. 31 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Efforts in new drug development and corporate value creation Matsui What is the current situation in new drug is a high-risk business that involves spending large development? amounts of resources over many years. We therefore Yanagi As we are smaller in size compared to global also use the partnership model. Our consolidated R&D mega-pharma companies, we are focusing resources budget in FY2018 was ¥144.8 billion, but adding the on neurology area and oncology area in order to ¥46.4 billion from of share of expenses borne by our meet unmet medical needs. New drug development partners, a huge amount of ¥191.3 billion was invested in order to accelerate development of new drugs. I think this is in line with strengthening the means of implementation and revitalizing the global partnership for sustainable development as called for in the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In addition, Eisai’s corporate philosophy stipulates increase of patient satisfaction our mission, committing us to pursuing economic profit and linking this to creating shareholder value after the fact over a long time scale. Also, I think one of Eisai’s fundamental characteristics is that as a result of a resolution at the general shareholders meeting in 2005, this philosophy was incorporated into our articles of incorporation and shared with investors. The corporate philosophy in the articles of incorporation itself balances ROE and ESG. Strategic shareholdings Matsui I feel that the revolution in Japanese corporate temporarily, the corporate value of companies that governance resembles that which Germany faced in make progress in unwinding cross-shareholdings rises the second half of the 1990s. At that time in Germany, in the long term, doesn’t it? there were solid cross-shareholdings between industry Matsui Yes, it does. The event study section of our and financial institutions. The German government, GS SUSTAIN report, which takes ESG and other topics ahead of EU unification, told industry that it, “should as themes for analysis, has confirmed that companies unwind cross-shareholdings, because it reduces whose shares are sold tend to outperform the market capital efficiency.” Most companies would not unwind after unwinding. Moreover, for the sellers, if the amount cross-shareholdings on their own initiative. Progress of shares sold represents at least 3% of its market was made in unwinding cross-shareholdings due partly capitalization, they were rewarded with outperformance to tax incentives such as not levying capital gains taxes averaging 6.3%.＊ This is not easy given long-term from the sale of equities, but share prices declined relationships, but it would be helpful if these empirical in some cases. Accordingly, share price awareness results were used to encourage the further unwinding increased for the first time, causing managements to of cross-shareholdings. The stock market has recently focus on ROE and shareholder returns, and companies become more focused on the unwinding of crossadopted strategies that boosted ROE, including M&A shareholdings, and if further progress is made, this and restructuring. I feel that German and Japanese could lead to long-term value creation. Greater corporate culture have always had a great deal in competition in the operating environment and having common. I therefore expect Japanese corporate to make more efficient use of limited resources are governance reforms, which are only halfway there, to challenges shared by both Germany and Japan. also make substantial progress, as Germany’s example What is the situation with regard to crossshows. shareholdings at Eisai? Yanagi You have long said that there are things we ＊ Japan Governance Radar: Unwinding of cross-holdings—An event study: Market welcomes improvement in corporate governance,” Goldman Sachs, should learn from Germany, haven’t you? September 13, 2018 Matsui I have been saying we should reference Germany’s restructuring since before Abenomics. Yanagi As CFO, I am leading efforts to unwind crossWhat Germany and Japan have in common is that they shareholdings. Due to reductions in recent years, we had no other way of boosting their competitiveness. only cross-held stocks with 25 listed companies as of Yanagi Even if stock supply and demand deteriorates end-March 2019. My responsibility is to calculate the 32 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix ●Repurchasing shares as part of unwinding has bolstered share ●Large strategic share unwinds can lead to outperformance for the seller price performance Sellers’ average relative one-year performance by the size of the impact to the A  verage TOPIX-relative share price performance before and after the market cap unwinding （％） 18 Issuers relative perf. (with share repurchase) Sellers’ average relative one-year perf 16 Issuers relative perf. (without share repurchase) 14 6.3% 12 10 8 6 4 2 0.4% 0 More than 3% Less than 3% -2 -1yr -6m -3m -1m -1w +1d +1w +1m +3m +6m +1yr The size of the impact = the amount of the unwinding/ seller’s market cap. -4 Transaction date We analyzed cases of unwinding of listed shares by corporates based on disclosures in reports of changes in shareholdings (since June 2015). We calculated TOPIXrelative performance indexed to the closing price one day prior to the date on which the transactions are closed. Source: Company data, Bloomberg, Quick Astra Manager Source: Company data, Bloomberg, Nikkei Astra Manager NPV (Net Present Value) for each of the stocks we scale. To this end, it is necessary on the corporate hold, and ultimately negotiate with issuers with the aim side to promote the unwinding of cross-shareholdings of having zero holdings. The German example is very while avoiding conflicts of interest. I hope that this sort encouraging and informative. of action eventually becomes commonplace across Eisai is also placing importance on human Japan and improves the whole value. capital in order to sustainably enhance corporate Matsui Japanese companies overall have been slow value in adhering the Corporate Governance Code. to unwind cross-shareholdings. That led Eisai’s corporate pension fund to adopt Yanagi I believe fewer than 10 pension funds at the Stewardship Code in 2018 so as to maximize companies in Japan have adopted the Stewardship corporate pension returns, which support employees Code. I strongly hope that the adoption of the when they have retired. This fund is going to sign the Stewardship Code and entry into ESG investing by Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI) in FY2019, corporate pension funds will give impetus to ESG and plans to strictly exercise voting rights as it pursues investing in the Japanese market and translate into ESG based on global standards. enhanced governance across the board and corporate Eisai and Eisai’s corporate pension fund are value. adhering to the Corporate Governance Code and Thank you for your time today. the Stewardship Code, respectively, while we aim to Matsui Thank you. create a virtuous investment chain, albeit on a small ●Virtuous Cycle of Eisai’s Internal Investment Chain Abenomics Corporate Governance reforms Corporate Stewardship Accepted in Governance Code Code Feb 2018 Comply or Explain Comply or Explain Sustainability Signatory to Eisai Corporate PRI planned Eisai Co., Ltd Value Pension Fund in fiscal 2019 Maximization (SDGs&ROE) Initiation of Maximizing ESG investment SDGs:ESG long-term in 2018 pension return Placing importance on human capital 33 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Financial Capital Financial Strategy Aiming to continuously maximize shareholder value based on “Mediumto Long-Term ROE Management”, “Sustainable and Stable Shareholder Returns” and “Value-Creative Investment Criteria for Growth” Financial strategy map＊1 for sustainable maximization of shareholder value Eisai has set out a financial strategy map as its CFO policy to continuously maximize shareholder value. This strategy consists of three key themes: “ROE management”, “Dividend policy” and “Value-Creative Investment Criteria (VCIC).” Investor Relations Financial strategies Dividend policy ROE management Value-Creative Investment •Signaling effect ＊2 •Margin: Partnerships/ Criteria : VCIC •Catering effect＊3 FAM＊4/M&A/Tax policy •Turnover: CCC＊5/GCMS＊6 •NPV & IRR •Balance sheet management •Financial leverage •Risk-Adjusted Hurdle Rate (RAHR) Optimal capital structure Cost of equity Optimal dividend policy based on an optimal Trade-off theory＊7 Pecking order theory capital structure Credit rating: Single A level Cost of equity: 8% KPI＝8％ DOE model Net DER: -0.3 to 0.3 Equity spread Reduction of cost of equity through PBR＝PER × ROE IR activities Maximization of shareholder value ＊1 Source based on the following reference: “Financial and Accounting Literacy to Enhance Corporate Value” (2016) Nikkei Publishing Inc. ＊2 Signaling effect: Potential impact on stock price by showing management’s belief in the achievement of revenue forecast through dividend policy ＊3 Catering effect: Potential impact on stock price by meeting the expectation of shareholders’ preference for dividend ＊4 FAM: Fixed Asset Monetization ＊5 CCC: Cash Conversion Cycle ＊6 GCMS: Global Cash Management System ＊7 Trade-off theory: Idea to pursue optimal capital structure for debt finance and equity finance to use for balancing the costs and benefits ● ROE management -targets a positive equity spread over the mediumto long-term Eisai has been working to improve its mediumto long-term ROE since the beginning of the 2000s. Eisai aims to avoid short-termism and achieve ROE above cost of equity over the mediumto long-term (e.g., 10year average). In other words, Eisai aims to create a “positive equity spread (ROE – Cost of shareholders’ equity).” Cost of shareholders’ equity is the return demanded by shareholders and Eisai has conservatively assumed a cost of shareholders’ equity of 8%. Eisai is generating a historical 10-year average ROE of 10.2% and a positive equity spread of 2.2%. 34 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix ● Trends in ROE by fiscal year and mediumto long-term value creation （％） 20 Historical 10-year average ROE （10.2％） 16.4 14.3 15 10.9 9.4 10.4 10 9.6 7.6 7.7 8.8 5 Cost of equity （8％） 6.8 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal year) Equity spread: ROE – Cost of equity (CoE) Historical 10-year equity spread The key indicator of shareholder value creation based Historical 10-year average ROE: 10.2% − CoE 8% = 2.2% on residual income model ＊ ＊Results up to fiscal 2012 were calculated pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in Japan (J-GAAP), while results from fiscal 2013 to 2018 E  isai conservatively assumes cost of equity of 8% were calculated pursuant to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). (risk-free rate of 2% + risk premium of 6%) ＊ “ROE Revolution and Financial Strategies” CHUOKEIZAI-SHA (2015) Turnover Financial Margin leverage Improve asset Utilize financial Improve the ratio of efficiency by ＝ × × leverage while ROE operating profit controlling working controlling Net DER by efficient capital, converting with target of operation fixed assets -0.3 to 0.3 for into cash financial integrity Results for Fiscal 2018 10.4 % 9.9 % ＊1 0.6 times ＊2 1.7 times ＊3 ＊1 “Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent”/“Revenue” ＊2 “Revenue”/“Total assets” ＊3 “Total assets”/“Equity attributable to owners of the parent” Under the DuPont method, ROE can be analyzed by three elements consisting of margin (ratio of profit to revenue), turnover (total assets turnover ratio) and financial leverage. Eisai is focusing on optimizing each of these three elements. Increase margins Eisai has focused on expanding high-profit global brands discovered and developed in-house, such as Lenvima®, Halaven® and Fycompa®. Eisai is aiming to improve margin by effective operation through utilizing partnerships and emphasizing selection and concentration for priority projects. Improve turnover Eisai has managed the cash conversion cycle (CCC) to control working capital and strived to improve asset efficiency through steps including selling assets encompassing investment securities and streamlining inventory. The Corporate Governance Code, which was revised in June 2018, calls for the validation of benefits and risks of strategically held shares. Before the revision of the Code, Eisai has sold strategically held shares. In fiscal 2018, Eisai sold strategically held shares in 7 stocks (selling all of its shares). Use financial leverage Eisai has pursued an optimal capital structure while maintaining financial integrity. For maintaining a single A level credit rating, we have set the KPIs of Net DER＊1 of -0.3 to 0.3, a ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent of 50%-60% and Net Debt/EBITDA＊2 of 0 to 3 years. By undertaking business activities based on financial discipline, we are steadily reducing interest-bearing debt, and we secured net cash position as of the end of fiscal 2018. Net DER was negative 0.32, the ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent was 58.6% and Net Debt/EBITDA was negative 1.70 years. Based on the view that we have secured sufficient financial integrity, we believe we can resume our leverage strategies. ＊1 Net debt equity ratio (Net DER) = (Interest-bearing debt (bonds and borrowings) Cash and cash equivalents Time deposits exceeding three months Investment securities held by the parent company) / Equity attributable to owners of the parent ＊2 E BITDA: Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amotization 35 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 ● Dividend policy Eisai returns profits to all shareholders in a stable and sustainable manner based on factors such as a healthy balance sheet and comprehensive consideration of consolidated financial results, dividend on equity (DOE, ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent) and free cash flow, as well as consideration of the signaling effect. We strive for an “optimal dividend policy based on an optimal capital structure” that depends on longterm balance sheet management, rather than a dividend payout ratio based on short-term performance. As a KPI for dividends, from the perspective of balance sheet management, Eisai has adopted DOE, which indicates the ratio of dividends to consolidated net assets. In principle, Eisai strives to maintain dividends within the range of free cash flow over multiple years. Eisai is maintaining a healthy balance sheet under present conditions. Therefore, Eisai plans to increase dividends to 160 yen (previous forecast was 150 yen)＊ for the first time in 10 years, with an intention to maximize shareholder value. Acquisition of treasury stock will be carried out appropriately after factors such as the market environment and capital efficiency (ROE) are taken into account. ＊ Dividents per share subject to approval of Board of Directors ● Trends in free cash flow and dividends —Dividends within the range of free cash flow over multiple years— ■Free cash flow ■Dividends (annual total amount) (Billions of yen) 150 136.7 100.3 100 87.3 85.1 81.2 81.7 71.4 61.3 52.9 54.5 50 42.7 42.7 42.7 42.8 42.8 42.8 42.9 42.9 42.9 43.0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal) ＊Results up to end of fiscal 2012 were calculated pursuant to J-GAAP, while results from end of fiscal 2013 and onward were calculated pursuant to IFRS. ＊Free cash flow =“Net cash from operating activities”-“Capital expenditures (cash basis) ” # # Expenditures from purchases of financial assets and proceeds from sale and redemption of financial assets are included in the formula used to calculate capital expenditures. ● Strong Balance Sheet —Dividend sustainability by maintaining optimal capital structure— (Billions of yen) (%) 700 70 0.62 628.1 598.7 573.7 584.6 593.6 600 526.3 60 0.49 469.4 59％ 57％ 57％ 59％ 500 57％ 50 415.9 416.8 54％ 404.2 47％ 400 41％ 40 300 38％ 39％ 0.38 30 200 0.27 20 100 0.08 10 0 0 0.00 -0.06 -0.11 -0.27 -0.32 (100) -10 (200) -20 End of End of End of End of End of End of End of End of End of End of fiscal 2009 fiscal 2010 fiscal 2011 fiscal 2012 fiscal 2013 fiscal 2014 fiscal 2015 fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 ■Equity attributable to owners of the parent ■Net interest-bearing debt＊1 ■ Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent ■ Net debt equity ratio (Net DER)＊2 ＊Results up to end of fiscal 2012 were calculated pursuant to J-GAAP, while results from end of fiscal 2013 and onward were calculated pursuant to IFRS. ＊1 N  et interest-bearing debt = Interest-bearing debt (bonds and borrowings) Cash and cash equivalents Time deposits exceeding three months, etc. Investment securities held by the parent company＊3 ＊2 N  et debt equity ratio (Net DER) = (Interest-bearing debt (bonds and borrowings) Cash and cash equivalents Time deposits exceeding three months, etc.  Investment securities held by the parent company＊3) / Equity attributable to owners of the parent ＊3 Investment securities held by the parent company are included in the formula under IFRS. ● Eisai’s funding policy Eisai’s funding policy is based on the pecking order theory. Eisai prioritizes “cash on hand” over “debt”. “Equity financing”, which could damage existing shareholder value, is the last option. As an efficient funding measure, Eisai adopts a Global Cash Management System (GCMS) for the effective cash utilization among group companies. 36 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix ● VCIC (Value-Creative Investment Criteria) Prioritization and selection of investments will become even more important for companies to achieve growth. Therefore, Eisai has determined Value-Creative Investment Criteria (VCIC) for its strategic investments to ensure value creation. When making investments, we use Net Present Value (NPV) and the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) spread using a risk-adjusted hurdle rate as KPIs. In principle, we naturally select only those investments with a positive NPV and set a certain spread for IRR to assure value creation. In setting hurdle rates, we factor in all risk elements, such as the particular investment project, the investee country and liquidity. We have approximately 200 types of hurdle rates and apply the risk-adjusted hurdle rate appropriate for each respective investment project. The Corporate Governance Code, which was revised in June 2018, calls for the allocation of management resources in consideration of cost of shareholders’ equity. Eisai has introduced VCIC in 2013 to ensure corporate value creation. Formula of risk-adjusted hurdle rate Risk-adjusted hurdle rate = Risk free rate + β × Risk premium (+ liquidity premium) Risk free rate: 10 year average yield of 10 year government bond β: Defined by investment categories (risk profile) KPI for finance under medium-term business plan ‘EWAY 2025’ Under the medium-term business plan KPIs FY2020 Targets ‘EWAY 2025’, we aim to attain ROE at the 10% or more and an equity spread ROE 10% or more at the 2% or more for fiscal 2020, as the midpoint of the plan. For fiscal 2025, Equity spread＊1 2% or more the final year of the plan, Eisai is mindful of attaining ROE at the 15% level on DOE＊2 8% level the back of dramatic growth spurred Ratio of equity attributable to by contributions of flagship drugs in the 50-60% owners of the parent neurology area and oncology area. With DOE as a KPI, we will pursue Net DER＊3 -0.3 to 0.3 an optimal dividend policy based on an optimal capital structure and work to 15% level ROE in FY2025 maximize shareholder value. ＊Dividends per share subject to approval of Board of Directors. ＊1 Equity spread = ROE Cost of equity. Eisai conservatively assumes cost of equity of 8% ＊2 DOE = Dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent ＊3 N et DER: Net Debt Equity Ratio = (Interest-bearing debts (bonds and borrowings) Cash and cash equivalents Time deposits exceeding 3 months, etc. Investment securities held by the parent company)/Equity attributable to owners of the parent Aim to create mediumto long-term corporate value We believe that promoting an understanding of our the CFO holds approximately 200 dialogues every non-financial information is essential for realizing year, including with overseas investors. The CFO the objectives of our engagement, which is to have and IR team strive to reduce cost of equity and are our corporate value assessed from the perspective committed to promoting engagement based on of mediumto long-term corporate value creation. the idea of “IR is not a cost center and contributes This non-financial information covers areas such to corporate value creation.” as intellectual capital centering on our pipeline Our activities for years were recognized and we and patents; human capital that handles our received the “IR Grand operations; our initiatives for improving access Prix Award” at the IR to medicines; and our corporate governance. To Prime Business Award attain this objective, Eisai’s IR team holds a total 2018 held by the Japan of approximately 800 dialogues with investors Investor Relations and analysts on an annual basis. Among these, Association (JIRA). 37 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Social and Relationship Capital Improving Access to Medicines (ATM) “We want to deliver as many necessary medicines as possible and nurture hope in as many people as possible.” Putting this wish into mind, Eisai is engaged in activities for improving ATM in developing and emerging countries. Number of countries supplied with lymphatic filariasis treatment DEC tablets and volume supplied (as of June 2019) 28 countries 1.8 billion tablets health and diseases. Investing in the Future of Developing and Eisai believes that improving ATM in developing Emerging Countries and emerging countries is a long-term investment that Eisai is engaged in activities for improving ATM with will support the health of the people living in these the aim of ensuring that people in developing and countries and ultimately lead to the future growth of emerging countries receive the medicines they need. these nations as a whole. Eisai utilizes many methods ATM is a basic need for all people regardless of including supply of products at affordable prices as nationality, economic disparities or social standing. well as public-private partnerships, as it continues to Today, approximately 2 billion people around the world implement various ATM initiatives through its unique do not have adequate access to medicines＊, most business models. of whom are the poor in developing and emerging ＊ Source: Access to Medicine Index countries who also lack proper information about ▶ https://accesstomedicinefoundation.org/ in order to eliminate LF. Eisai is committed to Efforts to Help Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis: supplying diethylcarbamazine (DEC) tablets, one Supplying DEC Tablets and Implementing of the three types of LF medicines used in the Awareness-Raising Activities MDAs, to LF endemic countries that need DEC Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a neglected tropical disease until LF is eliminated in these countries. (NTD) transmitted to humans via carrier mosquitoes. In 2013, Eisai obtained WHO prequalification It is estimated that approximately 860 million people for DEC tablets and commenced production at its worldwide, mainly those in developing countries, are Vizag Plant in India. Since then, Eisai has provided exposed to the risk of LF. 1.8 billion DEC tablets to 28 endemic countries The World Health Organization (WHO) conducts through WHO’s elimination program (as of June mass drug administrations (MDAs) in endemic areas 2019). ●Countries where DEC tablets are scheduled to be supplied by 2020 ● Countries where distribution has commenced WHO South-East Asia Region DEC Tablets ●India ●Indonesia (Diethylcarbamazine) ●Myanmar ●Sri Lanka ●Timor-Leste ●Thailand Bangladesh Nepal WHO Region of the Americas ●Dominican Republic WHO East Mediterranean Region ●Guyana ●Egypt ●Haiti 連携 Coordination Brazil Eisai Head Office Vizag Plant, India WHO African Region WHO Western Pacific Region ●Eritrea ●Kenya ●Madagascar ●Fiji ●French Polynesia ●Kiribati ●Zambia ●Zimbabwe ●Comoros ●Laos ●Malaysia ●Papua New Guinea ●São Tomé and Príncipe ●Philippines ●Samoa ●Micronesia ●Tuvalu Gambia ●American Samoa (Distribution status as of June 2019) 38 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Furthermore, to support the smooth implementation of WHO’s MDA programs, Eisai is engaging in Received Token of Remembrance from Ministry initiatives to raise public awareness of LF in endemic of Health, Government of Andhra Pradesh for areas. In order to eliminate LF as early as possible, Supporting Activities to Eliminate LF staff members of Eisai’s local subsidiaries cooperate In Yarada Village near Eisai’s Vizag Plant (located with the relevant representatives in endemic countries, in Andhra Pradesh) which has been manufacturing prepare and distribute leaflets in the local languages DEC tablets since 2013, there were patients on the prevention and treatment of LF and support suffering from LF when Eisai started to manufacture implementation of MDA in endemic countries. For DEC tablets. Eisai supported the larvicidal activities example, since 2015, during MDA programs by with regular spraying of pesticides in drains Ministry of Public Health and NGOs for LF elimination without lid as well as in puddle, and repaired the in Indonesia, Eisai staff members have socialized with old public toilets to improve hygiene environment LF patients, held workshops, and raised awareness in cooperation with Ministry of Health, Government about LF in collaboration with students from Faculty of Andhra Pradesh which supports the elimination of Medicine as well as Master’s Program of Public activity of vector-borne disease in Yarada Village. Health in Gadjah Mada University. Furthermore, Eisai has focused on disease Eisai’s activities are highly appreciated by awareness activities by providing explanation endemic countries. Token of Remembrance from about prevention of vector-borne disease to Antimalaria Unit of Ministry of Health, Government of local residents, and has supported the MDA Andhra Pradesh in India is just one such example. program for LF elimination. The state government evaluated these activities, and Eisai received a ●Cumulative quantity of DEC tablets supplied and the number of patients contributed to ＊ (as of June 2019) token of remembrance in 2015. These activities (100 million tablets) (100 million people) in Yarada Village still continues, with expansion of Cumulative quantity of tablets supplied 18.0 the activities in Kasimkota Number of patients contributed 16.6 Village in recent years. In 15 13.5 7.2 Kasimkota Village, as a 6.7 new activity, Eisai is aiming 9.7 5.4 10 5 to improve the quality of 6.0 3.9 life (QOL) of patients by 5 2.4 providing custom-made 2.8 shoes to LF patients who 0.1 1.1 0 0.1 0 cannot wear normal shoes End of End of End of End of End of End of End of because of the swelling of fiscal 2013 fiscal 2014 fiscal 2015 fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 June 2019 feet or have trouble walking ＊ The number of patients contributed to is an estimated value, which is converted from the cumulative quantity of tablets supplied based on the Token of Remembrance due to LF. assumption that an average of 2.5 tablets is taken per capita in accordance with the definition of WHO. diseases. R&D Initiatives for Improving Global Health Eisai aims to develop new drugs for Chagas Eisai proactively undertakes research on disease, a disease transmitted by the assassin bug pharmaceuticals for treating NTDs and for the three which is prevalent in 21 countries in Latin America. major infectious diseases (malaria, tuberculosis, HIV/ For this purpose, Eisai conducted a Phase Ⅱ AIDS). study of its in-house developed antifungal agent These diseases strike people with low incomes in fosravuconazole (E1224) in partnership with the developing countries, causing them to leave work. Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi ). This This in turn leads to a negative cycle of poverty in Phase Ⅱ study is completed and future plans are which people become incapacitated due to disease under review. In Sudan, another Phase Ⅱ study of and become even poorer, and international efforts the agent is being conducted with DNDi for fungal are called upon to tackle this significant global health mycetoma, a highly neglected disease for which there issue. In response, Eisai is currently conducting is no effective treatment. Mycetoma is transmitted various projects aimed at developing new treatments through pricks in the skin and causes large lesions for Chagas disease, filariasis, leishmaniasis and that can spread to other parts of the body and cause mycetoma as well as malaria and tuberculosis. severe disability. Since February 2019, in cooperation Undertaking research activities for these diseases with the international non-governmental organization, requires specific expertise, technologies and clinical Association for Aid and Relief, Japan (AAR Japan), study experience in addition to networks with clinical Eisai has been implementing awareness activities facilities in endemic regions. For these reasons, Eisai about knowledge on mycetoma and the importance is actively engaged in external collaborations such of early treatment, as well as initiatives that promote as partnerships with global research organizations patients’ early diagnosis and treatment at medical and is participating in international consortiums to institutions in Sudan which is one of the countries share compound libraries, as Eisai seeks to develop where the disease is most prevalent. new drugs for NTDs and the three major infectious 39 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 visits the clinic in Wad Onsa Village several times a year, Visiting Sudan which is One of the Most and provides diagnosis and medical treatments including Endemic Countries with Mycetoma surgery free of charge for residents of the surrounding We visited Mycetoma Research Center (MRC) at 290 villages. A total of more than 700 people have Khartoum University where the PhaseⅡ study for E1224 undergone surgery since 2015. However, patients need is being conducted and inspected the status of clinical to go to the capital in case they need major surgery, study and treatments. At MRC, over 8,500 patients but not many of them can afford accommodation and have been treated to the present. However, the current treatment costs. treatment requires long-term medication and high Through this visit, we deeply realized that there are economic burden, so more than half of patients cannot many patients suffering from mycetoma even now. We complete the treatment. This leads to the recurrence felt the need to accelerate the development of new of the disease and results in resection or amputation treatments for mycetoma and to actively engage in surgery. disease awareness activities. Then we visited a clinic in Wad Onsa Village, an endemic area of mycetoma with the MRC medical team. Wad Onsa Village is a remote area 400 km away from the capital and has no medical facilities. Therefore the MRC Katsura Hata Takayuki Hida Director, Global Health Research Group Leader, ESG Group, Policy, Advocacy & Photo of Clinic in Wad Onsa Village Medical Team Section, hhc Data Creation Center Sustainability Department ● NTDs/Three major infectious diseases research project portfolio (As of June 2019) Early research stage Non-clinical Clinical Chagas vaccine (using Eisai’s Chagas vaccine (using Eisai’s E1224 Chagas Disease project Chagas disease immunostimulant E6020) ① immunostimulant E6020) ③ (PhaseⅡ study) ④ Screening of novel compounds ② Neglected Tropical Leishmaniasis Diseases (NTDs) Filariasis AWZ1066S ⑤ E1224 Eumycetoma project Mycetoma (PhaseⅡ study) ⑥ Inhibitor of Plasmodium GWT1 ⑦ BRD5018 ⑪ SJ733 (PhaseⅠ study) ⑭ Inhibitor of Plasmodium TLR9 antagonist DHODH ⑧ for cerebral malaria ⑫ Malaria 3 Major Screening of novel Novel compound for artemisinin Infectious compounds for malaria ⑨ resistant malaria ⑬ Diseases Malaria vaccine (using Eisai’s immunostimulant E6020) ⑩ Inhibitor of Mycobacterium Tuberculosis tryptophan synthase ⑮ WIPO Re:Search ⑯ NTD Drug Discovery Booster ⑰ Consortium for NTDs and 3 major infectious diseases Macrofilaricide Drug Accelerator ⑱ TB Drug Accelerator ⑲ ■Main partners of the projects ⑧, ⑪ Broad Institute (U.S.), Medicines for Malaria Venture （MMV） (Switzerland) ①, ⑩, ⑫ Fundação Oswaldo Cruz (Fiocruz) (Brazil) ⑭ University of Kentucky (U.S.), Medicines for Malaria Venture （MMV） ②, ④, ⑥, ⑰ Drugs for Neglected Disease initiative(DNDi) (Switzerland) (Switzerland) ⑮ Broad Institute (U.S.), Colorado State University (U.S.), University of Chicago ③ Sabin Vaccine Institute (U.S.) (U.S.) ⑤, ⑬ Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine (U.K.), ⑯ World Intellectual Property Organization （WIPO） (Switzerland), BIO Ventures University of Liverpool (U.K.) for Global Health （BVGH) (U.S.) ⑦, ⑨ Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV) (Switzerland) ⑱, ⑲ Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (U.S.) Please visit the following link for details on projects▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/atm/research.html prices. These pricing policies are formulated taking Pricing Policy that Emphasizes Affordability into consideration the social, economic and healthcare Eisai has formulated various flexible pricing policies environments of developing and emerging countries. that enable patients in developing and emerging For example, Eisai has been providing Aricept® and countries to purchase Eisai’s products at affordable Pariet® in India since 2005 at affordable prices that 40 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix are best suited to the living standards of the local year period, Halaven® was supplied to approximately patients. 4,100 patients cumulatively via tiered pricing. Regarding Fycompa®, we introduced a unique system in India where many patients have to pay the full cost of medical expenses out-of-pocket. The treatment is provided for free to patients for a certain period of time, and a full-scale administration of the treatment is implemented once efficacy is confirmed. In addition, Eisai has introduced tiered pricing, “Hope to Her”program, an affordable pricing model, for the anticancer agent Halaven® in 8 Asian countries. In this model, co-payment is set at several tiers in accordance with the income level and health insurance availability of the patients, ranging from the full price to free of Explanation about “Hope to Her” program from Medical Representative to a charge depending on the condition. During the fivedoctor (India) Creating Corporate Value and Solutions to Social Issues Through Initiatives for Improving ATM Input Output Outcome Intellectual capital Social and Relationship capital ●Accumulation of knowledge ●Economic growth in from drug creation activities ●Supply of lymphatic filariasis developing and emerging for many years treatment DEC tablets free of countries due to improvement of health charge and welfare, and increase Human capital ●Employees’ strong motivation in middle-income class to contribute to patients ●Activities for raising awareness ●Improvement in the value of supported by the Eisai’s corporate brand of lymphatic filariasis hhc philosophy Human capital Production capital ●Supply of products based on ●Improvement in employees’ ●Utilization of the Vizag Plant skills and motivation affordable and tiered pricing in India for low-cost strategies Financial capital production ●Reduced cost of manufacturing due to Social and Relationship capital increased operation rate ●Partnership with WHO or at the Vizag Plant international research institutions ●(Very long-term perspective) Profits created through Financial capital businesses in developing ●Healthy balance sheet and emerging countries For the purpose of facilitating the improvement of ATM, positive internal outcomes. Eisai believes that efforts to Eisai utilizes many different types of capital as input improve ATM will increase capital to an extent that is and converts them into many different forms of output greater than the amount of input, through the creation (products and services), such as DEC tablets, through of added value. Eisai’s initiatives for improving ATM business activities. As a result, we pursue the creation go beyond the framework of CSR activities and of positive outcomes such as the improvement of aim at creating long-term value. Supplying DEC health, welfare and economic growth by increasing the tablets free of charge will initially be a loss and thus number of middle-income populations in developing negatively affect profits and ROE in the short term. countries and emerging countries. Eisai also seeks However, from a very long-term perspective, we to enhance the value of its corporate brand, improve estimate that it will boost our NPV (net present employees’ skills and motivation, and reduce costs value) to a positive level through the creation of the by increasing the operation rate of the Vizag Plant as outcomes described above. Eisai’s Initiatives for Improving ATM Highly Evaluated The Access to Medicine Foundation, an international Eisai’s continued commitment to combat NTDs was non-profit organization which analyses how the world's selected as the best practice. largest pharmaceutical companies are addressing In addition, Eisai has been selected for the MSCI access to medicine, biennially researches and Japan ESG Select Leaders Index as a company with publishes the Access to Medicine Index. In 2018, Eisai outstanding ESG ratings, and has maintained an AA was ranked 8th rising three ranking in the ESG Index for six consecutive years places in the ranking from 11th since 2014. In this Index, the area of Access to Health in 2016. Among Eisai’s activities, Care was highlighted as one of Eisai’s strengths. 41 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Intellectual Capital Development of Potential Next-Generation Dementia Treatments Proactive investment in the industry-leading pipeline to become a top runner for new drug development in dementia area SWOT Analysis of Medicine Creation Activity in Dementia Area Strengths Weaknesses 1. Industry-leading R&D pipeline 1. Focus on dementia, a disease in which developing Phase Ⅲ studies are ongoing in 2 projects new drugs is particularly difficult and large-scale 2. Expertise acquired through development for more than 35 clinical studies are required, necessitating a large years amount of R&D expenses 3. G lobal strategic partnerships that potentially increase probability of success and accelerated development with optimization of R&D and commercialization expenses Opportunities Threats 1. E  xpansion of market for dementia treatments as population ages 1. C  ompeting products entering the market 2. E  xpansion of potential market as diagnosis technology 2. Increasing pressure to lower drug prices as governments improves promote policies to reduce healthcare expenditure What is Dementia? ●Types and ratio of dementia Alzheimer’s Dementia is a condition characterized by the occurrence of a variety of disorders Others disease 15％ 50％ and the emergence of impediments to everyday life due to the death of brain cells and a worsening of cognitive functions resulting from various causes. There are different types of dementia. Symptoms of Alzheimer’s, the most prevalent Vascular dementia, are mainly those related to memory impairment (core symptoms), dementia 15％ while behavioral and psychological symptoms (BPSD) such as delusions and hallucinations, violence, wandering and depression can also be observed. Other types of the disease include dementia with Lewy bodies and vascular dementia, Dementia with among others. All of these are characteristically progressive. Lewy bodies 20％ Source: “Guide to Understand Dementia with Lewy Bodies” (editorial supervisor: Kenji Kosaka) (Japanese title “Rebi-Shotai Gata Ninchisho Ga Yoku Wakaru Hon”) An Ever-Increasing Number of Patients with Dementia and Social Cost As the aging of the global population gathers pace, Number of Patients with Dementia the number of patients with dementia is expected to continue an upward trend. In 2018, there were an 152 million estimated 50 million patients with dementia worldwide. And the number of the patients will increase to approximately 82 million in 2030, and approximately 152 82 million million, almost tripled in 2050. Based on a calculation, 50 million there is one new case of dementia found every 3 seconds worldwide. It is reported that the current social cost of dementia, including medicine, social care, and 2018 2030 2050 (Year) the care provided by family, is 1 trillion USD, and is expected to double in 2030. Therefore, dementia is a $1 trillion $2 trillion global issue which needs to be addressed and there are expectations for earlier development of treatments that satisfy unmet medical needs. Estimated Social Cost for Dementia 42 (Source: World Alzheimer Report 2018) Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Pathogenic Mechanism of Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) Alzheimer’s disease is associated with the occurrence of neuronal cell death as a result of the gradual accumulation of proteins in the brain, called amyloid beta (Aβ) long before the onset of the symptoms, such as memory impairment. The accumulation of Aβ is considered to accelerate the tau pathology and resulting in the neuronal cell death caused by the accumulation of tau. ●Pathogenic mechanism of Alzheimer’s disease Accumulations of amyloid beta (Aβ) inside the brain Accumulations of tau inside the brain Change in brain structure Impairment of memory Impairment of Accumulations of Aβ begin more than 15 to 20 clinical function years prior to the appearance of Alzheimer’s disease symptoms. Various changes occur within the brain up to the point when abnormalities in clinical cognitive functions can be observed. Mild cognitive Dementia impairment (mild→moderate→severe) Treatment Efficacy Expected for Next-Generation Dementia Treatments A numbers of treatment for AD are already in the market, Illustration of Treatment Efficacy Expected for including Eisai’s in-house developed Aricept®, although Next-Generation Alzheimer’s Disease Treatment the efficacy of these treatments are limited. Worsening of Next-Generation Alzheimer’s disease treatment cognitive functions is unavoidable after certain period of time of administration of the drugs. Also, they are not indicated Cognitive function for patients who are in the stage of MCI. Therefore, Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) Existing development of potential next-generation dementia treatments Mild treatments which could potentially suppress the Alzheimer's disease worsening of cognitive functions over a longer period of Moderate Alzheimer’s disease time from the earlier disease stage, is highly expected. Severe Alzheimer’s disease Typical progress of Alzheimer’s disease Age Challenging Path Toward the Development of Next-Generation Dementia Treatment No drug has been approved by the U.S. FDA for the treatment of dementia since 2003. 146 agents under development between 1998 and 2017 did not prove success＊1. This suggests that the development of drug in dementia area to be very challenging. One reason for the development of treatment of dementia to be challenging is that high-order functions, such as cognition, are unique to humans, and it is difficult to create an applicable experimental scenario using animal models. For example, if accumulation of brain Aβ or tau were observed in mouse, it is not for sure if mouse develops dementia. It is necessary to accumulate knowledge and confirm the correlation between reactions of animal models and changes that occur inside the brain of patients with dementia or their core symptoms, including biomarkers. Moreover despite the advances made in diagnostic imaging technology such as PET (positron emission tomography), there is no method to directly observe the changes inside a human brain. New drugs in the dementia area approved by the U.S. FDA November 1996 Aricept ® No drug has been approved by the U.S. FDA (Donepezil) February 2001 Galantamine in dementia area for over 15 years April 2000 October 2003 A numbers of candidates 2 projects in Phase Ⅲ studies Rivastigmine Memantine failed in clinical studies are ongoing under the collaboration between Eisai and Biogen Inc. ＊Combination formulation of donepezil and memantine was approved in 2014. ▶ Elenbecestat＊2 ＊1 PhRMA, Researching Alzheimer's Medicines: Setbacks and Stepping Stones, September 2018 ▶ BAN2401＊2, 3 ＊2 Co-development with Biogen Inc. ＊3 Licensed-in from BioArctic AB. 43 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Leveraging Abundant Experience and Knowledge to Create Next-Generation Dementia Treatment Under the corporate philosophy of hhc, we strive to create next-generation dementia treatment. Eisai’s knowledge and know-how in medicine creation activities in dementia area have been accumulated over 35 years since Aricept®. And they will be a great advantage for success in developing next-generation dementia treatments. ◆ Eisai’s Ingenuity in Discovery Research Eisai possesses facilities for various pharmacological tests, experience and knowledge to study pharmacological effects in central nervous system of animals. In particular, utilizing in-house established behavioral pharmacology studies and the animal models, Eisai evaluates the compounds which act to molecules that regulate synaptic transmission between neuronal cells and Eisai leverages them to develop drugs in central nervous systems and predict efficacy of compounds in clinical studies. With the developments of neuroscience, it has been discovered a variety of target molecule in the brain. Eisai applies the behavioral pharmacology studies that have been established to the discovery of target molecule, and always pursues new possibilities for medicine creation. ●Example of Eisai’s biomarker detection system For the human pathology and high-order functions unique to human that are difficult to mimic the human condition animal models, Eisai accurately develops compounds from preclinical to clinical studies by combining the biomarker research using detection of the biological molecules as indicators, to the conventional method of research. For objective measurement of functions in the brain, Eisai focuses on establishing methods (using machine shown in the left) to discover new biomarkers and quantitative measurement. ◆ Eisai’s Ingenuity in Clinical Research It is said that there are four elements (right drug discovery target, right patients, right dosage, right clinical evaluation indicators) that are important for a clinical study to meet its primary endpoint. It is assumed that the failed trials may have had an issue in one or more of these factors. For instance, the clinical studies that have failed may have included patients whose Aβ deposition was unknown or patients whose disease had advanced to a stage beyond which the mechanism of action of the drug was effective. Or they may not have had a sufficient dosage, or the endpoint selected was not sensitive enough for the patient population. In Eisai’s clinical studies, learnings from the past studies were considered and the following factors which are thought to contribute to success were incorporated: 1) Identifying Aβ deposition in early stage patients with AD when enrolling for studies 2) Setting appropriate doses for antibodies or small molecule compounds 3) Selecting a suitable endpoint for evaluating effects for patients with early stage AD Favorable results were obtained from PhaseⅡ studies in elenbecestat and BAN2401, and Phase Ⅲ studies are steadily ongoing. 44 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Industry-Leading R&D Pipeline in Dementia Area Eisai possesses industry-leading R&D pipeline in dementia area. Under the collaboration with Biogen Inc., 2 projects in Phase Ⅲ studies are ongoing. ◆ Projects Targeting Accumulation of Aggressive Factors (Aβ, tau) E2814 Elenbecestat ＊1 (Anti-tau antibody) BIIB076＊3 (Anti-tau antibody) (BACE inhibitor) Amyloid precursor Biogen Inc. protein (APP) Beta-secretase (BACE) Cleavage of APP at N-terminus of Aβ Hyperphosphorylation and accumulation of tau in neuronal cell Gamma-secretase Cleavage of APP at C-terminus of Aβ Amyloid beta Neuronal cell Monomer (Aβ) function disorder Greater tendency to bond together Amyloid Aβ fibrils plaque Neurofibrillary Insoluble fibrous aggregates tangle BAN2401＊1, 2 Deposit and form amyloid plaque (Anti-Aβ protofibrils antibody) (may cause neuronal cell death) Neuronal cell death Aβ protofibrils Decline in Large soluble aggregates cognitive function Highly neurotoxic (Induce neurodegenerative process and cause neuronal cell death) ＊1 Co-development with Biogen Inc. ＊2 Licensed-in from BioArctic AB ＊3 Eisai has an option to jointly develop and commercialize with Biogen Inc. ● Investigational BACE inhibitor elenbecestat developed in-house (co-development with Biogen Inc.) Discovered at Tsukuba Research Laboratories, this compound inhibits BACE (beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme), an enzyme involved in the production of Aβ. While BACE is generally classified as BACE1 and BACE2, elenbecestat shows relative selectivity to BACE1 which is potentially related to Aβ production in the brain.For the first time in BACE inhibitor, elenbecestat demonstrated the reduction of Aβ accumulated in the brain and suggested the slowing of clinical decline as analyses of exploratory clinical endpoints in PhaseⅡ study. Elenbecestat is currently in two Phase Ⅲ studies (MISSION AD1, MISSION AD2), and has completed patient enrollment in March 2019. Final readout of primary endpoint is targeted in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. ● Investigational anti-Aβ protofibrils antibody BAN2401 (co-development with Biogen Inc.) This anti-Aβ protofibrils antibody is in-licensed from BioArctic AB. BAN2401 has a unique characteristic to bind and reduce highly toxic Aβ protofibrils. PhaseⅡ study (Study 201) demonstrated slowing in clinical decline as well as dose-dependent reduction of Aβ accumulation in the brain, and open-label extension study is currently ongoing. According to the meetings with the health authorities based on the results of study 201, a single Phase Ⅲ study was initiated in March 2019 to support filing for BAN2401. Final readout of primary endpoint is targeted in the first quarter of fiscal 2022. 45 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Disease Modifying effect of BAN2401 suggested in Study 201 Aβ Plaque Reduction through Amyloid PET Slowing of Disease Progression ADCOMS Adjusted mean change from baseline（±SE） 0.05 0.00 ＊ Adjusted mean change from baseline（±SE） Aβ plaque reduction 0.00 Disease progression Placebo -0.05 0.05 10 mg/kg biweekly -0.10 0.10 -0.15 -0.20 0.15 -0.25 Placebo -0.30 10 mg/kg biweekly 30% less decline ＊＊＊＊ 0.20 P=0.034 -0.35 ＊＊＊＊ P<0.0001 ＊＊＊＊ 0 Visits (months) 12 18 0 6 12 18 Visits (months) N for treatment arms 0 month 12 months 18 months N for treatment arms with data 0 month 6 months 12 months 18 months Placebo 98 98 88 Placebo 238 216 187 160 10 mg/kg biweekly 44 43 37 10 mg/kg biweekly 152 130 93 79 ＊Use Florbetapir tracer, Interest area: Global Cortical average, Reference area: Whole Cerebellum Analyses were based on protocol specified mixed model repeated measures (MMRM) models ＊Adjusted mean change from baseline by mixed model repeated measures (MMRM). ADCOMS：Alzheimer’s Disease COMposite Score, p value described above is nominal one The MMRM uses treatment group, visit, clinical subgroup (MCI due to AD, mild AD), the presence or absence of ongoing AD treatment at baseline, APOE4 status (positive, negative), region, and treatment group by visit interaction as factors and baseline value as covariate. Reduction of Aβ plaques, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, and slowing of disease Changes in CSF Biomarkers progression as a result, observed in Study 201 and it suggested BAN2401’s potential Slowing increase in neurofilament light chain, a CSF marker of disease modifying effect. Unlike symptomaxonal degeneration improving treatment, as disease modifying Reduction of neurogranin, a CSF marker of treatment reduces Aβ in the brain, sustainable synaptic damage Reduction of phosphorylated Tau, a CSF marker for nerve damage downstream of Tau pathway treatment effect and potential to expand treatment effect over time are expected. Evaluation of Elenbecestat and BAN2401 in earlier disease stages In May 2019, elenbecestat and BAN2401 were selected for two prevention studies by the Alzheimer’s Clinical Trials Consortium (ACTC) as treatments to be evaluated in upcoming clinical studies. The A3 Study will target cognitively normal individuals who are currently amyloid negative but are at high risk for AD, and elenbecestat was adopted to evaluate whether it can prevent amyloid build-up in the brain. The A45 study will target preclinical (pre-symptomatic) stage of AD in who are clinically normal individuals (no/ minor cognitive impairment) and have elevated levels of amyloid in brain, and elenbecestat and BAN2401 were adopted to evaluate prevention of cognitive decline. Details are currently under consideration. ● Investigational anti-tau antibody E2814 This anti-tau antibody was discovered as part of the research collaboration with University College London and is designed to prevent the spreading of tau protein “seeds” which are believed to spread among different areas of the brain and induces tau pathology as the disease advances. This compound is expected to prevent accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles in the brain, and to slow the progression the disease. We plan to initiate PhaseⅠstudy in fiscal 2019. ● Investigational anti-tau antibody BIIB076 under development by Biogen Inc. Eisai has an option to jointly develop and commercialize BIIB076. Biogen Inc. is currently conducting a PhaseⅠstudy for BIIB076. Eisai has a right to exercise its option after the completion of the PhaseⅠstudy. Discontinuation of the development of investigational anti-Aβ antibody aducanumab In March 2019, Biogen Inc. and Eisai announced the decision to discontinue the global Phase Ⅲ studies, ENGAGE and EMERGE, designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of aducanumab in patients with mild cognitive impairment due to AD and mild AD dementia. The decision was made based on the results of a futility analysis conducted by independent data monitoring committee, which indicated the trial were unlikely to meet the primary endpoint upon completion. 46 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix ◆ Projects Targeting Transformation of Symptoms over Time In recent years, it has been increasingly known that various disorders have occurred since 10 to 20 years before the diagnosis of dementia. Eisai sees importance of relieving the symptoms associated with dementia, and has taken various approaches. Sleep disorder may accelerate the accumulation of Aβ and potentially lead to AD. Eisai has filed for lemborexant, an antagonist to dual orexin receptors, which are involved in the regulation of sleep and awakening for insomnia disorder indication in the U.S. and Japan in fiscal 2018. PhaseⅡ study for patients with irregular sleep-wake rhythm disorder (ISWRD) due to AD/dementia is also ongoing. Furthermore, the occurrence of depression, epilepsy, anxiety, dysosmia and other forms of behavioral disorders increases in relation to the accumulation of Aβ and tau. It is considered that suppression of behavioral disorders would potentially delay the onset of Alzheimer’s disease. Eisai also develops new treatments for epilepsy and other neurological disorders. The development of investigational E2027, a PDE9 inhibitor targeting dementia with Lewy bodies is also ongoing. ◆ Projects in Preclinical Stages ● Investigational Synapse Regenerant E2511 The axon terminal of a neuron is called a synapse and it is thought Functional neuron that the dysfunction of synapse has been occurer in the brain of patients with dementia. Eisai is working on projects to revitalize E2511 neurons by restoring synapse function. Currently preclinical study Reduction of neural network Re-composition Damaged neuron of neural network is ongoing for E2511. Regeneration of synapse by administration of E2511 ● Research Focused on Immuno-Dementia at G2D2, a New Research Facility Eisai has established Eisai Center for Genetics Guided Dementia Discovery (G2D2), a new exploratory research facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts, the U.S. in 2019. AD genetic studies suggest altered immune function of microglia, a cell that exerts immune functions in the central nervous system, is potentially a risk factor of AD. G2D2 engages in drug discovery research focusing on immuno-dementia looking at what comes after drug discovery targeting Aβ and G2D2 tau. ● Joint Research with Keio University Targeting Brain Maintenance System It is known that the brain has numerous protective mechanisms. It is reported that the brain’s protective mechanisms include functions that phagocytose and remove foreign substances such as Aβ and functions that repair damaged neuronal cells. Eisai sees the brain maintenance system supported by these protective mechanisms, as an important target for new drug discovery aimed to cure dementia. Therefore, Eisai and Keio University have established the Eisai-Keio Innovation Lab for Dementia (EKID) to advance joint research in this area. This project was selected by the Japan Agency for Medical Research and Development (AMED) for its Cyclic Innovation for Clinical Empowerment (CiCLE) grant program, and run by their support. Development of New Diagnostic Methods While diagnosis of AD is sometimes made by using tests such as amyloid PET Full-automated system immunoassay HISCL™ imaging examinations and cerebrospinal fluid analysis, various issues such as the insufficient number of facilities for examinations and the invasiveness of the testing remain to be addressed. Eisai is pursuing a new dementia diagnostic method through blood test in collaboration with Sysmex Corporation. HISCL™, an automated immunoassay system developed by Sysmex Corporation, enabled the measurement of Aβ in plasma, which had been difficult to measure, and elucidated that Aβ42/40 ratio in plasma correlates the one in cerebrospinal fluid. Currently, verification of the data is ongoing using blood samples of patients with dementia with amyloid PET images. Sysmex Corporation and Eisai are putting forth every effort for the practical application of the test to precede the time of potential launch schedule of the disease modifying treatment. 47 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Intellectual Capital Social and Relationship Capital Initiatives for Dementia Area Offering Solutions that Go Beyond Providing Pharmaceuticals Undertaking a variety of activities for solving issues faced by patients, their families and the community and for building a foundation for a society that coexists with dementia Eisai launched the in-house developed dementia treatment Aricept® in 1999. The introduction of Aricept® as Japan’s first Alzheimer’s disease treatment provided patients and their families with great hope. In the following section, Dr. Masaaki Matsushita, Professor Emeritus, University of Tokyo, describes the differences between the situation today and the times prior to the launch of Aricept® when there were no treatments for dementia. “Hopes on Aricept®” “I have been involved in the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease since 1960s. As a doctor, when I was depressed by expectations and hopes for what I can do for patients as well as desperation, Aricept® shed light on the future treatment for dementia. With Aricept®, part of the walls of hard-to-treat dementia has been destroyed.” Dr. Masaaki Matsushita Director, Tokyo Metropolitan Geneatric Hospital Professor Emeritus, University of Tokyo Back then, dementia was still described in Japan as “senility,” and the understanding of this disease and its diagnostic methods had not adequately spread throughout society. Eisai was acutely aware that the environment surrounding dementia patients would never change just by providing Aricept®. Acting on this recognition, Eisai proactively promoted a variety of initiatives to break through the status quo approach toward dementia. First, Eisai repeatedly carried out disease awareness activities for Alzheimer’s disease through civic forums and its website. To date, Eisai has held meetings for dementia disease awareness on approximately 2,000 times in Japan and around 10,000 times globally. For the diagnosis of dementia, Eisai has actively worked to promote the spread of simple diagnostic methods, such as the Hasegawa Dementia Scale and MMSE＊, which are more suitable for clinical practice. These initiatives have produced positive results and have helped significantly increase the awareness of dementia throughout the world. At the same time, Eisai learned that the provision of pharmaceuticals was not enough to solve issues surrounding dementia patients. Dr. Masahiro Shigeta, Director, Department of Psychiatry at Jikei University School of Medicine, describes these issues surrounding dementia patients below. “I have seen many patients with dementia and their families who have happy life in the clinical settings. The ability that was lost due to dementia is only a small part of that persons. There is no need to be sad even when dementia comes up. When trying to truly respond to anxieties and requests of patients and their families, there is more important thing other than the presence of treatments. I assume that Eisai can honestly confront dementia because Eisai has been with dementia patients since Aricept® went on the market.” Dr. Masahiro Shigeta Director, Department of Psychiatry at Jikei University School of Medicine Dr. Manabu Ikeda, Professor, Department of Psychiatry, Osaka University Medical School describes Eisai’s engaging in dementia area below. “As a leading company in Japan, I want Eisai to take a challenge on developing new treatments for dementia. Keeping that in mind, I would like to ask Eisai to support for the steadily growing elderly people living alone “to be able to continue to live safely in a familiar area”. Further initiatives to realize the measures to avoid various risks are expected so that healthy people as well as patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and dementia can live safer and longer lives while respecting their wills and securing their activeness.” Dr. Manabu Ikeda Professor, Department of Psychiatry, Osaka University Medical School ＊ MMSE (Mini Mental State Examination) was developed in the U.S. in 1974 for diagnosing dementia and other diseases. This is an examination mainly for measuring recall, calculation ability, language ability and orientation. 48 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Enhancement Activities in Communities under Partnership Agreements for Dementia Taking a cue from the launch of Aricept®, Eisai has Yokohama City. This was the first agreement to conducted disease awareness activities and the support dementia patients at the community level provision of information in cooperation with local in Japan. With that as a start, we will expand our governments and medical associations. In 2008, activities to construct various social systems. we started activities to support the building of Partnership agreements for dementia were communities to coexist with patients with dementia, concluded with 158 municipalities/medical aiming for more concrete activities based on the associations/pharmacist associations in Japan accumulation of experience and knowledge. as of the end of July 2019, and working to build In 2010, Eisai entered into a community communities that enable patients with dementia to live development partnership with Asahi Ward in in peace. Developing the hhc Solutions Business: Aiming to Build the Foundation for a Society that Coexists with Dementia Throughout over 20 years of disease awareness understanding dementia; and early detection and early activities in the dementia area, Eisai learned that the treatment of dementia. provision of pharmaceuticals was not enough to In March 2019, the website about the hhc solution satisfy the truly unmet dementia-related needs. Since businesses including specific activity examples has 2016, Eisai has engaged in the business of providing launched in Japan. We introduce our activity examples a variety of solutions in cooperation with partners in each communities with partnership agreement, and including counterparts of the dementia partnership information about variety of our solution products. agreements to meet the unmet needs of patients and their families and build the foundation for a society Website about the hhc solution businesses that coexists with dementia. For all people who hope (only available in Japanese) to live in peace in their familiar communities, we ▶ https://hhcs.eisai.jp continue to work on the activities to support patients with dementia in each community; promotion of Major Products of hhc Solutions Business Medicine administration support device “e-OKUSURI-SAN®” This device supports medicine administration for patients, families, pharmacists, nurses and caregivers. The device also supports looking after patients remotely by confirming a patient’s record of medicine administration. ＊ e-OKUSURI-SAN® is not a medical device. A tool to support going out “Me-MAMORIO®” Me-MAMORIO® is a small tag that utilizes the shortrange wireless Bluetooth communication standard jointly developed and sold by Eisai with Mamorio based on a partnership agreement. Through the short-range communication with the smartphone, it is possible to detect the location of patients with dementia and reduce their anxieties while going out. Educational materials on dementia for elementary, junior high and high school students Eisai handles teaching materials to local governments, educational institutions and medical care worker for elementary, junior high and high school students to learn about dementia, and think and discuss together how patients with dementia feel and how to deal with them. Interprofessional Collaboration Service “Hikari One Team SP” This service enables “One Team” consists of interprofessionals to share the care plan for each patient so as to work on care with same point of view. 49 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Intellectual Capital Special Feature Lenvima® The Birth Story of Lenvima® and Strategy Toward Value Maximization Through Innovative Partnership ●Development History of Lenvima ® Started the research on anticancer agent Eisai and Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. entered Started the research on anti-angiogenesis therapy global strategic oncology collaboration Commenced the project “HOPE” Accelerated development on combination therapy with KEYTRUDA® 1987 1991 2000 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1L thyroid cancer monotherapy (Japan, U.S., EU and Asia) 2L renal cell carcinoma in combination with everolimus ★ (U.S. and EU) 1L hepatocellular carcinoma monotherapy ★ (Japan, U.S., EU, China and Asia) 1L renal cell carcinoma in combination with KEYTRUDA® 2L endometrial carcinoma in combination with KEYTRUDA® ★ 1L hepatocellular carcinoma in combination with KEYTRUDA® ★ 1L: First line 2L: Second line ★Received Breakthrough Therapy Designation from U.S. FDA Approved Project “HOPE” Development of Novel Anti-angiogenic Therapy with the Efforts to Put Ourselves into Patients’ Place Eisai started the research on anticancer agents in Eisai started the research on anti-angiogenic 1987. At that time, the main focus in development therapy in 1991. Eisai’s researchers at Tsukuba was cytotoxic anticancer agents that directly attack Research Laboratories in Japan named the project cancer cells. However, such anticancer agents “HOPE”, and started the project to fulfill patients’ could not be administered long-term due to their long-cherished needs since 2000. side effects, and their range of appropriate dosage (“therapeutic window”) was very narrow, resulting Development Goals of Project “HOPE” to a burden on patients. Under that circumstances, Overcoming weakness of cytotoxic anticancer agents anti-angiogenic therapy had become the next target •F easible for long-term treatment with fewer side for development to potentially lessen the burden effects on patients. Anti-angiogenetic therapy suppresses •Wider range of dosage (therapeutic window) •Realize distinct prolongation of lifespan angiogenesis of cancer cells, which occur to enhance •O ral administration form to lessen the burden of nutrients and oxygen supply needed for their administration and minimize the frequency to visit propagation and metastases. medical facilities for patients “Make Haste Slowly” Commenced with the Establishment of New Evaluation Model to Reflect Clinical Setting Eisai started the establishment of an evaluation patients. As a result, a groundbreaking model that model for preclinical setting that was more similar to could induce angiogenesis both in vitro and in vivo pathology of cancer in clinical setting, with the aim was created, and the system to screen compounds that the compound with strong activity in preclinical utilizing that model was established.Taking this would reproduce anticancer activity (efficacy) in opportunity, Eisai started a full-scale research. ●New in vitro Evaluation Model of Angiogenesis with 24-Well Cell Culture Plate Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial cells (HUVEC) ➡ Upper layer of collagen gel Lower layer of collagen gel 50 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Careful Evaluation on Compounds with Low-Throughput Screening System As “HOPE” project progressed, new insights into ●Blood vessel induced from stimulation by each factors of angiogenesis were being reported gradually. It was angiogenesis suggested that angiogenesis consisted of multiple No stimulation Stimulation by VEGF processes, and each of these process was regulated by multiple angiogenic factors, such as VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor), FGF (fibroblast growth factor), PDGF (platelet derived growth factor) and HGF (hepatocyte growth factor). Based on such new insights into angiogenic Stimulation by FGF Stimulation by HGF factors, Eisai developed a unique in vitro evaluation model that induces tube formation of endothelial cells, which was considered to be a process specific to angiogenesis. The mainstream of the method to find seed compounds was high-throughput screening, which could evaluate hundreds of compounds all at once to enhance efficiency in the process at that ●Unique phenomenon of angiogenesis time. However, Eisai prioritized utilizing a novel in vitro Tube formulation of endothelial cells evaluation model, which is believed to reflect tumor environment in human body, and low-throughput screening to evaluate efficacies of compounds for lumen formation induced by three factors of VEGF, FGF and HGF. Although the low-throughput screening could only evaluate 3 to 4 compounds a week, Eisai continuously conducted the screening. In the end, growth factor receptors (VEGFR) developed by other Eisai found the seed compound, which not only had companies, but also inhibited fibroblast growth factor 100 to 1000 times stronger activity than other antireceptors (FGFR). As a result of all these processes, angiogenic agents that inhibited vascular endothelial Lenvima® was born. ●Low-throughput screening and High-throughput screening Low-throughput screening High-throughput screening (number of compounds to be evaluated at once is limited) (evaluate multiple compounds at once) Characteristics of Lenvima® Inhibition of both VEGFR and FGFR Lenvima® is designed to inhibit not only signals for VEGF FGF FGF VEGFR in tumor vascular endothelial cell, but also tumor vessels with excessive FGFR signals and FGFdependent tumor cells. Eisai believes that Lenvima® is potentially efficacious for multiple cancer types by VEGFR FGFR FGFR inhibiting FGFR, which conventional VEGFR kinase inhibitors would not target upon. Inhibition Inhibition Lenvima® Lenvima® Tumor cells Tumor angiogenesis proliferation/ survival Vascular Tumor cell endothelial cell 51 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Establishment of Unique Evaluation Model and Low-Throughput Screening were the Keys for Successful Development of Lenvima® Yasuhiro Funahashi When Eisai started the research on antiDirector, Biomarker Research Translational Science Department, angiogenic therapy in 1990’s, rodent cornea Oncology Business Group and chorioallantoic membrane of chicken eggs, which had no blood vessel, were utilized in the cells that produce VEGF and FGF, important general model to evaluate angiogenesis. However, factors of tumor angiogenesis, and established a researchers of Eisai, including myself, initiated the unique evaluation model that could evaluate tumor research to establish a novel evaluation model, angiogenesis and tumor proliferation induced by based on a conviction that both in vivo and in them. vitro evaluation models for angiogenesis of Other organizations conducted evaluations tumor that could reflect clinical setting would utilizing high-throughput screening focusing be essential. on only VEGFR kinase inhibitor. On the other Although we needed human vascular endothelial hand, we conducted evaluations utilizing lowcell to form in vitro evaluation model, available cells throughput screening for in vitro evaluation. were in bad condition at that time. For that reason, We evaluated the inhibitory activity in we could not reproduce angiogenesis successfully angiogenesis induced by both VEGF and FGF. as expected. We visited obstetrics and gynecology We paid attention not only to the strength of clinics repeatedly to obtain umbilical cord through the activity, but also to the balance of inhibiting the courtesy of physicians and with consent of VEGF and FGF. In in vivo evaluation model, we donors. As a result of all these efforts, we could also evaluated prolongation of lifespan, a primary establish a novel in vitro model utilizing isolatedendpoint in clinical study, to seek for a promising cultured vascular endothelial cells from umbilical compound in addition to utilizing our unique cord, and initiate screening for compounds with model. the model. It took great effort and time. However, it is We started to find tumor cell, which would not an honor that our passion and strong will to induce angiogenesis at first to establish in vivo create better medicine resulted in the birth of an model. We finally created artificially modified tumor innovative medicine, Lenvima®. Achieved obtainment of New Indication for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Globally and Accelerated Growth Indication expansion for Lenvima® is proceeding obtained approvals in Japan, the U.S., Europe, very smoothly. Lenvima® was first approved for China and Asia in 2018. the treatment of thyroid cancer (monotherapy), Liver cancer is the fourth-leading cause of cancer and then approved in combination with everolimus death, estimated to be responsible for approximately for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma (second780,000 deaths per year globally. Additionally, line) globally. Regarding the third indication of approximately 840,000 cases are newly diagnosed hepatocellular carcinoma (monotherapy), we each year. Hepatocellular carcinoma accounts for 85% to 90% of liver cancer. There are only a few systemic chemotherapies approved for the first Hepatocellular carcinoma line therapy and unmet medical needs remained. Simultaneous submissions and approvals Lenvima® has been growing rapidly since Eisai in Japan, the U.S., Europe, China, and Asia obtained approvals for hepatocellular carcinoma Europe Japan the U.S. indication globally. Annual revenue reached 62.6 Submitted: July 24, 2017 Submitted: June 23, 2017 Submitted: July 24, 2017 billion yen in fiscal 2018, which was 194% growth Approved: August 20, 2018 Approved: March 23, 2018 Approved: August 15, 2018 year-on-year. Revenue target for fiscal 2019 is 116.0 billion yen with 185% year-on-year growth. China South Korea Submitted: October 30, 2017 Submitted: March 6, 2018 Approved: September 4, 2018 Approved: August 29, 2018 52 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Maximizing the Value of Lenvima® Through Innovative Partnership Model In order to maximize the value of Lenvima®, Eisai hepatocellular carcinoma as first-line treatment in and Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. (U.S. combination with KEYTRUDA® in July 2019 in addition Merck) agreed upon a global strategic collaboration to renal cell carcinoma and endometrial carcinoma. for Lenvima® in March 2018. Under the agreement, 11 clinical studies out of 13 (12 studies are pivotal Eisai and U.S. Merck started co-commercialization studies) planned for combination therapies of Lenvima® in fiscal 2018 and achieved high under co-development, have been initiated, and growth in major countries around the world. Coremaining 2 studies will be initiated in fiscal 2019. development of the combination therapy with antiAs a result of this agreement, the collaboration will PD-1 antibody KEYTRUDA® is also proceeding potentially expand contribution to patients and lower smoothly. Eisai has received Breakthrough Therapy the costs and risks in development by sharing R&D Designation from the U.S. FDA for treatment of expenses. Approved 13 studies for the combination therapy with KEYTRUDA ®, indications 11 studies have been initiated, and the remaining 2 studies are planned to be initiated in fiscal 2019 Thyroid cancer 1L ★Renal cell ★Endometrial Endometrial Monotherapy carcinoma 1L carcinoma 2L carcinoma 1L ★Hepatocellular Approved in over 55 countries carcinoma 1L Melanoma 1L Melanoma 2L ★Renal cell Non-small cell Non-small cell carcinoma 2L lung cancer 1L lung cancer 1L Non-small cell Combination with everolimus Non-squamous cell carcinoma Combination with chemotherapy PD-L1 positive lung cancer 2L Approved in over 50 countries Urothelial Head and neck Head and neck cancer 1L cancer 2L Hepatocellular carcinoma 1L Plan to initiate in fiscal 2019 Plan to initiate in fiscal 2019 carcinoma 1L Monotherapy Basket trial in multiple cancer types (Triple-negative breast cancer, Gastric cancer, Ovarian cancer, Colorectal cancer, Glioblastoma, Biliary tract cancer) Approved in over 50 countries １L：First line, 2L：Second line ★：Breakthrough Therapy Designation from the U.S. FDA ●Major  mechanism of how Lenvima® enhances efficacy of anti-PD-1 antibody Results from preclinical studies showed that antitumor activity of the anti-PD-1 antibody was enhanced with Lenvima® administration by reducing tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) and increasing activated cytotoxic T cells, which attack cancer cells. ■Self-protection of cancer cells against ■The mechanism of tumor associated macrophages cytotoxic T cells Anti-PD-1 antibody Tumor associated PD-1 PD-1 macrophages PD-L1 PD-L1 Cytotoxic Cancer Weakened T cells Weakened Inhibits cells attack Cancer Cytotoxic action cells attack T cells To protect themselves, cancer cells inhibit the action of Tumor associated macrophages are cells that cancer cells activate cytotoxic T cells attacking cancer cells through the binding to protect themselves and inhibit the attack of cytotoxic T cells between PD-1 and PD-L1 ■The mechanism of Lenvima® ■The work of anti-PD-1 antibody Anti-PD-1 antibody Tumor associated Anti-PD-1 antibody PD-1 macrophages PD-1 PD-L1 PD-L1 Attack Inhibits Attack more strongly action Cancer Cytotoxic Cancer Cytotoxic cells T cells cells T cells Lenvima® The anti-PD-1 antibody releases the brake on the cytotoxic Lenvima® activates cytotoxic T cells by inhibiting the action of T cells by inhibiting the binding between PD-1and PD-L1, tumor associated macrophages, which results in attacking the which results in attacking the cancer cells cancer cells more strongly 53 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 ●Recognition of payments under agreement with U.S. Merck The strategic collaboration brings mediumto long-term financial impact on Eisai Maximum of up to 5.76 billion U.S. dollars in total (approx. 611.0 billion yen＊) ▶ One-time payment: 950 million U.S. dollars (approx. 101.0 billion yen＊) ・Upfront payment: 300 million U.S. dollars (approx. 32.0 billion yen＊) (Recognized in March 2018) ・One-time option payments associated with U.S. Merck exercising for certain option rights: 650 million U.S. dollars (approx. 69.0 billion yen＊) Recognized 325 million U.S. dollars in fiscal 2018. Plan to recognize 200 million U.S. dollars in fiscal 2019 and 125 million U.S. dollars in fiscal 2020. ▶ Reimbursement for R&D payment: 450 million U.S. dollars (approx. 48.0 billion yen＊) ・450 million U.S. dollars of reimbursement for R&D payment was recognized in March 2018 and was booked in deposits. The deposits will be withdrawn as Eisai’s share of the R&D expenses concerning Lenvima® occurs, and then booked as the reversal of R&D expenses. ▶M ilestone payments: Maximum of up to 4.36 billion U.S. dollars in total (approx. 462.0 billion yen＊) ・Clinical and regulatory milestones: Up to 385 million U.S. dollars (approx. 41.0 billion yen＊) Include regulatory approval of indications in hepatocellular carcinoma or renal cell carcinoma, etc. Recognized 225 million U.S. dollars in fiscal 2018 ・Milestones associated with sales of Lenvima : Maximum of up to 3.97 billion U.S. dollars  ® ＊ (approx. 421.0 billion yen ) Recognized 50 million U.S. dollars in fiscal 2018. Plan to recognize multiple sales-based milestone payments in fiscal 2019. ＊USD 1=106 yen Strong Bonds between Eisai and Key Opinion Leaders Generated Innovative Partnership Takashi Owa The initiation of the collaboration with U.S. Vice President Merck dates back to March 2015 when we first Chief Medicine Creation Officer, Oncology Business Group, entered into a collaboration on the research. Chief Discovery Officer, Under the collaboration agreement, we have Oncology Business Group been conducting Study 111 (Phase Ib/II Study) in multiple cancer types in combination of Lenvima® Eisai's scientists strongly believed that Lenvima® and KEYTRUDA®. Although Study 111 is still had a potential to enhance efficacy of anti-PD-1 ongoing, significant anti-tumor activity exceeding antibody based on its unique mechanism of monotherapy was demonstrated in all six types action. On the other hand, the scientists of U.S. of cancer (renal cell carcinoma, endometrial Merck were not definate about the potential of carcinoma, head and neck cancer, urothelial Lenvima®, since they were conducting clinical cancer, non-small cell lung cancer and melanoma). studies with numbers of agents in combination These significant interim analysis results surprised with KEYTRUDA®. It is my personal opinion but U.S. Merck, and led to the innovative collaboration one of the reasons why the results from Study agreement in March 2018. 111 in combination therapy of Lenvima® and 40 Interim analysis of Study 111 targeting 6 cancer types 20 Tumor diameter change rate (%) 0 -20 -40 ■ Renal cell carcinoma (RCC)＊1 ■ Head and neck cancer ＊1 -60 ■ Endometrial cancer ＊1 ■ Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)＊2 -80 ■ Melanoma＊2 ■ Urothelial carcinoma＊2 -100 ＊1 Presented at the 54th Annual Meeting of the American Society Of Clinical Oncology (ASCO), data cutoff were December 15, 2017 for endometrial cancer, and December 1, 2017 for RCC and head and neck cancer. ＊2 Presented at The Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer's (SITC) 33rd Annual Meeting, data cutoff was March 1, 2018 for NSCLC, melanoma and urothelial carcinoma. 54 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix KEYTRUDA® exceeded the expectation of study of monotherapy treatment in thyroid cancer. scientists of U.S. Merck is that two key opinion We are grateful that he suggested to U.S. Merck leaders greatly supported the potential of that it would be worth to consider this for clinical Lenvima® in light of their experience for clinical studies in multiple cancer types (basket trial). The use. original plan for Study 111 included an option to One of the key opinion leaders is a world limit the number of cancer types. I think that we famous physician. He paid attention to Lenvima®’s could start the research collaboration with six unique mechanism of action that clearly differed types of cancer thanks to suggestions from from other tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and the key opinion leader. If we did not conduct suggested the potential treatment for renal cell Study 111 with six types of cancer, we might carcinoma in combination with everolimus. He not have been able to enter into the strategic also supported us when we had a discussion collaboration. with U.S. Merck for the strategic collaboration Strategic collaboration of Lenvima® became based on his insights for the combination therapy possible with a lot of luck. However, the key for the of Lenvima® and immune checkpoint inhibitor. collaboration is the strong bond between Eisai and Another key opinion leader was an up-andkey opinion leaders generated from Lenvima®’s coming physician who believed in the potential great potential, in addition to the effort of Eisai’s of Lenvima® from the experience to lead clinical scientists to maximize the potential. Pipeline Following Lenvima® Worldwide Product Creation Capability Halaven® is an in-house microtubule dynamics inhibitor ●Eisai’s First Antibody-Drug Conjugate (ADC) MORAb-202 which is a result of Eisai’s remarkable capability in This ADC is a combination of farletuzumab, an in-house discovered antibody currently in clinical development, and eribulin, synthetic chemistry. The origin of medicine creation of a masterpiece of modern synthetic organic chemistry. Halaven® is halichondrin B, which showed strong antitumor substances, extracted from Halichondria okadai of marine organism. New project is underway utilizing assets obtained from development of Halaven®. The middle molecule compound, investigational E7130 is synthetically produced from halichondrin through joint research with Harvard University utilizing Eisai’s strength in synthetic organic chemistry, and PhaseⅠstudy is ongoing in solid tumors. As for biologics (antibody drugs), a PhaseⅠ Bind study is ongoing for Eisai’s potential first antibody4 eribulins drug conjugate (ADC) MORAb-202. ADCs are believed to be next-generation antibody drugs, in linker. Investigational MORAb-202 is Eisai’s which antibody drugs and small molecular drugs unique ADC which combines the antibody drug (payloads) are chemically conjugated via a suitable farletuzumab and eribulin (Halaven®). MORAb-202 showed enhanced efficacy and antitumor activity ●Retracing Halaven ’s Discovery and Invention ® in triple-negative breast cancer and its tumor microenvironment. The marine sponge Cutting-edge projects are also underway at H3 Halichondria okadai Biomedicine, Inc., a subsidiary of Eisai Co., Ltd., aiming to develop next-generation anticancer agents toward precision medicine. PhaseⅠstudies are ongoing for investigational splicing modulator Halichondrin B Me Me H O H O H O H3B-8800 and investigational FGFR4 inhibitor H H O O H H3B-6527, and PhaseⅠ/Ⅱ study is ongoing for O O HO O O H H H O H O H investigational ERα inhibitor H3B-6545. In addition to HO O H Me O O O these projects, H3 Biomedicine, Inc. and Bristol-Myers HO Me O Squibb Company announced a multi-year research Pharmaceutical optimization collaboration focused on evaluating whether novel therapeutics leveraging H3’s RNA splicing platform Halaven® MeO can provide a more powerful response against cancer (generic name: eribulin) OH in December 2018. H2N H O O O O H H O • Molecular weight: 826 O O Me O • Chiral carbons: 19 • Total synthetic steps: 64 O 55 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Intellectual Capital Human Capital Manufactured Capital Global Business Activities Eisai has been developing global business activities on its own and accumulating experience and knowledge over many years. Eisai’s history of overseas operation dates back to the foundation of a local affiliate company in Southeast Asia in the late 1960s. From the 1980s to the early 1990s, Eisai created a three-hub R&D network in Japan, the U.S. and Europe. From the 1990s to the early 2010s, Eisai established pharmaceutical subsidiaries in major countries worldwide in line with the expansion of Alzheimer’s disease treatment Aricept® and proton-pump inhibitor Pariet®. Developing global business activities independently is always associated with difficulties. However, Eisai considers that it is important to overcome any difficulty and accumulate experience and knowledge to leverage for future growth. This is how Eisai has built solid business foundations in Japan, the U.S., Europe, China, and Asia. ■EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa, Russia and Oceania) ■Japan European Knowledge Centre (Hatfield, U.K.) Kawashima Industrial Kashima Plant (Ibaraki) Tsukuba Research ●Drug discovery and ●Formulation and Complex (Gifu) ●Drug development research Laboratories (Ibaraki) clinical research packaging ●Drug development research ●API (active pharmaceutical ●Drug discovery and ●Formulation and packaging ingredients) production development research Fukushima Business Office (EA Pharma Co., Ltd.) ●Formulation and packaging Koishikawa Knowledge Center (Tokyo) ●Clinical research Benxi Plant (China) EA Pharma Co., Ltd. Research ●API production Institute (Kanagawa) (only herbal ●Drug discovery and Eisai China Inc. medicine), development research (Beijing・Shanghai, China) formulation EA Pharma Co., Ltd. (Tokyo) ●Clinical research and packaging ●Clinical research Eisai Clinical Research Singapore Pte. Ltd. KAN Research Institute, Inc. ●Clinical research (Hyogo) Bogor Factory (Indonesia) ●Drug discovery research ●Formulation and packaging ■Asia and Latin America (Primarily South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, India, ASEAN, Central and South America) ■China Knowledge Centre, India (Vizag, India) Suzhou Factory (China) ●Drug development ●API production, formulation ●Formulation and packaging research and packaging ●Drug creation site ●Production site 56 Fiscal 2018 Segment Revenue Fiscal 2018 Segment Profit Number of Employees＊1 Asia and Asia and Latin America Latin America 48.7 billion yen 15.3 billion yen Asia and (8%) Other business (5%) Latin America 79.1 billion yen 1,419 (12%) Other business (13%) 70.8 billion yen EMEA (25%) Japan 1,046 104.7 billion yen (10%) EMEA Japan Total Profits (37%) Consolidated Japan 49.8 billion yen Consolidated Revenue 301.1 billion yen of Segments Number of Employees 4,888 (8%) 642.8 billion yen (47%) 281.4 billion yen 10,683 (46%) China China 66.3 billion yen 2,069 (10%) (19%) China Americas 24.4 Americas Americas 97.9 billion yen billion yen 46.3 billion yen (15%) EMEA (9%) 1,261 (16%) 19.7 billion yen (12%) (7%) ■Americas (North America) Number of Employees in the R&D Division＊1 EMEA Asia and Latin America Approx. 100 Approx. 60 (Approx. 6%) (Approx. 3%) China Approx. 20 (Approx. 1%) Number of Eisai Inc. H3 Biomedicine Inc. Employees in the Japan (Woodcliff Lake, (Cambridge, Massachusetts, U.S.) R&D Division Approx. 940 Americas Approx. 1,730 ●Drug discovery research (Approx. 54%) New Jersey, U.S.) Approx. 610 ●Clinical research (Approx. 35%) Number of Employees in the Production Division＊1 Asia and Latin America Eisai Center for Genetics Guided Approx. 340 Japan Dementia Discovery (G2D2） (Approx. 22%) Approx. 510 (Approx. 34%) (Cambridge, Massachusetts, U.S.) Number of EMEA Employees in the Baltimore Plant (U.S.) ●Drug discovery research Approx. 90 Production Division (Approx. 6%) ●Formulation Approx. 1,520 and packaging (only wafers) China Approx. 490 (Approx. 32%) Americas Approx. 90 (Approx. 6%) Number of Medical Representatives＊1 Exton Site＊2 (Exton, Pennsylvania, U.S.) ●Drug discovery (EPAT: Epochal Precision Asia and Anti-Cancer Therapeutics) and Latin America development research Approx. 730 (Approx. 18%) Japan EMEA Number of Approx. 1,530 Approx. 370 Medical (Approx. 37%) (Approx. 9%) Representatives Approx. 4,090 China ＊1 T  he numbers of employees shown above is as of the end of March 2019. The numbers include staff Approx. 1,200 dispatched to Eisai Co., Ltd. from other group companies, and excludes the employees of Eisai Co., Ltd. who (Approx. 29%) are on loan to other group companies. The number of medical representatives includes those who are heads of organizations. Americas ＊2 Since January 1, 2019, Morphotek Inc. has merged into Eisai Inc., and it has been conducting business Approx. 260 activities as Exton Site. (Approx. 6%) 57 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Intellectual Capital Global Business Activities Medicine Creation Activities Aiming to create innovation by selection and concentration utilizing researchers’ strong sense of mission as well as accumulated experience and knowledge. Taro Terauchi (First person from the left) 1997 Joined Eisai, Chemistry Unit 2, Tsukuba Research Laboratories 2013 H ead of Chemistry, Global Discovery Research, Neuroscience and General Medicine Product Creation Unit (PCU), Eisai Product Creation Systems (EPCS) 2016 H ead of Medicinal Chemistry, Neurology Tsukuba Research Department, Discovery, Medicine Creation, Neurology Business Group (NBG) 2018 Head of Neurology Tsukuba Research Department, Discovery, Medicine Creation, NBG (Current) Tomoo Ogawa (Second person from the left) 1988 Joined Eisai, Section 3, Clinical Development Department, Research and Development Headquarters (HQs) 2005 Head of Focused Area Group, Clinical Operations Department, Clinical Research Center 2010 Head of Japan, Clinical Development, Neuroscience PCU, EPCS 2011 Head of Neuroscience Clinical Development Section, Japan/Asia Clinical Research PCU, EPCS 2016 D  eputy Head of Japan and Asia Clinical Development Department, Clinical, Medicine Creation, NBG / Head of Neurology Development Group, NBG 2017 Head of Japan and Asia Clinical Development Department, Clinical, Medicine Creation, NBG (Officer) (Current) Tomohiro Matsushima (Second person from the right) 1994 Joined Eisai, Chemistry, Discovery Research 3 Department, Research and Development HQs 2010 Head of Tsukuba Chemistry, Global Chemistry, Global Discovery Research, Oncology PCU, EPCS 2016 Head of Oncology Tsukuba Research Department, Discovery, Medicine Creation, Oncology Business Group (OBG) 2018 Deputy Chief Discovery Officer, OBG / Head of External Research, Discovery, Medicine Creation, OBG (Current) Akihiko Tsuruoka (First person from the right) 1990 Joined Eisai, Section 1, Discovery Research 2 Department, Research and Development HQs 2008 Head of Chemistry Group, Discovery Research Laboratories II, Discovery & Development Research HQs of Japan 2009 Head of Tsukuba, Discovery, Oncology PCU/Chemistry, Tsukuba, Discovery, Oncology PCU, EPCS 2010 Head of Global Chemistry, Global Discovery Research, Oncology PCU, EPCS 2016 Head of Oncology Development Group, Japan and Asia Clinical Development Department, Clinical, Medicine Creation, OBG 2017 H  ead of Japan and Asia Clinical Development Department, Clinical, Medicine Creation, OBG / Head of Japan and Asia Planning & Project Management Group, OBG 2018 Head of Japan and Asia Clinical Development Department, Clinical, Medicine Creation, OBG (Officer) (Current) Q: F  rom your years of experience in medicine creation activities in dementia area, what do you think about Eisai’s strength in medicine creation research? A: Terauchi I think the greatest strength is medicines in dementia field has been inherited for researchers’ commitment to contribute to its high unmet medical needs, with the corporate patients through creating new medicines. At philosophy hhc in mind since in-house Alzheimer’s Eisai, researchers’ commitment to create new disease treatment Aricept® was developed. 58 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix able to obtain the results that we initially expected. We had faced crisis of discontinuation of this project on a number of occasions, but with researchers’ commitment to fulfill true needs of patients, we carried on challenging. As a result, we have reached to create new agent after 10 years of discovery research. A: Ogawa I am currently engaged in clinical development in neurology area, and in my opinion, Eisai’s strength in clinical development is strong commitment to pursue better development methods. As much were unknown concerning development methods in dementia field, I think Eisai is the one who has been taking the lead in. In the 1990s, when evaluation scales were not yet established, we discovered more objective evaluation method, Since brain has advanced order functions, no compared to the subjective evaluation method used pharmaceutical companies succeeded in development by physicians at the time. We introduced ADASof next-generation dementia treatments so far for cog, a globally standardized scale, to clinical studies difficulties in target selection and evaluation. Aricept®, for the first time in Japan and trained physicians our in-house developed treatment for Alzheimer’s who were in charge of clinical studies in order to disease, had contributed to improve symptoms of unify the standard of assessment. Furthermore, we dementia, but we keenly aware of the necessity to have accumulated experience and knowledge by develop basic treatment to fulfill true needs of patients, conducting internal operations, such as contrivance in while actively spending time with patients through choosing right patients. Recently, we used Bayesian socialization activities. Through researchers’ every adaptive design to shorten time to determine optimal day efforts with the aim to deliver new treatment to dose in PhaseⅡ Study for investigational BAN2401. the patients as soon as possible, we have possessed We also developed Eisai’s original scale ADCOMS, industry-leading abundant pipeline in dementia field and utilize it to evaluate efficacy of the compound. I with accumulated experiences. Currently my team believe that these acts of pursuing patient contribution is conducting discovery research for investigational are originated the employees’ wish that is fostered synapse regenerant, E2511. This compound is through hhc activities conducted from the past. expected to promote recovery from disease by regenerating damaged functional neurons. Therefore, ●Image of Bayesian Adaptive Design (in the case of BAN2401) we believe that we can deliver potential curative treatment to the patients. Due to its innovative Placebo group concept, we have experienced so many difficulties Patient enrollment (%) Eisai developed its Active control original AD Composite group 1 Score (ADCOMS＊) for during the discovery research, such as not being Active control group 2 Group with highest high-sensitivity ascertaining of changes efficacy and safety in clinical symptoms and Active control group 3 utilized it for evaluation. Functional neuron Active control group 4 Active control group 5 Dosage and administration Time E2511 are different for each 1st Interim 2nd Interim Interim Analysis implemented active control group Analysis Analysis every 50 cases (196 cases) (250 cases) ＊Alzheimer’ s Disease Composite Score Reduction of neural network Re-composition Frequent interim analyses are conducted and the computer assigns patients to Damaged neuron of neural network the arm with superior safety and effective dosages to obtain the data for optimal Regeneration of synapse by administration of E2511 dose in more effective manner Q: F  rom your years of experience in medicine creation activities in oncology area, what do you think about Eisai’s strength in medicine creation research? A: Matsushima I have been engaging in the discovery research as a synthetic researcher in oncology area for many years, and I think Eisai’s strength in medicine creation is that the boundaries among laboratories in and outside Japan are low. Communication between researchers in each laboratory are very active on a daily basis, as well as the global conferences involving decision-making. We feel close, as if they are working in a department next door. We communicate each other based on deep mutual trust that was built ESAB held at H3 Biomedicine 59 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 through collaboration for projects even in English. We and structure to pursue global development of new have the board system called ESAB（(Eisai Scientific medicines have been well established. IPT is usually Advisory Board), which leaders of global research formed at the time of clinical introduction. Clinical sites gathers. Famous scientists from the external studies are initiated along clinical study plan to pursue institutions give objective advice on our projects from worldwide submissions/approvals since early stage scientific view point, and we examine the direction of of clinical development after IPT was formed. IPT R&D strategy at Eisai. leader, as well as the lead of each function, such A: Tsuruoka I am currently in charge of clinical as discovery research, development research, and development in oncology, but I was originally a clinical research are selected. IPT plays a key role to synthetic researcher of discovery research in oncology. decide developmental plan per indication or regulatory Through this broad experience, I would say that the strategies that differ by region, and so on. These strength in Eisai’s medicine creation is promoting strategies are updated in a timely manner depending precise clinical development conducted globally on the changes in treatment circumstances or and regionally, placing IPT (international project competitive landscape, and are applied to clinical team) in the center. Eisai has clinical development development. functions in Japan, the U.S, Europe, China and Asia, Q: After launching Pariet ® in 1999, for more than 10 years until the launch of Halaven ® in 2010, Eisai could not deliver new medicines to patients. What do you think of how “period of frustration” has occurred? ●Launch year for main products developed in-house creation was retained, approximately corresponds to the period that output of discovery research conducted between 1990 to 2000 were expected to 1997 1999 Period of frustration lasting 2010 2012 2015 over 10 years bear fruits as new treatments. It was the period when pharmaceutical companies tried to discover medicine Aricept® Halaven® Lenvima® creation targets in conjunction with new findings of target molecule for anticancer agent, and science Pariet ® Fycompa® significantly advanced along that. Looking back from now, I think we were focusing too much on efficacy. Even if a compound has strong efficacy, A: Terauchi I think the biggest reason for it was without optimal solubility or metabolic stability that selection and concentration was insufficient. that should be installed as an agent, it would not Eisai used to pursue patient contribution in various lead to create new treatments. Eisai has developed areas, resulting in disease areas of target widely Halaven®, an agent with very complex structure as a spread, not only in dementia or cancer, but also in compound with necessary profiles installed. Utilizing diabetes, inflammatory diseases, thrombosis, pain, this experience, we will pursue development of new antimicrobial agents and so on. As there was no treatment with feasibility in manufacturing, as well as clear priority, resources dispersed. Sincere learning easy administration for patients. from this experience, we now carry out selection and concentration in neurology and oncology areas where we can demonstrate our competitive advantage. We believe that this system is effectively functioning. We are now able to approach with various concepts for medicine creation towards hypothesis of dementia pathology by concentrating resource in dementia area, which we have the greatest strength in, in neurology. Another reason for the stagnation in new medicine creation was insufficiency of human biology perspective, which to verify validity of drug discovery targets from in vivo molecules and genetics that potentially have actual influence on disease onset and progression in human. However, we are now able to advance each project after thoroughly verifying validity of drug discovery target and concept from the perspectives of human biology. A: Matsushima I think this 10 years of “period of frustration” was the period when new medicine 60 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Q: What is Eisai’s direction in medicine creation going forward? A: Terauchi As the aging of global population gathers pace, needs for the treatment and prevention of dementia are increasing. We are conducting medicine creation projects focusing on tau, synapse microenvironment, neuro-inflammation hypothesis and so on, following BAN2401 and elenbecestat that are under development based on Aβ hypothesis. By successfully developing these medicines, we would like to enrich treatment options for all disease stage for dementia, such as from prevention/pre-emptive medicine to treatment for severe stage. Possessing candidates with various concepts enable us to explore possibility of creating new value by combination use. Moreover, it is suggested that dementia, epilepsy and sleep disorder are potentially involved in disease onset of dementia. By leveraging research foundations and that development in Japan was behind that of the U.S. experience built through development of perampanel and Europe. In addition, as there have been difficulties and lemborexant, we will advance projects in which in enrolling specified numbers of patients in China in synergies are expected. global clinical studies, local clinical studies specifically A: Ogawa In neurology area, we pursue shortening for China submission, were conducted separately in clinical study period and improving probability the past. However, we accomplished simultaneous of success by leveraging our knowledge and submission for Lenvima® in the four regions worldwide experiences cultivated over years. For instance, for the indication of hepatocellular carcinoma, by we formulate innovative study designs, such as overcoming numerous difficulties. We continuously using biomarkers at early stage of development, aim to submit at four global regions at the same time. to advance the best development strategy for new Currently, we are conducting first-in-human projects with colleagues worldwide. In particular, studies in Japan (Phase Ⅰstudy that a compound is we have knowledge and experiences based on the administered to human for the first time in the world) past clinical development of Aricept® for approved in a number of projects. This is very meaningful to indications of mild, moderate and severe AD and for pursue simultaneous submission/approval at four dementia with Lewy bodies. I am proud of the quantity global regions, and this is one of Eisai’s strengths. and quality of contribution that we have made as a Since Japan is the home ground to Eisai, physicians Japanese pharmaceutical company for global clinical in Japan often give us suggestions and advices with studies. We currently strengthen clinical development warmth with the aim to develop new anticancer in China among Asian countries to promote agents from Japan. contribution to patients in a timely manner. Thus, we It is said that right medicine creation target, right strive to continue to contribute to patients. patient, right dose, right timing and right evaluation A: Tsuruoka In development of anticancer agent I are important for clinical studies to achieve success. am involved in, I constantly aim to submit in four Going forward, utilization of AI (artificial global areas of Japan, the U.S., Europe and China intelligence) and other methods can be one of the at the same time. In the past, there were many cases directions in order to advance drug discovery with more subjective and precise manner. “Period of frustration” we experience in the past, gave us valuable lessons. By consistently introducing new methods of clinical development, we strive to shorten the period for clinical studies and obtain highquality data in order to deliver new treatments to patients as soon as possible. 61 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Human Capital Global Business Activities Marketing Activities 10-year transition of revenue in each region Eisai is implementing marketing activities in each region, looking at regional characteristics. 10-year changes in business performance will be introduced in this section. Japan pharmaceutical business (Billions of yen) Japan pharmaceutical business achieved peak sales in Increased revenue for three fiscal 2011 with the expansion of Alzheimer’s disease consecutive years in a row treatment Aricept® and proton-pump inhibitor Pariet®. 301.1 However, it experienced decrease of revenue due to 300 291.1 296.2 the loss of exclusivity for these two products (Pariet®: in 272.0 2010, Aricept®: in 2011). Rapid expansion of generics in the market and price revision, which is implemented every two years, also impacted the performance. 200 After years of stagnant growth, Japan pharmaceutical business got back to growth trajectory and achieved increase in sales for three consecutive years since fiscal 2016 with the growth of new branded 100 products, such as in-house developed anticancer agents of Lenvima® and Halaven®, fully human antiTNF-α monoclonal antibody Humira® and pain treatment Lyrica®. 0 Eisai strives for further growth of branded products, fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal Forecast for 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 fiscal 2019 such as Lenvima®, even though a decrease in sales ■Aricept® ■Pariet® ■Lenvima® ■Halaven® ■Fycompa® is forecasted for fiscal 2019 due to transfer of generic ■Humira® ■Lyrica® ■Others ■OTC and others ■Generics business and price revision. ＊ Full year forecast of fiscal 2019 for Lyrica is not disclosed ® ＊ Generic business was fully transferred to Nichi-Iko Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. in April 2019. ＊ Although consumer healthcare business was separated from Japan pharmaceutical business in the new segment in fiscal 2019, this section is described based on the segment in fiscal 2018 (consumer healthcare business, namely OTC and others from fiscal 2019, is included in Japan pharmaceutical business). Americas pharmaceutical business (North America) (Billions of yen) Performance of business in the U.S., the biggest pharmaceutical market in the world, had declining drastically after loss of exclusivity for Aricept® in 2010. 300 Additionally, loss of exclusivity for AcipHex® (product Rapid expansion of Lenvima® name of Pariet® in the U.S.) in 2013, and return of the Significant conversion marketing rights for antiemetic agent Aloxi® impacted of product mix on the performance. Yet, anticancer agent Halaven® 200 and antiepileptic agent Fycompa® continue to grow steadily. Revenue of anticancer agent Lenvima® 135.0 rapidly expanded in fiscal 2018 with the additional 116.5 113.9 approval for hepatocellular carcinoma indication. 97.9 100 Eisai aims to achieve increase in revenue with the growth of Lenvima® in the U.S. in fiscal 2019. 0 fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal Forecast for 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 fiscal 2019 ■Aricept® ■AcipHex® ■Aloxi® ■Halaven® ■Fycompa® ■Lenvima® ■Others 62 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix China pharmaceutical business (Billions of yen) 70.0 Eisai’s pharmaceutical business in China, particularly Aim to achieve double-digit growth 66.3 conventional drugs, such as peripheral neuropathy treatment (Local currency basis) 56.2 Methycobal® and Aricept® are continuously growing even if for nine years in a row 50 49.3 their generic equivalents are already available on the market. In addition, Lenvima® has been launched in November 2018 and recorded 3.1 billion yen of revenue in 5 months. New policies along with institutional reforms has accelerated new drug approval process in China, but further expansion of generics is also expected at the same time in China. Eisai aims to achieve double-digit growth for nine consecutive years (local 0 fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal Forecast for currency basis) with rapid expansion of Lenvima® and stable 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 fiscal 2019 ■Aricept® ■Pariet® ■Methycobal® growth of other products in fiscal 2019. ■Stronger Neo-Minophagen C® and Glycyron Tablets® ■Lenvima® ■Others ＊ Full year forecasts of fiscal 2019 by products in China pharmaceutical business are not disclosed, except for Lenvima® EMEA pharmaceutical business (Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Oceania) (Billions of yen) Increasing trend of revenue Performance has significantly declined after loss of exclusivity of 49.8 51.0 50 44.3 two major products of Aricept® and Pariet® in 2012. Currently, 37.8 the expansion of Halaven®, Fycompa® and Lenvima® are contributing to the increasing trend in revenue, in addition to the growth of three antiepileptic agents Zonegran®, Zebinix® and Inovelon®. 0 Eisai seeks to achieve record-high revenue of 51.0 billion yen fiscal 2009 fiscal 2010 fiscal 2011 fiscal 2012 fiscal 2013 fiscal 2014 fiscal 2015 fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal Forecast for 2018 fiscal 2019 in fiscal 2019 with rapid expansion of Lenvima®. ■Aricept® ■Pariet® ■Halaven® ■Fycompa® ■Lenvima® ■3 antiepileptic agents total ■Others ＊ Full year forecasts of fiscal 2019 by products in EMEA pharmaceutical business are not disclosed, except for Halaven®, Fycompa® and Lenvima® Asia and Latin America pharmaceutical business (primarily South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, India, ASEAN, Central and South America) (Billions of yen) Eisai’s business in Asia is continuously growing, associated 50 48.7 49.0 with the expansion of the pharmaceutical market along with Sustainable growth 42.6 economic development in each country. Growth of fully human 35.3 anti-TNF-α monoclonal antibody Humira® is continuously growing, in addition to stable growth of Aricept®, Pariet® and Methycobal®, notwithstanding the generics already available on the market. Eisai seeks the opportunity to expand the inhouse developed products in Latin America through partnership with Grupo Biotoscana, which signed an exclusive licensing agreement with in 2017. 0 Although revenue growth is expected to be slowing down fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal Forecast for 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 fiscal 2019 temporarily due to the scheduled return of marketing rights ■Aricept ■Pariet ■Methycobal ■Humira ■Halaven ® ® ® ® ® for Humira® scheduled in Taiwan in August 2019, Eisai strives ■Fycompa ■Lenvima ■Others ® ®  ull year forecasts ＊■アリセプト F of fiscal 2019 by products in■強力ネオミノファーゲンシー Asia and Latin America pharmaceutical for further growth with Lenvima®, Halaven® and Fycompa® to ■パリエット ■メチコバール / グリチロン錠 ■レンビマ ■その他 ® business are not disclosed, except for Halaven , Fycompa and Lenvima ® ® support sustainable growth in the future. Other business (Billions of yen) 103.0 Other business refers to the performance associated with 100 income from licensing to parent company and business for Expansion of recognition of 79.1 payments associated with active pharmaceutical ingredients (API). Revenue recorded in Lenvima® fiscal 2017 to fiscal 2018 included the recognition of payments 46.8 50 from Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. in association with strategic collaboration for Lenvima® (34.5 billion yen in fiscal 2017 and 65.5 billion yen in fiscal 2018). Expansion of 9.1 recognition of payments is expected in conjunction with revenue 0 fiscal 2009 fiscal 2010 fiscal 2011 fiscal 2012 fiscal 2013 fiscal 2014 fiscal 2015 fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal Forecast for 2018 fiscal 2019 growth of Lenvima® in fiscal 2019. ■Others ■Recognition of payments associated with Lenvima® 63 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Intellectual Capital Special Feature Rapid Growth of the China Business Aiming for expansion of contribution to patients with new products, and further growth of China Business Yanhui Feng Corporate Officer President, Eisai China Holdings Ltd. President, Eisai China Inc. SWOT Analysis of China Business Strengths Weaknesses 1. Establishment of a business foundation in China for more than 20 years 1. Research and development 2. A dopted a management system that gives autonomy to local management in functions in China consist only of China clinical development, with no drug 3. S trong growth in anticancer agent Lenvima® and collaboration with MSD ＊ discovery research function 4. Achieved approval for anticancer agent Halaven®, and submitted New Drug Applications for antiepileptic agent Fycompa® Opportunities Threats 1. Acceleration of new drug approval process through system reforms by 1. Further market penetration of generic China’s regulatory authorities pharmaceuticals 2. G rowth in low-tier markets (small and medium-sized cities in inland and regional areas as well as small and medium-sized hospitals) due to rising income levels, and the promotion of hierarchical diagnosis ＊ Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., known as MSD outside of the United States and Canada Q: C ould you tell us about your career to the present and your approaches in the daily business? A: I joined Eisai in 2012. Prior to joining Eisai, I built goals with great determination or bringing out the full a nearly 20-year experience in sales and marketing strengths of the team. fields, mainly at U.S.-affiliated pharmaceutical I expect employees of Eisai China to work efficiently companies. to produce results while avoiding long working hours. My philosophy is “Never give up.” This means I myself try to finish work on time and enjoy dinner that no matter how challenging the circumstances together with my family. are, I act with a strong awareness of achieving high Q: What initiatives have you taken up to the present to grow the business? A: First, I initiated major changes to the training This has contributed to boost employee motivation. system for managers and medical representatives On top of this, we utilize the comprehensive (MRs), who contribute to patients at the front lines. data analysis to seek more growth opportunities Based on an analysis of each person’s skills, I in the market. We analyze data such as market size transformed this system into customized training and market share, and set goals according to each to eliminate disparities between the skills expected targeted medical institution and facility. Circumstances and the abilities presented by each individual. By at the market front lines change every moment. For revamping the system, I believe the sales skills of this reason, we give frontline managers the discretion employees were significantly elevated. I also changed to adjusting targets depending on the changes in the the incentive scheme which to better reward environments, in order to increase the accuracy of employees who have achieved good performance. goal attainment. 64 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix  ow do you think is the Corporate Philosophy human health care (hhc) incorporated in the daily Q: H business at Eisai China? A: Through a more than 20-year history of undertaking high unmet medical needs due to factors such as business in China, I believe that the employees limited treatment methods and related information, of Eisai China are deeply familiarized with hhc. and that patients have great concerns over continuing Socialization with patients through hhc programs treatment while paying expensive treatment costs. In represents the starting point of our daily business. view of this, we changed the originally planned PAP Accordingly, hhc activities are incorporated into scheme to further reduce the self-payment burden, the performance targets of all employees, and thus maximizing our contribution to patients. organization managers take the lead in planning hhc activities. Such initiatives by Eisai China were commended in “hhc Initiative 2018,” which reports on the outstanding activities of employees worldwide. Let me introduce one example of our hhc activities. When launching the anticancer agent Lenvima®, we simultaneously implemented a patient assistance program (PAP) to reduce patients’ self-payment burden when they purchase this drug. The origin of this program is socialization between employees and patients. Through the conversation with patients diagnosed with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), we Socialization with patients with HCC held by the Eisai China employees prior to re-confirmed that this is a disease with significantly the launch of Lenvima® Q: E  isai China has achieved double-digit growth in sales (RMB basis) for eight consecutive years from fiscal 2011. Moreover, Eisai is one of the biggest in terms of sales volume among Japanese pharmaceutical manufactures operating in China. What do you think are Eisai China’s strengths? A: Our first strength is the management system that not only individual targets but also incorporate gives autonomy to local managements. This system performance targets of Eisai China as a whole. was introduced in 2014 along with the establishment By taking this approach, we are spreading a of the China Region. With the complete trust of the culture that aims for target attainment with Head Office management, Eisai China’s management all employees working in unison. I place great has been delegated management-decision authority. importance on our annual meeting as a venue where This approach allows us to respond quickly to sudden all sales teams can meet at one location. During this market shifts and maintains the motivation of local meeting, participants share the company targets management at an extremely high level. and achievements as well as joy when attaining the The second strength is our strong sales force. targets. Thanks to this type of corporate culture, As I explained earlier, the improvements we made I sense that Eisai appears to be an attractive to our training system and incentive scheme have company in the eyes of employees within China’s helped raise employee capabilities and motivation. pharmaceutical industry. Furthermore, MR performance targets include ●China business trends in revenue (RMB) (100 million renminbi) (%) 124 121 119 119 120 40.0 118 117 113 110 Revenue 30.0 Compared with 110 the previous period 20.0 100 40.1 33.6 30.6 26.1 23.1 10.0 19.4 90 16.5 13.7 11.1 0.0 ca l2 l201 010 80 Presentation held by Feng at the Eisai China Fiscal 2019 Annual Meeting where f is ca l2 011 all of the sales team gathered f is f is ca l2 012 3 f is ca ca l2 014 ca f is f is ca ca l2 l2 01 015 6 f isf is f is ca l2 017 65 l2 018 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Q: In the five months since it was launched in November 2018, revenue of Lenvima® has soared to 3.1 billion yen. What are the factors for Lenvima®’s strong start? A: Liver cancer is the third highest cancer-related ●Number of hepatocellular carcinoma patients worldwide (10,000 persons) cause of death in China. There are approximately 395,000 new cases and 380,000 deaths per year, 78 75 accounting for approximately 50% of cases worldwide. The only existing treatment for unresectable 38.5 36.7 hepatocellular carcinoma (uHCC) was sorafenib which was approved for that indication in 2008. Lenvima® Other regions thus became the first new therapeutic agent China launched in China in approximately 10 years. As it has been almost seven years since we last launched 39.5 38.3 an in-house product in China, and Lenvima® was to be the first in-house cancer agent in China, the entire company was buzzing with energy since before its launch. Number of new Number of hepatocellular carcinoma deaths annually On October 30, 2017, a New Drug Application patients annually (NDA) for Lenvima® was filed for the indication of HCC, ＊ Source: G  LOBOCAN2012: Estimated Cancer Incidence, Mortality and Prevalence Worldwide in and in December 2017, Lenvima® was designated 2012, others for Priority Review. On September 4, 2018, Lenvima® was approved as a single agent for the treatment through the proactive medical activities prior to of patients with uHCC who have not received prior launch, as well as the sharing of best practices of systemic therapy. Benefitting from reforms to the HCC patients in Japan. Lenvima® has received good new drug approval procedures by China’s regulatory reputation from both patients and doctors, spurring authorities, we were able to obtain approval within the growing calls for the listing on China’s National very short period of approximately 10 months after Reimbursement Drug List (NRDL). We are making filing an application. I will discuss this in more detail best efforts to provide even more patients with access later. In China, new drug manufacturing is possible to Lenvima® as quickly as possible. only after obtaining approval, so in general much time is required from approval to product launch. To provide patients with Lenvima® as soon as possible, we proceeded with preparations in unison with relevant departments. This teamwork enabled us to launch Lenvima® on November 12, 2018, two months earlier than planned. Along with the launch, the simultaneous introduction of a PAP to reduce the economic burden on patients, and the commencement of collaboration with MSD enabled Lenvima® to get off to a strong start. Also contributing to the solid start was the recommendation of Lenvima® in two Chinese guidelines for HCC Package of Lenvima® in China Q: C  ould you talk about promising new drugs following Lenvima®? A: In July 2019, Halaven® was approved as a of adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures. In treatment for locally advanced or metastatic January 2019, Fycompa® was designated for Priority breast cancer. Eisai China has been marketing the Review. I believe, with a novel action mechanism, breast cancer drug Fareston®＊ from 2011 and has Fycompa® can make a significant contribution to been building good relationships with breast cancer patients with epilepsy in China. The Neurology Team, specialists for many years. Following the approval of which is currently in charge of marketing treatments Halaven®, we will promote thoroughgoing preparations for Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease, will to contribute to patients as quickly as possible. handle marketing for Fycompa®. Additionally, we have filed NDA for the ＊ Eisai undertakes marketing and distribution in China through a comprehensive antiepileptic agent Fycompa® for the indication marketing agreement with Orion Corporation. 66 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Q: What areas do you consider are Eisai China’s weaknesses? A: Eisai China is achieving strong growth so it is in China consist of only clinical development and we hard to find weaknesses at this time. If there is any have no drug discovery research function. weakness though, I believe it is that R&D functions Q: F inally, could you describe Eisai China’s opportunities and threats? China is undertaking major reforms of its healthcare system. How will this affect Eisai China? A: I believe that China has huge potential. compared with existing treatments. Under these Demand for new treatments is rising in tandem system reforms, Lenvima® received approval within with an aging population and increase of diseases the short span of 10 months after NDA was filed. such as cancer and chronic diseases including I believe these reforms will significantly benefit diabetes. Responding to this situation, in recent Eisai, which is a research and development based years, authorities have undertaken reforms of pharmaceutical manufacturer. the approval system for pharmaceuticals and Pharmaceutical markets for large cities and large others, beginning with the acceleration of new hospitals are now settling toward stable growth. In drug approval process. As part of these reforms, the contrast, strong growth is expected in low-tier Priority Review procedure was implemented with the markets such as small and medium-sized cities aim of accelerating research, development and launch in inland and regional areas as well as small and of new medicines with high-unmet medical needs, medium-sized hospitals. such as cancer, infectious diseases and pediatrics. At the same time, the Chinese government is Lenvima® and Fycompa® were designated for Priority implementing policies for improving quality and Review due to their significant clinical benefits promoting the greater use of generic drugs. Eisai China’s main products include the Alzheimer’s disease treatment Aricept® and peripheral neuropathy treatment Methycobal®. However, numerous generic drugs have already been launched and so there is a possibility that those products could be replaced by the generic drugs along with the promotion of the government policies. Therefore, growth in new products such as Lenvima® is essential for Eisai China to sustain growth. The generic pharmaceutical company we acquired in 2015 is promoting projects for providing access for numerous patients, mainly in low-tier markets, by offering high-quality, low-priced generic pharmaceuticals in line with government policies. Interviewer: Aiko Sakai, Investor Relations Department Brief history of Eisai China Overview of Eisai China The Beijing Representative Office was established. Number of 2,069 (as of the end of March 2019) 1991 Shenyang Eisai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. was established as a employees pharmaceutical manufacturing and sales subsidiary. Number 1994 Methycobal®, a peripheral neuropathy treatment was launched. of medical Approximately 1,200 (as of the end of March 2019) representatives Eisai Suzhou Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. was established as a 1996 Major offices pharmaceutical manufacturing and sales subsidiary. Beijing, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Xi’an, Shenyang, for medical Hangzhou, Qingdao, Tianjin, and Fuzhou 1998 Construction of Suzhou plant was completed. representatives 1999 Aricept®, a treatment for Alzheimer’s disease was launched. •Aricept®, a treatment for Alzheimer’s disease •Stronger Neo-Minophagen C® / Glycyron® Tablets, Eisai (Suzhou) Trading Co., Ltd. was established as a 2010 liver disease / allergic disease treatment pharmaceutical trading subsidiary. •Selbex®, a gastritis/gastric ulcer treatment Eisai China Holdings Ltd. was established as a holding Major •Pariet®, a proton-pump inhibitor 2014 company. products •Fareston®, a breast cancer drug Shifted to autonomy management. •Myonal®, a muscle relaxant •Methycobal®, a peripheral neuropathy treatment Eisai (Liaoning) Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. was established as a 2015 •Merislon®, a treatment of vertigo and balance disorder generic pharmaceutical company (by acquisition). •L envima®, an anticancer agent New Suzhou plant commenced full-scale operation. 2018 Lenvima®, an anticancer agent was launched. 67 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Corporate Governance System Management oversight functions and business execution functions have been clearly separated since fiscal 2004 in pursuit of fairness and transparency. Eisai has pursued the best corporate governance practices and has remained committed to the improvement of governance. ●The Company has adopted a company with a nomination committee, etc., system. ●The Board of Directors (“the Board”) shall delegate to the corporate officers broad power of decision-making for business execution to the extent permitted by the laws and regulations, and it shall exercise the function of management oversight. ●The majority of the Board shall be independent and neutral outside directors. ●The Representative Corporate Officer and CEO shall be the only director who is concurrently a corporate officer. ●To clarify the management oversight function, the positions of the Chair of the Board and the Representative Corporate Officer and CEO shall be separated and performed by different individuals. ●The Nomination Committee and the Compensation Committee shall be entirely composed of outside directors, and the majority of the Audit Committee shall consist of outside directors. ●The Chairs of the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee shall be outside directors. ●The Outside Directors Meeting shall be established to ensure the effective function of the role of outside directors. ●The internal control system and its operation shall be enhanced to ensure such as the credibility of financial reports. General Meeting of Shareholders Outside Directors Meeting Board of Directors (11 members: 7 outside, 4 inside) Chair: Outside Director Board of Directors Broad delegation of the Management oversight Nomination Compensation Audit by Committee Audit Committee Appropriate reporting evaluation, (5 members: 3 outside, 2 inside; Committee Committee power of decision-making (3 members: (3 members: (7 members: all outside) Chair: outside director) all outside) all outside) over the execution Succession plan, etc. and proposal Monitoring/ Management Board of Directors Secretariat Audit verification Report of business Department Accounting Accounting Business Execution Division Auditor Audit Board of Directors Nomination Committee Audit Committee Compensation Committee Outside Directors Meeting Number of meetings held in fiscal 2018 11 times 8 times 12 times 6 times 8 times Attendance in fiscal 2018 100％ 100％ 100％ 100％ 100％ Features of Eisai’s Corporate Governance ❶Clear Separation of the Functions between Oversight of Management and the Execution of Business The central aspect of the Company’s corporate governance is the clear separation of the oversight of management and the execution of business by fully utilizing the fact that it is a company with a nomination committee, etc., system. The Board of Directors with outside directors making up the majority is able to enhance the vitality of and devote its attention to management by entrusting a large portion of the decision-making authority over business execution to corporate officers to the extent permitted by laws and regulations. In accordance with the Companies Act, the Board of Directors has passed resolutions on rules for the Systems for Ensuring Proper Business Operations to establish specific internal controls that should be established and operated by corporate officers. In addition to the items set forth in the rules, corporate officers work to enhance and operate the internal controls within the scope of their responsibilities to secure autonomy and increase the speed and flexibility of business execution. Under this structure, the Board of Directors also checks the status of execution of duties by corporate officers and inspects the appropriateness of the status of internal controls, such as the business execution and decision-making processes, from the perspectives of shareholders and society. Furthermore, in order to achieve a clear separation between the oversight of management and the execution of business, the Company has established that the chair of the Company’s Board of Directors be an outside director and that the Representative Corporate Officer and CEO be the only individual to concurrently serve as a corporate officer and a director. 68 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix ●Types of Board of Directors in Japan ●Attributes of the Chair of the Board in Japan 2% of companies in Japan adopt a Companies with 1% of the Board of Directors in Japan is chaired by a Nomination Committee, etc. System outside directors Company with Audit Company with a Nomination Outside director 1% Others 1% and Supervisory Committee, etc., System Committee Chairman 28%（1,001 companies） 2% (76 companies) 15% President 83% Company with Board of Corporate Auditors 70% (2,563 companies) Subject: 3,640 Tokyo Stock Exchange-listed companies Subject: 3 ,640 Tokyo Stock Exchange-listed companies (Aggregated data as of July 15, 2019) (Aggregated data as of July 15, 2019) Source: “ Officer-related survey 2019” IR Japan Source: “ Officer-related survey 2019” IR Japan ❷A Sustained, Autonomous Mechanism for Enhancement of Corporate Governance Centered on Outside Directors The presence of 7 independent outside directors, who ●Composition of Eisai’s outside directors in fiscal 2018 account for the majority of the Board of Directors, Persons with experience in corporate management: 3 supports the effectiveness of the Company’s corporate governance structure. As indicated in the Finance and accounting experts: 1 diagram below, the Company has established and Legal experts: 1 is operating a mechanism to enhance sustained, autonomous corporate governance centered on outside Academic experts/Woman: 1 (Area of expertise: Audits/internal control) directors, including (1) a system of electing neutral Academic experts/Foreign national: 1 and independent outside directors by a Nomination (Area of expertise: Corporate governance) Committee, (2) operating the Board of Directors, etc., through the leadership of a chair who is an ●Attributes of the 35 Eisai outside directors who were in office since 2000 outside director, (3) an Outside Directors Meeting for Others broad discussion of corporate governance, including 2 consideration of a succession plan, etc., and (4) Finance and accounting experts corporate governance evaluations that drive the Plan5 Persons with experience in Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle of the Board of Directors corporate management and each committee. We will continue to work to Legal experts 13 enhance the content of each of those efforts. 7 Academic experts 8 Of the 35 outside directors, 3 are women and 6 are of foreign nationality ●A Sustained, Autonomous Mechanism for Enhancement of Corporate Governance Centered on Outside Directors ❶The Nomination Committee consists of 3 members, all of whom ❶The Chair of the Board of Directors is appointed from among are outside directors outside directors ❷Information on candidates is also collected from members of ❷The Chair of the Board of Directors proposes the Board of the Nomination Committee and all other directors and former Directors agenda items for the year, annual themes, etc. outside directors of the Company ❸A week before meetings of the Board of Directors, there is a ❸Candidates are narrowed down after screening for meeting with the secretariat and Head Office staff regarding independence and presence of any competitive the content of agenda items, materials, etc. activities, etc. ❹The Chair of the Board of Directors draws out ❹After the order of priority of requests for Outside Chair of knowledge from directors with diverse appointment has been set, the Chair of director the Board backgrounds, enhances the quality of the the Nomination Committee (outside appointment of Directors discussions among members of the Board of system (Outside director) director) submits to candidates requests Directors, and manages Board meetings for acceptance of appointment effectively and efficiently ❶Review of Corporate Governance Guidelines ❶Matters are discussed freely, with only and internal control-related rules Corporate Outside outside directors in attendance ❷The Outside Directors Meeting compiles governance Directors ❷As necessary, the Board of Directors the results of evaluation of each director, and evaluations Meeting and corporate officers are asked to proposes them, including issues, to the Board consider issues, share information, etc. of Directors ❸Corporate governance evaluations ❸Resolutions are passed by the Board of Directors and (including the evaluations made by each director) disclosed in business reports, etc. are summarized and proposed ❹The PDCA cycle is driven by confirming, at Board meetings, to the Board of Directors ❹Information regarding the succession plan proposed implementation status in regard to issues, etc. by the CEO is shared ❺Reviews of Board of Directors evaluations are conducted by an outside organization once every 3 years 69 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Fiscal 2018 Efforts Related to Corporate Governance Dialogue with Outside Directors and Investors Up to this point as well, the Company has conducted meetings between institutional investors and outside directors in Japan and overseas. Outside directors visited multiple institutional investors and carried out dialogues with them between January and February 2018. A Meeting for Exchange of Opinions between Institutional Investors and Outside Directors was held in September 2018. All 7 outside directors attended to carry out dialogue with about 50 institutional investors. Exchanges of opinion were carried out from various perspectives in regard to the Company’s efforts related to corporate governance. Furthermore, in response to requests from institutional investors, meetings for exchanging opinions have been carried out with the participation of several outside directors. The knowledge gained through such dialogue is used in the discussions held by the Board of Directors, etc. The Outside Directors Meeting has confirmed that outside directors will continue to carry out dialogue with investors in order to deepen mutual understanding of Opinion exchange between institutional investors and corporate governance efforts aimed at increasing corporate value. outside directors Information Sharing and Discussion Regarding the Succession Plan ❶View Regarding Selection of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) The Company positions the selection of the CEO as one of the most important decisions to be made by the Board of Directors. The CEO’s duty is to exhibit strong leadership while also nurturing the next CEO. The Company believes that having outside directors participate in this process with such recognition and having them offer advice, etc., increases the objectivity of the CEO’s proposal of successor candidates. It rationally ensures the fairness of the CEO selection process as the Board of Directors. ❷Procedures Regarding CEO Selection Even after becoming a company with a nomination committee, etc., system in 2004, discussions had been repeated under a consistently optimal corporate governance system regarding the CEO succession process. In fiscal 2016, with consideration given to the previous background, discussions were held at an Outside Directors Meeting on ideal information sharing by the Board of Directors in relation to a succession plan formulated by the CEO and preparations for unexpected situations, and succession procedures, etc., were set out as rules. The outline of the procedures are as follows. 1) Sharing of Information on the Succession Plan (a) Information on the succession plan proposed by the CEO is shared 2 times a year at the Outside Directors Meeting. (b) The CEO and inside directors also participate in this Outside Directors Meeting, and information on the succession plan is shared among all directors. 2) Discussion on the Succession Plan (a) The criteria for evaluating candidates are expected to change in accordance with the business environment, etc. For this reason, criteria will be set appropriately when the CEO proposes candidates. (b) The CEO will evaluate candidates on the criteria that has been set, and present evaluation results in the succession plan. (c) Outside directors provide advice on the succession plan. The CEO considers the advice provided by outside directors, and reflects it in the succession plan as appropriate. ❸Preparations for Unexpected Situations Circumstances, such as unforeseen accidents, that necessitate the sudden selection of a new CEO by the Board of Directors are also possible. Contingency plans for such unexpected situations are also confirmed when considering the aforementioned succession plan. Corporate Governance Evaluation The effectiveness of the Board of Directors’ management oversight function is evaluated each year at the Outside Directors Meeting. If any issues related to the operation of the Board of Directors, etc., are identified, a request and proposal for improvement are submitted to the Board of Directors and operational divisions. In the corporate governance evaluation, the status of the activities of the Board of Directors, etc., is inspected and evaluated based on the corporate governance evaluation carried out in the previous fiscal year, issues are identified for the next fiscal year, and improvement measures are presented, thereby implementing the Plan-DoCheck-Act (PDCA) cycle. Beginning in fiscal 2017, we have an outside organization review our processes and results once every 3 years to ensure the appropriateness and suitability of corporate governance evaluations on a continued and periodical basis. 70 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Fiscal 2018 Corporate Governance Evaluation Results With regard to the Corporate Governance Guidelines and Internal Control Regulations, no evidence was found of any operation, etc., that deviates from the rules. It was confirmed that the directors and corporate officers, etc., are executing their duties appropriately to improve corporate governance. In regard to the Board of Directors evaluation, the state of response in fiscal 2018 to the issues identified in the fiscal 2017 Board of Directors evaluation as issues for fiscal 2018 was checked and evaluated, and the issues, etc., for the next fiscal year were recognized. Some of the major issues identified are listed below. Major issues identified for fiscal 2019 relating to the roles, proceedings etc. of the Board of Directors through the evaluation •In regard to the selection of proposals, it is necessary to continue to take up mediumto long-term business issues and risks faced by the Company in a timely manner for discussion at Outside Directors Meetings and elsewhere. •The succession plan will continue to be developed by implementing the Plan, Do, Check, Act (PDCA) cycle. Outside directors must strive to obtain a deeper understanding of the evaluation of each candidate through efforts such as meeting the candidate in person to assess his or her character. •It was found that the Board of Directors must recognize important risks that need to be overseen by the Board of Directors from among the wide range of risks identified by corporate officers, and receive periodic reports from corporate officers on the actions taken to prepare for and respond to those risks, and on how the impact and probability of occurrence have changed. ＊For the further information regarding the corporate governance review, please refer to pages 48-56 of the Notice of Convocation of the 107th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders:▶ https://www.eisai.com/ir/stock/meeting/pdf/einv107_all.pdf Compensation for Directors and Corporate Officers Compensation paid to directors is only a fixed base compensation. The duty of directors is to supervise management, and a fixed rate not incorporating performance-based compensation is used to ensure that directors are able to properly perform their oversight functions. The level is intended to be set at the upper middle range for the industry. The compensation paid to the corporate officers is made up of base compensation, bonuses and stockbased compensation at a ratio of 6:3:1, and performance-based compensation accounts for 40% of total compensation. Fixed compensation Performance-based compensation Compensation Paid Base compensation Bonuses Stock-based compensation to Corporate Officers (60%) (30%) (10%) The stock-based compensation system, a mediumto long-term incentive plan, was introduced in fiscal 2013. Stock-based compensation involves providing corporate officers with stocks on an annual basis through a trust in accordance with the degree of achievement of company-wide performance objectives. The system motivates the corporate officers to share profit awareness based on the same perspective as that of the shareholders, and to remain aware of performance and stock prices in executing their duties from a mediumto long-term perspective. The amounts of bonuses provided to corporate officers are calculated in accordance with the degree of the achievement of company-wide performance goal and the corporate officers’ performance objectives. The degree of the achievement of company-wide performance objectives is determined after reviewing consolidated revenue, consolidated operating profit, consolidated profit for the year (attributable to the parent company) and consolidated ROE. The average rate of bonus payment to corporate officers was 115% in fiscal 2018, because the degree of attainment of Company-wide performance objectives was 107% and the average degree of attainment of individual performance objectives was 107%. The average rate of stock-based compensation was 107% in fiscal 2018, because the degree of attainment of Company-wide performance objectives was 107%. Degree of Degree of attainment of CompanyBonus payments to Corporate Officers in fiscal 2018 Targets Results attainment wide performance objectives Basic bonus ×107% (degree of attainment of Company-wide performance objectives) Consolidated revenue 632.0 billion yen 642.8 billion yen 102% ×107%＊(degree of attainment of individual performance objectives) Consolidated operating ＝Basic bonus×115% 86.0 billion yen 86.2 billion yen 100% profit ＊The degree of attainment of individual performance objectives is determined in a range of 0 to 150%. 107% Consolidated profit for Stock-based compensation in fiscal 2018 57.5 billion yen 63.4 billion yen 110% the year Base number of shares Consolidated ROE 9.5% 10.4% 109% ×107%(degree of attainment of Company-wide performance objectives) ＊For details of the compensation system for corporate officers please refer to pages 62-69 of the Notice of Convocation of the 107th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders:▶ https://www.eisai.com/ir/stock/meeting/pdf/einv107_all.pdf ＊Please refer to the corporate website for details about Eisai’s Corporate Governance Guideline, the Rules of the Board of Directors, the Rules of the Nomination, Audit and Compensation committees, the Corporate Governance Report and Policy for Protection of Company’s Corporate Value and Common interests of Shareholders:▶ https://www.eisai.com/company/governance/index.html 71 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Interviews with Outside Directors Members of the IR Department ask about the opinions of seven outside directors who support the effectiveness of Eisai’s corporate governance. Date of birth (age) and number of years served as a director are as of June 20, 2019. Taking Advantage of the Diversity of Outside Directors to Oversee Management Yasuhiko Katoh Position: Chair of the Board of Directors, Member of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors Date of birth (age): May 19, 1947 (72 years of age) Served years: 3  Concurrent position: Senior  Advisor, Mitsui E&S Holdings Co., Ltd. Three years have passed since assuming my duties as an Eisai outside director. I became acquainted with an Eisai director in autumn 2014, when I was serving as Representative Director and Chairman of Mitsui Engineering & Shipbuilding Co., Ltd. (currently Mitsui E&S Holdings Co., Ltd.), and this led to my becoming an Eisai director. I was asked to serve as an Eisai outside director one year later. I had no previous contact with Eisai and met Mr. Naito, CEO of Eisai, for the first time after accepting the request from the Chair of the Nomination Committee (outside director). the Board to commence discussions immediately on the day of the meeting and leads to efficient discussions. However, it is crucial for directors to ■Eisai Corporate Philosophy work continuously for improvements by rotating the After becoming an Eisai Director, one aspect of Eisai Plan-Do-Check-Action (PDCA) cycle for a variety of that truly impressed me was seeing that the corporate issues that are identified through the once-per-year philosophy was deeply instilled in all employees and evaluation of the Company’s corporate governance being put into practice. When we outside directors system without being satisfied with the status quo. visited research laboratories, sales bases and plants, Additionally, we regard risk management as an I could really sense that each and every employee extremely important issue in executing bold and quick seriously thought about what he or she should do on business activities and in promoting new business their own to realize this corporate philosophy. models. Besides monitoring the state of business execution for the attainment of targets by corporate officers, the Board of Directors must also ascertain ■What I Strive for as Chairman of the Board of Directors important issues and risks within the areas of its I began serving as Chairman of the Board of Directors responsibilities and reliably oversee management. from fiscal 2018. I focus on fully leveraging the respective strengths of the seven outside directors, ■Succession Plan who come from different backgrounds in terms of their expert knowledge, experience and other areas. All directors commonly recognize that the succession At the Board of Directors, I do everything I can to of the CEO is one of the important business issues. In encourage directors to voice a diversity of opinions fiscal 2017, the Outside Directors Meeting formulated in undertaking discussions. Eisai has also set up operational rules of the succession plan. Based on the Outside Directors Meeting composed of entire these rules, we share and carefully examine the outside directors. At this meeting, we engage in widesuccession plan submitted by the CEO twice a year. ranging discussions on topics concerning governance There are multiple opportunities for outside directors and business. Through this type of framework, to meet those candidates in the succession plan, such outside directors are able to deepen their mutual as at a meeting of the Board of Directors. We provide understanding and this encourages the members to advice to the CEO based on the information, etc., further express their opinions freely. gained through such opportunities. Outside directors are deeply committing to the process of upbringing a successor by the CEO, which reasonably ensures ■Unceasing Efforts to Improve Corporate Governance the fairness of the Board of Directors to nominate the I believe Eisai’s governance framework and its CEO. We believe that developing and operating these operation are superb. A particularly outstanding mechanisms is what supervision is about. feature is that prior to the convening of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors Secretariat provides Interviewer: Koshiro Takei, Investor Relations sufficient pre-explanations individually. This helps Department 72 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Implementing Proactive Risk Management Tamaki Kakizaki Position: Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors Date of birth (age): January 16, 1961 (58 years of age) Served years: 3  Concurrent positions: Professor, School of Law, Meiji University Outside director, Mitsubishi Shokuhin Co., Ltd. Outside corporate auditor, Japan Airport Terminal Co., Ltd. I became an Eisai outside director after attending a Corporate Group Internal Control study workshop together with an Eisai employee. Prior to that time, I had no experience in serving as an outside director. I received the request to serve as a director and I decided to accept the position, thinking that all my research to date on corporate law (the Companies Act) and internal control could be put to good use in ■Enhancing Our Risk-based Approach to Management practical business. This is my fourth year as an Eisai director. I am In the future, I would like to further enhance Eisai’s always aware of my standpoint as an independent risk-based approach to management. In implementing outside director and work to “perform oversight of compliance and “proactive risk management” that business execution from an external viewpoint.” The pick off the buds of any misconduct beforehand as a Audit Committee to which I belong is comprised of global company, it is crucial to raise the risk sensitivity outside directors possessing expertise and experience of corporate officers continually. Therefore, as an in the fields of finance, accounting, law, auditing and outside director I will pursue initiatives for continuous internal control, as well as internal directors who improvements in the future. These efforts will extend have a wealth of in-house experience. Leveraging the beyond only questioning the risk awareness of diverse expertise and knowledge of Audit Committee corporate officers and will include requiring reports members, we make efforts to undertake discussions that contain measures for countering risk. to go one-step further to root causes to correct any problems, transcending boundaries of auditing. ■Initiatives for Engagement with Shareholders and Investors ■Features of Eisai’s Corporate Governance Since 2018, Eisai’s outside directors have been The majority of Eisai’s directors are independent promoting dialogue with institutional investors. outside directors and the Board of Directors is By providing clear and adequate explanations, I comprised of directors from a diversity of personally have the sense that we have gained a backgrounds. I believe the particularly notable features certain degree of understanding from shareholders of Eisai’s governance are the extremely high quality of and investors. In the future, I would like to continue discussions at the Board of Directors in addition to the exchanging opinions and promoting deeper mutual outstanding openness among directors. It is extremely understanding across a wide range regarding a variety important to assure opportunities for each director of themes concerning corporate governance for the to candidly express their opinions from a variety of enhancement of Eisai’s corporate value. viewpoints at the Board of Directors Meeting, and there is even a move in the United States to make Interviewer: Aiko Sakai, Investor Relations Department this a law. Furthermore, Eisai stands out in terms of the quality and quantity of information provided in advance to outside directors concerning the Board of Directors, and this gives me a sense of Eisai’s deep enthusiasm for enhancing governance. 73 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Aiming for Best Practices for Dialogue between Outside Directors and Shareholders and Investors Daiken Tsunoda Position: Chair of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors, Member of the Audit Committee Date of birth (age): January 29, 1967 (52 years of age) Served years: 3  Concurrent positions: Partner, Nakamura, Tsunoda & Matsumoto (Law Firm) Outside Director, Culture Convenience Club Co., Ltd. (unlisted) Besides any other reason, I guess that a proximate reason why I became an Eisai director is because a partner at my law firm was previously an outside director at Eisai. When I was asked to serve as director, I knew the Chair of the Nomination Committee via business ties at the time, but I had never met with Mr. Naito, CEO of Eisai, and there was almost no acquaintance with other related persons. After assuming the duties of director as well as from the standpoint of a legal expert specializing ■The Importance of Dialogue with Shareholders in company law, I place most attention on the and Investors appropriateness of procedures for exercising duty of care as a director. In other words, this focuses From last year, outside directors have begun on “whether the company's decision-making is focusing on initiatives for dialogue with shareholders executed in accordance with proper procedures and and investors. We established venues for dialogue processes that can be frankly explained to a variety of with approximately 50 shareholders and investors stakeholders.” that included the participation of all seven outside directors. We also visited institutional investors individually for repeated interviews. I hope to position ■Continuous Enhancement of Corporate Governance these types of dialogue between shareholders and The awareness of corporate governance throughout investors and outside directors as a Best Practice of a the world changed along with the introduction of the leading runner in corporate governance. Stewardship Code and the Corporate Governance Some institutional investors expressed opposing Code, and then the quality of governance of Japanese opinions to our “Policy for Protection of the companies increased rapidly. I believe that as Eisai is Company's Corporate Value and Common Interests a top runner in corporate governance, it is important of Shareholders (Response Policy).” I believe these for the company not only to maintain confidence opposing opinions arose because of our explanation in initiatives implemented up to now but also to of the Response Policy being insufficient, so we have re-evaluate its current structure and its operation made efforts to provide more clear explanations. constantly and put them on track for improvement. I am keenly aware of the importance of outside directors proactively engaging in dialogue and building bonds of trust with investors. Going forward, without ■Initiatives for Succession Plan restricting ourselves to the Response Policy, we The strong leadership of the CEO is the wellspring of will continue our active dialogue over the long term Eisai’s growth. For this reason, I believe the selection regarding a variety of themes concerning governance of the next CEO is the most crucial management toward the enhancement of Eisai’s corporate value. issue for the Board of Directors and one essential decision-making matter. Outside directors provide Interviewer: Kyoko Yoshizawa, Investor Relations advice on a succession plan proposed by the CEO Department who then considers this advice and suitably reflects this in the succession plan. The steady involvement of outside directors in the nurturing and selection of a successor in this manner can ensure the fairness of the CEO selection. 74 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Promoting the Further Globalization of Corporate Governance Bruce Aronson Position: Chair of the Compensation Committee, Member of the Nomination Committee, Member of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors Date of birth (age): May 14, 1952 (67 years of age) Served years: 2  Concurrent positions: Affiliate Scholar, U.S.-Asia Law Institute, New York University School of Law, Visiting Researcher, Musashino Institute for Global Affairs, Musashino University, Research Associate, Japan Research Centre, SOAS University of London I learned that Eisai was an outstanding company in corporate governance while I was in the process of promoting research on corporate governance at a university. Although I was not acquainted with anyone at Eisai, I eventually assumed the duties of Eisai director after being recommended by a person affiliated with the university who previously served as ■Globalization of Corporate Governance an Eisai outside director. Eisai’s governance has several strong points. I feel the most outstanding feature is that the CEO and other ■Discussions on Executive Compensation from corporate officers possess a mindset for accepting a Global Perspective the candid opinions and recommendations of outside This is my third year as an outside director, and last directors. I believe this feature is the reason outside year I began serving as Chair of the Compensation directors can execute their roles and duties with a Committee. I am keenly aware of taking a global sense of fulfillment and responsibility. perspective when engaging in discussions on Thinking of corporate governance from a global executive compensation systems. There are perspective is also important for Eisai as a company differences in executive compensation systems and that carries out its business globally. It is necessary to levels in each country, including in the United States, pay close attention to risks that could emerge in each Europe, and China and other Asian countries. For country where regulations and business environments example, the level of executive compensation in the differ. Therefore, as the only foreign-national outside United States is approximately 10 times that of Japan. director, I seek to provide opinions and suggestions I recognize that for Eisai, which undertakes business based on perspectives and ways of thinking from globally, the question of how we should build a overseas countries, such as the United States. Also, compensation governance framework in response I am making efforts to increase opportunities more to such circumstances is a crucial issue that the than ever before for listening to the direct opinions of Compensation Committee is facing. overseas corporate officers. Meanwhile, we have incorporated performancebased stock compensation (bonuses and stock ■Perspective of the Company’s Social Responsibilities compensation) into our executive compensation system and have set the consolidated performanceThrough my contact with employees at workshops based compensation ratio at 40% of total and visits to business sites, I can sense that the compensation. Regarding this point, some institutional hhc philosophy is deeply embedded in the minds investors have suggested that we should raise the of employees and that there are an extremely large consolidated performance-based compensation ratio. number of highly motivated employees. Recent years In the future as well, we will consider the appropriate have witnessed wide-ranging demands for reforms of form of our executive compensation system from a working styles and promoting advancement of women variety of perspectives. in the workplace. The Board of Directors will resolutely Revisions to laws and growing social debate are undertake discussions on initiatives toward diversity being accompanied by demand for transparency of and improving workstyles with the aims of raising executive compensation and the disclosure of details. company productivity and employee job satisfaction. Eisai’s Compensation Committee makes proposals for Multifaceted perspectives are essential for the disclosure of executive compensation, including the oversight of management by the Board of Directors, compensation system and decision-making process and as a global company with social responsibilities of performance-based compensation, every year in we will address an array of issues beginning with business execution departments. Going forward, we initiatives toward ESG and the SDGs. will enhance disclosure for further improving fairness and transparency in deciding compensation and Interviewer: Koshiro Takei, Investor Relations thereby fulfill accountability to Eisai’s stakeholders. Department 75 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Aiming for the Optimal Structure of the Board of Directors Shuzo Kaihori Position: Chair of the Nomination Committee, Member of the Compensation Committee, Member of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors Date of birth (age): January 31, 1948 (71 years of age) Served year: 1 Concurrent positions: Advisor, Yokogawa Electric Corporation Outside Director, HOYA CORPORATION At the time I was serving as the Chairman of the Board of Yokogawa Electric Corporation, I was introduced to Eisai by an acquaintance and subsequently became an Eisai outside director. I currently serve as an outside director at another company besides Eisai. That said, using politics as an example, I realize the importance of speaking out from the standpoint of an opposition party. Leveraging my experience as a former corporate management, I am aware of pointing out matters, regardless of how ■CEO Succession Plan small they are, that could burgeon into risk as I work to oversee the execution of management. The selection of the CEO is a matter for resolution not by the Nomination Committee but by the Board of Directors. For this reason, information on the CEO ■Considering the Optimal Configuration of the Succession Plan is shared among all members of the Board of Directors Board of Directors. Specifically, the CEO proposes I currently serve as Chair of the Nomination and explains the current evaluation and situations of Committee. I will strive to increase both the depth multiple candidates. In the future, besides undertaking and breadth of the Board of Directors’ management discussions concerning the nurturing and evaluation oversight functions through frank discussions by the of successors, I believe that we must also discuss outside directors who possess different experience matters such as structures within the operational and backgrounds. I believe there is much value in departments and in the Board of Directors to ensure actually discussing numerous matters at venues a seamless succession. where a variety of knowledge can be expressed. The Nomination Committee assumed the heavy ■Importance of Balancing Risk Taking and responsibility of making proposals to the Board of Investments Directors about the Board’s optimal configuration. This fiscal year, the Nomination Committee has Besides risk associated with the success or failure of identified two important discussion themes, namely drug discovery that requires huge amounts of R&D the “appropriate term of office for outside directors” investments, pharmaceutical companies also face and “diversity of the Board of Directors.” We will numerous risks associated with many regulations undertake fundamental debate while taking into compared to other industries. The importance of consideration matters such as investor opinions product quality and information management as asking, “Isn’t the term of office of outside director well as data integrity is extremely high and utmost too short?” Additionally, even though it is important attention is essential in undertaking business activities. that the Board of Directors is composed of diverse When I once considered the spin-off of the medical human resources with different backgrounds in terms system business while serving for the previous of expert knowledge and experience, that alone company, and so I painfully experienced the severity is still insufficient. Undertaking global activities is of regulations concerning the handling of data and accompanied by a variety of risks. Therefore, I believe information in the medical field. In new businesses that besides having diversity, the Board of Directors Eisai is pursuing in the field of dementia, we need to must also possess the qualities and abilities to identify make investments for obtaining new knowledge in this type of risk from various angles. the data business while collaborating with insurance companies and local governments. I believe we will need to carry out management that pays more attention than ever before on balancing risks and investments. Interviewer: Kyoko Yoshizawa, Investor Relations Department 76 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Employees Are the Foundation of Company Ryuichi Murata Position: Member of the Nomination Committee, Member of the Compensation Committee, Member of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors Date of birth (age): April 12, 1948 (71 years of age) Served year: 1 Concurrent positions: Senior Advisor, Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Company Limited Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Outside), NORITAKE CO., LIMITED Outside Director, Kintetsu Group Holdings Co., Ltd. I was asked to serve as an Eisai outside director probably because I met the “Requirements for the Independence and Neutrality of Outside Directors” as a person with management experience at a financial institution at the time when Eisai was considering the diversity of its Board of Directors. I assumed the position as an Eisai director after becoming an Advisor to the Board at Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Company Limited, which was nine years after retiring ■Considering the Feelings of Employees as a board member at MUFG Bank, Ltd. I resonate with “Yumeshichikun” said to be the motto of Japanese industrialist Eiichi Shibusawa. These ■The Role of Outside Directors teachings begin with, “Those without dreams have The Board of Directors must continually verify no ideals”, and this ties in with, “Those who pursue whether the company is formulating and executing happiness are therefore not without dreams”. For a strategies that can respond to the all changes of company, increasing revenue and profit, dividends and global circumstances and the times. The Board has ROE are of course important. Above that, I think what the responsibility for oversight regarding whether is ideal is that all employees are with their dreams. I important matters are being decided and executed have opportunities to meet Eisai’s employees during from a long-term perspective in accordance with visits to research laboratories and business sites and proper procedures. at workshops. Each time, I truly have an admiration Turning to risk management, in the previous fiscal in perceiving that Eisai’s corporate philosophy is year I proposed the mapping of all potential risks deeply ingrained in employees. I will further increase faced by Eisai using the dual axes of “probability of contact with employees in the future, and ensure we occurrence” and “impacts” and that monitoring be all possess dreams together toward the realization of undertaken periodically by the Board of Directors. the medium-term business plan ‘EWAY 2025’. The Upon making this proposal, a report came out foundation of Company is employees. I will contribute immediately. One of the most important roles of to the creation of Company where employees can Director is to recognize risk and the impact when it keep working with dreams without hesitation whatever occurs. happens to the company. The pharmaceutical industry is witnessing intense At a time when I was making efforts to ensure the change and competition, and accordingly, we must smooth operation of businesses and employees as consider all options such as business alliances, a bank branch manager, I encountered the words corporate acquisitions. For this reason, the Board of of Buddhist monk Dengyo Daishi Saicho, “Light Directors must also adequately pay attention to an up a corner. Those who light a corner are national appropriate capital structure and financial strategies treasures.” In the same manner that each person to take such opportunities. continually making efforts is a national treasure, Eisai’s treasure is employees. I will keep playing my role caring the mind of employees in every scene, every moment. Interviewer: Kyoko Yoshizawa, Investor Relations Department 77 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Not Overlooking Indications of Major Risks That Lurk Within Small Signs Hideyo Uchiyama Position: Chair of Audit Committee, Member of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors Date of birth (age): March 30, 1953 (66 years of age) Served year: 1 Concurrent positions: Executive Advisor, ASAHI Tax Corporation Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Outside), OMRON Corporation Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Outside), Sompo Holdings, Inc. I became an Eisai outside director through a connection with a former Eisai outside director who I knew well through The Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants and so on. I had absolutely no contact with Eisai until I was sounded out about serving as a director. and undertake deep discussions about corporate ■What I Keep in Mind as Chair of the Audit governance. This meeting provides an environment Committee that facilitates mutual communication among outside Eisai’s stakeholders encompass society as a whole directors and helps fostering a sense of solidarity and and include shareholders, investors and patients. sense of mission that can be called Team Eisai. Accordingly, I pay attention to overseeing business However, we must always be mindful that execution not just from the perspective of my own everything faces the possibility of falling into a rut, specialized field of accounting and management, becoming a mere façade and deteriorating. Therefore, but also from my standpoint as the representative the Outside Directors Meeting evaluates the of a diversity of stakeholders. In auditing, it is crucial effectiveness of the Board of Directors once per year. not to overlook indications of major risk that lurk I believe these evaluations are desirably implemented within small signs. We engage in open-minded each time the Board of Directors convened, and the discussions about whether Eisai’s frameworks are PDCA cycle is driven immediately when there is an suited to contemporary society and whether the issue. I would like to see this continued in the future. results of internal audits are proper, and as Chair of the Audit Committee I cite points for improvement. ■Activities I Wish to Focus on as a Director For example, not to mention the importance of work style reform, I believe we need to consider optimal Last year I participated in Socialization Programs measures and methods that allow each employee to in which we spend time with patients. This is an fully exert his or her strengths. To obtain important extremely meaningful opportunity that enables the results in R&D, which is the paramount theme for implementation of Eisai’s corporate philosophy to be pharmaceuticals companies, it might be necessary to experienced directly. I hope to actively participate make investments in relevant departments to realize in such programs in the future and cherish the even more finely tuned working environments. perspectives of patients. As the secretary of the Certified Public Accountant Outside Directors Network, in November 2018, I served as moderator ■Refining Corporate Governance of a discussion panel entitled “Roles of Independent One key facet of Eisai’s governance I believe is that Outside Directors in Contributing to Corporate the Chair of the Board of Directors is an outside Value Improvement.” At this discussion, I introduced director. Rather than discussions with foregone case examples from Eisai. People there evaluated conclusions, I truly feel that proper decisions are that Eisai’s governance is well established in terms made after opinions are expressed from a variety of of structure and operation. As an Eisai outside perspectives and adequate discussion is undertaken director, I would like to make Eisai’s initiatives toward based on each respective director’s expertise, governance widely known throughout the world knowledge, experience and governance perspectives. and also be useful in improving the governance of The Outside Directors Meeting comprised only of Japanese companies as a whole. If the opportunity outside directors is yet one other distinctive feature. arises, I wish to actively introduce the activities of a The Outside Directors Meeting is convened 7-8 times front-runner in corporate governance. per year. At this meeting, we share information with Interviewer: Koshiro Takei, Investor Relations corporate officers regarding themes concerning Department business activities, the business environment and risk 78 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Corporate Executives (As of July 31, 2019) Directors Representative Corporate Officer and CEO Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Haruo Naito Chair of the Independent Committee of Outside Member of the Compensation Committee Directors Member of the Independent Committee of Chair of the Board of Directors Daiken Tsunoda Outside Directors Member of the Independent Committee of Ryuichi Murata Outside Directors Member of the Nomination Committee Yasuhiko Katoh Chair of the Compensation Committee Chair of the Audit Committee Member of the Independent Committee of Member of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors Outside Directors Member of the Audit Committee Bruce Aronson Hideyo Uchiyama Hirokazu Kanai Member of the Audit Committee Yutaka Tsuchiya Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Independent Committee of Hideki Hayashi Outside Directors Chair of the Nomination Committee Tamaki Kakizaki Member of the Compensation Committee Member of the Independent Committee of Outside Directors Shuzo Kaihori Corporate Officers Representative Corporate Officer and CEO Vice President Vice President Haruo Naito Chief Medicine Creation Officer, Oncology Chief Planning Officer Business Group Mitsuaki Tanaka Chief Discovery Officer, Oncology Business Representative Corporate Officer, Group COO and Industry Affairs Vice President Industry Affairs Takashi Owa President, Consumer hhc Business Division China Business API Solutions Data Integrity Vice President Shohei Kanazawa Yasushi Okada Chief Clinical Officer, Neurology Business Group Chief Medical Officer, Neurology Business Group Vice President Executive Vice President Corporate Affairs General Counsel Lynn Kramer Global Value & Access Intellectual Property Masatomi Akana Kenta Takahashi Vice President President, Asia and Latin America Region Vice President Executive Vice President Sayoko Sasaki Chief Medical Officer Japan and Asia Chief Financial Officer Hiroyuki Kobayashi Chief IR Officer Vice President Ryohei Yanagi Chief Compliance Officer Vice President Internal Control Head of Medicine Development Center Junichi Asatani Senior Vice President Akiko Nakahama Chief Medical Officer Global Safety Board Chair Vice President Vice President Edward Stewart Geary President & COO, Eisai Inc. Chief Strategy Officer Shaji Procida Kazumasa Nagayama Senior Vice President President, EMEA Region Vice President Chairman & CEO, Eisai Europe Ltd. Chief Discovery Officer, Neurology Business Vice President Chief Talent Officer Gary Hendler Group Teiji Kimura Yosuke Akita Senior Vice President President, Oncology Business Group Vice President Vice President Chief Data Officer Terushige Iike General Affairs, Environmental and Safety Affairs Head of Tsukuba Research Laboratories Japan Subsidiaries Masayuki Miyajima Kappei Tsukahara Senior Vice President President, Neurology Business Group President, Americas Region Vice President Vice President Chairman & CEO, Eisai Inc. Global Partnership Development Deputy President, Eisai Japan Ivan Cheung Tatsuyuki Yasuno Hiroyuki Murayama Senior Vice President Vice President Vice President President, Eisai Japan President, Eisai China Holdings Ltd. Chief Digital Officer Dementia Total Inclusive Ecosystem Hidenori Yabune President, Eisai China Inc. Yanhui Feng Keisuke Naito Senior Vice President Chief Clinical Quality Officer Vice President Chief Product Quality Officer President, Eisai Demand Chain Systems Global Product Emergency Management Yoshiteru Kato Hiroyuki Kato 79 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Social and Relationship Capital Partnerships Aiming to Improve Business Efficiency and Productivity and Promptly Maximize Contribution to Patients by Leveraging Global Partnerships ＊ Details of the agreements below are as of the end of June 2019. Significance of Partnership in Value Chain for Pharmaceutical Industry Enhance efficiency and productivity in business Medicine Creation Manufacturing Marketing Earlier maximization in • Potentially enhance the • Increase in the volume • Rapid expansion and contribution to patients probability of success, to be manufactured accumulate marketing accelerate development, and enhance the rate experience of products and accumulate of operation of own through co-promotion experience and knowledge manufacturing sites with partners with various through joint development by expanding the experience and knowhow with partners with various market through strategic • Create opportunities by experience and know-how collaboration with partners acquiring sales rights of •C  reate opportunities • Establish optimal promising products by acquiring the rights supply structure by • Improve access to to develop promising utilizing not only in-house medicine by expanding the compounds manufacturing technology/ areas for product sales •E  nhance efficiency facility, but also ones • Enhance efficiency in by sharing cost for the which partners have commercialization cost by development with partners sharing with partners Partnerships aimed at creating innovation in neurology area Partner Product/Compound Region Purpose Signed in December 2016 to change licensing agreement in marketing and supply that was Antiobesity agent BELVIQ® originally concluded in November 2013. Based Arena Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (U.S.) Global and BELVIQ XR® on the change in the agreement, Eisai acquired all development and marketing rights from Arena Pharmaceuticals, Inc. BIAL-Portela & Ca., S.A.(Portugal) Antiepileptic agent Zebinix ® Europe License and co-promotion agreement Anti-Aβ protofibrils antibody Exclusive rights to study, develop, manufucture and BioArctic AB (Sweden) Global BAN2401 market • Anti-Aβ protofibrils antibody BAN2401 • BACE inhibitor Elenbecestat Co-development and co-commercialization •A  nti-Aβ antibody Global Aducanumab Anti-tau antibody BIIB076 Acquisition of option rights related to joint Biogen Inc. (U.S.) development/joint commercialization Multiple sclerosis treatment Avonex ®, Tysabri ® and Japan Co-promotion to accounts that Biogen currently Tecfidera ® does not call upon Three products above and Asia Plegridy ® (excluding China) Distribution and booking sales China Antiobesity agent BELVIQ ® CY Biotech (Taiwan) and BELVIQ XR ® (including Hong Grant exclusive development and marketing rights Kong and Macau) Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co., Antiepileptic agent Zonegran ® Europe and Asia License agreement for manufacturing and sales Ltd. (Japan) 17 countries in Latin Eurofarma Laboratórios S.A. Antiobesity agent BELVIQ ® and BELVIQ XR ® America and the Grant exclusive development and marketing rights (Brazil) Caribbean and Brazil Meiji Seika Pharma Co., Ltd. Parkinson’s disease treatment Japan and Asia License agreement for the commercialization (Japan) Safinamide ® Antiepileptic agent Inovelon / License agreement for development, manufacturing Novartis AG (Switzerland) Global Banzel ® and sales Pfizer Inc. (U.S.) Pain treatment Lyrica ® Japan Co-promotion Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc. Insomnia treatment Lunesta ® Japan Exclusive license for the development and marketing (U.S.) Comprehensive non-exclusive collaboration Sysmex Corporation (Japan) — — agreement for creating new diagnostics in the dementia area New joint research agreement for the discovery and Keio University (Japan) — — development of new drugs targeting dementia Agreement to form major drug discovery alliance to University College London (U.K.) — — develop new therapeutics 80 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Partnerships aimed at creating innovation in oncology area Partner Product/Compound Region Purpose Explore modulating RNA splicing to Multi-year research collaboration focused on developing immune Bristol-Myers Squibb (U.S.) develop potential immunotherapy — therapies using H3 Biomedicine, Inc.＊’s RNA splicing platform Global (excluding Japan and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. Anticancer agent E7777 Asia) Transfer the exclusive development and marketing rights Japan Partnership in development and commercialization Epizyme, Inc. (U.S.) Anticancer agent E7438 Asia The rights of first negotiation for licensing rights Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, Joint development and commercialization and in combination Anticancer agent Lenvima ® Global with Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. KEYTRUDA® for N.J., U.S.A. (U.S.) multiple cancer types Collaboration agreement to jointly develop the combination Anticancer agent Lenvima ® Japan therapy with Opdivo® for the treatment of hepatocellular Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. carcinoma(HCC) (Japan) Anticancer agent eribulin Collaboration agreement to jointly develop the combination Japan liposomal formulation therapy with Opdivo® PRISM BioLab Co., Ltd. (Japan) CBP/beta-catenin inhibitor E7386 Global Joint research and development SymBio Pharmaceuticals Ltd. Anticancer agent Treakisym ®/ Japan Exclusive rights on joint development and marketing (Japan) Symbenda ® Singapore and South Korea Exclusive development and marketing licenses ＊ A subsidiary of Eisai Co., Ltd. Partnerships aimed at creating innovation in other areas (gastrointestinal disease, and others) Partner Product/Compound Region Purpose Development, sales and co-promotion AbbVie Deutschland GmbH & Co. Fully human anti-TNF-α Japan, Taiwan EA Pharma Co., Ltd. and AbbVie GK undetake co-promotion for indications monoclonal antibody and South KG (Germany) in the area of gastrointestinal disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease Humira ® Korea and intestinal Behçet's disease) Ageement for integrating (absorption type split) Eisai's gastrointestinal Ajinomoto Co., Inc. (Japan) — Japan disease treatment business with Ajinomoto Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. (Establishment of EA Pharma Co., Ltd.) Liver disease/allergic Japan and Exclusive rights for the development and marketing in countries where the Minophagen Pharmaceutical Co., disease agents Stronger Euro-Asia products have not yet been sold ® Ltd. (Japan) Neo-Minophagen C China and other First negotiation rights for exclusive marketing rights in countries where the and Glycyron ® Euro-Asia products are already sold Sato Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Oral antifungal agent Seren Pharmaceuticals Inc. NAILIN ® Capsules Japan Co-promotion between Sato Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Eisai (Japan) 100mg FUJIFILM Toyama Chemical Co., Anti-rheumatic agent Japan Joint development and marketing alliance Ltd. (Japan) Careram ® Partnerships aimed at building new business models Partner Region Purpose Exclusive license to seek regulatory approvals and commercialize the anticancer agents Halaven® Grupo Biotoscana (Uruguay) Latin America and Lenvima®, as well as antiepileptic agents Fycompa® and Inovelon® Nichi-Iko Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Strategic alliance agreements including incremental transfer of all shares of Elmed Eisai Co., Ltd., Japan (completed in April 2019), co-operation in building Eisai's Ecosystem, as well as collaboration on the (Japan) active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) business promoted primarily at Eisai's Vizag Plant in India Partnerships aimed at expanding access to medicines Partner Purpose Participation in a multi-stakeholder global partnership to advance access to non-communicable diseases (NCDs) Access Accelerated prevention, treatment and care in low and lower-middle income countries Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (U.S.) Participation in consortium aimed at the development of macrofilaricide drug and new treatment for tuberculosis Broad Institute (U.S.) Joint research aimed at the development of new treatments for Chagas disease, malaria and tuberculosis Colorado State University, University of Joint research agreement to develop a potential new treatment for tuberculosis with the compound identified from Chicago (U.S.) Broad Institute's chemical library 1. C ollaboration and licensing agreement for new drug development for Chagas disease and eumycetoma Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative 2. P articipation in the Drug Discovery Booster Consortium formed by DNDi with the aim of accelerating the (DNDi )(Switzerland) development of new drugs for leishmaniasis and Chagas disease Global Health Innovative Technology Fund Participation in public-private partnership aimed at bringing Japanese innovation to accelerate development of new (GHIT Fund)(Japan) medicines to cure infectious diseases in the developing world Univerity of Kentucky (U.S.) Agreement for joint research aimed at developing new antimalarial agent Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, 1. Agreement for joint research for creating Wolbachia inhibitors (new antifilarial agents) University of Liverpool (U.K.) 2. Agreement for joint research for developing antimalarial drugs Macrofilaricide Drug Accelerator Participation in global partnership aimed at developing new drugs for filariasis (especially river blindness) Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV) Agreement for joint research for the development of new antimalarial drugs (Switzerland) Agreement for joint research and development of compounds developed by Eisai for the treatment of malaria and Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz (Fiocruz)(Brazil) NTDs Sabin Vaccine Institute (U.S.) Agreement for joint research for development of new vaccines for Chagas disease TB Alliance (U.S.) Alliance to find faster-acting and affordable drug regimens to fight tuberculosis Tuberculosis Drug Accelerator (TBDA) Participation in global partnership aimed at creating innovative new drugs for tuberculosis World Health Organization (WHO) Agreement for providing free of charge DEC (diethylcarbamazine) tablets, a treatment for lymphatic filariasis, and (Switzerland) participation in partnership for providing lymphatic filariasis diagnostic kits free of charge to endemic areas World Intellectual Property Organization Participation in consortium sponsored by WIPO for promoting the development of new drugs for tropical diseases (WIPO)(Switzerland) 81 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Compliance and Risk Management Eisai defines compliance as “the observance of the highest legal and ethical standards” and positions it at the core of management activities. To contain risks within acceptable levels, Eisai is carrying out various initiatives including establishing, developing, and implementing internal control systems as well as conducting internal audits. Eisai designates a Chief Compliance Officer, who is concurrently the corporate officer responsible for Internal Control, oversees the Corporate Compliance and Risk Management Department and promotes compliance and risk management. Eisai promotes its compliance program that consists of delivering the message of top management, developing the Code of Conduct and other relevant rules, conducting educational activities, establishing a training system as well as providing consultation services by defining compliance as “the observance of the highest legal and ethical standards” and positioning it at the core of management activities. Regarding the risk management, Eisai defines risks as “the threat or probability that an action or event will adversely affect the achievement of corporate and/or organizational objectives.” In order to avoid or keep risks within acceptable levels, Eisai is carrying out various initiatives including establishing, developing, and operating internal control systems as well as conducting internal audits. 1. Compliance Promotion In 1999, Eisai was prosecuted by the U.S. Department of Justice for its involvement in a cartel for synthetic bulk vitamin E products, and penalties and fines were imposed by countries other than the U.S. Based on the lessons of this vitamin lawsuit, Eisai started to promote full-fledged compliance in fiscal 2000. These compliance promotion activities periodically undergo objective reviews by a Compliance Committee that consists of outside experts such as lawyers and consultants from Japan and overseas. ❶E  stablishment of Code of Conduct and Other Relevant Rules, and Awareness Activities for Cultivating Compliance Awareness Eisai has been publishing Compliance Handbook, which outlines Eisai Network Companies (ENW) Charter of Business Conduct and the Code of Conduct, to cultivate the compliance awareness in all officers and employees. For all officers and employees in all Eisai network companies, this handbook is available in 17 languages. Furthermore, a “Code of Conduct for Business Partners”, which covers the behavior expected from all business partners The Compliance Handbook and employees, was issued and expanded globally. Eisai continues to conduct trainings through a variety of media such as compliance workshops, including those designed for directors and officers, e-learning and distribution of case studies. Compliance Training for Directors and Officers ❷ Use of Compliance Counter The Compliance Counter serves as a point of contact for the whistle-blowing system in ENW. This counter is set up globally across Japan, the U.S., Europe, China, Asia and other countries and it is available for ENW employees to contact directly to the Compliances Counter at Eisai Headquarters. In Japan, the Compliance Counter also provides resources such as whistle-blowing system operated by outside lawyers and contact desk operated by the external counselors, creating an environment that serves to further promote compliance. Eisai considers that it is important to receive as much consultation/as possible to make this internal whistle-blowing system function effectively. Thus, the Compliance Counter accepts not only whistle-blowing reports but also all sorts of consultations such as interpretation of laws and rules as well as daily activities regarding compliance. In fiscal 2018, nearly 500 inquiries were received at Eisai Headquarters. 82 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix ❸ Prevention of Bribery and Corruption In order to promote the genuine business activities without bribery and corruption across ENW, Eisai formulated the Corporate Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) for ENW. Based on this policy, Eisai introduced the ABAC due diligence system that receives responses about a globally common questionnaire on the possibility of bribery and corruption from the companies in advance with which we plan to undertake new transactions. Also, Eisai is working on introducing the system to detect signs of potential fraud at overseas ENW by monitoring accounting and financial data. ❹ Promotion and Information Disclosure Based on Compliance Eisai engages in promotion activities globally based on the compliance. In addition, in order to gain a broad understanding of society that corporate activities are conducted under a high level of ethics, the payments to medical institutions and patients groups are disclosed on the corporate website in accordance with the laws and guidelines established by the Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (JPMA) and each country. 2. Risk Management Promotion In accordance with the Companies Act, Eisai’s Board of Directors formulated the “Rules for Preparing Necessary Systems for Ensuring the Suitability in the Performance of Duties by Corporate Officers.” These rules stipulate that all corporate officers should identify the risks in their duties and establish, develop, and operate the internal control systems. In response, the corporate officer responsible for internal control established “ENW Internal Control Policy”, and is establishing, developing and implementing internal control systems covering all ENW as well as implementing initiatives for containing risk within acceptable levels. ●Evaluating Degree of Risk Impact ❶ Promoting Risk Management System Large and Risk Response Large Priority level of risk response At the Risk Management Committee, critical risks High identified by all the corporate officers and department Degree of impact managers through Control Self-Assessment (CSA) by placing the corporate officer responsible for internal Medium Medium control as chair. Also, Eisai quickly detects its own potential similar risks through continuous monitoring Low for external corporate scandals and responds to risks Small promptly by the risk avoidance and elicitation prevention Low Medium High activity. High Probability of occurrence ●Eisai’s Risk Management System <Board of Directors> ・Formulates rules for preparing necessary systems for ensuring the suitability in the performance of duties by corporate officers ・Monitors the status of internal control systems established, developed and implemented by corporate officers Report Corporate officer in charge of internal control Corporate Internal Risk Management Committee Corporate Compliance Audit Department (chaired by corporate officer in charge of internal control) Office and Risk Management ・Integrated management of risk-related information Department Implement internal audit ・Recommendations and support for corporate officers (Provision of internal, external risk-related information) Corporate officers Corporate officers Corporate officers Establish, develop and implement internal control Provide support for Department in charge of risk management the establishment, (＊CSA: Control Self-Assessment) Persons in charge of promoting CSA development and implementation Divisions, departments of internal control (promote CSA) 83 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 ❷ CSA (Control Self-Assessment) One of the tools used by Eisai for risk management is CSA. In the CSA activity, all the department managers in ENW identify and evaluate risks in their own structure, and these identified risks are dealt with through workshops and others. In addition, Eisai enhances the effectiveness of risk management by understanding critical risks and following up on risk response status by corporate officers. ❸ Internal Audit Activities Based on International Standards Internal audits are voluntary audits that differ from the audits conducted by the Audit Committee and the accounting audits. Eisai implements the internal audits globally. These internal audits independently and objectively assess whether the execution of duties by corporate officers is being undertaken appropriately and efficiently. The results are reported to the Executive Committee and to the Audit Committee. To assure high-quality audits that conform to global standards, the Corporate Internal Audit Department undergoes an assessment every year by an external assessment committee composed of outside experts in accordance with the standards of The Institute of Internal Auditors (an international professional association for internal auditors based in the U.S.). ❹ Serious Risks and Measures Taken The following table outlines the major risks that potentially have a serious impact on Eisai’s business activities and measures taken in response to those risks. The risks included in the table are just a selection of those deemed to be serious based on risk assessments. Risk Outline Measures Taken Risks relating to product Potential impact on patients’ ▶Please refer to P.86 (Quality Assurance, safety and quality health or stable product Stable Supply). supplies as well as on business results associated with product recalls, suspension of sales, etc., as a result of concerns regarding the safety or quality of products due to raw materials, manufacturing processes or other factors Risks relating to Potential impact on patients’ ▶Please refer to P.87 (Safety Information pharmaceutical safety health due to failure of Management for Products). management (side effect pharmaceutical company’s information, etc.) obligation of scientific evaluation and notification to the regulatory authorities regarding any adverse events or safety precautions associated with Eisai’s products Risks related to overseas Potential risks that original •Eisai has deployed corporate officers at key operations projected earnings may not be locations and has built a system to immediately achieved by legal restrictions, ascertain and share important information, as socio-political uncertainty, well as enable a response. and business environment •Global risk management activities decrease uncertainty the risks during implementing business and a backup system in the event when risks are actualized. Risks relating to Potential serious impact •Eisai investigates and accredits the eligibility outsourcing on Eisai’s operations and before selecting outsourcing partners and performances in the event of verifies the suitability of their business by suspension of outsourcing regular audit during outsourcing. partners or in the event of any •Eisai prepares the responses by a backup issues with research results or system when the risks are actualized. manufactured output provided by outsourcing partners 84 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Risk Outline Measures Taken Risks relating to information Potential impact on Eisai’s •Eisai has established the internal rules for management competitiveness and/or confidential information, and implements reputation and potential continuous trainings. disadvantages for concerned •Eisai has developed and operated the personal stakeholders in the event of information protection system. a leak involving confidential technical or business information, or personal information held by Eisai Risks relating to Potential risks for stakeholders Eisai is compliant with standards for evaluating, financial reporting to sustain unexpected losses auditing and implementing internal controls in and for significant loss of relation to financial reporting in accordance confidence in Eisai due to with the Financial Instruments and Exchange inaccurate financial reporting Act and other applicable legislation. Eisai has put in place effective internal control systems in relation to financial reporting and ensures that they are operated in an appropriate manner. Risks related to financial Potential impacts on business •Considering the impact on business results, market conditions and results by foreign exchange Eisai is always monitoring financial markets and currency movement fluctuations on the yen foreign exchange fluctuations. conversion of sales of overseas •Regarding financial assets, Eisai regularly consolidated subsidiaries, export revises its obligations held, and aims for and import transactions, losses optimization. on sales or devaluation of stocks and other securities due to a •Regarding the impact of foreign exchange, decline in the stock market, and Eisai utilizes currency hedges and netting as an increase in projected benefit well as other derivatives in an effort to reduce obligations due to changes in risk based on the statuses of the Group’s the interest rate transactions and business activities. Risks relating to the Potential serious impact on the •Eisai has set out the internal policy as well environment business results due to factors as discussed and made decisions regarding such as legal action (closure important matters relating to protecting the of facilities, etc.), remedial environment at a company-wide Environment environmental measures or and Safety Committee. compensation for the local •Individual facilities also establish their own community in the event of management systems, including obtaining ISO environmental contamination 14001, and carry out their own environmental stemming from one of Eisai’s activities. facilities Risks related to plant Potential serious impact on •Through regular assessment of contract closure or shutdown product supply and business manufacturers and API suppliers, as well as results because of closure maintenance of reasonable inventories of API or shutdown of plants due and products, etc., Eisai works to reduce risks to technical problems, raw relating to the supply of products. material shortages, influenza •Combined with making doubly sure of preparations and other pandemics, fire, for every kind of disaster, in order to bring about earthquakes and other natural business continuity as well as early recovery/ disasters restart, Eisai has set a “Business Continuity Plan” for each department. Together with planning responses, Eisai also works to regularly review these plans to increase their effectiveness. Risks relating to Potential large-scale damage Together with making doubly sure of disasters, etc. to plants, sales offices and preparations for every kind of disaster, each other facilities and potential division formulates a “Business Continuity Plan impact on Eisai’s activities in (BCP)” to ensure that business can continue or the event of a natural disaster be quickly restored/reinstated. In addition to such as an earthquake or BCP measures, Eisai also carries out regular typhoon, or an accident such reviews to make plans more effective. as a fire 85 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Social and Relationship Capital Manufactured Capital Quality Assurance and Stable Supply For patients around the world waiting for pharmaceuticals, Eisai fulfills the mission and responsibility to supply the high quality products stably. Quality Assurance Activities Initiatives against Counterfeit Medicines Eisai is carrying out quality assurance activities As the globalization of the development and enabling the supply of pharmaceutical products distribution of pharmaceutical products accelerates that ensure safe use for patients in every countries remarkably, the risk of counterfeit medicines is and regions. Eisai manages the quality in the increasing all over the world. In order to deliver the manufacturing phase in accordance with the pharmaceutical products to patients safely and globally unified Good Manufacturing Practice reliably, Eisai is actively participating in monitoring (GMP) standards (international regulations for and establishing measures against counterfeit production and quality management) while placing medicines and illegal distribution of medicines. When emphasis on maintaining product quality in the an actual case is detected, Eisai responds quickly by distribution phase. undertaking investigations, taking various legal steps and assuring stable supplies, with efforts led by the Product Security Execution Committee. Stable Supply Eisai owns plants in 9 sites in major regions worldwide and has the system to supply products in a timely manner to each market from each region. Also, Eisai has formulated a business continuity plan (BCP) to ensure stable supply in case of any risks such as natural disaster, accident or act of terrorism. Even in the event of large earthquake, we are committed to resuming plant operations as soon as possible and continuing the stable supply of products by consistently ensuring appropriate product inventory. Additionally, we are undertaking initiatives for securing backup sites that enable alternate operations in times Genuine Counterfeits of emergency, primarily for specific products with a ® Counterfeits of BELVIQ (Left: Genuine, Right: Counterfeits) high degree of urgency and importance. ●List of the functions of each plant and major manufactured items Plant APIs Formulation Packaging Major manufactured items Country Kashima ○ Lenvima®, Halaven®, Fycompa® Kawashima Japan ○ ○ Lenvima®, Fycompa®, Lunesta® Fukushima (EA Pharma) ○ ○ Elental®, Moviprep® Suzhou ○ ○ Methycobal®, Aricept®, Merislon® China Benxi ○ ○ ○ Transfer factor ＊ Bogor Indonesia ○ ○ Pariet®, Aricept®, Methycobal® Warfarin®, diethylcarbamazine (DEC tablets) Vizag India ○ ○ ○ API for generics Hatfield U.K. ○ ○ Lenvima®, Halaven®, Fycompa® Baltimore U.S. ○ ○ Gliadel® ＊ Product name in Chinese：转移因子口服溶液 86 Social and Relationship Capital Safety Management for Products Maximization of Value of Pharmaceutical Products by Promoting Proper Use Safety Information Management Eisai hhc Hotline The value of pharmaceutical products can be fully At Eisai in Japan, the “Eisai hhc Hotline” (toll-free maximized through proper usage upon correctly customer information service) is open 365 days a year understanding the risks and benefits. Eisai works to to relieve any concerns that patients, customers, and ensure that its products are used properly in countries healthcare practitioners may have in the use of Eisai around the world by collecting and evaluating the products, and provide correct information for their product safety information, as well as integrates and proper use. manages the information globally. Approximately Inquiries and opinions are shared as valuable 30,000 safety information were accumulated in fiscal information within Eisai and utilized for development 2018 and more utilized to update product safety and improvement of products as well as provision of information. Eisai promotes the proper use of our information or services. products all over the world by providing the updated information to healthcare professionals and patients in a timely manner. Initiatives for Reinforcing Data Integrity Data integrity refers to the completeness of data. For Initiatives for Safety Management a research and development based pharmaceutical Fairness and neutrality for the collection, analysis, manufacturer, securing the integrity of research data, and evaluation of safety information are secured by manufacturing data, and other data is extremely advices from outside clinicians as appropriate. In important, thus, Eisai is strengthening the initiatives. addition, Eisai specifies risks of each product and Since fiscal 2017, Eisai has been continuously provides information continuously to minimize the conducting trainings for over 3,000 employees risks through consultation with regulatory authorities involved in handling important data. Training contents in each country. are enhanced by presenting the own cases of each Eisai proposed the risk control measures for hepatic department and adopting the discussion style for encephalopathy using the proper usage guidelines, global common theme. Furthermore, a new system which were prepared accompanying obtainment of for reinforcing initiatives to secure data integrity the additional indication of hepatocellular carcinoma launched in January 2018. for anticancer agent Lenvima® in Japan in March 2018. Also, for pneumothorax and interstitial pneumonia that were newly specified as risks, Eisai prepared the documentation for minimizing risks and contributed to adverse event management in medical settings. 87 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Natural Capital Business with Consideration for the Global Environment Eisai conducts business operations seeking co-existence with the global environment. Based on the Eisai Network Companies (ENW) Environmental Protection Policy, all employees recognize the importance of environmental protection and incorporate an environmental perspective in working to solve social issues. In promoting business expansion into countries across the world, Eisai will fulfill its corporate social responsibility by focusing on reducing environmental impact at each stage of business. Formation of a Low-Carbon Society: Aiming to Reduce CO2 Emissions of Eisai Group in Japan by 30% Compared to Fiscal 2016 by Fiscal 2030 Eisai is promoting initiatives for the formation of a low carbon society to help solve the problem of climate changes. As ∙3 0% reduction of GHG emission (Scope 1 one of its initiatives, Eisai set the greenhouse gas (GHG) and 2) by fiscal 2030 from fiscal 2016 reduction target by fiscal 2030 based on scientific ∙3 0% reduction of GHG emission (emission grounds and received the approval from Science Based based on purchased products and services in Targets initiative (SBTi)＊1 in May 2019. Scope 3) by fiscal 2030 from fiscal 2016 In addition, Eisai is participating in the Commitment to a Low Scope 1: Direct emission of GHG released into the air Carbon Society initiated by the Federation of Pharmaceutical by the use of fossil fuel Manufacturers’ Associations of Japan, and has steadily Scope 2: Indirect emission of GHG with use of conducted the target to reduce the domestic CO2 emissions electricity and steam purchased from others by 23% compared to fiscal 2005 by fiscal 2020. Regarding Scope 3: Indirect emission of GHG by supply chain the domestic CO2 emission in fiscal 2018, a reduction of excluding Eisai 36.4%＊2 was achieved compared to fiscal 2005. ●Global CO2 Emissions＊3 ●CO2 Emissions/Revenue＊4 (CO2/t) 0.29 200,000 Overseas operation sites 0.30 0.28 0.26 Eisai group in Japan 164,448 168,914 0.24 157,889 0.25 0.23 145,239 0.22 150,000 143,731 0.19 0.20 131,272 0.19 125,071 120,224 118,625 120,562 0.20 0.16 100,000 0.15 0.10 50,000 0.05 0 0.00 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal) ＊1 International joint initiative led by CDP, an international NGO that manages information disclosure programs related to the environment, UN Global Compact (UNGC), World Wildlife Fund for Nature (WWF), and World Resources Institute (WRI) ＊2 Where the carbon emission factor based on the use of electricity is assumed to be 0.367t-CO2/MWh as in the evaluation of the Eisai group target ＊3 Emissions from business activities at offices outside Japan and vehicles for sales use are not included •The data was revised due to inclusion of Baltimore Plant (U.S.) from fiscal 2011. • CO2 emissions from overseas operation sites are calculated based on the International Energy Agency’s “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion (2017 Edition)”. ＊4 Global CO2 emissions (CO2/t) / Consolidated revenue (million yen) Establishment of a Recycling-Oriented ●Total Waste and Ratio of Amount of Waste Sent to Landfill in Japan Society: （t） Total waste （％） 10,000 5 Zero Emissions have been Achieved in Japan Ratio of the amount of waste sent to landfill to the total waste for Eleven Consecutive Years 8,259 8,000 7,410 4 6,769 6,555 Eisai is conducting waste disposal with three goals 6,280 6,000 3 in mind: reduce the amount of waste generated, 4,917 increase the rate of recycling, and decrease the 4,001 3,736 2 4,000 3,481 amount of waste sent to landfill. We also sort waste for 2,935 3,038 recycling and select the best possible waste disposal 0.79 2,000 1 contractors possible in a timely manner. Furthermore, 0.46 0.45 0.50 0.50 0.28 0.47 0.33 0.17 0.22 0.35 we are actively trying to process recycling that has 0 0 value in the market and to reduce disposal costs. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal) 88 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Improvement of Resilience to Climate-Related Risks Analysis of Effects by Climate Change Using TCFD Framework Eisai announced its endorsement of final report of Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)＊5 in June 2019. Eisai addresses reduction of risk and creation of opportunity by understanding the medand longterm effects of climate changes to business using TCFD framework. Governance The company-wide Environment and Safety Committee is established for deliberation and decision-making of important environmental protection issues. Also, regarding the climate-related risks and opportunities, Eisai has launched a cross-organizational project with the corporate officer of General Affairs, Environmental and Safety Affairs as the person in charge. Strategy Eisai recognizes that the climate-related risk and opportunity are the important elements to be considered for planning strategies. WHO predicts that infectious diseases will increase following climate changes. Therefore, Eisai is proceeding to develop medicines for malaria and other neglected tropical diseases (NTDs). Major Climate-Related Risks and opportunities Measures Damages to production and procurement activities due to Analysis of the risks of facilities and suppliers, and promote resilience Physical Risks Transition Risks increase in natural disasters. measures. Shortage of pharmaceuticals supply when there is an Reinforcement of the stable supply system during emergency. increase of healthcare needs and damage to product activities occur at the same time due to natural disasters. ＊For further details, please refer to page 86. Increase in production and logistics costs due to increase in Minimization of the impact by expanding the use of renewable energy. costs for fuel and electricity. Impact on operations at factories and of suppliers due to Strengthening the environmental management for factories and suppliers by reinforcement of environmental regulations. anticipating future environmental regulations. Loss of opportunity in case of late response to increased Promotion of steady reduction of GHG for achieving SBT. promotion request. ＊For further details, please refer to page 88. Acquisition of market opportunity by responding to increased Development of medicines for malaria and NTDs. Opportunities healthcare needs in accordance with climate changes. ＊For further details, please refer to pages 38-41. Promotion of consideration for environment and co-existence with community. Kawashima Industrial Complex and Naito Museum of Pharmaceutical Science Improvement of third-party evaluation through consideration and Industry are striving for biodiversity conservation such as protection of for environment. depleted plants. ＊For further details, please refer to the website of Naito Museum of Pharmaceutical Science and Industry. ▶ http://www.eisai.co.jp/museum/english/index.html Risk Management Eisai initiated the analysis of risks to business by midand long-term climate changes. In addition to the current risk management activity (Control Self-Assessment, CSA), the climate-related risks will also be uniformly managed by Risk Management Committee. Index and Target The climate-related index and target are as shown in the Formation of a Low Carbon Society. ＊5 A private sector-led task force with regard to climate-related financial information disclosure established under the Financial Stability Board (FSB) as per the request of G20 finance ministers and central bank governors. TCFD has announced the recommendation to understand and disclose the financial impacts of climate changes on business. Rated “B” in the CDP Climate Change Report 2018 and Ranked Third in WWF Japan’s Ranking of Corporations for Effective Efforts to Address Climate and Energy Issues In 2018, the CDP＊6 evaluation system highly rated Eisai as “B”, which is equivalent to the “Management” level. In the Japanese health care sector, only one company achieved “Leadership” level (A), while three companies including Eisai achieved “Management” level (B). ＊6 A non-profit organization based in London, formerly known as Carbon Disclosure Project. It requests information relating to climate change, water, and forests from companies with top ranking market capitalization in principal countries and discloses the information to the government, companies and investors. The CDP evaluation system evaluates the status of implementation of a company’s environmental management activities on a scale of one to eight (A, Ato D and D-) on four different levels including leadership, management, recognition and information disclosure. In June 2018, the non-government organization World Wide Fund for Nature Japan (WWF Japan)＊7 announced its Ranking of Corporations for Effective Efforts to Address Climate and Energy Issues for the pharmaceutical industry. Eisai was ranked 3rd among Japanese pharmaceutical manufacturers. ＊7 WWF Japan is one of the world’s largest conservation non-government organizations, and has published its ranking of corporations for effective efforts to address climate and energy issues by industry since 2014. ＊For more detailed information, please refer to WWF Japan’s website. ▶ https://www.wwf.or.jp/activities/activity/3630.html (In Japanese only) ＊See the Environmental Report for more detailed information about our environmental activities. ▶ https://www.eisai.com/ir/library/annual/index.html 89 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Initiatives for Achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Contribution to UN Global Compact Eisai strives to actively address global environmental (E) and social issues (S) under enhanced governance (G) and contribute to the achievement of a sustainable society. In order to realize our human health care (hhc) corporate philosophy, we strengthen our initiatives for ESG through our daily corporate activities. We acknowledge that these ESG initiatives improve non-financial capital and help us achieve the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We aim to promote initiatives through contributing to UN Global Compact. Initiatives for Achieving SDGs 1．No Poverty ● Aim to contribute to patients through improvement of access to medicines in developing and emerging countries, thereby improving health and welfare as well as contributing to economic growth through the expansion of the middle-income class (Page 18) 3．Good Health and Well-Being ● Creation of innovative medicines (Pages 42-47, 50-61, 99-101) ● Offering solutions that go beyond providing pharmaceuticals (Pages 48-49) ● Initiatives to eliminate neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) which are endemic in developing countries (Pages 18, 38-41) •Provision of diethylcarbamazine (DEC) tablets at Price Zero (free of charge) for elimination of lymphatic filariasis •Initiatives to create new medicines for Chagas disease, filariasis, leishmaniasis, mycetoma, malaria and tuberculosis which spread mainly among people of lower-income classes in developing countries 10． Reduced Inequalities ● Provision of Eisai products based on Affordable Pricing Policy in developing and emerging countries (Pages 18, 40-41) 17． Partnerships for the Goals ● Partnerships with corporations, United Nations organizations, non-profit organizations, research institutions, academia and other groups for creating innovation in areas of focus and expanding access to medicines (Pages 9, 15-18, 80-81) Eisai’s Initiatives for the UN Global Compact Eisai joined the UN Global Compact in December 2017. Eisai shall fulfill its responsibility to the international community, in accordance with the ten principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Ten Principles in four areas Status of initiatives Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect In March 2019, Eisai enacted Human Rights Policy for Eisai Human the protection of human rights; and Network Companies (ENW) and shared it with all ENW Rights Principle 2 : make sure that they are not complicit in employees. The policy was also made available to the public on human rights abuses. Eisai’s website. In addition, the Charter of Business Conduct of Principle 3 : B usinesses should uphold the freedom of ENW, which is shared among all employees across the globe, association and the recognition of the right states that human rights should be respected and child labor, to collective bargaining; forced and compulsory labor, human trafficking will not be Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and tolerated wherever Eisai conducts business. Labour ＊For further details, please refer to page 91. compulsory labour; Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary Eisai is committed to the formation of a low-carbon society and approach to environmental challenges; a recycling-oriented society. Environment Principle 8 : u ndertake initiatives to promote greater ＊For further details, please refer to pages 88-89. environmental responsibility ＊For further details, please refer to the Environmental Report. Principle 9 : e ncourage the development and diffusion ▶ https://www.eisai.com/ir/library/annual/index.html of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Aiming to undertake honest business activities, Eisai formulated in all its forms, including extortion and the Corporate Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy bribery. for ENW. In addition, we have introduced a prior check Antisystem for companies with which we plan to newly undertake Corruption transactions. We carry out e-learning programs regarding antibribery and anti-corruption for employees. ＊For further details, please refer to page 83. 90 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Respect for Human Rights Fulfillment of Corporate Responsibility for Human Rights in Accordance with International Human Rights Standards Eisai believes that it is essential for all business activities to be conducted as the basis of respect for human rights to achieve sustainable development of our business for realization of corporate philosophy. The Eisai network companies (ENW) Charter of Business Conduct, a global internal code of business activity, clearly indicates that human rights should be respected wherever Eisai conducts business activities. In order to complement the ENW Charter of Business Conduct and to indicate specific policies which Eisai should follow to fulfill its corporate responsibility for human rights, ENW Human Rights Policy was formulated in March 2019. This policy was enacted offer the approval by the Executive Committee and the consent of the Board of Directors. ENW Human Rights Policy In the international community, the efforts to prevent complicity against human rights violations by business partners in value chain are requested to companies in addition to the respect of human rights within the companies. The ENW Human Rights Policy implements human rights due diligence in accordance with United Nation’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights which is internationally recognized as human rights guidelines, and states to continue to fulfill Eisai’s responsibility for respecting human rights in all of its business activities. ＊Please visit the following website for Eisai Human Rights Policy. ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/employee/human_rights/pdf/Human%20Rights%20Policy_en.pdf Items of ENW Human Rights Policy 1. Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights 5. Education and Training 2. Our Approach to Human Rights Due Diligence 6. Remedy 3. Respecting Human Rights of Our Stakeholders 7. Disclosure 4. Stakeholder Engagement Understanding of Issues and Human Rights Due Diligence In fiscal year 2018, the risks were assessed by using the probability of human rights issues and its impact as indices based on the cases of human rights issues occurred in the pharmaceutical industry in the past. As a result, we identified six issues as highly important human rights issues relating to Eisai’s business activities. With regard to these issues, the relevant business organizations assessed the risks with potential impacts and conducted the gap analysis with good examples that are already made public. Based on the results of the gap analysis, we will implement measures to prevent or reduce the occurrence of negative impacts, track the effectiveness of efforts, and disclose the results by prioritizing working on high-risk issues. In fiscal year 2019, we plan to prioritize the human rights in supply chain and conduct the due diligence. Important Human Rights Issues Related to Businesses ◆ Ethical Marketing ◆ Human Rights of Clinical Trial Participants ◆ Access to Medicines ◆ Product Safety and Quality ◆ Human Rights of Patients ◆ Human Rights of Business Partners Including Suppliers Education and Training In order to fulfill our responsibility to respect human rights, we understand that it is important to spread the spirit of respect for human rights throughout the company and to retain it as a corporate culture. In fiscal year 2018, 34 human rights awareness training were held at offices, department manager trainings, and new employee trainings at all ENWs, and 5,686 employees participated. Furthermore, we implement awareness activities such as e-learning for compliance, distribution of e-newsletters related to human rights called “Human Rights Plaza”, and an employee engagement program calling for slogan submissions for internal human rights message. In addition to the existing education and training contents, we plan a program for spreading the understanding of ENW Human Rights Policy and global human rights standard in fiscal year 2019. ＊Please visit the following website for human rights initiatives. ▶ https://www.eisai.com/sustainability/employee/human_rights/index.html 91 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Neurology Area Revenue in fiscal 2018 ¥177.4 billion (104% YoY, Composition of consolidated revenue 27.6%) Major Products Aricept® (generic name: donepezil) In-house Treatment for Alzheimer’s disease/dementia with Lewy bodies Revenue in fiscal 2018 ¥40.2 billion (91% YoY) A dementia treatment discovered and developed in-house Product lineup mainly consisting of by Eisai that is believed to slow the overall progression of two major focus areas symptoms associated with Alzheimer’s disease by inhibiting (Neurology and Oncology) acetylcholinesterase enzyme which breaks down the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. Currently approved in more than 100 countries worldwide. The agent received additional approval for a indication for the treatment of dementia with Lewy bodies in Japan, the Philippines and Thailand. Although revenue is decreasing mainly due to the expansion of generics in Japan, revenues are increasing in China and Asia. Methycobal® (generic name: mecobalamin) In-house Fycompa® (generic name: perampanel) In-house Peripheral neuropathy treatment Antiepileptic agent Revenue in fiscal 2018 ¥39.3 billion (98% YoY) Revenue in fiscal 2018 ¥19.3 billion (132% YoY) A mecobalamin (Vitamin B12 coenzyme) product originally An AMPA receptor antagonist discovered and developed indiscovered and developed by Eisai. Restores damaged house by Eisai, Fycompa® has been approved in Japan, the peripheral nerves and is widely used for the treatment of U.S., Europe and Asia for the adjunctive treatment for both peripheral neuropathy in partial-onset seizures and primary generalized tonic-clonic Japan and other Asian seizures. countries. Revenue is currently Although revenue is increasing worldwide. decreasing in Japan, revenues are increasing in China and Asia. Lyrica® (generic name: pregabalin) In-license BELVIQ® (generic name: lorcaserin) In-license Pain treatment Treatment for chronic weight management Revenue in fiscal 2018 (Co-promotion income) ¥28.3 billion (107% YoY) Revenue in fiscal 2018 ¥5.6 billion (118% YoY) A pain treatment originally developed by Pfizer Inc. of the U.S.. This treatment is believed to encourage decreased food Currently approved in more than 130 countries and regions consumption and promote satiety by selectively activating globally＊. Co-promoted in Japan by Pfizer Japan Inc. and Eisai serotonin 2C receptors in the brain. BELVIQ® Co., Ltd., with both companies working to provide information was the first prescription treatment for on its proper use. obesity approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Revenue is successfully Administration in 13 years and was launched in increasing in Japan. June 2013. Additionally, the once-daily formulation ＊A s of January 2017 was launched in the U.S. in October 2016. In fiscal 2018, revenue grew globally. Oncology Area Revenue in fiscal 2018 ¥120.9 billion (96% YoY, Composition of consolidated revenue 18.8%) Lenvima® (generic name: lenvatinib) In-house Halaven® (generic name: eribulin) In-house Anticancer agent/molecular targeted medicine Anticancer agent/microtubule dynamics inhibitor Revenue in fiscal 2018 ¥62.6 billion (194% YoY) Revenue in fiscal 2018 ¥41.3 billion (104% YoY) A selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) with a novel binding An anticancer agent discovered and developed in-house mode originally discovered and developed in-house by Eisai. by Eisai. A synthetic analog of Approved as a treatment of refractory thyroid cancer in over halichondrin B derived from the marine 55 countries, renal cell carcinoma (RCC) in combination with sponge Halichondria okadai. Shows everolimus in over 50 countries and hepatocellular carcinoma an antitumor effect by arresting the cell in over 50 countries worldwide (product name for treatment cycle through inhibition of the growth of RCC in Europe: of microtubules. Approved in more Kisplyx®). Revenue than 70 countries for the treatment of is successfully breast cancer. Approved in over 60 increasing worldwide. countries for use in the treatment of liposarcoma (soft tissue sarcoma in Japan). In fiscal 2018, revenue grew globally. 92 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Others Pariet® (generic name: rabeprazole) In-house Humira® (generic name: adalimumab) In-license Proton-pump inhibitor Fully human anti-TNF-α monoclonal antibody Revenue in fiscal 2018 ¥27.7 billion (87% YoY) Revenue in fiscal 2018 ¥59.9 billion (109% YoY) A proton-pump inhibitor originally discovered and developed A treatment for autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid in-house by Eisai. Indicated for the treatment of gastric arthritis. In Japan, the agent is manufactured and marketed by and duodenal ulcers, reflux esophagitis and eradication of AbbVie GK and marketed by Eisai. AbbVie GK and Eisai are Helicobacter pylori co-promoting the agent for the indications in the areas other infections, etc. Approved than gastrointestinal disease, while AbbVie GK and EA Pharma in more than 100 Co. Ltd., are co-promoting the countries worldwide. agent for the indications in the Although revenues gastrointestinal disease area. are increasing in China Revenue is increasing in and Asia, revenue is Japan and Asia mainly due decreasing in Japan to the success of promotion mainly due to increasingly leveraging the strengths severe competition and of having a wide range of the expansion of generics. indications. Consumer Revenue in fiscal 2018 ¥24.3 billion (Composition of Healthcare Business consolidated revenue 3.8%) Chocola BB® Products ●Revenue of prescription drug business, consumer healthcare Revenue in fiscal 2018 ¥15.3 billion (111% YoY) business and others Ranging from the signature product Chocola BB® Other business Plus, a Vitamin B2 preparation 79.1 billion yen for rough skin and stomatitis, (12.3%) a variety of products such as third-class OTC drugs, Prescription drug business designated quasi-drugs and 539.4 billion yen Consumer (83.9%) food with nutrient function healthcare business Consolidated revenue in claims are available. Chocola BB® Plus: Chocola BB® Royal 2: Neurology area Third-class OTC drug Designated quasi-drug 24.3 billion yen fiscal 2018 177.4 billion yen In fiscal 2018, revenue (3.8%) 642.8 (27.6%) increased due to the launch of new and updated products billion yen as well as the effect of television commercials and growth of Other Oncology area Chocola BB® tablets from inbound tourism. 241.1 billion yen 120.9 billion yen  ttps://www.chocola.com/index.html Chocola.com▶ h (37.5%) (18.8%) (Only available in Japanese) ●Revenue of Major Brands (Billions of yen) 300.0 ●Revenue of Other Major Products (Billions of yen) 250.0 60.0 200.0 50.0 40.0 150.0 30.0 100.0 20.0 50.0 10.0 0.0 0.0 9 f is l2 010 9 f is cal2 010 l2 ca l201 l2 f is ca l2011 f is ca l2 1 00 f is f is ca ca l2 l2 l2 01 012 3 00 f is f is ca ca l2 l2 01 01 01 2 3 4 ca ca f is f is ca ca l2 l2 01 014 5 ca ca f is f is ca ca l2 l2 01 015 f is f is f is f is ca ca l2 l2 01 016 7 f is f is f is f is ca ca l2 l2 01 01 6 7 fo r f is e c ca as 01 l 2 t fo8 fo r f is e c ca asl 2 t fo 01 r 8 01 r 9 9 Aricept® Pariet® Lenvima® Methycobal® Fycompa® Lyrica® BELVIQ ® Halaven® Humira® Aloxi® Chocola BB ® series ＊ A major brand is an extremely popular medicine which achieved annual revenue of at ＊ Revenue of Lyrica® is an alliance income from co-promotion. least 100 billion yen or which is expected to. ＊ We returned an exclusive license for commercialization of Aloxi in June 2018. ＊ We did not disclose fiscal 2019 forecast for global revenue of Methycobal®, Lyrica®, and Humira®. 93 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Financial Capital Consolidated Financial Highlights in the Last 10 Years Returned to growth trajectory by overcoming revenue decline of major products ＊ Results up to fiscal 2013 were calculated pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in Japan (J-GAAP), while results after fiscal 2014 were calculated pursuant to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Revenue＊ 803.2 (Billions of yen) After achieving the peak sales in fiscal 2009, decline 768.9 trend in revenue continued due to loss of exclusivity 680.0 648.0 642.8 of our major products, Aricept®, treatment for 600.4 600.1 573.7 548.5 547.9 539.1 Alzheimer’s disease and Pariet®/AcipHex®, protonpump inhibitor. At the same time, newly launched in-house products, such as Halaven® (anticancer agent), Fycompa® (antiepileptic agent) and Lenvima® (anticancer agent) are steadily growing. In addition, Eisai recorded the amount recognized in revenue from Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. (U.S. fiscal 2009 fiscal 2010 fiscal 2011 fiscal 2012 fiscal 2013 fiscal 2014 fiscal 2015 fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 Forecast for Merck) associated with strategic collaboration. As a fiscal 2019 Revenue of Aricept® Revenue of Pariet® Revenue of Lenvima®, Halaven®, Fycompa® result, Eisai achieved increase in revenue for two Payments recognized from U.S. Merck (Forecast for fiscal 2019 is not disclosed) Others consecutive years in fiscal 2018. Cost of Sales and Cost of Sales Ratio to Revenue＊ Cost of sales ratio kept increasing due to Cost of sales Ratio of cost of sales to revenue (Billions of yen, %) change in product mix caused by revenue 193.6 194.5 195.9 201.3 173.4 174.1 188.2 184.5 180.0 decline of Aricept® and Pariet®/AcipHex® 160.7 167.8 35.3 35.5 36.3 33.5 whose cost of sales ratios are relatively low. 30.3 31.3 26.8 28.7 26.5 However, expansion of in-house products 20.0 21.8 with low cost of sales ratios and recording the payments recognized from U.S. Merck associated with strategic collaboration on fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal Forecast for revenue resulted the decrease in cost of 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 fiscal 2019 sales ratio since fiscal 2017. R&D Expenses and R&D Expenses Ratio to Revenue＊ (Billions of yen, %) Eisai continued to invest in R&D 191.3 proactively towards future growth, even 179.1 in the period of revenue decrease. R&D 158.5 46.4 145.0 18.9 expenses remained over 120 billion yen level, 136.0 154.5 125.1 120.4 130.5 131.9 122.3 139.6 144.8 which accounted for 19 to 24% of revenue 18.8 117.2 for the past 10 years. 29.8 Moreover, Eisai achieved significantly 25.2 26.4 22.3 21.0 21.7 24.1 22.3 effective investment in R&D by utilizing 18.9 19.3 21.7 23.3 22.5 22.7 partnerships. Results for substantial R&D expenses in fiscal 2018 was 191.3 billion yen and R&D expenses ratio was 29.8% fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal Forecast for including the cost shared by partners. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 fiscal2019 R&D expenses Partner’s share of R&D expenses (Results from fiscal 2009 to 2015 and forecast for 2019 are not disclosed) R&D expenses ratio to revenue R&D expenses ratio to revenue (Including partner’s share of R&D expenses) Net Debt Equity Ratio (Net DER)＊ After the acquisition of MGI Pharma, Inc. in 0.62 (Times) 2008, the amount of borrowing was increased. 0.49 Nevertheless, Eisai repaid certain amount 0.38 0.27 every year since then, and have been 0.14 the end of the end of the end of the end of achieving net cash position, which cash 0.00 fiscal 2015 fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 and securities exceed interest-bearing the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of fiscal 2009 fiscal 2010 fiscal 2011 fiscal 2012 fiscal 2013 fiscal 2014 -0.06 -0.11 debt since fiscal 2015. Eisai strives to -0.27 -0.32 maintain financial soundness that enables both proactive investment and stable dividends. Free Cash Flow (FCF) ＊ (Billions of yen) 136.7 Eisai maintained FCF, exceeding the Free Cash Flow Annual dividend payment amount of annual dividend payment 100.3 81.2 81.7 85.1 by managing working capital and selling 71.4 66.4 61.3 assets, even when revenue declined 54.5 52.9 continuously. Payments recognized from U.S. Merck since fiscal 2017 contributes to 42.7 42.7 42.7 42.7 42.8 42.8 42.9 42.9 42.9 43.0 securing FCF. fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 94 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix (Billion yen) (Reference data) (Billion yen) fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal Financial Indicators (IFRS) Financial Indicators (J-GAAP) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 〈Income Statement Items〉 〈Income Statement Items〉 Revenue 599.5 548.5 547.9 539.1 600.1 642.8 Net sales 803.2 768.9 648.0 573.7 600.4 Cost of sales 194.7 193.6 194.5 195.9 201.3 184.5 Cost of sales 160.7 167.8 173.4 174.1 188.2 Ratio to revenue (%) 32.5 35.3 35.5 36.3 33.5 28.7 20.0 21.8 26.8 30.3 31.3 Gross profit 404.8 354.9 353.5 343.2 398.8 458.3 Ratio to revenue (%) 67.5 64.7 64.5 63.7 66.5 71.3 Gross profit 642.4 601.1 474.6 399.6 412.2 Research and development 80.0 78.2 73.2 69.7 68.7 expenses 136.3 131.9 122.3 117.2 139.6 144.8 Research and development Ratio to revenue (%) 22.7 24.1 22.3 21.7 23.3 22.5 expenses 179.1 145.0 125.1 120.4 130.5 Selling, general and 22.3 18.9 19.3 21.0 21.7 administrative expenses 203.3 194.5 192.8 174.9 183.9 228.2 Selling, general and Ratio to revenue (%) 33.9 35.5 35.2 32.5 30.6 35.5 administrative expenses 376.9 343.0 253.7 208.7 210.5 Other income 4.1 1.0 17.7 13.6 3.0 2.6 46.9 44.6 39.1 36.4 35.1 Ratio to revenue (%) 0.7 0.2 3.2 2.5 0.5 0.4 Other expenses 2.8 1.1 4.1 5.6 1.1 1.7 Ratio to revenue (%) 0.5 0.2 0.7 1.0 0.2 0.3 Operating income 86.4 113.1 95.7 70.5 71.1 Operating profit 66.4 28.3 51.9 59.1 77.2 86.2 Ratio to revenue (%) 11.1 5.2 9.5 11.0 12.9 13.4 10.8 14.7 14.8 12.3 11.8 Profit for the year 38.5 43.5 55.0 42.2 54.4 66.5 Ordinary income 79.7 105.2 90.0 65.6 64.9 Ratio to revenue (%) 6.4 7.9 10.0 7.8 9.1 10.3 9.9 13.7 13.9 11.4 10.8 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 38.3 43.3 54.9 39.4 51.8 63.4 Net income 40.3 67.4 58.5 48.3 33.0 Ratio to revenue (%) 6.4 7.9 10.0 7.3 8.6 9.9 5.0 8.8 9.0 8.4 5.5 Comprehensive income for the year 84.5 114.2 16.5 36.8 53.8 79.5 <Cash Flow Statement Items> <Cash Flow Statement Items> Net cash from operating Net cash from operating 91.3 76.0 95.6 75.9 149.6 103.7 107.9 123.2 90.6 73.2 85.7 activities activities Net cash from investing Net cash from investing 20.9 (18.8) (6.7) (28.6) 17.0 (7.9) (69.8) (58.8) (2.6) 21.7 26.2 activities activities Net cash from financing Net cash from financing (115.1) (59.7) (72.9) (35.4) (81.9) (79.2) (49.2) (68.0) (78.0) (81.8) (114.8) activities activities Free cash flow＊ 87.3 61.3 81.2 81.7 136.7 85.1 Free cash flow＊ 52.9 100.3 71.4 54.5 66.4 ＊＊ ＊ Free cash flow = “Net cash from operating activities” – “Capital expenditures(cash basis) ” ＊＊ Expenditures from purchases of financial assets and proceeds from sale and redemption of financial assets are included in the formula used to calculate capital expenditures in IFRS . <Financial Position Items> <Balance Sheet Items> Total assets 973.8 1,053.8 974.0 1,030.8 1,049.0 1,071.5 Total assets 1,101.9 1,046.3 1,004.7 990.2 945.5 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 526.3 598.7 573.7 584.6 593.6 628.1 Shareholder’s equity 415.9 404.2 416.8 469.4 506.8 Non-controlling interests 3.1 3.3 3.2 18.0 20.5 23.9 Total liabilities 444.4 451.8 397.2 428.2 434.9 419.5 Return on equity attributable to owners of the parent (ROE) 7.6 7.7 9.4 6.8 8.8 10.4 Return on equity (ROE) (%) 9.6 16.4 14.3 10.9 6.8 (%) Return on sales ratio (%) 5.0 8.8 9.0 8.4 5.5 Return on sales ratio (%) 6.4 7.9 10.0 7.8 9.1 10.3 Leverage (times) 1.9 1.8 1.7 1.8 1.8 1.7 Leverage (times) 2.6 2.6 2.4 2.1 1.9 Total assets turnover ratio Total assets turnover ratio 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.6 (no. of times) 0.7 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.6 (no. of times) Ratio of equity attributable to Shareholders’ equity ratio owners of the parent (%) 54.0 56.8 58.9 56.7 56.6 58.6 (%) 37.7 38.6 41.5 47.4 53.6 Net debt equity ratio Net debt equity ratio (Net (Net DER)(times)＊1 0.08 0.00 (0.06) (0.11) (0.27) (0.32) 0.62 0.49 0.38 0.27 0.14 DER) (times) Dividend on equity attributable to owners of the 8.5 7.6 7.3 7.4 7.3 7.0 Dividend on equity (DOE) (%) 10.1 10.4 10.4 9.6 8.8 parent (DOE)(%)＊2 Dividend payout ratio (DPR) Dividend payout ratio (DPR) 111.8 99.0 78.0 109.0 82.8 67.8 (%) 105.9 63.4 73.1 88.6 129.8 (%) Earnings per share (basic) Earnings per share (EPS) 134.1 151.6 192.2 137.6 181.2 221.3 (yen) 141.6 236.5 205.3 169.4 115.6 (EPS) (yen) Dividend per share (DPS) Dividend per share (DPS) 150.0 150.0 150.0 150.0 150.0 150.0 (yen) 150.0 150.0 150.0 150.0 150.0 (yen) ＊1 “Net debt equity ratio (Net DER)” = (“Interest-bearing debt” (“Bonds and borrowings”) – “Cash and cash equivalents” – “Time deposits exceeding three months, etc.” – “ Investment securities held by the parent company＊＊ ”) / Equity attributable to owners of the parent” ＊＊ Investment securities held by the parent company are included in the formula used to calculate liabilities ratio. ＊2 Dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent (DOE) = Dividend payout ratio (DPR) x Return on equity attributable to owners of the parent (ROE) 95 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 ESG Indices in the Last 10 Years Eisai discloses important indicators on ESG (Environment, Society, Governance), and verifies the activities each year, aiming to enhance non-financial capital contributing to sustainable development. ■Number of regional cooperation agreements (Japan) (Number of agreements) We have tied dementia cooperation 158 agreements with local governments, medical 152 131 associations, pharmacist associations, etc. aiming at town planning to co-exist with 88 dementia, and conducted disease awareness 57 activities and provision of information in 23 Japan. The number of agreements increased 3 to 158 in 43 prefectures as of July 2019. end of end of end of end of end of end of end of ＊For further details, please refer to page 49. fiscal 2013 fiscal 2014 fiscal 2015 fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 July, 2019 ■Cumulative quantity of DEC tablets supplied and number of patients contributed to＊ (billion tablets) 2.0 (billion people) Eisai has been supplying diethylcarbamazine Cumulative quantity of DEC tablets supplied 1.80 (DEC) tablets to eliminate lymphatic filariasis 1.66 1.5 Number of patients contributed to 1.35 diseases to 28 countries through WHO and 0.72 will continue until the diseases are eliminated. 0.97 0.67 ＊ The number of patients contributed to is an estimated value, 1.0 0.54 0.5 which is converted from the cumulative quantity of tablets 0.60 0.39 supplied based on the assumption that an average of 2.5 tablets 0.5 is taken per capita in accordance with the definition of WHO. 0.28 0.24 ＊For further details, please refer to pages 38-41. 0.01 0.11 0.0 0.0 end of 0.01end of end of end of end of end of end of fiscal 2013 fiscal 2014 fiscal 2015 fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 June, 2019 ■Women advancement indices With the belief that the source of innovation is (Persons) Number of female managers (Japan) 14.8% diversity, Eisai is creating a work environment 13.8% 13.3% 150 Ratio of women to 15.0% in which people with diverse values can play management positions (Japan) 11.1% 114 active roles regardless of their nationality, 100 Ratio of women to corporate officers 9.1% 8.0% 100 10% 10.0% gender, or age. We have been working on 72 86 9.4% promoting female advancement in Japan. 59 61 65 8.0% Female ratio of corporate officers recently 53 50 42 43 4.3% 7.0% 5.0% reached over 10%. Female ratio of managers 6.0% 4.3% 4.8% 5.0% is gradually improving to targeted 10% by the 3.9% 3.0% 3.1% end of fiscal 2020. 0 0.0% end of end of end of end of end of end of end of end of end of end of end of fiscal ＊For further details, please refer to pages 24-27. fiscal 2010 fiscal 2011 fiscal 2012 fiscal 2013 fiscal 2014 fiscal 2015 fiscal 2016 fiscal 2017 fiscal 2018 June, 2019 2020 target ■Retention rate of new graduates (recent 10 years average, Japan)＊ 94.7% 96.8% ■Total ■Female ■Male Eisai is aiming at improving retention rate of 90.7% 82.6% 92.0% 82.1% new graduates assuming it a key indicator of 68.1% 69.3% satisfaction with the company after joining. As the rates after 3 years, 5 years and 10 years 48.7% tend to be lower for women than men, we are improving the working environment. ＊R etention rate of new graduates indicates the rate at the beginning of the next fiscal year. For example, the number of retention rate after 3 years for fiscal 2018 indicates the rate of retention of the new graduates hired in fiscal 2016 as of April 1, 2019. The retention rate After 3 years After 5 years After 10 years after 3 years of the most recent 10 years is calculated as the average of the rate for new graduates hired from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2018. ＊For further details, please refer to pages 24-27, 98. ■Average monthly overtime hours (per non-management employee) 13h 07m 13h 03m 12h The well-being of employees is the basis 11h 10h 10h 11m 10h of Eisai's sustainable growth, innovation 01m 27m 46m 9h 8h 9h 44m 28m creation, and productivity improvement, so 11m 34m we are strongly promoting efforts to eradicate long working hours. In recent years, the average overtime hours per non-management employee have been around 10 hours. ＊For further details, please refer to pages 24-27. fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal fiscal 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 96 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Scope of data : ■  Eisai Group (Eisai Co., Ltd. and Group companies in and outside Japan) ■Eisai Co., Ltd. ■Eisai Group in Japan (Eisai Co., Ltd. and Group companies in Japan) (Data for subsidiaries and businesses transferred is included until the date the transfer was completed) Future policy : ◦ Items that do not require significant improvement at present  Items for improvement ●Corporate Governance and Compliance Indices Index Period FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 63.6% 63.6% 63.6% 63.6% 63.6% 63.6% 63.6% 63.6% 63.6% 63.6% ◦ Ratio of outside directors to directors At fiscal year end 7/11 7/11 7/11 7/11 7/11 7/11 7/11 7/11 7/11 7/11 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% ◦ Ratio of women to directors At fiscal year end 1/11 1/11 1/11 1/11 1/11 1/11 1/11 1/11 1/11 1/11 0% 0% 0% 0% 4.3% 9.1% 8% 14.8% 11.1% 13.8% Ratio of women to corporate officers At fiscal year end 0/26 0/27 0/18 0/18 1/23 2/22 2/25 4/27 3/27 4/29 ◦ Average age of corporate officers At fiscal year end 56.1 54.8 52.9 52.9 53.0 53.1 53.6 52.9 52.9 53.2 ◦ Remuneration Directors (internal) (millions of yen) At fiscal year end 129 116 118 118 116 114 113 113 113 113 (base salary, ◦ bonuses, retirement Directors (outside) (millions of yen) At fiscal year end 86 87 85 86 82 76 74 74 74 88 ◦ benefits) Corporate officers (millions of yen) At fiscal year end 1,252 1,138 876 872 1,055 976 1,310 1,247 1,203 1,219 Number of times offered Annually 105 70 84 120 65 56 47 62 65 72 ◦ Number of times Number of executive training ◦ compliance training courses Annually 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 offered ◦ Total participants (approx.) Annually 9,000 6,000 6,000 8,500 5,800 5,000 4,600 5,800 4,800 6,200 ◦ Submission rate of ENW compliance oath At fiscal year end − − − − − − 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% ◦ Number of times Number of times offered Annually 16 23 15 28 23 28 30 34 34 34 human rights training ◦ offered Participants Annually 11,647 16,370 5,096 3,123 2,452 2,405 5,001 5,457 5,477 5,686 ◦ Number of cases subject to investigation by the authorities due to violation of anti-corruption acts At fiscal year end 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ＊ ◦ Number of employee disciplinary dismissals due to violation of anti-corruption acts At fiscal year end 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ＊ ◦ Fines, penalties and costs of settlement related to violation of anti-corruption acts At fiscal year end 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ＊ ＊ The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act, the Unfair Competition Prevention Act in Japan, etc. ●Environmental Indices Index Period FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 ◦ Amount of CO2 emissions (t) Annually 131,272 145,239 157,889 164,448 168,914 143,731 125,071 120,224 118,625 120,562 ＊1 ◦ Scope 1 (t) Annually 51,951 51,254 53,007 52,835 47,095 38,175 31,698 31,726 32,404 34,248 ＊1 ◦ Scope 2 (t) Annually 79,746 94,493 92,486 112,136 121,797 105,532 93,359 88,497 86,221 86,315 ＊1 ◦ Amount of electricity consumption (MWh) Annually 182,124 209,920 203,417 213,993 210,651 209,552 169,608 160,378 158,048 159,235 ＊2 ◦ Water consumption (Km3) Annually − − 3,785 3,562 3,820 3,323 3,453 3,149 2,982 3,089 ＊2 ◦ Water discharge (Km3) Annually − − 3,262 2,948 3,125 2,694 2,726 2,449 2,446 2,584 ＊2 ◦ Amount of waste generated (t) Annually 6,769 6,555 7,410 6,280 4,917 4,001 3,481 2,935 3,038 3,736 ◦ Waste-recycling rate Annually 53.80% 56.30% 49.70% 50.30% 48.3% 50.6% 57.7% 62.8% 58.7% 47.9% ＊2 ◦ Amount of chemical substances handled subject to the PRTR system (t) Annually 469 656 885 566 477 499 476 258 267 261 ＊2 ◦ Number of administrative penalties and litigation related to the environment Annually 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ＊1 Recalculated including Baltimore Plant from FY2011 Scope 1: Direct emissions of greenhouse gases emitted to the atmosphere by fossil fuel use Scope 2: Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases associated with the use of electricity and steam supplied by others ＊2 As a result of recalculation, the past data was revised. Amount of electricity consumption: FY2013-2017, Water consumption: FY2011, Water discharge: FY2011,2014,2015 and 2017, Waste-recycling rate and Amount of chemical substances handled subject to the PRTR system: FY2009-2013 ●Involvement with Patients Index Period FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Japan 2 8 6 5 4 4 3 1 4 2 ＊ Americas (North America) 1 3 0 2 0 2 2 3 1 2 ＊ Number of EMEA (Europe, Middle East, At fiscal year end 0 2 2 2 1 1 2 3 0 1 ＊ prescription drugs Africa, Russia and Oceania) approved China 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 ＊ Asia 2 1 0 0 0 0 2 1 0 1 ＊ ◦ Number of patents (number of patent applications) Annually 157 151 125 109 88 87 65 55 51 63 ◦ Number of inquiries to hhc Hotline Annually 92,050 98,650 103,675 108,298 99,471 91,286 97,444 90,742 82,028 71,568 Number of complaints (concerning product quality) Annually 296 238 256 222 368 336 314 323 309 525 ＊ Includes additional indications and formulations.The past data was reviewed by recalculation. ●Involvement with Society Index Period FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 ◦ Number of regional agreements Annually − − − − 3 20 34 31 43 21 ◦ DEC tablets supplied (billion tablets) Annually − − − − 0.01 0.26 0.32 0.37 0.37 0.32 ◦ Cumulative quantity of DEC tablets supplied (billion tablets) Annually − − − − 0.01 0.28 0.60 0.97 1.35 1.66 ◦ Amount of funds donated (millions of yen) Annually 3,449 3,583 2,185 1,988 2,377 2,073 2,602 2,118 2,505 2,765 ●Involvement with Employees Index Period FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 ◦ Total 11,415 11,560 10,730 10,495 10,419 10,183 9,877 10,452 10,456 10,683 Japan 5,675 5,636 5,472 5,320 5,200 4,712 4,523 5,009 4,914 4,888 Americas (North America) 2,701 2,559 1,843 1,815 1,763 1,719 1,290 1,296 1,240 1,261 Number of employees by region EMEA (Europe, Middle East, At fiscal year end 1,015 1,015 873 831 811 893 913 983 1,022 1,046 Africa, Russia and Oceania) China 1,114 1,407 1,498 1,454 1,559 1,607 1,875 1,909 1,906 2,069 Asia and Latin America 910 943 1,044 1,075 1,086 1,252 1,276 1,255 1,374 1,419 97 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Index Period FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total 4,428 4,415 4,305 4,163 4,130 3,583 3,577 3,508 3,436 3,411 ＊1 Number of employees of Male 3,394 3,393 3,331 3,228 3,202 2,845 2,838 2,775 2,708 2,679 ＊1 Eisai Co., Ltd. At fiscal year end 1,034 1,022 974 935 928 738 739 733 728 732 ＊1 Female 23.4% 23.1% 22.6% 22.5% 22.5% 20.6% 20.7% 20.9% 21.2% 21.5% Number of temporary employees 357 328 307 306 222 215 136 156 217 272 At fiscal year end Ratio of temporary employees to total employees 7.5% 6.9% 6.7% 6.8% 5.1% 5.7% 3.7% 4.3% 5.9% 7.4% ＊1 Total 1,372 1,392 1,376 1,369 1,370 1,282 1,292 1,206 1,228 1,250 ＊2 Number of management  Female 40 42 43 53 59 61 65 72 86 100 ＊2  Total At fiscal year end 2.9% 3.0% 3.1% 3.9% 4.3% 4.8% 5.0% 6.0% 7.0% 8.0% ＊2 Ratio of women in management Newly appointed 9.2% 3.6% 6.5% 16.3% 17.4% 15.4% 11.6% 17.6% 21.3% 23.9% ＊2 managers 8/87 2/56 3/46 8/49 8/46 6/39 5/43 9/51 13/61 17/71 Average age At fiscal year end 41.8 42.3 42.8 43.4 42.5 43.7 44.1 44.8 45.3 45.3 ＊1 Total 18.1 18.5 19.0 19.5 20 19.4 19.9 20.4 20.8 21.2 ＊1 Average years of employment Male At fiscal year end 18.9 19.3 19.7 20.1 20.7 20.3 20.8 21.4 21.9 22.3 ＊1 Female 15.5 16.1 16.8 17.3 17.8 15.9 16.2 16.9 16.9 17.3 ＊1 Turnover rate (self-directed retirement) Annually 1.4% 1.5% 2.4% 1.7% 1.8% 1.4% 2.6% 3.1% 2.5% 2.2% ＊1,3 Total turnover rate Annually 3.3% 2.5% 4.8% 2.8% 14.2% 1.9% 3.0% 3.8% 3.4% 11.4% ＊1,4 Total Annually 62 70 76 78 78 90 95 89 97 105 ＊1,5 Number of users of childcare 2 1 0 1 1 1 2 0 5 6 ＊1,5  leave program Male Annually Female Annually 60 69 76 77 77 89 93 89 92 99 ＊1,5 Number of users of spousal maternity leave program Annually − − − − − − − − − 58 ＊1,6 Number of users of short working hours program for childcare Annually 74 80 79 82 86 73 93 80 75 90 ＊1 Average annual salary (thousands of yen) 10,728 10,936 11,094 11,063 10,401 10,403 10,939 10,389 10,446 10,992 (according to the annual securities report) Annually ◦ Personal development expenses (thousands of yen)(per employee) Annually 224 192 157 162 177 176 198 210 214 221 ＊1,7 ◦ Percentage of handicapped employees Annually 1.91% 2.02% 2.03% 2.37% 2.39% 2.56% 2.53% 2.65% 2.84% 2.88% 30.4% 40.8% 28.3% 50.0% 36.9% 14.3% 33.3% 38.2% 44.3% 36.3% ＊1 ◦ Female rate in the annual hired (Female/Total)） Annually 59/194 42/103 17/60 14/28 31/84 2/14 35/105 21/55 31/70 33/91 Total Annually 176 98 56 21 76 3 100 39 43 57 ＊1,8 Number of hired new graduates Male Annually 122 57 39 12 46 2 66 20 23 32 ＊1,8 Female Annually 54 41 17 9 30 1 34 19 20 25 ＊1,8 Total 95.0% 95.5% 94.9% 93.9% 98.2% 90.5% 94.7% 100% 93.0% 89.7% ＊1,8,9 (10 years average 94.7%) At fiscal year end 189/199 234/245 167/176 92/98 55/56 19/21 72/76 3/3 93/100 35/39 Retention rate of Male 96.8% 98.2% 95.9% 96.5% 97.4% 91.7% 100% 100% 95.5% 90.0% ＊1,8,9 hired new graduates (10 years average 96.8%) At fiscal year end 122/126 167/170 117/122 55/57 38/39 11/12 46/46 2/2 63/66 18/20 after 3 years Female 91.8% 89.3% 92.6% 90.2% 100% 88.9% 86.7% 100% 88.2% 89.5% ＊1,8,9 (10 years average 90.7%) At fiscal year end 67/73 67/75 50/54 37/41 17/17 8/9 26/30 1/1 30/34 17/19 Total 81.5% 77.2% 81.9% 85.3% 88.1% 82.7% 83.9% 81.0% 82.9% 66.7% ＊1,8,9 (10 years average 82.6%) At fiscal year end 198/243 176/228 163/199 209/245 155/176 81/98 47/56 17/21 63/76 2/3 Retention rate of Male 95.7% 94.4% 92.1% 92.4% 89.3% 89.5% 92.3% 75.0% 91.3% 50.0% ＊1,8,9 hired new graduates (10 years average 92.0%) At fiscal year end 110/115 119/126 116/126 157/170 109/122 51/57 36/39 9/12 42/46 1/2 after 5 years Female 68.8% 55.9% 64.4% 69.3% 85.2% 73.2% 64.7% 88.9% 70.0% 100% ＊1,8,9  (10 years average 68.1%) At fiscal year end 88/128 57/102 47/73 52/75 46/54 30/41 11/17 8/9 21/30 1/1 Total 50.0% 85.7% 83.1% 72.8% 78.0% 65.4% 57.9% 67.3% 72.2% 72.7% ＊1,8,9 (10 years average 69.3%) At fiscal year end 1/2 24/28 69/83 59/81 71/91 159/243 132/228 134/199 177/245 128/176 Retention rate of 100% 85.7% 93.1% 88.2% 86.7% 86.1% 76.2% 79.4% 82.9% 75.4% ＊1,8,9 hired new graduates Male At fiscal year end (10 years average 82.1%) 1/1 18/21 54/58 45/51 52/60 99/115 96/126 100/126 141/170 92/122 after 10 years Female 0% 85.7% 60.0% 46.7% 61.3% 46.9% 35.3% 46.6% 48.0% 66.7% ＊1,8,9  (10 years average 48.7%) At fiscal year end 0/1 6/7 15/25 14/30 19/31 60/128 36/102 34/73 36/75 36/54 Average monthly overtime hours 13h 13h 11h 10h 10h 12h 9h 8h 9h 10h ◦ (per non-management employee) Annually 7m 3m 1m 27m 46m 11m 11m 34m 44m 28m  Number of work-related accidents Annually 29 35 31 42 16 9 16 23 19 17 ＊10 ◦ Frequency of work-related Employee Annually 0.18 0.44 0.27 0.19 0.10 0 0 0.10 0.10 0.20 ＊11 injuries that resulted in more than ◦ 4 days of work lost (per million Contractor Annually 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 hours of actual work)  Number of work-related fatalities Employee Annually 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 ＊12 ◦ Contractor Annually 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  Number of cases of work-related Employee Annually 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 ＊12 occupational illness ◦ Contractor Annually 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ◦ Percentage of employees who Employee Annually 99.45% 99.76% 99.93% 99.75% 99.83% 99.75% 99.86% 99.48% 99.56% 99.91% ◦ underwent health checks Family members Annually 60.36% 71.88% 73.22% 72.01% 76.57% 74.45% 71.16% 80.57% 78.10% 80.27% ＊13 Average days of paid holidays taken  (per non-management employee) Annually 13.4 13.7 13.9 12.7 12.3 12.1 12.1 12.4 12.9 13.5 ＊1 Based on the number of fulltime Eisai Co., Ltd. employees including employees dispatched to ENW companies ＊2 Recalculated based on the number of employees disclosed in Annual Securities Report (Eisai Co., Ltd. employees includes those dispatched from ENW companies and excludes the ones to ENW companies) Formerly, the numbers were calculated based on the number of fulltime Eisai Co., Ltd. employees including employees dispatched to ENW companies. ＊3 Self-directed retirement only, not including mandatory retirement due to age, voluntary retirement, etc. As a result of recalculation, the past data was revised from 1.4% to 1.5% for FY2010, from 1.6% to 1.7% for FY2012, from 1.6% to 1.8% for FY2013. ＊4 Covering all retirements such as self-directed retirement, mandatory retirement due to age, death retirement, voluntary retirement, etc. ＊5 Childcare leave program entitlement: Workers who have served the company for 1 year or more and requested childcare leave for child/children under the age of 3 Period: By the day of the employee's request before the child/children reach the age of 3 ＊6 Spousal maternity leave program (new program commenced April, 2018) entitlement: Workers whose partner gave birth Period: Up to 5 days of special paid holidays ＊7 Personal development expenses include training, studying abroad, participation in academic conferences ＊8 Not including employees who joined the company midway ＊9 At the beginning of next fiscal year (Eg. The number of retention rate after 3 years for FY2018 indicates the rate of retention of the new graduates hired in FY2016 as of April 1, 2019) ＊10 As a result of recalculation, the past data was revised from 30 to 29 for FY2009, from 17 to 16 for FY2013, from 10 to 9 for FY2014, from 18 to 16 for FY2015, from 27 to 23 for FY2016. ＊11 As a result of recalculation, the past data was revised from 0 to 0.10 for FY2013, from 0.29 to 0 for FY2015, from 0 to 0.10 for FY2016. ＊12 As a result of recalculation, the past data was revised from 0 to 1 for FY2016. ＊13 Health check eligibility includes dependent spouses and dependent family members aged 40 or older. 98 Intellectual Capital Major R&D Pipeline Robust progress in development in the therapeutic areas of focus: neurology and oncology (As of the end of July 2019) ●●●● Projects which have made progress on development stage since fiscal year 2018 Neurology Area Major R&D Pipeline Development Stage Target Disease Region PhaseⅠ Phase Ⅱ Phase Ⅲ Filed Approval Fycompa® perampanel/E2007 Antieplieptic agent / AMPA receptor antagonist In-house Oral agent ● U.S. September 2018 ● Pediatric epilepsy (Additional dosage and administration) Japan January 2019 ● Europe February 2019 Accepted ● Adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures China October 2018 ● Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures (Additional indication) Japan January 2019 ● Fine granule formulation (Additional formulation) Japan January 2019 Japan/U.S./ Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (Additional indication) Europe lemborexant/E2006 Orexin receptor antagonist In-house Oral agent ● U.S. December 2018 Insomnia disorder ● Japan March 2019 Irregular sleep-wake rhythm disorder (ISWRD) associated with Alzheimer's disease dementia Japan/U.S. elenbecestat/E2609 Disease modifying treatment for Alzheimer’s disease / beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme (BACE) inhibitor In-house Oral agent Japan/U.S./ Early Alzheimer's disease (Co-development with Biogen Inc.) Europe/China BAN2401 Disease modifying treatment for Alzheimer’s disease / anti-Aβ protofibril antibody In-license (BioArctic AB) Injection ● Early Alzheimer's disease (Co-development with Biogen Inc.) Japan/U.S./ Europe/China safinamide/ME2125 Anti-Parkinson's disease agent / MAO-B inhibitor In-license (Meiji Seika Pharma Co., Ltd.) Oral agent ● Japan October 2018 Parkinson's disease ● Asia (South Korea) July 2019 E2027 Treatment fo dementia with Lewy bodies / phosphodiesterase (PDE) 9 inhibitor In-house Oral agent Japan/U.S./ Dementia with Lewy bodies Europe E2730 Antiepileptic agent, treatment for neurological diseases / Synapse function modulator In-house Oral agent ● Epilepsy U.S. E2082 Antiepileptic agent, treatment for neurological diseases / AMPA receptor antagonist In-house Oral agent U.S. Epilepsy Japan ＊ All clinical studies of E2082 in Japan and U.S. have been suspended. Number of Projects in Neurology Area Projects which have made progress on development stage since fiscal year 2018 Others ▶Approved 1 1 ▶Filed 9 9 ▶Phase Ⅲ study 3 1 2 ▶Phase Ⅱ study 3 1 2 ▶Phase Ⅰ study 0 ＊ Number of projects that were approved or filed is counted by region. ＊ Number of projects in which PhaseⅠ, Ⅱ or Ⅲ studies are ongoing is counted by indication. Projects which have been suspended are excluded. ＊ Number of projects in which PhaseⅠ/Ⅱ studies or Phase Ⅱ/Ⅲ studies are ongoing is counted based on the current study stage. 99 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Oncology Area Major R&D Pipeline Development Stage Target Disease Region PhaseⅠ Phase Ⅱ Phase Ⅲ Filed Approved Lenvima®/Kisplyx® lenvatinib/E7080 Anticancer agent / kinase inhibitor In-house Oral agent ● U.S. August 2018 ● Hepatocellular carcinoma/First-line (Additional indication) Europe August 2018 ● (Co-development with Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. (U.S. Merck)) Asia (Korea) August 2018 ● China September 2018 Thyroid cancer (Additional indication) (Co-development with U.S. Merck) China Renal cell carcinoma/First-line (Additional indication) (In combination with anticancer agent Japan/U.S./ everolimus or anti-PD-1 antibody KEYTRUDA®) (Co-development with U.S. Merck) Europe Combination therapy with anti-PD-1 antibody KEYTRUDA® (Co-development with U.S. Merck) ● Japan/U.S./ Endometrial carcinoma/Second-line Europe ● Japan/U.S./ Endometrial carcinoma/First-line Europe/China ● Japan/U.S./ Hepatocellular carcinoma/First-line Europe/China ● U.S./Europe/ Melanoma/First-line China ● Japan/U.S./ Nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer/First-line Europe/China ● Japan/U.S./ Non-small cell lung cancer, PD-L1 positive /First-line Europe/China ● Japan/U.S./ Non-small cell lung cancer/Second-line Europe ● Japan/U.S./ Bladder cancer, cisplatin-ineligible /First-line Europe ● Melanoma/Second-line U.S./Europe ● Baskect trial for selected solid tumors (Triple negative breast cancer, ovarian cancer, gastric cancer, colorectal cancer, glioblastoma and biliary tract cancer) U.S./Europe Selected solid tumors (Endometrial cancer, renal cell carcinoma, head and neck U.S./Europe cancer, urothelial cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, melanoma) Japan Hepatocellular carcinoma Japan/U.S. Non-small cell lung cancer (RET translocations) (Additional indication) Japan/U.S./ (Co-development with U.S. Merck) Europe/Asia Biliary tract cancer (Additional indication) (Co-development with U.S. Merck) Japan Hepatocellular carcinoma (In combination with anti-PD-1 antibody nivolumab) Japan (Co-development with Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.) Halaven® eribulin/E7389 Anticancer agent / microtubule dynamics inhibitor In-house Injection ● Breast cancer China July 2019 Bladder cancer (Additional indication) U.S./Europe Triple negative breast cancer (In combination with anti-PD-1 antibody KEYTRUDA®) U.S. (Co-development with U.S. Merck) HER2-negative breast cancer (In combination with PEGPH20) U.S. (Co-development with Halozyme Therapeutics Inc.) ● Liposome formulation (Additional formulation) (In combination with anti-PD-1 antibody nivolumab) (Co-development with Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.) Japan Liposome formulation (Additional formulation) Japan/Europe Farletuzumab/MORAb-003 Anticancer agent / humanized anti-FRA monoclonal antibody In-house Injection Japan/U.S./ Platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer Europe MORAb-004 Anticancer agent / humanized anti-endosialin monoclonal antibody In-house Injection Melanoma U.S./Europe Amatuximab / MORAb-009 Anticancer agent / chimeric anti-mesothelin monoclonal antibody In-house Injection Mesothelioma U.S./Europe E7777 Anticancer agent / a fusion protein that combines the interleukin-2 receptor binding domain with diphtheria toxin fragments In-house Injection Peripheral T-cell lymphoma and cutaneous T-cell lymphoma Japan Tazemetostat/E7438 Anticancer agent / EZH2 inhibitor In-license (Epizyme Inc.) Oral agent Non-Hodgkin B-cell lymphoma Japan H3B-6545 Anticancer agent / ERα inhibitor In-house Oral agent Breast cancer U.S./Europe E7090 In-house Oral agent Solid tumors Japan 100 Company Introduction Management Strategies Value Creation Activities Business Base (ESG) Appendix Development Stage Target Disease Region PhaseⅠ Phase Ⅱ Phase Ⅲ Filed Approved H3B-6527 In-house Oral agent Hepatocellular carcinoma U.S./Europe H3B-8800 In-house Oral agent Blood cancer U.S./Europe E7386 Collaboration (PRISM BioLab Co., Ltd.) Oral agent Solid tumors Japan/Europe ● Solid tumors (In combination with Lenvima ® ) Japan MORAb-202 In-house Injection Solid tumors Japan E7130 Collaboration (Harvard University) Injection Solid tumors Japan Number of Projects in Oncology Area Projects which have made progress on development since fiscal year 2018 Others ▶Approved 5 5 ▶Filed 0 ▶Phase Ⅲ study 10 8 2 ▶Phase Ⅱ study 14 2 12 ▶Phase Ⅰ study 11 2 9 ＊ Number of projects that were approved or filed is counted by region. ＊ Number of projects in which PhaseⅠ, Ⅱ or Ⅲ studies are ongoing is counted by indication. ＊ Number of projects in which PhaseⅠ/Ⅱ studies or Phase Ⅱ/Ⅲ studies are ongoing is counted based on the current study stage. Gastrointestinal Disease Area Major R&D Pipeline Development Stage Target Disease Region PhaseⅠ Phase Ⅱ Phase Ⅲ Filed Approved MOVICOL®/AJG555 Chronic constipation treatment / polyethylene glycol preparation In-license (Norgine B.V.) Oral agent ● Chronic constipation (Co-development by EA Pharma and Mochida Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.) Japan September 2018 carotegrast methyl/AJM300 Ulcerative colitis treatment / α4 integrin antagonist In-house Oral agent Ulcerative colitis (Co-development with EA Pharma and Kissei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.) Japan E6007 Ulcerative colitis treatment / integrin activation inhibitor In-house Oral agent Ulcerative colitis (Development conducted by EA Pharma) Japan E3112 In-house Injection ● Liver disease (Development conducted by EA Pharma) Japan Research and development in the gastrointestinal disease area is mainly conducted by Eisai's subsidiary EA Pharma. Other Major R&D Pipeline Development Stage Target Disease Region PhaseⅠ Phase Ⅱ Phase Ⅲ Filed Approved Humira® adalimumab/D2E7 Fully human anti-TNFα monoclonal antibody In-license (AbbVie GK ) Injection ● Hidradenitis suppurativa (Additional indication) Japan February 2019 E6011 Anti-fractalkine antibody In-house Injection Rheumatoid arthritis Japan Crohn's disease (Development conducted by EA Pharma) Japan/Europe E6742 In-house Oral agent Autoimmune disease U.S. 101 Eisai Integrated Report 2019 Status of Shares (As of March 31, 2019) Authorized (common stock) 1,100,000,000 shares Issued 296,566,949 shares (including 10,046,253 shares of treasury stock) Number of shareholders 53,041 Transfer agent Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation ●Principal Shareholders Percentage held (Notes) Number of shares held 1Numbers of shares are rounded down to the nearest thousand. Shareholders (in thousands) of all shareholder 2 Indicates the top 10 shareholders in terms of percentage of the total voting rights (%) number of outstanding shares (excluding treasury stock). The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 33,741 11.78 3 The 10,046,000 shares (3.38%) of treasury stock are not included in this table as they do not have voting rights. 4 Although the following Large Shareholding Report (revised report) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 31,494 11.00 was received before the end of the fiscal year, in cases in which it is impossible to make confirmation with the shareholder registry for the end STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 505001 18,329 6.40 of the fiscal year, or in which the number of shares held is not ranked among the top 10, it is not included in the table. Further, the holding Nippon Life Insurance Company 12,281 4.29 percentage enclosed in parentheses is the percentage of the total number of outstanding shares (rounded down), including treasury stock. Saitama Resona Bank, Limited 7,300 2.55 (1) Including the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc., 4 companies jointly held 16,113,000 shares (5.43%) as of July 13, 2015 (July 21, 2015, Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. as trustee for Mizuho Revised Report) Bank, Ltd. Retirement Benefit Trust Account re-entrusted 5,437 1.89 (2) Including the Wellington Management Company, LLP, 2 companies by Mizuho Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. jointly held 27,087,000 shares (9.13%) as of July 31, 2015 (August 7, 2015, Revised Report) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 5) 4,697 1.64 (3) Including Mizuho Bank, Ltd., 2 companies jointly held 18,900,000 shares (6.37%) as of October 14, 2016 (October 21, 2016, Large Shareholding Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 7) 4,536 1.58 Report) (4) Vanguard Health Care Fund held 14,838,000 shares (5.00%) as of The Naito Foundation 4,207 1.46 November 24, 2016 (December 15, 2016, Large Shareholding Report) (5) Including BlackRock Japan Co., Ltd., 11 companies jointly held JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385151 4,092 1.42 18,308,000 shares (6.17%) as of August 15, 2017 (August 21, 2017, Large Shareholding Report) Total 126,116 44.06 (6) Nomura Asset Management Co., Ltd. held 14,963,000 shares (5.05%) as of March 15, 2018 (March 22, 2018, Large Shareholding Report) (7) Including Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited, 3 companies jointly held 15,967,000 shares (5.38%) as of December 14, 2018 (December 21, 2018, Large Shareholding Report) ●Trends in Ratio by Shareholder Type （％） 0 20 40 60 80 100 Fiscal 2017 44.6 27.6 14.6 7.1 2.6 3.4 Fiscal 2018 44.6 28.7 12.6 7.0 3.7 3.4 ■Financial institutions (Institutional Investors, etc.) ■Foreign entities, etc. ■Individuals, other ■Other companies ■Financial instruments traders (securities companies) ■Treasury stock ●Stock Price Trends (from April 1, 2009 to March 31, 2019) （％） 400 ー Eisai’s stock price ー TOPIX ー TOPIX Pharmaceutical 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Highest 3,675 yen 3,425 yen 3,385 yen 4,405 yen 4,675 yen 9,756 yen 9,024 yen 7,338 yen 7,148 yen 11,490 yen Lowest 2,620 yen 2,743 yen 2,832 yen 3,070 yen 3,600 yen 3,800 yen 6,633 yen 5,366 yen 5,402 yen 6,040 yen Closing price 3,335 yen 2,984 yen 3,290 yen 4,200 yen 4,018 yen 8,535 yen 6,770 yen 5,764 yen 6,781 yen 6,213 yen Note: The April 1, 2009, closing prices of Eisai’s stock price, TOPIX and TOPIX Pharmaceutical respectively represent the 100 shown in the line graph. ●TSR (Total Shareholder Return, %) Holding period 1 year 3 years 5 years 10 years Eisai 121.0 129.9 165.6 267.8 Nikkei Stock Average＊1 138.5 130.7 198.4 305.7 TOPIX＊2 128.5 117.3 172.2 253.3 Note: TSR is based on investment conducted at the closing price on March 31, 2009 ＊1 Source: Nikkei Indexes https://indexes.nikkei.co.jp/en/nkave/index/profile?idx=nk225tr ＊2 Source: JAPAN EXCHANGE GROUP https://www.jpx.co.jp/english/markets/statistics-equities/monthly/index.html Please refer to the Notice of Convocation of the 106th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders for the status of shares ▶ https://www.eisai.com/ir/stock/meeting/index.html 102 Corporate Information Corporate Data (As of March 31, 2019) Corporate Name Head Office Address Stock Exchange Listings Annual Shareholders’ Eisai Co., Ltd. 4-6-10, Koishikawa, Bunkyo-ku, Eisai common stock is listed on the Meeting Tokyo 112-8088, Japan Tokyo Stock Exchange. (Securities Held in June Date Founded Code Number: 4523) December 6, 1941 Paid-in Capital Independent Public ¥44,986 million Date for Settlement of Accountants Accounts Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC March 31 Major External Evaluations Listed as Most Honored Companies, As of July 2019 the ﬁrst place in Health Care & Pharmaceuticals by“Institutional Investor ” Selected within TOP3 for all ranking categoriesBest CEO, Best CFO, Best IR Professionals, Best IR Programs Listed as Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporation for the Fourth Time Highest Ranked Japanese Company in the global ranking by Canada-based media and investment advisory company, Corporate Knights, Inc. THE INCLUSION OF Eisai Co., Ltd. IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, FTSE Russell (the trading name of FTSE International Limited and Frank Russell Company) TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A confirms that Eisai has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF Eisai Co., Ltd. BY MSCI OR ANY OF and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND Created by the global index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE4Good Index Series is designed THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong Environmental, Social and OR ITS AFFILIATES. Governance (ESG) practices. The FTSE4Good indices are used by a wide variety of market participants to create and assess responsible investment funds and other products. Editor’s Note for Integrated Report 2019 We focused on following two points in this fifth our business. We have been making integrated report in order to obtain a better a continuous effort to improve these understanding of Eisai in mid-to-long term issues. We believe that it is the best perspective. measure for value creation over the midFirst, we focused on disclosing to-long term to share the issues and information for 10-year span. 10 years Years our effort with our stakeholders in this is not particularly a long period of time integrated reporting. for a pharmaceuticals company that has undertaken The discontinuation of development of Alzheimer’s new drug development over long period, but the last disease treatment aducanumab, announced in March 10 years was a turbulent period for us. After fiscal 2019, was a huge ordeal for us. Eisai will go through 2009 when we recorded peak sales, Eisai went more ordeals from now on. However, I believe that through a tough phase due to the loss of exclusivity in Eisai will be able to overcome various ordeals and major products. However, we came back to a growth create much more innovation that contributes to trajectory by launching in-house developed anticancer create value for patients, by utilizing our strengths agent Lenvima®, a crystallization of Eisai’s wisdom, described in the SWOT analysis, under the concept of and by making robust progress in partnership model. hhc philosophy. I strongly hope that Eisai will be able I felt proud of our employees who continued their to make a significant contribution to the creation of effort to create innovation in the difficult business next-generation dementia treatments, which has been environment. all humankind’s long-cherished wish. Secondly, we focused on describing not only positive elements but also a variety of issues in (Chief Editor of Integrated Report 2019) Investor Relations For further Eisai Co., Ltd. information 4-6-10, Koishikawa, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 112-8088, Japan TEL : 0120-745-040 103 Eisai Integrated Report 2019
