Creating Sustainable Value CPF Financial Services Integrated Report & Financial Statements 2018 1 Integrated Report and Financial Statements OUR VISION Fulﬁlling Lives OUR MISSION To provide innovative retirement, Financial, infrastructural and consulting solutions through partnerships that safeguard the interests of all stakeholders. CORE VALUES Team spirit Innovativeness Professionalism Integrity Customer Focus 2 Integrated Report and Financial Statements CONTENT 02 Vision & Mission 03 Table of Contents 04 Notice of the Annual General Meeting 05 Directors and Professional Advisors 06 CPF Financial Service at a Glance 07 Our Purpose and Values 08 Board fo Directors 09 Message from the Chairperson 12 Management Team 13 Message from the the Group Managing Director/CEO 16 Other Material Issues 17 Creating Sustainable Value 21 Corporate Governance Statement 26 Report of the Directors 29 Statement of Directors Responsibility 30 Independent Auditors’ Report 34 Statements of Profit or Loss and other Comprehensive Income 35 Statements of financial Position 37 Statements of Change in Equity 38 Statements of Cash Flows 39 Notes to the Financial Statements 3 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notice of the Annual General Meeting TO ALL SHAREHOLDERS NOTICE is hereby given that the 5th Annual General Meeting of CPF Financial Services will be held at CPF House, 7th Floor, Haile Selassie Avenue, Nairobi on Tuesday, 28 May 2019 at 11.00 a.m. to transact the following ordinary business:1.To read the notice convening the meeting, table the proxies received and confirm the presence of a quorum; 2. To confirm and adopt the minutes of the Annual General Meeting held on 20th December 2018; 3. To receive the Chairman’s Statement and the Chief Executive’s Report; 4. To receive, consider and if thought fit, adopt the Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31st December, 2018, together with the Director’s and Auditors reports therein; 5. To consider and if deemed fit approve the recommendation of the Board on the first and final dividend of Kshs 149.7 per share in respect of the Financial Year ended 31 December 2018; 6.To receive, consider and if thought fit approve the Director’s remuneration for the year ending 31st December, 2018; 7. Election of Directors a) In accordance with Articles 115 and 116 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. John Katiku retires by rotation and, having served for two terms of 3 years each, retires from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of 2019; b) Having received a nomination letter from Laptrust and the subsequent recommendation by the Board, Ms. Matilda Chebet Kimetto be and is hereby appointed as a Board member for CPF Financial Services Limited effective the conclusion of this AGM; 8. To re-appoint Messrs. Deloitte & Touché as Auditors of the Company in accordance with the provisions of Section 721 (2) of the Companies Act, 2015 and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration for the ensuing financial year. 9. To discuss any other business of which due notice has been given. BY ORDER OF THE BOARD ISAAC K. MITEI COMPANY SECRETARY NAIROBI Date: 07 MAY 2019 4 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Directors and Professional Advisors DIRECTORS Dr Julius Kipngetich Chairman Hosea Kili Group Managing Director & CEO Stephen Lugalia John Katiku Catherine Nyambala Sahlan Keinan Rosemary Ndiritu SECRETARY Isaac Mitei Certified Public Secretary (Kenya) R/CPSB/2873 P.O Box 28938, 00200 Nairobi REGISTERED OFFICE CPF House, 7th floor Haille Sellasie Avenue P O Box 28938, 00200 Nairobi BANKERS Stanbic Bank Limited Family Bank Limited Harambee Avenue Branch CPF House P O Box 72833, 00200 P.O Box 74145, 00200 Nairobi Nairobi AUDITORS Deloitte & Touche Certified Public Accountants (Kenya) Deloitte Place Waiyaki Way, Muthangari P O Box 40092, 00100 Nairobi ADVOCATES Hamilton Harrison and Mathews Wekesa &Simiyu Advocates Kiplagat & Co. Advocates ICEA Building ACK Garden House NSSF Building, 11th Floor Kenyatta Avenue 2nd Floor, Wing C Block A, Eastern Wing P O Box 30333, 00100 1st Ngong Avenue P O Box 3642, 00200 Nairobi P O Box 10299, 00100 Nairobi Nairobi 5 Intergrated Report and Integrated Report and Financial Statements CPF Financial Services at a Glance CPF Financial Services Ltd (hereafter referred to as ‘the company’) was incorporated on 16th June 2011 and started operations on 1st January, 2012. The company is wholly owned by the Local Authorities Pension Trust, the Laptrust Umbrella Retirement Fund (County Pension Fund) and CPF Individual Pension Plan. It is a holding company, with subsidiary companies being Laser Infrastructure and Technology Solutions, Laser Property Services, and Laser Insurance Brokers. The company was set up with the primary objective of offering Scheme Administration, Training and Consultancy services. As an investment of the CPF Group pension schemes, the company provides an avenue for investment in new ventures while enhancing corporate governance and strategic autonomy for the Group’s entities. The company operates 9 regional offices across the republic of Kenya, and serves clientele from across the 47 Counties. CPF Financial Services has a staff contingent of 235 professionals drawn from a diverse areas of practice. Nakuru Eldoret Tamoh Plaza, 1st Flr Zion Mall, 1st Flr, Uganda Rd Next to Prestige Mall P.O Box 8805Eldoret Tel:+254-2046901-5 Tel:+254-2046901-5 M: +254-720 433 354 M: +254-720 433 354 Email: nakuru@cpf.or.ke Email: eldoret@cpf.or.ke Kisumu Central Square Building, 2nd Flr, Oginga Odinga Street Nyeri P.O Box 7468-40100,,Kisumu Karagu Annex, 2nd Flr Tel:+254-2046901-5 Tel: +254-2046901-5 M: +254-720 433 354 M: +254-720 433 354 Email: kisumu@cpf.or.ke Email: nyeri@cpf.or.ke Bungoma Garissa New Island Building, 1st Flr Immigration House, Ground Flr Next to the county Govt Office Tel:+254-2046901-5 P.O Box 8805Eldoret M: +254-720 433 354 Tel:+254-2046901-5 Email: garissa@cpf.or.ke M: +254-720 433 354 Email: bungoma@cpf.or.ke Meru Amee Center, 1st flr Head Office Opposite Barclays Bank, Meru Nairobi Tel:+254-2046901-5 CPF House, 7th Flr M: +254-720 433 354 Haile Selassie Avenue, Email: meru@cpf.or.ke P.O Box, 28938-00200 Nairobi, Tel: +254-20-46901-5 / 720-433354, Mombasa Email: info@cpf.or.ke Jubilee Arcade, Moi Avenue P.O Box 82429-80100, ,Mombasa Tel: +254-2046901-5 M: +254-720 433 354 Email: mombasa@cpf.or.ke 6 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Our Purpose and Values Our Brand Promise The essence of our brand is Fulfilling Lives. OUR FOOTPRINT Employee Retirement Individual Pension Plans Benefits Solutions Scheme Administration Training & Consultancy 5 Schemes administered 1. Laptrust Defined Benefits Scheme 2. Laptrust Umbrella Retirement Fund (County Pension Fund) DC Scheme 3. Salih (A Shariah Compliant Sub-Fund of the DC Scheme) 4. CPF Individual Pension Scheme 1 CPF Trust fund 5. Ewaso Ngiro Development Authority(ENSDA) Pre-Retirement Training Transformational Leadership Performance Management EDMS & Paperless Office Training Smart Caretaker Programs Effective Public Private Partnerships Block Chain 7 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Board fo Directors Dr Julius Kipngetich Chairman Hosea Kili Group Managing Director & CEO Stephen Lugalia Director Rosemary Ndiritu Director Catherine Nyambala Director Sahlan Keinan Director John Katiku Director 8 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Message from the Chairperson “ We have been able to provide the necessary impetus for diversified growth that ensures long-term profitability for the Group as envisaged in the 2018-2020 Strategic Plan. ” As Chairman of the Board of CPF Financial Services, By redirecting the focus to the various revenue lines, I am once again pleased to present the Group including Scheme Administration, Consultancy and Intergrated Report and Accounts for the financial Training, we have been able to provide the necesperiod ended 31 December, 2018. sary impetus for diversified growth that ensures long-term profitability for the Group as envisaged in The immensely significant decision by the Board to the 2018-2020 Strategic Plan. diversify into other revenue streams back in 2013 has led to improved performance and positive inBanking on the lessons learnt and the strong stakevestment returns across the group. holder networks developed over the years, we are confident that CPF Financial Services is on the right Overall, the strategy was aimed at ensuring that the path to greater growth. company, as well as each subsidiary provide products and services that bridge the needs gap within The company remains steadfast in its mission to our areas of operations, enhance revenue generamaximize shareholder value by optimizing internal tion while at the same time building on the compecompetencies, leveraging on technology and innotencies that the Group had identified. vation as a medium of performance and; creating an organizational culture that attracts, motivates and I am happy to report that the subsidiary companies retains top talent. namely: Laser Property Services (LPS), Laser Insurance Brokers (LIB), Laser Infrastructure and Technology Solutions (LITES); all of which were rolledout to support revenue generation for CPF Financial Services, not only enabled us to expand into new markets with new product lines and services, but have all also posted positive returns. 9 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Message from the Chairperson (continued) In the year under review, we made great strides to In order to achieve the purpose as encapsulated in secure our leadership position in the social security the Mission Statement, CPF Financial Services Ltd sector. Corporate governance remained a core pillar will seek to attain the under-listed four key Strategic of growth for the organization and this was made Goals in the period 2018-2020: even stronger by the on boarding of CPF into the • Enhance Investment Returns; Blue Company Initiative, an initiative of volunteer • Increase Market share in all identified revenue corporations and institutions who have the public streams; interest at heart with the objective of encouraging • Optimize Organizational Capacity; companies to conduct business ethically and fight • Foster Customer Experience and other Stakecorruption in all its forms. holders Engagement. Driven by the strong imperative to serve and fulfill Additionally, CPF Financial Services also became an the lives of our stakeholders, 48 % of the strategic active member of the United Nations Global Complan 2018 -2020 had been implemented as at Depact; a voluntary initiative where the CPF Financial cember 31, 2018. Services Group CEO joined other CEO’s around the world in committing to support implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s). Appreciation CPF Financial Services had embraced internationTo our key stakeholders, business partners and esal benchmarking standards on quality management teemed clients, your continued support and belief for over a decade. In the year under review, we in our strategy has been vital to the attainment of achieved yet another important milestone: the atCPF’s goals, objectives and successes. For this we tainment of ISO 9001:2015 certification. The certifiremain forever grateful. cation, awarded by the Kenya Bureau of Standards (KEBS) affirms CPF Financial Services’ position as a We have a great team across our employees, the benchmark for quality management in business proleadership team including the Directors of our cesses and practices. Subsidiaries all who have been instrumental in the achievement of these milestones. I express my apThe Company continues to work closely with corpopreciation to each one of them and look forward to rate partners, clients, County Governments, and the our continued engagement in the coming year to National Government to ensure that we remain on ensure we continue to give each of our stakeholders the path to achieving our mandate; that of fulfilling every reason to be confident in us. the lives of those who interact with our products and services. I would also like to appreciate our shareholder Laptrust DB Scheme for believeing in our Vision. We 2018-2020 STRATEGIC PLAN assure you that your investment and subsequently members’ interests are in good hands. In 2013 the Directors purposed to diversify into other Thank you. revenue streams, with the aim of enhancing revenue and taking advantage of the competencies that had been developed over time. This dream remains ever so true with revenue lines namely: Laser Property Services Ltd (Laser), Laser Insurance Brokers Ltd (LIB), Laser Infrastructure and Technology Solutions Dr. Julius Kipng’etich, CBS Ltd (LITES) having been incorporated to support ChairmanCPF Financial Services Ltd revenue generation for CPF Financial Services Ltd. 10 Integrated Report and Financial Statements “ Growth is never by mere chance; it is the result of forces working together. Benjamin Franklin 11 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Management Team HOSEA KILI, OGW JOSEPH RONO CHRISTINE NYAMWANDA Group Managing Director/ CEO Director Strategy, Finance and Investments Director Operations and Marketing ISAAC MITEI IRENE MBONGE EBLA MOHAMMED Group Head of Legal & Company Secretary Group Head of Corporate Communication and Group Head of Human Resource & Administration Public Affairs SOSPETER THIGA CORNELIUS NDUMAI TONY OLANG Group Head of Risk and Compliance Group Head of Internal Audit Head of Laser Infrastructure & Technology Solutions JONATHAN MARUCHA SHAFANA RAJANI Executive Director General Manager Laser Insurance Brokers Laser Property Services 12 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Message from the the Group Managing Director/CEO “evident From a strategic perspective, it is that the company will continue to deliver improved and accel” erated growth for the current year. It gives me great pleasure to present to you the 2018 Performance Highlights CPF Financial Services report and an overview of The year under review saw the company deliver a the performance and operations of CPF Financial strong set of results against a backdrop of a chalServices for the year ended 31 December 2018. lenging economic environment. Critical to the good performance was keeping our clients and stakeholdLocal and global socio-economic realities of 2016 ers at the heart of everything we do and adherence and 2017 were instrumental in shaping the growth to the Triple bottom line; People, Planet, Profits. path of CPF Financial Services. Rising political risks, the looming Brexit, disimal performance by the fiThe Profit before tax as at December 31, 2018 was nancial services sector, as well as an increase in cyKsh.226,740,000 an increase from the 2017 figures bercrime played a major role in shaping the global which were reported at Ksh.190,878,000; an ineconomic outlook, which remained uneven and uncrease of 18.7%. spectacular throughout the year. The total Assets for the company increased from CPF Financial Services remains robust despite the Ksh.602, 858, 000 to Ksh. 730,235,000 in the finanbackdrop of economic uncertainty and financial volcial period 2018. atility. From a strategic perspective, it is evident that the company will continue to deliver improved and This was a commendable performance given the accelerated growth for the current year. economic growth projections for the year was at a suppressed 4.7%, compared to the current year where growth is projected to hit 5.3%. 13 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Message from the Group Managing Director/CEO (continued) THE CPF TRUST FUND FUND STATISTICS Our society is plagued with lots of family feuds The Trust Fund has grown both in fund size and arising from ignorance of existence of trusts which membership, since its establishment from the inaucan professionally and amicably handle estates of gural number of 3 members only to current mempersons who die intestate. Setting up of a trust is bership of 301 as at 31st December 2018. one of the solutions to minimize occurrence of unclaimed assets whose beneficiaries are most likely The fund value as at 31st December 2018 stood at languishing in poverty. Ksh.437,781,894 and the same is projected to grow exponentially as the Trust Fund embarks on active The CPF Trust Fund was established in February awareness and marketing campaign. 2014. This was as a result of the many disputes arising from guardians, formally appointed or othGrowth of CPF Trust Fund Over the Years erwise fighting to take care of minors left behind by 400 deceased members. In most cases, such benefits easily end up in the hands of relatives who might not 300 Number of Members be competent or willing to use them for the good of 200 the real beneficiaries. 100 In light of the Group’s Vision “Fulfilling Lives” the the Directors found it prudent to establish a Trust Fund 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 to take care of the school fees & medical needs for Year minors of client schemes’ deceased members until such a time that they attain majority status. CLAIMS REPORT As administrators, we strive to provide uninterruptThe following are the total payments made since ed professional management of the CPF Trust Fund inception up to 31st December 2018 for the different for the education and maintenance of the beneficategories; ciaries. The Trust fund aims to take the headache off the individuals involved, on how best to allocate benefits among dependents by applying the legally Amount recognized principles. Category (Ksh) School Fees 83,703,992.00 Through the CPF Trust Fund, the correct individuals are identified and derive the benefit; ensuring reMedical Expenses duced administration costs, while minimizing comUpkeep 4,542,981 plex administrative issues like having independent School Related Expenses 1,600,593 custodians and fund managers on board to ensure that the Trust is managed in the best interest of the Books 77,389 beneficiaries. Uniform 68,790 Others 2,080,462 Reimbursement 1,660,139 Final Payouts 5,330,668 Land purchase 4,680,000 Total Payouts Made since Inception 103,745,014 14 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Message from the Group Managing Director/CEO (continued) CLAIMS REPORT (continued) FUTURE PROSPECTS AND STRATEGY The Fund pays medical claims, school fees and at CPF Financial Services operates in a dynamic busisome instances has purchased property to help the ness environment with numerous shifts frequently beneficiaries establish themselves economically. redefining the business-scape. Changing tastes and The Fund has also assisted some beneficiaries to preferences of customers, intense competition, alrelocate to their rural home to help in cutting living terations in attitudes and moral values and a myriad costs in order to stretch longevity of the funds as of other economic factors and Government policies much as possible, for the benefit of the dependents. and regulations impact the business in one way or another. THE TRUST FUND GROWTH STRATEGY Therefore, the success of CPF Financial Services It is envisaged that for the Trust to have the desirable will depend on its ability to foresee the environmenimpact as envisioned by the Sponsor, the following tal changes and to modify its strategies appropriateare some of the potential clients;ly with internal and external environmental changes. • Other pension funds The legal and regulatory environment in which the • Partnerships with insurance firms to point their business operates is characterized by legislation group life beneficiaries to the Trust Fund that allows little room for innovation and advocates • County Government bursary funds where we for strict adherence to the law, some of which may can provide administration service for the bursary. be outdated given the time in which they were enThis will enhance transparency and accountability acted. The County Pension Bills remain a key factor for the counties and allay the burden of the day which may impact on the company administration to day operations. However the counties to still business; and as such continues to be a key item be in charge of identifying the beneficiaries of the of focus. With several Bills having been floated and bursaries. discussed in the year under review, the situation re• Members of the public who wish to donate to mains fluid and the company remains alert to the charities of their choice happenings within the legislative and government • Members of the public who want to ensure circles, and continues to proactively engage stakeposterity of their family vision within their holders in order to safeguard the gains made over generation the past years. • Chairpersons of funeral committees where there are orphans who are of school going age Going by the growth trajectory witnessed over the last 4 years, and the marketing strategies that management has put in place, the CPF Trust Fund is expected to be a game changer; helping Kenyans do HOSEA KILI, OGW better estate planning for their beneficiaries across Group Managing Director / CEO the divide. Growth is expected to be not only our CPF Financial Services Ltd scheme’s membership, but from the general public as well. 15 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Other Material Issues RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) CPF Financial Services Limited (the company) has The business continuity framework is benchmarked put in place a robust Enterprise Risk Management against ISO 22301. Framework (ERMF) to guide it’s core functions In relation to compliance with the key regulator – the along the agreed risk appetite thresholds. Risk Retirement Benefits Authority, the company continis an ever present occurrence and has to be ued to ensure compliance with all regulatory requirecontinually managed and contained. CPF has ments. As an administrator, the company also plays used the Committee of Sponsoring Organization an active role in ensuring that all it clients schemes (COSO) enterprise risk management Standard and are fully compliant with Laws, Regulations and StatISO 31000 as the benchmarks for its own ERMF. utory requirements across the industry. CPF evaluates risks based on the following broad categories: ISO 9001:2015 CERTIFICATION Governance & Strategy Risks – these risks may ISO 9001:2015 recognizes organizations that link hamper the Company’s Stakeholders and Custombusiness objectives to operating efficiency, and ers holistically if not well managed. Any risk that has is the world’s most popular management system far reaching effect on the Company and its going standard used by over one million organizations concern assumption may be classified under this around the world, helping them run more effectively category. and systematically. Financial & Funding Risks – these risks involve the The award of this standard, therefore, signals the Company’s ability to harness resources to run its commitment that the company has towards our operations as well as its ability to safeguard existing customers including the effective documentation resources from loss, inflation, and other economic and management of records on their behalf. It furand human factors. ther means that CPF Financial Services has a clear policy framework enabling prudent planning and imOperational & Infrastructure Risks – these risks inplementation at all levels. volve the three faceted approach of people, processes and technology which essentially run the day to day Company operations. A failure in any of these poses grave risk to the Company’s ability to meet its strategic objectives. Compliance & Regulatory Risks – these risks involve possible non-compliance with industry regulations and Country Laws. CPF is primarily regulated by the Retirement Benefits Authority and as such there are far reaching regulations that it should strictly adhere to. During the year under review, a few key risks for the company materialized but were however managed. The Company continues to manage risks proactively and reports to the different Boards/clients on a quarterly basis. The company also continues to run a fully-fledged disaster recovery center aimed at ensuring business is not interrupted in case the head office is inaccessible. 16 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Creating Sustainable Value At CPF Financial Services, we actively seek to creOur formalized strategy at CPF Financial Services is emate sustainable value through our business activities bodied by our sustainability statement: – for our customers, employees, shareholders and “ society. We have embraced sustainability as a value that motivates and inspires our business undertakings. At CPF Financial Services we seek to fulfill the lives of our stakeholders and the community In 2018, we made clear progress in implementing at large by conducting our business in a soour sustainability strategy. We have taken a major cially, environmentally and ethically responsible step in this direction by training all our employees manner. We strive to continually employ a to become Sustainability Ambassadors. This means that we have anchored our commitment to sustainsustainable business model in order to confer ” able action even more firmly in our corporate cullong-term benefits. ture and into the day-to-day activities of every single employee. Labour Why We Care about Sustainability The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), speBeing in the Financial Services sector, and as a cifically Goal No.8 seeks to: “Promote sustained, pension and retirement benefits administrator, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and we aim to create measureable value for society. productive employment and decent work for all”. Access to social security allows people to protect themselves from risk and helps them become, and At CPF Financial Services, our operations do not remain, prosperous and resilient in old age. Even pose a significant risk for forced and compulsory lamore importantly, it alleviates old-age poverty. bor. Even so, we do have policies and programs to protect against such occurrences. For project work It is important to appreciate that risks associated that takes place in countries where there are possiwith the pension and retirement benefits sectors are ble risks in our supply chain, our Code of Business fast becoming more complex and interconnected as Conduct communicates our expectations and spea result of climate change, globalization, urbanizacifically prohibits forced and compulsory labor. tion and technological development. As a player in Kenya’s pension sector, we are increasingly expectIn addition, CPF Financial Services has a compreed to use our core capabilities to help communities hensive Harassment and Discrimination Policy that and society become more resilient to these interprohibits harassment or discrimination of employconnected risks. ees based on characteristics such as race, ethnicity, sex, gender, color, creed, religious beliefs, citizenPeople worldwide are increasingly concerned about ship status, national origin, age, marital status, sexthe state of the environment. Client demand for ual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, sustainable solutions is on the rise. For these and or disability. other reasons, CPF Financial Services signed on to the United Nations Global Compact. We support its foundational principles that affirm the importance of human rights, ethical labor practices, the environment, anti-corruption, and support of the Sustainable Development Goals. 17 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Creating Sustainable Value (continued) Environment Environment (continued) CPF Financial Services’ environmental commitOnce completed, Ololua Ridge, which will comprise ments, which are consistent with our Sustainabili30 Luxury Homesteads will have picnic areas, walkty Policy; Health, Safety, Security, and Environment ing trails, a club house and a playground for all ages. Policy; and ISO 9001:2015, help the Company monThe design of the project aims to preserve the green itor compliance with environmental regulations and spaces and offer functionality and monetary value to reduce the environmental impacts of our operations. future owners. The project has maintained over 70% We actively track and report our carbon footprint of the tree cover as at the time of breaking ground; and have programs in place to conserve resources. and in addition, more trees have been planted within The year ended December 31st 2018 saw CPF Fithe parcel to ensure preservation of the natural ennancial Services officially hand over the Freedom vironment. Heights Mall to the mall’s anchor tenant – Naivas Supermarket. The Freedom Heights Mall complex is Anti-bribery and anti-corruption an investment of the LAPTRUST Scheme, a scheme administered by CPF Financial Services and will CPF Financial Services is committed to fair and rehost a supermarket and over 50 businesses includsponsible business and prohibits all forms of bribery ing banks, clinics, restaurants and retails stores. or corruption, and any business conduct that could create the appearance of improper influence. Our The mall is adjacent to the Freedom Heights apartanti-bribery and anti-corruption policy sets out our ment blocks consisting of 252 modern housing units global framework addressing the common areas of and the anchor tenant, Naivas Supermarket, is set risk. In the year under review, CPF Financial Servicto take up approximately 20,000 square feet in the es was among the first members of the Blue Commall. The building incorporates various sustainable pany Initiative a private-sector-led initiative that technologies that include: solar water heating sysaims to enroll entities that practice clean business tems, metered piped gas and energy saving design with the aim of encouraging a corruption free envithrough provision of adequate natural lighting & ronment and the building of a sustainable business ventilation and a water recycling system. environment in Kenya. In the year under review, CPF Group via its subsidAdditionally, we are continually working to improve iary LITES, partnered with Global Access Networks policies, processes and guidelines for managing Ltd on the Last Mile Project. The Last Mile Project sustainability issues in the supply chain. To this end, is a Government of Kenya programme that is aimed CPF Financial Services ensures that sustainability at facilitating the objective of affordably connecting is an integral part of its sourcing and procurement Kenyan households to the national network grid. function to ensure that we are able to uphold our This is geared towards achieving a national conneccommitment to sustainability through the products tivity as part of the government’s goal of universal and services we purchase, and contractual agreeaccess to electricity by 2020. ments we enter into. Moreover, in the year under review, CPF Financial We incorporate environmental, social and governServices also broke ground on the Ololua Ridge ance criteria to assess the goods and services we project, on behalf of its client scheme Laptrust, laybuy, in line with best value and in compliance with ing great emphasis on preservation of the natural relevant legislation. We also ensure relevant sustainenvironment on which the project sits. The project ability clauses are included in contracts with supplisits on over 20 acres and is located in Nairobi’s upers, such as ethical conduct and labor, health and market Karen area. safety and environmental standards. 18 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Creating Sustainable Value (continued) Anti-bribery and anti-corruption (continued) Foster customer experience and other stakeholder Over the years CPF Financial Services has adoptengagement, this requires us to foster and maintain ed various initiatives as drivers of business. These a favorable business operating environment for CPF include the Organizational Performance Index, Financial Services and to achieve a customer satisChampions of Governance and Blue Company Infaction rating of 90%. itiative. With a view of formalizing our sustainability initiative, CPF Financial Services in 2018 signed We appreciate that sustainability remains a journey, up to The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), not a destination and integrating the Sustainable which is the world’s largest corporate sustainability Development Goals into our daily operations has initiative that calls on companies to align strategies been both an inspiring and a humbling process. and operations with universal principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and We are happy to report that we have fully embraced take actions that advance societal goals. the SDGs, and appreciate that there is plenty of room to do more in this regard. We are cognizant Protection of Human Rights of the challenges facing the world today, and especially the poor among us. We are, however, enerProtection of human rights is embedded into CPF gized more by the opportunities the SDGs present Financial Services’ corporate systems and policies, for economic empowerment. including our Code of Conduct Policy, Equal Employment Opportunity Practices as well as Harassment and Discrimination Policy. CPF Financial Services has systems and processes in place to comply with the Kenya’s human rights statutes. Furthermore, as a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we commit to its human rights and labor principles. At CPF Financial Services, we respect the rights of our employees to freedom of association. We also encourage and support diversity in gender, race and ethnicity. Future Outlook Our sustainability approach is tied to our corporate strategy which has four strategic goals: Enhance investment returns, which requires us to increase turnover for competitive returns to our shareholders; Increase Market Share, which requires us to expand our scheme administration market share from current 3% to 10% and grow brand perception to 80%; Optimize Organizational Capacity, this calls on us to enhance productivity and institutional efficiency and to reduce our cost to income ratio; 19 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Creating Sustainable Value Labour CPF Financial Services has a comprehensive Harassment and Discrimination Policy that prohibits harassment or discrimination of employees based on characteristics such as race, ethnicity, sex, gender, color, creed, religious beliefs, citizenship status, national origin, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or disability. Environment CPF Financial Services’ environmental commitments, which are consistent with our Sustainability Policy; Health, Safety, Security, and Environment Policy; and ISO 9001:2015, help the Company monitor compliance with environmental regulations and reduce the environmental impact of our operations. Anti-bribery and anti-corruption CPF Financial Services is committed to fair and responsible business and prohibits all forms of bribery or corruption, and any business conduct that could create the appearance of improper influence. Protection of Human Rights As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we commit to its human rights and labor principles. 20 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Corporate Governance Statement Principles of Corporate Governance Board Charter Corporate governance defines the process and the The board charter which acts as a reference guide structure used to direct and manage the business for the Directors was inspired by the dictates of good affairs of an institution with the aim of enhancing corporate governance. It stipulates the individual corporate accountability and shareholders’ long and collective responsibilities, powers, duties, term value while taking into account the interest of obligations and the liabilities of the Directors. It sets other stakeholders. out the roles and responsibilities of directors which include but are not limited to: The Board of Directors is responsible for the Governance of the Company and is committed to ensuring 1. Strategic role which involves making significant that its business operations are conducted with the decisions regarding the company’s vision, mission highest degree of integrity and in compliance with and strategies; the law, internationally accepted principles and the 2. Oversight role which is the overseeing the implebest practices of corporate governance and busimentation of the strategic plan and ensuring that ness ethics. The Board also focuses on a corporate the objectives stated therein are achieved; agenda that maximizes shareholder value, increases 3. Stewardship role that include protecting and profitability and guarantees a sustainable business. serving public interest and is so doing, enhancing To this end, the Board has ensured that policies and the company’s public image both locally and overstrategies have been put in place to ensure that the sees; company’s objectives aimed at promoting and pro4. Fiduciary role that involves ensuring the board’s tecting shareholder value are achieved. compliance with their legal, statutory and equitable duties when discharging their responsibilities; The Company also has put in place processes, sys5. The board also has the role of approving the tems, practices and procedures, which are regularly company’s financial statements, annual work plans reviewed and updated embracing the changing coras well as annual budgets; porate environment and world trends. In this respect, 6. Reviewing the company’s Enterprise Risk Manthe Board confirms that the Company complies with agement Framework and monitoring the compaall the relevant Legal and Regulatory requirements ny’s risk register. including the provisions of the Retirement Benefits Act and the Regulations issued by the Retirement The Manual also details the governance processes Benefits Authority. used to fulfill the roles and responsibilities above. The Manual provides policy direction on issues of Adherence to universally accepted corporate govaccountability, transparency, value addition, legiternance practices is a norm to us and these princiimacy, and overall credibility and business operaples have been integrated into the Company’s value tions of the Company as a learning organization. system to inculcate a positive corporate culture that reflects CPF as a learning organization. The princiThe Board is also guided by the Company’s Memples and standards adhered to by the Board have orandum and Articles of Association to formulate been developed with close reference to guidelines strategies and policies that help focus on optimizon corporate governance issued by the Centre for ing value for various stakeholders like client scheme Corporate Governance, Institute of Certified Secremembers, staff, shareholders (Trustees) and the sotaries, Kenya (ICS), the Mwongozo code of Governciety at large ance for state corporations and international best practices. 21 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Corporate Governance Statement The Board Board Responsibilities (continued) Attendance at statutory & special meetings in 2018 The CPF Board is established under the legal Name 29.03 27.6 28.6 29.6 20.7 22.08 03.10 20.12 provisions outlined in the Company’s Memorandum 1. Julius √ √ √ √ & Articles of Association as produced and registered Kipngetich under the Companies Act, Cap 486 (now repealed) 2. Rosemary √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ of the Laws of Kenya. As a matter of principle, Ndiritu the appointment to the Board of Directors is done 3. Catherine √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ through an effective process to ensure that a Nyambala balanced mix of proficient individuals is made and 4. Stephen √ √ √ √ √ √ √ that each of those appointed is able to add value to Lugalia the Company’s strategic and policy decision making 5. Sahlan √ √ √ √ √ √ √ processes. Keinan 6. John Katiku √ √ √ √ √ √ √ The names of the directors who held office in the 7. Hosea Kili √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ year and to the date of this report are as set out below;Board Independence 1. Rosemary Nduku Ndiritu The Board has set functional structures and 2. Catherine Nyambala standards to ensure the Directors are independent 3. Sahlan Keinan in decision making. The best corporate governance 4. Hosea Kili, OGW practices require that a Director remains independent 5. John Katiku of management and free of any business or 6. Stephen Lugalia other relationship that could materially interfere 7. Dr. Julius Kipngetich ,CBS, EBS – Board Chairman. with exercising their independent judgment. The Board Manual stipulates governance roles and Board Responsibilitie responsibilities of the Directors (Board), Chairperson and the CEO/GMD. The roles are separate though The primary role of the Board is to ensure longcomplementary in practice. As a matter of emphasis: term wealth and prosperity of the Company for the The Board Chairperson provides overall leadership to benefit of Shareholders, customers, employees the Board without limiting the principles of collective and other stakeholders. The Board is responsible responsibility for Board decisions; the CEO/GMD is for policy formulation; Strategic Leadership and responsible to the Board and takes responsibility Planning; Resource Mobilization and Project for the effective and efficient management of the management; Decision making; Compliance and Company operations. The Board evaluates the Risk Characterization; Monitoring Progress and performance of the Group Managing Director Direction of Executive Performance. annually to ensure this is in tandem with the principal objectives of the Company The Board generally meets Four times a year (Once every quarter) and additionally when necessary, to consider all matters relating to the overall control, business performance and strategy of the Company and in succession planning. The Chairman chairs the Board whereas the Group Managing Director/CEO leads the management of the Company. 22 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Corporate Governance Statement Board Committees Board Committees The Board Committees are constituted by the Board The principal purpose of the Finance, Investment, which sets out the responsibilities delegated by the Staff & General Purposes Committee is to Board to the Committee and the Committee’s strucoversee the financial strategies and objectives ture and operation. The role of a Committee is to of the Company including matters relating to operate within the terms of its charter and to make governance, finance, investments, staff and general recommendations to the Board for ratification or to administration and accordingly advise the Board. determine on behalf of the Board certain matters The overall functions of the Committee is to assist with prior approval of the Board. The Board Comthe Board in fulfilling its corporate governance and mittees report to the Board. oversight responsibilities in relation to the day-today financial operations and controls including: recommending the annual budget, monitoring The Committees of the Board are currently two bethe production of management accounts, the ing the Audit & Risk Management Committee and approval of operational financial systems, treasury the Finance, Investment, Staff & General Purposes management controls and policy, procurements Committee. oversight, oversee investment accounts, approve appointment of auditors, oversee staff matters and The Audit & Risk Management Committee is mancorporate governance. dated to raise the standards of corporate governance by reviewing the quality and effectiveness of The Committee comprises of the following memthe internal control systems, the internal and exterbers: nal audit functions and the quality of financial re1. Rosemary Ndiritu – Chair porting. In addition to advising the Board on best 2. Stephen Lugalia practice, the committee also monitors manage3. Sahlan Keinan ment’s compliance with relevant legislation, regula4. Mr. Hosea Kili, OGW tions and guidelines as well as the Company’s laid down policies and procedures. The committee has Attendance of meetings direct access to the Audit function. Name 12.03 20.03 05.06 18.06 22.06 1. Rosemary √ √ √ √ √ The Committee comprises of the following memNdiritu bers: 2. Stephen √ √ √ √ √ Lugalia 1. Catherine Nyambala; 2. John Katiku; 3. Sahlan Keinan √ √ √ √ 3. Hosea Kili, 4. Hosea Kili √ √ √ √ √ 4. Isabel JumaCo-opted Member Attendance of meetings Attendance of meetings Name 05.09 13.09 14.09 10.12 19.12 Name 15.03 27.03 13.06 19.09 10.12 1. Rosemary √ √ √ √ √ Ndiritu 1. Catherine Nyambala 2. Stephen √ √ √ √ √ 2. John Katiku Lugalia 3. Isabel Juma 3. Sahlan Keinan √ √ √ √ √ 4. Hosea Kili 4. Hosea Kili √ √ √ √ √ 5. Hosea Kili 23 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Corporate Governance Statement Board Chairman Conflict of Interest The Chairman is responsible for overall Board In practice, directors may from time to time be Leadership and its effectiveness. The chairman is faced with making decisions that could be affected appointed by the Board of Directors in accordance by conflicts of interest. CPF Directors are expected with the board governing instruments, namely the to avoid conflict of interest by not being involved in Board Charter and the Memorandum and Articles of making a decision that he or she has vested interAssociation. ests in as this would bias his/her decision; or use the resources of the Company as collateral for his or her He sets the agenda for board meetings in liaison personal gain(s). Indeed any declarable conflicts of with the company secretary and Chairs all board interest are declared before a decision is taken, and meetings and Annual general meetings. Additionalthat director (s) with a conflict of interest either exly, the role of the Chairman includes facilitating the cuse themselves from a vote or delegate their vote effective contribution of all directors and promoting to their alternates. All members of the Board are communication and respectful relations between required to declare abidance and sign off the CPF the Board and other stakeholders. Governance Code of Conduct upon appointment. Board Development Board Evaluation CPF seeks to continuously review and develop of It is important that the board continually evaluates the Board’s capacity to deliver on its mandate by its performance against set targets. Consequently, regularly reviewing and advising the Board on the the board undertakes an annual evaluation of its skills, attributes and experience required for effecperformance and effectiveness in order to identify tive governance. In this regard, an Annual Retreat the areas for improvement and addresses them. for Board members and senior management is held The performance evaluation is conducted through to review among others: the CPF Group Strategic an independent party and the report of the evaluDirection; Annual Reports and Audited Accounts, ation is discussed and adopted by the Board. In Forecast Performance and Budgets; Risk profile 2018, the Board evaluation was conducted on 29th and mitigation measures; Succession planning and May 2018 and the key findings of the evaluation emerging issues in corporate governance etc. were discussed during the board meeting held on 22nd August 2018. Further, every year the Company Secretary in liaison The following key areas are covered by the board with board members undertakes a Directors’ trainevaluation: ing needs and gaps analysis. From this assessment, a board training calendar is developed highlighting 1.Board Processes and accountability; the various training programs required by the board 2.Strategy, financial matters and performance; members. During the year, the Directors attended 3.Compliance with all legal and ethical requirements; the following training programs based on their indi4.Board composition, induction, development and vidual needs assessment; succession; 5.Information and communication to stakeholders; 1.Corporate governance and leadership development; 6.Role and effectiveness of the Board Secretary. 2.Reliable accounting and financial reporting; 3.Investment of Pension fund assets; 4.Compliance with laws and regulations; 5.Certification of governance auditors and 6.Continuous improvement in the conduct of business operations. 24 Integrated Report and Financial Statements “ Without continual growth and progress, such words as improvement, achievement, and success have no meaning. Benjamin Franklin 25 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Report of the Directors The Directors submit their report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018, which disclose the state of affairs of CPF Financial Services Limited (the “company”) and its subsidiaries (together “the Group”). The annual report and financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. Activities The principal activities of the Group is provision of retirement benefits scheme administration services, infrastructure & information technology services, property management services and insurance brokerage services. Results for the year 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Profit before taxation 226,740 190,878 Taxation charge (77,029) (76,168) Profit for the year transferred to retained earnings 149,711 114,710 Divided The directors recommend the payment of dividend of Sh.149.7 per share for the year 2018 (2017: Sh 108) Directors The present membership of the Board is shown on page 5. Business review The board has pleasure in presenting the financial results of CPF Financial Services Limited (“the Holding Company” or the “company”) and the Group consolidated results for the year ended 31 December 2018. The principal activities of the Holding Company is provision of retirement benefits scheme administration services, training and consultancy. The principal activities for the Group is provision of benefits scheme administration services, infrastructure & information technology services, property management services, insurance brokerage services, training and consultancies offered through the subsidiaries and the parent company. Performance Review The performance of the Holding Company reflected an after tax overall profit for the year of Sh. 108,539,000 (2017: Sh. 108,849,000). The Group performance was an after tax profit of Sh 149,711,000 (2017: Sh. 114,710,000). Subsidiaries contributed 24% of the Group’s business. 26 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Report of the Directors (continued) Income Statement Review The company’s financial statements are reflected on pages 34 to 38. The holding company experienced an increase in revenues for the period recorded at Sh 911,252,000 (2017: Sh. 765,087,000). This increase is due to the growth in the net assets of schemes under management. Administrative expenses increased also by 108,694,000 due to an increase in staff costs and other operational costs. The turnover for the Group also increased from Sh. 976,571,000 to Sh 1,189,908,000 mainly driven by business growth in all the entities in the Group. Similarly the administrative expenses increased from Sh. 642,432,000 to Sh 759,339,000 which was mainly due to increase in general operations cost. Balance Sheet and Cash flow Review The company’s total assets increased from Sh. 602,858,000 to Sh. 730,235,000. Receivables also increased from Sh 36,910,000 to Sh 38,799,000 due to increase in revenue. Related party balances increased from Sh 43,980,000 to Sh 72,370,000 which was as a result of support to the subsidiaries. Payables increased from Sh 196,873,000 to Sh 228,309,000 due to accrual of pension payable arising from previous year’s penalty. Cash and cash equivalents increased from Sh. 38,636,000 to Sh 53,418,000 mainly due to improved performance. The Group total assets increased from Sh. 591,146,000 to Sh 717,360,000. Receivables reduced from Sh 69,506,000 to Sh 49,452,000 due to impairment and collection. Payables reduced from Sh 233,076,000 to Sh 231,542,000 due to repayment of related party balances due by the parent company. Cash and cash equivalents increased from Sh. 68,105,000 to Sh. 89,992,000 mainly due increase in performance hence more funds were available for bank deposits. Future Outlook The 2019 financial year is expected to be more favourable than 2018. Economic growth is expected to improve to 5.3% in 2019 from 4.7% recorded in 2018. The Company turnover is projected at Sh. 1,133,352,000 with a profit of Sh. 263,280,000 and the Group’s turnover is expected to be Sh. 1,606,946,000 with a projected profit of Sh. 396,664,000. Performance is expected to improve due to additional revenue lines which include agency banking as well stabilization of the consultancy and training revenue line. The fund values of the schemes under administration is also expected to grow and the drive to acquire more schemes to be administered. In addition, the company improved cashflow will result to available funds for investments resulting to growth in investment income. Directors’ statement as to information given to auditors Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: • so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group’s auditors are unaware; and • the Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Group’s auditors are aware of that information. 27 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Report of the Directors (continued) Auditors Deloitte & Touche, having indicated their willingness, continue in office in accordance with the provisions of section 719(2) of the Kenya Companies Act, 2015. The directors monitor the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the auditors. The directors also approve the annual audit engagement contract, which sets out the terms of the auditors’ appointment and the related fees. BY ORDER OF THE BOARD Secretary Isaac Mitei Nairobi, Kenya 28 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Statement of Directors Responsibility The Kenyan Companies Act, 2015, requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of its profit or loss for that year. It also requires the directors to ensure that the Company and subsidiaries maintains proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the Group and disclose, with reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the Group. The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and its subsidiaries, and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and error. The directors accept responsibility for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. They also accept responsibility for: (i) designing, implementing and maintaining such internal control as they determine necessary to enable the presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; (ii) selecting suitable accounting policies and applying them consistently; and (iii) making accounting estimates and judgements that are reasonable in the circumstances. Having made an assessment of the company and its subsidiaries ability to continue as going concerns, the directors are not aware of any material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast doubt upon the company and its subsidiaries ability to continue as a going concerns. The directors acknowledge that the independent audit of the financial statements does not relieve them of their responsibilities. Approved by the Board of Directors on 19th march 2019 and signed on its behalf by: _________________________________ __________________________________ Hosea Kili Rosemary Ndiritu Director Director 29 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of CPF Financial Services Limited Deloitte & Touche Certified Public Accountants (Kenya) Deloitte Place, Waiyaki Way Muthangari P.O Box 40092, 00100 Nairobi, Kenya Tel: +254 (20) 423 0000 Cell: +254 (0) 719 039 000 Fax: +254 (20) 444 8966 Dropping Zone No. 92 Email: admin@delitte.co.ke www.deloitte.co.ke Opinion We have audited the accompanying consolidated and company financial statements of CPF Financial Services Limited (the “company”) and its subsidiaries (together “the Group”), set out on pages 34 to 74, which comprise the consolidated and company statements of financial position as at 31 December 2018, and the consolidated and company statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, consolidated and company statements of changes in equity and the consolidated and company statements of cash flows for the year then ended, and the notes to the consolidated and company financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group and company as at 31 December 2018 and of its consolidated and company financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (“ISAs”). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements section of this report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Kenya. We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Other Information The directors are responsible for the other information, which comprises the Report of the Directors as required by the Kenyan Company’s Act, 2015. The other information does not include the financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon. Our opinion on the consolidated and company financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 30 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of CPF Financial Services Limited (continued) Other Information (Continued) In connection with our audit of the consolidated and company financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditors’ report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of the Directors and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated and company financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015, and for such internal controls as Directors determine are necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated and company financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and company’s ability to continue as going concerns, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the company and its subsidiaries or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. The Directors and those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s and the company’s financial reporting process. Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated and company financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015, and for such internal controls as Directors determine are necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group and company’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Directors. 31 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of CPF Financial Services Limited (continued) Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Continued) The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated and company financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015, and for such internal controls as Directors determine are necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and company’s ability to continue as going concerns. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and the company to cease to continue as going concerns. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated and company financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion We are required to communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. Report on Other matters prescribed by the Kenya Companies Act, 2015 In our opinion, the information given in the report of the Directors on pages 26 to 28 is consistent with the financial statements. Certified Public Accountants (Kenya) Nairobi 12 April 2019 CPA Fredrick Aloo, Practising certificate No. 1537 Signing Partner responsible for the independent audit 32 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 33 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Statements of Profit or Loss and other Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Notes Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Revenue 3 1,189,908 976,571 911,252 765,087 Direct cost 4 (200,849) (139,753) (90,178) (74,082) Gross profit 989,059 836,818 821,074 691,005 Other income 5 4,985 5,971 1,083 5,165 Administrative and operating expenses 6 (759,339) (642,432) (632,185) (523,491) Impairment on trade recievables 21(c) (7,486) (9,479) (2,361) 58 Impairement on related party balances –(LITES) (16,501) Impairment on bank deposits (479) (266) Profit before taxation 226,740 190,878 170,844 172,737 Taxation charge 11(a) (77,029) (76,168) (62,305) (63,888) Profit for the year 149,711 114,710 108,539 108,849 Other comprehensive income for the year Total comprehensive income for the year 149,711 114,710 108,539 108,849 34 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Statements of financial Position for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Notes Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 ASSETS Non current assets Equipment 12 129,057 101,208 113,053 84,201 Intangible assets 13 69,790 20,107 65,428 16,044 Investment property 14 58,200 55,000 58,200 55,000 Investment in subsidiaries 16 30,000 30,000 Staff mortgages 20 153,249 141,426 153,249 141,426 Due from related parties 18(c) 99,611 102,928 Deferred taxation asset 23 34,330 25,771 14,759 5,741 444,626 343,512 534,300 435,340 Current assets Staff mortgages and loans 20 31,348 23,636 31,348 23,636 Trade and other receivables 21 (a) 49,452 69,506 38,799 36,910 Tax recoverable 11(c) 11,687 24,959 24,356 Due from related parties 18(b) 92,177 63,090 72,370 43,980 Cash and cash equivalents 15 89,992 68,105 53,418 38,636 274,656 249,296 195,935 167,518 Total assets 719,282 592,808 730,235 602,858 35 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Statements of financial Position for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Notes Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and reserves Ordinary share capital 22(a) 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 Share premium 22(b) 190,000 190,000 190,000 190,000 Retained earnings 285,818 158,070 301,926 205,985 Total equity 485,818 358,070 501,926 405,985 Capital and reserves Tax payable 11(c) 1,922 1,662 1,922 Intercompany payables 18(d) 68,292 23,905 Other amounts due to related parties 18(d) 8,478 31,397 6,281 29,166 Deferred income 25 17,961 6,000 Trade and other payables 24 205,103 195,679 151,814 143,802 233,464 234,738 228,309 196,873 Total equity and liabilities 719,282 592,808 730,235 602,858 The financial statements on pages 34 to 74 were approved and authorized for issue by the board of directors on 19th march 2019 and were signed on its behalf by: ______________________ __________________________ Hosea Kili Rosemary Ndiritu Director Director 36 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Statements of Change in Equity for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group Share Share Retained capital premium earnings Total Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 1 January 2017 10,000 190,000 43,360 243,360 Total comprehensive income for the year 114,710 114,710 At 31 December 2017 10,000 190,000 158,070 358,070 1 January 2018 10,000 190,000 158,070 358,070 Day 1 impairment adjustment (11,163) (11,163) Dividends (10,800) (10,800) Total comprehensive income for the year 149,711 149,711 At 31 December 2018 10,000 190,000 285,818 485,818 Company 1 January 2017 10,000 190,000 97,136 297,136 Total comprehensive income for the year 108,849 108,849 At 31 December 2017 10,000 190,000 205,985 405,985 1 January 2018 10,000 190,000 205,985 405,985 Day 1 impairment adjustment (1,798) (1,798) Dividends (10,800) (10,800) Total comprehensive income for the year 108,539 108,539 At 31 December 2018 10,000 190,000 301,926 501,926 37 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Notes Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Cash flows from operating activities 26 163,490 46,241 151,976 18,494 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of equipment 12 (55,537) (13,727) (53,297) (12,266) Purchase of intangible assets 13 (81,147) (5,798) (77,422) (4,878) Investment property capex enhancement 14 (6,422) (6,422) Proceeds from disposal of equipment 1,502 (53) Net cash used in investing activities (141,604) (19,525) (137,194) (17,144) Cash flows from financing activities Investment in subsidiary Cash used in financing activities Increase in cash and cash equivalents 22,887 26,716 14,782 1,350 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 68,105 41,389 38,636 37,286 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 15 89,992 68,105 53,418 38,636 38 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES Statement of compliance The financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). For the purposes of reporting under the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015, the balance sheet in these financial statements is represented by the statement of financial position and the profit and loss account is presented in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. Application of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) (i) Impact of relevant new standards Impact of initial application of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments In the current year, the Group has applied IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (as revised in July 2014) and the related consequential amendments to other IFRS Standards that are effective for an annual period that begins on or after 1 January 2018. The transition provisions of IFRS 9 allow an entity not to restate comparatives. The Group has elected not to restate comparatives in respect of the classification and measurement of financial instruments. Additionally, the Group adopted consequential amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures that were applied to the disclosures for 2018 only and not to the comparative period. The standard amends the classification and measurement models for financial assets. See below. a) Classification and measurement of financial assets The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 9 to instruments that continue to be recognised as at 1 January 2018 and has not applied the requirements to instruments that have already been derecognised as at 1 January 2018. Comparative amounts in relation to instruments that continue to be recognised as at 1 January 2018 have not been restated where appropriate in accordance with the transition provisions of the standard. There has been no change in the measurement criteria for any of the Group’s financial assets on adoption of IFRS 9 after the consideration of the business model and cash flow characteristics. Upon adoption of IFRS 9 (2014), the Group’s financial assets and liabilities previously classified as at fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”) and amortized cost under IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”, continued to be classified at FVTPL and amortized cost. Specifically, the trade receivables typically held within a business model whose objective is to collect the contractual cash flows, and that have contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, are measured subsequently at amortised cost and are subject to impairment. See (b) below. 39 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Application of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) (continued) (i) Impact of relevant new standards (continued) Impact of initial application of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (continued) b) Impairment of financial assets In relation to the impairment of financial assets, IFRS 9 requires an expected credit loss model as opposed to an incurred credit loss model under IAS 39. Specifically, IFRS 9 requires the Group to recognise a loss allowance for expected credit losses on its financial assets as listed in (a) above. The Group measured the loss allowance for trade receivables at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit loss (ECL). The ECL on trade receivables is estimated using a provision matrix by taking into account past default experience and an analysis of the debtors current financial position and adjusted for any factors that are specific to debtors general economic conditions. The adoption of the standard has not resulted in any adjustments to the comparatives as allowed by the provisions of the standard. c) Classification and measurement of financial liabilities The application of IFRS 9 has not affected the Group’s accounting for its liabilities. The payables continue to be recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. d) Disclosures in relation to the initial application of IFRS 9 There were no financial assets or financial liabilities which the Group had previously designated as at FVTPL under IAS 39 that were subject to reclassification or which the Group has elected to reclassify upon the application of IFRS 9. There has also been no change in the measurement criteria for any of the Group’s financial assets on adoption of IFRS 9 after the consideration of the business model and cash flow characteristics. Upon adoption of IFRS 9 (2014), the Group’s financial assets and liabilities previously classified as at fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”) and amortized cost under IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”, continued to be classified at FVTPL and amortized cost. e) Impact of initial application of IFRS 9 on financial performance The adoption and application of IFRS 9 in the current year has resulted in an impairment of Sh 13,109,000 for the company and 40,707,000 for Group with an increase in provisions in the current year through the statement of profit or loss of Sh 2,361,000 for the company and Sh.7,486,000 for the Group. f) Day one adjustment The application of IFRS 9 this resulted to an adjustment to the opening balance and a day one adjustment to retained earnings of Sh.11,162,000 for the Group and Sh.1,797,000 for the company. The application of IFRS 9 has had no impact on the cash flows of the Group. 40 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Application of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) (continued) (i) Impact of relevant new standards and amendments to published standards (continued) Impact of application of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers In the current year, the Group has applied IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (as amended in April 2016) which is effective for an annual period that begins on or after 1 January 2018. IFRS 15 introduced a 5‑step approach to revenue recognition. Revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for goods and services and at a point when the performance obligations associated with these goods and services has been satisfied. IFRS 15 also establishes principles about the nature, timing and uncertainty of revenue arising from contracts with customers. IFRS 15 requires entities to recognize revenue to reflect the transfer of goods or services to customers measured at the amounts an entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Revenues from service contracts and service components of investment contracts (which are treated as service contracts) that are reported as commission’s income and interest income are within the scope of IFRS 15. IFRS 15 also provides guidance related to the costs to obtain and to fulfil a contract. The application of IFRS 15 has not had a significant impact on the Group’s accounting policies as the nature of the Group’s revenue is that revenue is recognised at a point in time. See the ‘Basis of preparation’ section for the Group’s accounting policies for its revenue streams. IFRS 15 has not had a significant impact on the financial position and/or financial performance of the Group. Accordingly, there has been no adjustment for any of the financial statement line items as a result of the application of IFRS 15. IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 introduces a comprehensive model for the identification of lease arrangements and accounting treatments for both lessors and lessees. IFRS 16 will supersede the current lease guidance including IAS 17 Leases and the related interpretations when it becomes effective. IFRS 16 will be adopted by the Group from 1 January 2019. The new standard eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and instead introduces a single lease accounting model. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost (subject to certain exceptions) less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability. The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at that date. Subsequently, the lease liability is adjusted for interest and lease payments, as well as the impact of lease modifications, amongst others. The directors are still in the process of assessing the full impact of the application of IFRS 16 on the Group’s financial statements and it is not practicable to provide a reasonable financial estimate of the effect until 41 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Application of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) (continued) (ii) Relevant new standards and amendments to published standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2018 The following new and revised interpretation was effective in the current year and had no material impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements. IFRIC 22 addresses how to determine the ‘date of transaction’ for the purpose of determining the exchange rate to use on initial recognition of an asset, expense or income, when consideration for that item has been paid or received in advance in a foreign currency which resulted in the recognition of a non‑monetary asset or non‑monetary liability (for example, a IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency non‑refundable deposit or deferred revenue). Transactions and Advance Consideration The Interpretation specifies that the date of transaction is the date on which the entity initially recognises the non‑monetary asset or non‑monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration. If there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the Interpretation requires an entity to determine the date of transaction for each payment or receipt of advance consideration. (iii) Relevant new and amended standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective in the year ended 31 December 2018 New and Amendments to standards Effective for annual periods beginning on or after Annual Improvements to IFRS 1 January 2019, with earlier application permitted Standards 2015–2017 Amendments to IAS 19 Employee 1 January 2019, with earlier application permitted Benefits Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2014Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 2017 Cycle 1 January 2019 IFRIC 23: Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 The directors of the Group do not anticipate that the application of the new standards and amendments to the standards in the future will have a significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. iv) Early adoption of standards The Group did not early-adopt any new or amended standards in 2018. 42 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain properties and financial instruments that are measured at revalued amounts or fair values at the end of each reporting period, as explained in the accounting policies below. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. In estimating the fair value of an asset or liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in these consolidated and company financial statements is determined on such a basis. In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, which is described as follows:• Level 1 inputs are quoted in prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement dated. • Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, and • Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. Functional and presentation currency These financial statements are presented in Kenya shillings (Sh) which is the Group’s functional currency, the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. Except as otherwise indicated, financial information presented in Kenya Shillings has been rounded to the nearest thousand (Sh 000). Basis of consolidation (a) Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. 43 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Basis of consolidation (continued) (a) Subsidiaries (Continued) Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains or losses arising from such re-measurement are recognised in profit or loss. Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not re-measured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiaries acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement. Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated. When necessary amounts reported by subsidiaries have been adjusted to conform with the Group’s accounting policies. The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and its subsidiaries, LASER Infrastructure & Technology Solution Limited, LASER Property Services Limited and LASER Insurance Brokers Limited all having financial year end 31 December 2018. (b) Disposal of subsidiaries When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. 44 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Revenue recognition Administration income Administration income is billed to customers and is recognised upon performance of services or at a point when the performance obligations associated with these services has been satisfied. Consultancy fees Consultancy fees is recognised upon performance of service at a point when the performance obligations associated with these services has been satisfied. Other income Includes interest income from staff loans, interest on fixed deposit and loss/gain on revaluation of investment property among other sources of sundry incomes for the Group. Income is recognized at a point in time when earned. Plant and equipment Plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment charges. Depreciation Depreciation on equipment is calculated on a reducing balance basis to write-off the cost of the equipment over the expected useful life at the following annual rates: Motor vehicles 25% Fixtures and fittings 12.5% Equipment 12.5% Computers 30% Gain or loss arising on disposal of property and equipment is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognized in profit or loss. Intangible assets-computer software costs Costs incurred on computer software are accounted for at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is calculated on a reducing balance basis over the estimated useful lives not exceeding a period of 4 years. 45 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Investment properties Investment properties are properties held to earn rentals and/or for capital appreciation (including property under construction for such purposes). Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are measured at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment properties are included in profit or loss in the period in which they arise. An investment property is derecognised upon disposal or when the investment property is permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefits are expected from the disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the property (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in profit or loss in the period in which the property is derecognised. Dividends payable Dividends payable on ordinary shares are charged to retained earnings in the period in which they are declared. Proposed dividends are not accrued for until ratified in an Annual General Meeting. Taxation Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. (i) Current tax The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the profit or loss because of items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and items that are never taxable or deductible. The company’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. (ii) Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilized. Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 46 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Taxation (continued) Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. (ii) Deferred tax The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the company expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. iii) Current and deferred tax for the year Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively. Employee benefits costs (i) Group’s defined contribution retirement benefit scheme The Group operates a defined contribution scheme for eligible employees. The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee administered fund. The Group’s contributions to the defined contribution plan are charged to the profit or loss in the year to which they relate. ii) Statutory defined contribution pension scheme The Group also contributes to the statutory National Social Security Fund. This is a defined contribution scheme registered under the National Social Security Act. The Group’s obligations under the scheme are limited to specific contributions legislated from time to time. The Group’s contribution in respect of retirement benefit costs are charged to the profit or loss account in the year which they relate. iii) Other employee entitlements Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised when they accrue to employees. A provision is made for the estimated liability for annual leave or compensated absences accrued at the end of the reporting period. 47 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At the end of each reporting period, the group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Where a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash-generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the smallest group of cash-generating units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually, and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss. Financial instruments A financial asset or liability is recognised when the company becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets Trade receivables (IFRS 9) Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for services performed in the ordinary course of business. If collection is expected in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they are a classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of receivables is established using an ECL model in line with the requirements of IFRS 9 as outlined in the next section below. The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The amount of the provision is charged to profit or loss. 48 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Financial instruments (Continued) Financial assets (Continued) Impairment of financial assets (IFRS 9) The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses on investments in debt instruments that are measured at amortised cost or at FVTOCI, lease receivables, trade receivables and contract assets. The amount of expected credit losses is updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition of the respective financial instrument. The Group always recognises lifetime ECL for trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables. The expected credit losses on these financial assets are estimated using a provision matrix based on the Group’s historical credit loss experience, adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of both the current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date, including time value of money where appropriate. For all other financial instruments, the Group recognises lifetime ECL when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. However, if the credit risk on the financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measures the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount equal to 12-month ECL. The Group considers that default has occurred when a financial asset is more than 90 days past due unless the Group has reasonable and supportable information to demonstrate that a more lagging default criterion is more appropriate. The Group write-offs debt only when there objective evidence that the debt will not be recovered and after it has exhausted its collection avenues. Classification (IFRS 9) As at the reporting date, all the Groups financial assets were at amortised cost. The Group determines the appropriate classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. Financial assets at amortised cost Financial assets including cash and bank balances, staff mortgages and loans, trade and other receivables and related party balances are measured at amortized cost if both of the following conditions are met and the asset is not designated as FVTPL: • the asset is held within a business model that is Held-to-Collect (HTC) as described below, and • the contractual terms of the instrument give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding (SPPI). Comparatives Where necessary, comparative figures have been adjusted to conform with changes in presentation in the current year. 49 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 2. CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINITY In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management is required to make judgments, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision only affects that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. The key areas of applying the Group’s accounting policies are dealt with below: (i) Critical judgements in applying accounting policies Equipment and intangible assets Critical estimates are made by the directors in determining the useful lives of equipment and intangible assets. This is the basis on which the depreciation and amortization rates applied on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets respectively are based. Impairment of fixed assets At the reporting date, the company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss. Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. Contingent liabilities The directors evaluate the status of these exposures on a regular basis to assess the probability of the Group incurring related liabilities. However, provisions are only made in the financial statements where, based on the directors’ evaluation, a present obligation has been established. (ii) Key sources of estimation uncertainty Impairment losses on financial assets At each reporting period end, the company reviews the carrying amounts of its financial assets to determine whether there is any indication that these assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated and an impairment loss is recognised in the statement of changes in net assets whenever the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. When measuring expected credit losses (ECL), the company uses reasonable and supportable forward looking information, which is based on assumptions for the future movement of different economic drivers and how these drivers will affect each other. The loss rate is an estimate of the likelihood of default over a given time horizon, the calculation of which includes historical data, assumptions and expectations of future conditions. Fair value measurement and valuation Some of the Group’s assets and liabilities are measured at fair values for financial reporting purposes. In estimating the fair values of an asset or a liability, the Group uses market observable data to the extent it is available. Where level I inputs are not available the Group engages third party qualified valuers to perform the valuation. The board and management work closely to establish the appropriate valuation techniques and inputs to the model. 50 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 3. REVENUE Pension administration fees and other Trustee support services 902,447 759,879 902,447 759,878 Consultancy fees 138,786 65,103 8,805 5,209 Property management and valuation fees 64,046 82,239 Project management fees 14,699 11,240 Insurance brokerage fees 69,930 58,110 1,189,908 976,571 911,252 765,087 4. DIRECT COSTS Office rent and service charge 28,945 30,958 24,685 24,209 Consultancy expense 16,403 30,878 16,403 13,728 Other direct costs 134,420 61,443 31,763 21,953 Insurance 12,025 7,815 8,371 6,538 Printing and stationery 9,056 8,659 8,956 7,654 200,849 139,753 90,178 74,082 5. OTHER INCOME Interest income from staff loan 1,969 2,276 1,969 2,276 Interest on fixed deposit 4,452 924 1,542 215 Sundry income 1,786 2,771 794 2,674 Loss on revaluation of investment property (note 11) (3,222) (3,222) 4,985 5,971 1,083 5,165 51 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 6. ADMINISTRATIVE AND OPERATING EXPENSES Staff costs (note 7 ) 536,698 473,762 437,063 381,245 ICT costs (note 9) 24,531 21,334 20,425 16,316 Director emoluments – fees (note 8) 25,412 23,429 23,192 21,459 other emoluments 3,193 2,083 Board expenses 22,132 17,351 13,699 12,197 Auditors remuneration 3,000 3,162 1,500 1,762 Depreciation (note 12) 27,561 20,308 24,320 17,103 Amortisation (note 13) 29,910 8,617 28,041 6,876 Assets write off 1,556 Professional fees and consultancies 2,478 1,207 23,134 16,200 Marketing and promotion (note 10) 52,871 38,743 30,974 22,336 Other expenses 33,190 31,326 29,837 25,914 759,339 642,432 632,185 523,491 7. STAFF COSTS Salaries and wages 376,786 327,185 299,868 259,056 Social security costs 56,374 38,598 47,197 30,448 Staff bonus credit 16,432 26,193 14,722 22,376 Leave allowance 10,175 15,182 8,316 12,865 Staff welfare 6,141 5,457 6,141 5,415 Education and training 32,462 26,048 29,090 23,685 Staff medical insurance 35,803 33,255 29,395 26,106 Other staff costs 2,525 1,844 2,334 1,294 536,698 473,762 437,063 381,245 52 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 8. DIRECTORS COSTS Directors Monthly Allowances 25,412 23,429 23,192 21,459 Board Meeting Expenses 22,132 17,351 13,699 12,197 Other Emoluments 3,193 2,083 47,544 43,973 36,891 35,739 9. ICT COSTS Annual Software Licences 11,837 10,285 9,522 7,591 Internet, Website & Networking 8,495 8,297 6,814 6,493 Computer & Computer Accessories 1,253 1,814 1,143 1,594 ICT Consultancy & Outsourcing 2,946 938 2,946 638 24,531 21,334 20,425 16,316 10. MARKETING & PROMOTION Networking & Advocacy 2,459 3,644 206 Brand Management 4,993 1,572 4,557 1,306 Advertising & Publicity 5,528 2,595 4,545 2,110 Promotional Materials 6,967 7,253 1,800 2,807 Stakeholder Activities 5,621 1,736 5,204 1,452 CSR & Change Management 2,447 200 1,793 126 Strategic Plan Review & Monitoring 5,154 4,255 3,787 2,653 Other Business Development Costs 19,702 17,489 9,288 11,676 52,871 38,743 30,974 22,336 53 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 11. TAXATION a) Taxation charge Current taxation based on adjusted profit for the year at 30% 88,052 17,351 13,699 60,950 Deferred tax credit (note 23) (11,023) (404) (9,557) 2,938 Prior year deferred tax overprovision (2,219) 77,029 76,168 62,305 63,888 (b) Reconciliation of taxation charge to expected taxation based on accounting profit Profit before taxation 226,740 190,878 170,844 172,737 Taxation at the applicable rate of 30% 62,533 57,263 50,253 51,821 Tax effect of expenses not allowable for tax 15,858 9,746 11,052 9,129 Prior year under provision (1,362) 9,160 2,938 Tax effect on day 1 Adjustment 77,029 76,168 62,305 63,888 (c) Taxation recoverable/(payable) At the beginning of the year 23,297 (24,942) 24,356 (21,178) Taxation charge (77,029) (72,871) (62,305) (60,950) Tax paid 63,497 121,110 36,029 106,484 Taxation recoverable 11,687 24,959 24,356 Taxation payable (1,922) (1,662) (1,922) 54 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 Furniture, Motor fittings and vehicles equipment Computers Total Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 12. (a) EQUIPMENT – Group COST At 1 January 2017 7,474 138,026 70,020 215,520 Additions 7,327 6,400 13,727 At 31 December 2017 7,474 145,353 76,420 229,247 At 1 January 2018 7,474 145,353 76,420 229,247 Additions 9,843 27,800 17,894 55,537 Disposal (220) (220) At 31 December 2018 17,317 173,153 94,094 284,564 DEPRECIATION At 1 January 2017 7,474 53,072 47,188 107,734 Charge for the year 11,538 8,770 20,308 At 31 December 2017 7,474 64,610 55,958 128,042 At 1 January 2018 7,474 64,610 55,958 128,042 Charge for the year 2,461 13,566 11,531 27,561 Disposal (90) (90) As at 31 December 2018 9,935 78,176 67,396 155,507 NET BOOK VALUE At 31 December 2018 7,382 94,977 26,698 129,057 At 31 December 2017 80,743 20,465 101,208 55 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 Furniture, Motor fittings and vehicles equipment Computers Total Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 12. (a) EQUIPMENT – Company COST At 1 January 2017 7,474 117,414 64,228 189,116 Additions 6,831 5,435 12,266 At 31 December 2017 7,474 124,245 69,663 201,382 At 1 January 2018 7,474 124,245 69,663 201,383 Additions 9,843 27,620 15,835 53,297 Disposal (220) (220) At 31 December 2018 17,317 151,865 85,278 254,460 DEPRECIATION At 1 January 2017 7,474 48,291 44,309 100,074 Charge for the year 9,498 7,605 17,103 At 31 December 2017 7,474 57,789 51,914 117,177 At 1 January 2018 7,474 57,789 51,914 117,177 Charge for the year 2,461 11,760 10,099 24,320 Disposal (90) (90) As at 31 December 2018 9,935 69,549 61,923 141,407 NET BOOK VALUE At 31 December 2018 7,382 82,316 23,355 113,053 At 31 December 2017 66,454 17,747 84,201 56 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 13. INTANGIBLE ASSETS SOFTWARE COST As at 1 January 81,151 75,352 70,357 65,476 Additions 81,147 5,798 77,422 4,878 Asset written off (4,564) As at 31 December 157,734 81,150 147,779 70,354 AMORTISATION As at 1 January 61,043 52,426 54,310 47,434 Charge for the year 29,910 8,617 28,041 6,876 Adjustment for assets written off (3,009) 87,944 61,043 82,351 54,310 NET BOOK VALUE 69,790 20,107 65,428 16,044 14. INVESTMENT PROPERTY At start of the year 55,000 55,000 55,000 55,000 Capital Expenditure Enhancement 6,422 6,422 Fair value adjustment (3,222) (3,222) At end of the year 58,200 55,000 58,200 55,000 Fair value measurement of the Group’s investment properties The Group’s Investments Property are stated at their revalued amounts, being the fair values at the date of revaluation, less any impairment losses. The fair value measurements of the Group’s investment property as at 31 December 2018 were performed by Laser Property Services Limited, Registered Valuers and Estate Agents. The company is a related company to CPF Financial Services Limited as indicated in note 1. Laser Property Services Limited, are members of the Institute of Surveyors of Kenya and they have appropriate qualifications and relevant and recent experience in the fair value measurement of properties in the various locations in Kenya. The fair value of buildings was determined by reference to market evidence of recent transactions for similar properties. In estimating the fair value of the properties, the highest and best use of the properties is their current use. 57 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 15. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Unutilized deposits for staff mortgages* 19,301 33,868 19,301 33,868 Fixed deposits maturing within 90 days 45,260 18,894 24,761 4,310 Bank balances 25,356 15,173 9,333 360 Cash at hand 75 170 23 98 At the end of the year 89,992 68,105 53,418 38,636 * The unutilized deposits for staff mortgages can be accessed by the company without any restrictions. 16. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (COST) – Company At Cost: Group Company 2018 2017 % of % of Country of equity equity 2018 2017 Details of investment incorporation Activity interest interest Shs’000 Shs’000 LASER Infrastructure & Technology Solutions Limited (LITES) Infrastructure (100,000 shares of Ksh & technology 100 each) Kenya services 100% 100% 10,000 10,000 LASER Property Services Limited (LASER) (100,000 Property shares of Ksh 100 management each) Kenya services 100% 100% 10,000 10,000 LASER Insurance Brokers Limited (LIBS) Insurance (100,000 shares of Ksh brokerage 100 each) Kenya services 100% 100% 10,000 10,000 30,000 30,000 58 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 17. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (COST) – Company (Continued) The summarised financial information of the subsidiaries is as shown below: Non-Current Non-current Current assets Current liabilities assets liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 LASER Infrastructure & Technology Solutions Limited (LITES) 70,833 23,169 32,472 29,031 39,982 13,632 136,189 113,159 for the year ended 31 December 2018 LASER Property Services Limited (LASER) 40,036 40,563 7,556 7,831 10,072 16,205 LASER Insurance Brokers Limited (LIBS) 56,310 49,693 3,330 4,370 23,873 29,445 957 133 Integrated Report and 59 Total comprehensive Revenues Profit/(loss) before tax Financial Statements income Note to the Financial Statements 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 LASER Infrastructure & Technology Solutions Limited (LITES) 154,080 78,649 1,442 (24,414) 3,028 (24,414) LASER Property Services Limited (LASER) 81,316 93,676 9,606 33,954 6,483 22,725 LASER Insurance Brokers Limited (LIBS) 69,930 58,110 28,346 8,599 17,234 7,548 Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 18. RELATED PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS a) Nature of related party relationships Companies and other parties related to the group include those parties who have the ability or where the Group has the ability to exercise control or exercise significant control over the operating and financial decisions. The immediate parent and ultimate controlling party of the Group is Laptrust Registered Trustees Limited. The Group transacts with companies owned by the parent company and other related parties by virtue of common directorship. Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 a) Nature of related party relationships LASER Property Services Limited 69 1,727 LAPTRUST Defined Benefits Scheme 4,167 1,002 LAPTRUST Defined Benefits Scheme –(Admn Fees) 677 4,344 677 4,344 LAPTRUST Defined Benefits Scheme –(Professional Fees for LITES/LPS) 15,709 19,835 LAPTRUST (Umbrella) Retirement Fund -Recharges 597 100 597 100 LAPTRUST (Umbrella) Retirement Fund –(Admn Fees) 33,527 19,839 33,527 19,839 CPF Individual Pension Scheme (Admn Fees) 2,218 1,201 2,218 1,201 Due from CPF/GALN joint operation 32,764 9,893 32,764 9,893 Superfund Multipurpose SACCO 1,318 6,876 1,318 6,876 LAPA SACCO 1,200 1,200 92,177 63,090 72,370 43,980 a) Nature of related party relationships LASER Infrastructure & Technology Solutions Limited (Gross) 111,112 97,928 LASER Infrastructure & Technology Solutions Limited (Shareholders Loan) 5,000 5,000 Impairment Adjustment (16,501) LASER Infrastructure & Technology Solutions Limited (Gross) 99,611 102,928 60 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 18. RELATED PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS (Continued) Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 d) Due to related parties LASER Insurance Brokers Limited 14,969 21,921 LAPTRUST Defined Benefits Scheme 8,478 30,728 6,281 28,497 LASER Infrastructure and Technology Solutions Limited 53,323 1,984 CPF Individual Pension Scheme 669 669 8,478 31,397 74,573 53,071 e) Related party transactions Details of the transactions between the Group and related parties that are members of the Group are disclosed below: (i) Purchase of goods and services 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 LASER Infrastructure & Technology Solutions Limited 122,462 29,734 LASER Property Services Limited 434 265 122,896 29,999 Related party transactions relate mainly to the purchases and sales of service as well as recharges of management services within the Group. LASER Infrastructure & Technology Solutions Limited transactions also include purchase of computers and structured cabling works provided to CPF Financial services Limited Services. (ii) Management fees revenue 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 LAPTRUST Defined Benefits Scheme 746,760 672,827 LAPTRUST (Umbrella) Retirement Fund 146,345 78,028 LAPTRUST Individual Pension Scheme 9,342 8,867 902,447 759,722 Management fees relate to Pension administration fees and Trustee support services paid by the Schemes under CPF administration to the parent company which is CPF Financial Services Limited 61 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 18. RELATED PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS (Continued) e) Related party transactions (Continued) (i) Key management compensation 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 The remuneration for key management during The year was as follows: Salaries and other benefits 201,960 127,765 (ii) Directors’ remuneration 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Fees for services as directors 36,246 38,326 Other emoluments (included in key management compensation) 11,298 5,647 The remuneration for key management during The year was as follows: Salaries and other benefits 47,544 43,973 62 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 20. STAFF MORTGAGES AND LOANS Group & Company 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 CfC Stanbic Bank Limited 41,945 26,354 KCB S&L Mortgages 102,880 91,949 Housing Finance Company Kenya Limited 39,772 46,759 184,597 165,062 CPF Financial Services Limited has entered into administrative agreements with the financing institutions to facilitate the lending of home mortgages and car loans to staff. The company has placed deposits with these financing institutions out of which the loans are issued to its employees. These mortgages are issued at a preferential rate ranging between 4% and 6% earning interest income which is disclosed under note 5. Staff mortgages and loans relate to funds that have been utilised by the institutions in advancing to CPF employees while the unutilised funds have been disclosed under cash & cash equivalents in note 12 and earn interest at rates ranging from 1 to 3%. 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Maturity of staff mortgages and loans Current – Due within 12 months 31,348 23,636 Non-current – Past 12 months 153,249 141,426 184,597 165,062 63 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 21. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES a) Trade and other receivables Trade receivables 5,716 23,535 798 2,989 Other receivables 20,784 13,128 17,229 12,894 Withholding tax receivable 22,952 32,843 20,772 1,027 49,452 69,506 38,799 36,910 b) Trade Receivables reconciliation Trade receivables (Gross) 46,423 45,595 13,907 11,940 Provision for impairment 21(c) (40,707) (22,059) (13,109) (8,951) Trade receivables (Net) 5,716 23,536 798 2,989 c) Impairment reconciliation Group Company 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 At January 1 22,059 8,951 Day 1adjustment (through statement of changes in equity) 11,162 1,797 Impairment provision expense (through P&L) 7,486 2,361 At 31 December 40,707 13,109 22. SHARE CAPITAL (a) Ordinary share capital Authorised, issued and fully paid: 100,000 ordinary shares of Sh 100 each 10,000 10,000 (b) Share premium 100,000 shares at a premium of Shs 1,900 each 190,000 190,000 64 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 23. DEFERRED TAXATION ASSET The deferred taxation asset is attributable to the following items: Assets Excess depreciation over capital allowances 7,313 4,375 6,968 3,512 Tax losses carried forward 21,565 25,505 Leave pay provision 2,219 924 2,053 2,229 Provision for doubtful debts 7,313 5,738 Deferred tax not recognised (5,033) Net deferred taxation asset 34,330 25,771 14,759 5,741 The movement on the deferred taxation account is as follows: At beginning of year 25,771 23,956 5,741 8,679 Credit to profit or loss (note 8(a)) 11,023 404 Deferred tax on Day 1 Adjustment (3,349) (539) Prior year overprovision 885 (2,219) 9,557 (2,938) At end of year 34,330 25,771 14,759 5,741 24. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Trade payables 53,976 65,852 19,675 35,141 Staff payroll liabilities 32,109 24,480 29,572 20,266 Staff pension payable 21,411 10,845 19,872 4,682 Staff leave pay provision 9,357 9,193 6,842 7,431 Other payables 66,640 76,267 62,155 71,756 VAT payable 10,810 9,042 2,898 4,526 Dividend Payable 10,800 10,800 205,103 195,679 151,814 143,802 25. DEFERRED INCOME Deferred income related to commissions received against insurance policies sold to the Local Authorities Pensions Trust amounting to Shs. 17,961,000 (2017: Sh 6,000,000). 65 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 26. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Reconciliation of profit/(loss) before taxation to cash generated from operations Profit/(loss) before taxation 226,740 190,878 170,845 172,737 Adjustments for: Depreciation on property, plant and equipment (note 12) 27,561 20,308 24,320 17,103 Amortisation of intangible assets (note 13) 29,910 8,617 28,041 6,876 Fair value loss on revaluation of investment property (note 14) 3,222 3,222 Impairment Adjustment (Consolidation AJE) (16,501) Adjusted for working capital changes: (Decrease)/increase in staff mortgages receivable (19,536) 2,940 (19,536) 2,940 Increase in trade and other receivables 22,139 39,452 (1,889) 65,977 Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 9,424 (80,740) 8,012 (106,063) Movement in related party balances (52,006) (20,104) (3,571) (34,592) Taxation paid (79,424) (121,110) (57,468) (106,484) Increase in deferred income 11,961 6,000 Cash generated from operations 163,490 46,241 151,976 18,494 27. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND OBJECTIVES The company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks and those activities involve the analysis, evaluation, acceptance and management of some degree of risk or combination of risks. The company’s aim is to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return and minimize potential adverse effects on the company’s financial performance. The company’s risk management policies are designed to identify and analyze these risks, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor the risks and adherence to limits by means of reliable and up-to-date information systems. The company regularly reviews its risk management policies and systems to reflect changes in markets, products and emerging best practice. The board of directors in conjunction with management identifies, evaluates and addresses financial risks in close cooperation with the company’s operating units. The most important types of risk for the company are credit, liquidity and market risk. 66 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 27. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND OBJECTIVES (Continued) The company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks and those activities involve the analysis, evaluation, acceptance and management of some degree of risk or combination of risks. The company’s aim is to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return and minimize potential adverse effects on the company’s financial performance. The company’s risk management policies are designed to identify and analyze these risks, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor the risks and adherence to limits by means of reliable and up-to-date information systems. The company regularly reviews its risk management policies and systems to reflect changes in markets, products and emerging best practice. The board of directors in conjunction with management identifies, evaluates and addresses financial risks in close cooperation with the company’s operating units. The most important types of risk for the company are credit, liquidity and market risk. a) Capital Risk Management The Company manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may limit the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, issue new shares, or sell assets to reduce debt. The capital structure of the Company consists of equity attributable to equity holders, comprising issued share capital and retained earnings. The Company monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. The constitution of capital managed by the Company is as shown below: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Ordinary Share capital 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 Share premium 190,000 190,000 190,000 190,000 Retained earnings 285,818 158,070 301,926 205,985 Equity 485,818 358,070 501,926 405,985 67 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 27. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND OBJECTIVES (Continued) b) Credit risk management Credit risk arises from cash and deposits with banks and financial institutions as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions. Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Company. Management assesses the credit quality of each customer, taking into account its financial position, past experiences and other factors. Individual risk limits are set based on internal ratings in accordance with limits set by management. The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored. The tables below detail the credit quality of the company’s financial assets as well as the company’s maximum exposure to credit risk by credit risk rating grade: Company Gross Internal/ carrying Loss Net 31 December external 12 months or amount allowance amount 2018 Note rating lifetime ECL Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Lifetime ECL Trade receivables 21 Performing (simplified approach) 13,907 (13,109) 798 Bank deposits 15 Various 12 months ECL 25,027 (266) 24,761 Due from related Lifetime ECL parties-Current 18 Performing (simplified approach) 72,370 72,370 Due from related Lifetime ECL parties-Non Current 18 Performing (simplified approach) 116,112 (16,501) 99,611 Bank balances 15 Various 12 months ECL 28,657 28,657 256,073 (29,876) 226,197 Gross Internal/ carrying Loss Net 31 December external Incurred loss amount allowance amount 2017 Note rating model (IAS 39) Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Trade receivables 21 Performing Incurred loss model 11,940 (8,951) 2,989 Bank deposits 15 NA Incurred loss model 4,310 4,310 Due from related parties-Current 18 Performing Incurred loss model 45,180 45,180 Due from related parties-Non Current 18 Performing Incurred loss model 102,958 102,958 Bank balances 15 NA Incurred loss model 34,326 34,326 198,714 (8,951) 189,763 68 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 27. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND OBJECTIVES (Continued) b) Credit risk management (continued) Group Gross Internal/ carrying Loss Net 31 December external 12 months or amount allowance amount 2018 Note rating lifetime ECL Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Lifetime ECL Trade receivables 21 Performing (simplified approach) 46,423 (40,707) 5,716 Bank deposits 15 Various 12 months ECL 45,739 (479) 45,260 Due from related Lifetime ECL parties-Current 18 Performing (simplified approach) 92,177 92,177 Bank balances 15 Various 12 months ECL 44,732 44,732 229,071 (41,186) 187,885 Gross Internal/ carrying Loss Net 31 December external Incurred loss amount allowance amount 2017 Note rating model (IAS 39) Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Trade receivables 21 Performing Incurred loss model 45,595 (22,059) 23,536 Bank deposits 15 NA Incurred loss model 18,894 18,894 Due from related parties-Current 18 Performing Incurred loss model 63,090 63,090 Bank balances 15 NA Incurred loss model 49,211 49,211 176,790 (22,059) 154,731 The bank balances are not restricted, whereas the bank deposits are restricted. They include deposits held with banks that have high credit ratings. The customers under the fully performing category are paying their debts as they continue trading. The loss allowance represents the debt that is fully provided for in line with the expected credit loss model. Related parties balances have not been considered for impairment due to their revolving nature and the fact that related companies are on good balance sheet footing with no large external indebtness 69 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 27. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND OBJECTIVES (Continued) b) Credit risk management (continued) Trade receivables An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date using a provision matrix to measure expected credit losses. The provision rates are based on days past due for various customer segments with similar loss patterns. An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date using a provision matrix to measure expected credit losses. The provision rates are based on days past due for various customer segments with similar loss patterns. The calculation reflects the probability-weighted outcome, the time value of money and reasonable and supportable information that is available at the reporting date about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions. Set out below is the information about the credit risk exposure on the Company’s trade receivables and contract assets using a provision matrix: Expected credit loss as at 31 December 2018 0-30 31-60 61-90 90-120 >121 Total Loss rates 21% 49% 64% 99% 100% Total exposure 899 945 12,065 13,907 ECL allowance 441 603 12,065 13,109 Loss Rates Expected credit loss as at 1 January 2018 0-30 31-60 61-90 90-120 >121 Total Loss rates 21% 49% 64% 99% 100% Total exposure 1,352 336 1,364 9,426 12,478 ECL allowance 284 165 873 9,426 10,748 Expected credit loss as at 31 December 2017 The transition provisions of IFRS 9 allow an entity not to restate comparatives. The Company has elected not to restate comparatives in respect of the consequential amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. Accordingly, these amendments were applied to the disclosures for 2018 and the prior year balances were done and the adjustment effect reflected through the retained earnings of Sh. 6,907,353. Credit risk – Increase/decrease of ECL rate by 10%. If the ECL rates on trade receivables had been 10% higher (lower) as of 31 December 2018, the loss allowance on trade receivables would have been Sh 293,804 higher (lower). 70 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 28. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND OBJECTIVES (Continued) Company Exposure at Default Amortized Loss Nominal Cost given Other 12 Month ECL Value ‘000 Default Stage Rating PD ‘000 Bank Moody’s Guarantee Speculative 1,450 30% Stage 1 B2 3.44% 18 Bank Moody’s Guarantees Speculative 2,930 30% Stage 1 B2 3.44% 37 Bank Moody’s Guarantee Speculative 20,646 30% Stage 1 B2 3.44% 211 25,026 266 Bank Moody’s Guarantee Speculative 1,450 30% Stage 1 B2 3.44% 18 Bank Moody’s Guarantee Speculative 2,930 30% Stage 1 B2 3.44% 37 Bank Moody’s Guarantee Speculative 20,646 30% Stage 1 B2 3.44% 211 Bank Moody’s Guarantee Speculative 1,533 30% Stage 1 B2 3.44% 16 Fixed Moody’s Deposit Speculative 10,159 30% Stage 1 B2 3.44% 105 Bank Moody’s Guarantee Speculative 3,745 30% Stage 1 B2 3.44% 38 Fixed Moody’s Deposit Speculative 222 30% Stage 1 B2 3.44% 2 Fixed Moody’s Deposit Speculative 5,054 30% Stage 1 B2 3.44% 52 45,739 479 71 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Note to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 28. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND OBJECTIVES (Continued) a) Interest rate risk The group’s interest bearing assets are investments in short term deposits. All of these instruments are at fixed interest rates. The nature of financial instruments held, mitigates interest risk exposure of the Group. Fluctuations in interest rates will have an insignificant effect on the Group. b) Liquidity risk The amounts disclosed in the table below are the contracted undiscounted cash flows of the Group’s financial liabilities. 1-6 6-12 Over 12 months months months Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 At 31 December 2018 Due to related parties 8,478 8,478 Trade payables 53,976 53,976 Total financial liabilities 62,454 62,454 At 31 December 2017 Due to related parties 31,397 31,397 Trade payables 65,852 65,852 Total financial liabilities 97,249 97,249 72 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 29. OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS Operating lease commitments represent rentals payable for office space.CPF Financial Services Limited and its subsidiaries pays rental for office space. Operating lease rentals in the year (Group and company) amounted to Sh 30,381,675 (2017 – Sh 24,208,780). At the end of the reporting period the commitments under operating leases fell due as follows Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Within one year 37,363 25,295 30,104 19,877 Between two to five years 100,573 60,912 93,313 46,393 137,936 86,207 123,417 66,270 30. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Group manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the company consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders, comprising issued capital and revenue reserves. Consistent with others in the industry, the company monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. The Group had no borrowing as at 31 December 2018 (2017: nil). 31. FAIR VALUE The Directors consider that there is no material difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the group’s financial assets and liabilities where fair value details have not been presented. 73 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 32. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES There were no contingent liabilities of the group as at 31 December 2018 (2017 nil). 33. COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION The company is domiciled and incorporated in Kenya under the Companies Act. The ultimate holding company is Laptrust Registered Trustees, a company limited by guarantee that is incorporated in Kenya. 34. CURRENCY These financial statements are presented in thousands of Kenya Shillings (Sh’000). 74 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes 75 Integrated Report and Financial Statements CPF HOUSE 7TH FLOOR, HAILE SELASSIE AVENUE, P.O BOX 28938 00200 NAIROBI MOB: 0720 433 354, 0735 763 293, TEL: +254 2064 901-5 EMAIL: INFO@CPF.OR.KE NAIROBI / MOMBASA / KISUMU / ELDORET / MERU 76 / NAKURU / GARISSA / NYERI / BUNGOMA Integrated Report and Financial Statements
