BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 0 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 1 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 Disclaimer: We took the utmost care in the collection and preparation of the data Thus, unforeseeable events could lead to deviations from the projections provided in this report. Nevertheless, the document may contain errors. Any and expectations expressed in such statements. statements regarding future developments or expectations expressed in this For us, it is a matter of course that gender-neutral terms such as “customer” report are assumptions that were made based on the data and information or “employee” refer to both women and men, and they are used in order to available at the time of preparation. improve the readability of this report. 2 CONTENTS 4 PREFACE 5 GENERAL INFORMATION AND REPORTING BOUNDARIES 6 BAWAG GROUP AT A GLANCE 9 CSR STRATEGY 11 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 13 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS CUSTOMERS 16 SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR CORE BUSINESS 19 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND PERSONAL COMMITMENT 21 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 28 ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE PROTECTION 33 SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM 34 APPENDIX 38 GRI INDEX 45 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT 47 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 3 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 PREFACE Ladies and Gentlemen, The publication of a sustainability report is part of our The past few years at BAWAG Group were characterized by continuous efforts to further strengthen sustainable action organic and inorganic growth. Thus, it was important for us and thinking within BAWAG Group. With this in mind, I am in 2018 to analyze and discuss our key CSR topics and the pleased to present you our Corporate Social Responsibility impact of our actions. Based on the results of a (CSR) Report 2018. comprehensive stakeholder survey, we have developed a new CSR mission statement (see page 10), in which we As BAWAG Group, it is very important to live up to our have defined key areas that we will address in the future. corporate social responsibility. It is crucial for companies to find the right balance between economic, environmental I would like to take the opportunity to thank everyone and social objectives. In 2018, we proved this with the whose commitment to sustainable and responsible launch of various new initiatives. We expanded our business practices allowed BAWAG Group to live up to its customer feedback capabilities and accelerated social responsibilities and further increase the awareness of improvement processes by establishing a “Customer these responsibilities in 2018. I count on your continued Experience” division. Furthermore, we started an event support in the future. series in the BAWAG P.S.K. branches, aiming to present digital topics and e-banking to our customers. In addition, by digitizing a range of processes, we have made our operations more efficient and more environmentally friendly. Our key internal topics in 2018 were the preparation for the relocation to our new headquarters, increasing digitization and the implementation of an agile Anas Abuzaakouk way of working. CEO and Chairman of the Managing Board of BAWAG Group AG 4 GENERAL INFORMATION AND REPORTING BOUNDARIES GENERAL INFORMATION AND REPORTING BOUNDARIES GENERAL INFORMATION The Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act The CSR Report 2018 is based on the guidelines of the (Nachhaltigkeitsund Diversitätsverbesserungsgesetz; Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards, Core “In NaDiVeG) implements EU Directive 2014/95/EU and Accordance” option, including disclosures specified by the expands and specifies the reporting obligation for nonset of industry-specific indicators for financial services) and financial information (environmental, social and employee was prepared in line with the principles of materiality, issues, respect for human rights and anti-corruption) in the transparency and comparability. Attached to the CSR management report from the financial year 2017 onwards. Report are the GRI Index (from page 38) and the UN Again in 2018, BAWAG Group is making use of the Global Compact progress reports (from page 47). The statutory option provided for in Section 267a Para 6 UGB to report is only released in an online version available at produce a separate consolidated non-financial report as presented in this document.  https://www.bawaggroup.com/csr REPORTING BOUNDARIES This CSR Report describes new developments that have company’s activities are not yet covered by this CSR occurred and the progress that has been made in the area Report. The data will be included in 2019’s report. of sustainability in 2018, and is tied to the CSR Report 2017. It also covers Südwestbank AG for the first time. The The environmental key figures of Südwestbank AG were not reporting period for the data and indicators is the years yet fully available in 2018. Therefore, the data of 2016–2018. The CSR reports from recent years, the annual Südwestbank AG were not included in the table of reports, the corporate governance reports and environmental key figures. A table with the available Südwestbank’s report on non-financial information for the environmental indicators of the Südwestbank can be found financial year 2017 can be used as supplemental sources in the appendix (page 37). The internal process to of information about BAWAG Group’s CSR activities. harmonize the environmental key figures is ongoing and should be completed in 2019. Because the acquisition of Deutscher Ring Bausparkasse AG was not concluded until 4 September 2018, this 5 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 BAWAG GROUP AT A GLANCE BAWAG Group AG is the listed holding company of BAWAG insurance products and services through various online P.S.K., which is headquartered in Vienna, Austria, with the and offline channels. main banking subsidiaries easybank and start:bausparkasse in Austria and Südwestbank and Our business segments1) are BAWAG P.S.K. Retail, Deutscher Ring Bausparkasse (since January 2019 easygroup, Südwestbank, DACH Corporates & Public start:bausparkasse) in Germany. With more than 2.5 Sector, International Business and Treasury Services & million customers, BAWAG P.S.K. is one of Austria’s largest Markets. Delivering simple, transparent and best-in-class banks operating under a well-recognized national brand. products and services that meet our customers’ needs is our consistent strategy across all business units. We apply a low-risk, efficient, simple and transparent business model focused on Austria, Germany and The current shareholder structure can be viewed at developed markets. We serve retail, small business and corporate customers offering comprehensive savings,  https://www.bawaggroup.com/shareholder-structure payment, lending, leasing, investment, building society and STRATEGY Growth in our core markets Efficiency is the key to winning Our aim is to grow our customer base and business in our Cost efficiency across all businesses and functions is critical core markets, namely Austria, Germany and developed to succeed in a more complex world with increased markets with a focus on the DACH region. competition, higher regulatory requirements and new market entrants from outside the financial services industry. Making our customers’ lives easier Safe and secure We offer our customers the best experience and convenience when banking through our various digital and A strong capital position, stable deposits and a low risk physical channels to build and maintain successful longprofile are fundamental cornerstones for the execution of term customer relationships. our strategy. 6 1) More detailed information about the individual business segments can be found in the Consolidated Annual Report 2018. BAWAG GROUP AT A GLANCE ECONOMIC SUCCESS 2018 marked yet another successful year for BAWAG We outperformed all of our targets, focused on the things we Group, delivering a strong profit before tax of € 573 million, control, and delivered on our promise of being good up 14% versus the prior year. The increase was primarily stewards of capital all while continuing to shape the BAWAG driven by higher core revenues as well as lower risk costs, Group of tomorrow. Based on the strong business the latter reflecting the benign credit environment and the performance in 2018, we revised our targets upward. focus on developed markets. Key figures at a glance in € million 2016 2017 2018 Core revenues 925.1 1,010.0 1,123.3 Profit before tax 445.4 500.4 572.7 Net profit 458.1 449.1 436.5 Return on equity (@12% CET1) 16.2% 15.1% 14.3% Return on tangible equity (@12% CET1) 18.5% 17.6% 17.1% Cost-income ratio 45.5% 47.2% 44.2% Risk costs / interest-bearing assets 0.14% 0.17% 0.12% Total assets 39,746 46,056 44,698 Customer loans 28,485 30,793 30,482 Customer deposits and own issues 32,045 36,611 34,620 Common equity 3,108 3,576 3,706 Risk-weighted assets 19,047 21,494 20,465 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (fully loaded) 13.6% 13.5% 14.5% NPL ratio 1.7% 1.8% 1.7% RATINGS Fitch confirmed the ratings for BAWAG P.S.K. in February baa1 and the subordinate debt rating at Baa2. The 2019. The long-term issuer rating, the standalone rating Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital issued by BAWAG Group AG and the rating for senior unsecured debt remained is rated Ba1. unchanged at A-. Subordinated debt is rated BBB+. BAWAG Group/BAWAG P.SK. has also been assigned Moody’s Investors Service confirmed the ratings for BAWAG sustainability ratings by major European agencies, P.S.K. in January 2019. The long-term senior unsecured including SUSTAINALYTICS (average) and oekom research debt, issuer and deposit ratings remained unchanged at (not prime). We strive to continuously improve our existing A2, the standalone rating (baseline credit assessment) at sustainability ratings. 7 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 AWARDS  In January 2018, easy green energy, a subsidiary of quality testing institution “Gesellschaft für easybank, was named the best provider in the VKI Qualitätsprüfung” conducted the test at a total of initiative “Energiekosten-Stop” (Stop Energy Costs) for the roughly 200 locations. second year in a row after receiving the honor in 2017 as well. easy green energy was selected as the best provider  October 2018: BAWAG P.S.K. became the first Austrian in both the “Green Electricity” and “Eco-label Electricity” bank to receive the distinguished Efma-Accenture categories. Distribution & Marketing Innovation Award, taking first place in one of the highly sought-after categories. The  March 2018: For the second year in a row, Global internal event format “BAWAG P.S.K. TREND_LOUNGE,” Finance, a leading magazine covering financial and in which employees develop and present ideas for the capital market topics, awarded BAWAG Group as “Best retail banking segment, won GOLD in the “Workforce Bank in Austria” . Experience” category.  In May 2018, easybank has received the coveted  Also in October 2018, Südwestbank received a Recommender Award of Finanz-Marketing Verband certificate for competent and reliable investment Österreich with a Net Promoter Score of 52%. For the advisory from TÜV Saarland. The TÜV reviewers eighth year in a row, this confirmed that easybank’s assessed whether the processes are designed in a customers are the most satisfied customers of any direct, customer-oriented way and evaluated the workflows special and private bank in Austria and also show the and the professional competence of the advisors, highest willingness to recommend the bank to others. In among other things. The advisory environment, addition, easybank was awarded the quality seal for communication tools, conditions and fees were also excellent customer orientation. considered in the evaluation.  July 2018: Euromoney, one of the world’s leading  November 2018: BAWAG P.S.K. received the silver magazines for banking, financial and capital market award in the category “Best Recruiter 2018”. topics, honored BAWAG Group with two awards: “Western Europe’s Best Bank Transformation” and “Austria’s Best  Also in November 2018, easybank and start:bausparkasse Bank”. These distinguished awards recognize BAWAG took first place in the Börsianer ranking. easybank was Group’s successful strategic transformation in recent named “Best Direct Bank” for the fourth consecutive year. years. In addition, start:bausparkasse was named “Best Building Savings Association” for the first time. A total of 13 overall  Also in July 2018, Südwestbank took first place at 14 and category winners from five financial industries were locations in the largest and only bank test in Germany selected for the awards. which is based on the DIN SPEC 77222 standard. The RISIK-AVERSE INVESTMENT STRATEGY BAWAG Group manages its liquidity from the core funding The majority of the securities portfolio is spread among franchise in securities portfolios including the liquidity Western developed economies with stable legal systems: reserve as well as certain hedging portfolios. The applied 86% of the securities portfolio is located in Western Europe investment strategy focuses on secured and unsecured and North America. As of 31 December 2018, BAWAG bonds of Financials in Western Europe and the USA with Group had no direct exposure to China, Russia, Hungary or investment grade ratings as well as on select sovereign South Eastern Europe. bonds and high-quality CLOs for diversification purposes. 8 CSR STRATEGY CSR STRATEGY CSR ORGANIZATION At BAWAG Group, corporate social responsibility is the committee based on the Group strategy and reported managed on an interdisciplinary basis under the to BAWAG Group’s Managing Board. responsibility of the Managing Board by the CSR Committee. The committee consists of representatives of All members of the committee work in management major Group companies, business segments and positions within BAWAG Group. They are responsible to divisions/departments, including Communications; Human communicate the CSR topics agreed in the committee, Resources; Legal; Non-Financial Risk Management & which are relevant for their business segment or Regulatory Compliance; Chief Performance Office; Credit division/department, to their teams. Furthermore, they are Risk Management; Operations; Central Sourcing & Real responsible for implementing appropriate CSR measures Estate Management; Marketing & Product Management; in their area of responsibility. As key decision makers, they Digital & Data Office; Corporate Sales; and Retail and can proactively advance the implementation of the CSR Small Business Sales. The CSR strategy is developed in strategy in various areas of the Group. CSR STAKEHOLDER SURVEY AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS PROCESS Due to the changes that have occurred at BAWAG P.S.K. The results of the stakeholder survey were presented at a and BAWAG Group in recent years due to organic and CSR Committee workshop in fall 2018 and discussed with inorganic growth as well as other factors, our CSR mission external sustainability experts. Over 15 representatives of statement, CSR strategy and sustainability measures have BAWAG Group’s subsidiaries, business segments and been re-evaluated. divisions/departments discussed potential CSR and sustainability measures as well as focus areas in which To this end, BAWAG Group sent questionnaires to there is a need for improvement. In addition, they analyzed approximately 300 stakeholders of the relevant Group the impact of these measures and defined the topics that companies mid-2018, including BAWAG P.S.K., easybank should be in focus of the CSR strategy. The event helped to and Südwestbank, in order to evaluate their opinions on strengthen the awareness and the need to further develop “Corporate Social Responsibility at BAWAG Group.” The the Group’s CSR activities. return rate was 46%. The survey reached representatives of relevant stakeholder groups, like investors, consumer This materiality analysis process resulted in seven focuses protection organizations, customers, suppliers, the media, of action (please refer to the GRI Index starting on page employees, NGOs (environmental, social and human rights 38). Alongside the principles and goals of the UN Global organizations), product partners, rating agencies/analysts, Compact, these focuses of action form the basis for the policymakers and administrative officials. The survey polled CSR mission statement (page 10), the CSR strategy, the the stakeholders about their awareness of individual CSR measures of the sustainability program (page 33) and the and sustainability activities of BAWAG Group and the content of the CSR Report 2018. relative importance of sustainability issues such as diversity, economic success, customer orientation and Following the acquisition of Südwestbank by BAWAG P.S.K. ethical practices. in December 2017, Südwestbank was included in BAWAG Group’s CSR reporting for the first time in 2018. The topics and questions were developed in cooperation Südwestbank’s results from the stakeholder survey were with an external CSR expert team based on existing covered in the workshop and discussed with a measures and the CSR strategy, taking into account representative of the German bank at the Group level. current sustainability rating reports. The stakeholder Thus, Südwestbank’s CSR strategy, which up to now was surveys provided a clear picture of which sustainability shaped by a CSR advisory board representing nearly every issues are important to our target groups and should external stakeholder group, is incorporated into the Group therefore be given greater consideration. CSR strategy. 9 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 CSR MISSION STATEMENT With its seven key focuses of action derived from the BAWAG Group’s CSR strategy and the underlying measures materiality analysis process (page 9) in the fall of 2018, the of the sustainability program (page 33). CSR mission statement forms the overarching structure of Focuses of action For BAWAG Group, this means Economic success … pursuing our low-risk, efficient, simple and transparent business model focusing on Austria, Germany and developed markets. … contributing to the success of our stakeholders through the consistent implementation of our strategy and the advancement of strategic initiatives. Ethics and integrity … acting in accordance with the ethical values of our Code of Conduct, the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the seven UN Global Compact Women’s Empowerment Principles. … orienting ourselves towards the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the UN Global Compact as a framework for sustainable action. … securing the basis for honest and ethical action on the part of all employees with appropriate policies and guidelines. … placing particular emphasis on the topics of anti-corruption and data protection in compliance management. Responsibility towards customers … giving our customers the possibility to execute their banking transactions according to their individual needs, whenever and wherever they want, through our digital and physical distribution channels. … maintaining successful, long-term business relationships with satisfied customers across all distribution channels and platforms. Sustainability in our core business … promoting the development of sustainable fields of business and offering a diverse range of products and services that is oriented towards ecological, economic and social requirements. … being a reliable partner for businesses and the regional economy and living up to our ecological and social responsibility. … supporting products and services focused on sustainability and providing financing for projects with added value for the regional economy. Social responsibility and personal commitment … promoting the civic and social engagement of our employees. Staff development and training, … providing employees with a healthy work environment in which they diversity and equal opportunity can advance their careers. … fostering an open, appreciative environment for employees and helping them realize their potential. … focusing on equal opportunity and diversity within the company. Environmental and climate protection … keeping the direct environmental impact of day-to-day operations and the indirect impact of products and services as low as possible in order to ensure that future generations have a livable environment. 10 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY ETHICS AND INTEGRITY BAWAG Group places strong emphasis on mutual respect, committed to the Group-wide Code of Conduct, the ten engagement and customer orientation. We strive to act with principles of the UN Global Compact, the seven UN Global integrity by internalizing legal and internal regulations. We Compact Women’s Empowerment Principles and the 17 want to comply with requirements in every situation – in our Sustainable Development Goals of the UN Global Compact. interactions within the Group, with external stakeholders and with third parties. Our values and principles are anchored in numerous policies and guidelines that represent the rules for legally Compliance with laws and binding legal regulations that compliant, transparent and responsible action in our dayapply to every employee, as well as the commitment to to-day operations for our divisions, departments and thus principles that go beyond are top priorities for us. We are every employee of BAWAG Group. COMPLIANCE “Compliance” describes our management system in the In 2018, BAWAG Group’s compliance management focused area of ethics and integrity. Effective compliance and risk on the General Data Protection Regulation that went into management is a decisive aspect of a bank’s success. In force across the EU, the topics of anti-corruption, fit and addition to the conventional risk types, the management of proper guidelines and operational risk as well as the update non-financial risks is becoming increasingly important. The of the Group-wide Code of Conduct. Group-wide compliance and non-financial risk management sets the framework conditions that laws, requirements and standards are abided by, and also strives to insure Anti-corruption comprehensive protection for investors, customers, employees and the company. Along with the management BAWAG Group’s anti-corruption policy governs the of operational risk, the responsibilities include preventing acceptance and awarding of gifts and keeps abreast of the money laundering, combating terrorist financing, monitoring regulations that are in place. Any attempts at bribery or compliance with sanctions, fraud prevention, data other unlawful benefits must be rejected and reported protection, information security, securities compliance and immediately, and the department responsible must be the prevention of insider trading, market abuse and conflicts notified. We take a decisive stance against attempts at of interest. Further non-financial risks associated with corruption in all of our business segments. business or business relationships (according to §267a (3) UGB) are identified in the respective departments or by the For instance, compliance with the policy is monitored in the CSR Committee and are included in this report in several course of compliance audits according to a yearly plan. This chapters. Our goal is to systematize the process in the also includes audits at BAWAG Group’s subsidiaries. In future. addition, relevant employees are required to complete training programs on an ongoing basis, including in 2018. Violations of legal regulations and internal rules of conduct All employees of central functions were also required to can lead to reputational risks and severe consequences pass the “Anti-Corruption” self-directed learning program such as penalties, fines and restrictions for BAWAG Group. this year. Furthermore, all employees of Südwestbank are Individual employees involved in such violations could face required to participate in web-based trainings on fraud fines or incarceration as well as disciplinary actions as prevention and anti-corruption on a regular basis. defined in the employment laws, which also includes dismissal. Any and every attempt to commit a financial BAWAG P.S.K. has been a member of the Austrian chapter crime is seen as a violation of BAWAG Group’s business of Transparency International since 2012. An industry event principles, integrity and employees that is to be taken on money laundering was held in 2018. BAWAG P.S.K. is a seriously and is investigated accordingly. member of one of the working groups that is relevant in this context. 11 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 Data protection Code of Conduct The new European General Data Protection Regulation The BAWAG Group Code of Conduct was updated in 2018. (GDPR) went into force in May 2018. The goal is to create a It is an important set of rules that represents the values uniform level of data protection throughout Europe. It that we at BAWAG Group believe to be unconditionally stipulates more stringent regulations in order to better worthy of protection: respect, trust, responsibility and our protect customer data. good reputation. For BAWAG Group, it is extremely important to put data protection into practice in our daily work and apply it Additional policies and principles correctly. Customer information and data are subject to the banking secrecy provisions and European data protection There are currently more than 30 policies that provide regulations, and we must maintain its confidentiality. BAWAG Group’s employees with guidance for how to Beyond this, the Data Protection Office is legally obligated comply with the applicable legal requirements in their to provide employees with information and training daily work and incorporate the standards that are regarding the new legal requirements in a timely manner. important to the Group into their actions. Among other Therefore, all employees were required to pass the measures, online self-directed learning programs are associated self-directed learning program in 2018. offered for various topic areas in order to reinforce the content of the policies. Operational risk The policies in place at BAWAG Group include the AntiCorruption and Gift Policy, the Anti-Fraud Policy, the Operational risk, or OpRisk, is the risk of loss resulting Non-Disclosure Agreement Policy, the Recruitment from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and Policy, the Product Implementation Process Policy and systems, or from external events. It results, for example, many others that cover important topics of day-to-day from a processing error, the intentional disregard of business life. policies or the system of authority and authorization, or incorrectly entered data. All employees of BAWAG Group The Fit & Proper Policy was revised and updated in are responsible for identifying OpRisk and acting in 2018. It is part of the documentation of BAWAG Group’s accordance with the guidelines. corporate governance structure and, among other things, serves to ensure the prudent management of BAWAG With this in mind, the employees of BAWAG P.S.K. were Group and to increase the effectiveness of the risk required to pass the updated “Operational Risk and management. Internal Control System” self-directed learning program. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code of Corporate Governance complying with the Austrian Code of Corporate Governance. The most recent Consolidated Corporate Governance Report The Code of Corporate Governance aims to ensure the is available here: responsible management and control of companies and corporate groups with an emphasis on sustainable, long-term  https://www.bawaggroup.com/corporate-governancevalue creation. BAWAG Group AG has committed to reports 12 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS CUSTOMERS BAWAG Group has always strived to meet the needs of its digital offerings, worked to develop financial products that customers and provide as many people as possible with are even easier to understand and took additional steps in access to banking services. The needs of the customers making its products and services barrier-free. are given the highest priority. Their behavior and needs are constantly changing – due in part to the increasing Improving our offerings and intensifying our customer digitalization of everyday life. Customers’ expectations for relationships across all distribution channels are important the products and services of a bank are changing just as to us. With this in mind, we established a “Customer quickly: 90% of our customers now execute their Experience” division in 2018. transactions online or in self-service zones. At the same time, they want to be able to rely on a personal bank On the one hand, a lack of customer orientation can lead to advisor for assistance with important financial decisions. a damage of a company's reputation or to a loss of business, on the other hand, it can – due to inappropriate In 2018, BAWAG Group launched the restructuring of the products – turn out to be adverse for customers. BAWAG P.S.K. branch network, advanced the expansion of PRODUCT IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS The Product Implementation Process Policy plays an In addition, we conduct comprehensive surveys among our essential role in the development of new markets, products customers before significant changes are implemented. and services and in the case of significant changes to Our employees are also familiarized with changes through existing markets, products and services. All risks must be pilot phases and comprehensive training measures in order taken into consideration during product development, to ensure that the implementation of products is as smooth including credit risk, strategic risk, compliance risk and as possible. operational risk. To this end, various divisions are involved from an early stage. CUSTOMER ORIENTATION With our products and tailored advisory services we want to New BAWAG P.S.K. branch network support our customers with all financial matters. Our goal is to achieve the highest possible level of customer In 2018, BAWAG P.S.K. started rolling out a new, satisfaction in all of our distribution channels. independent branch network in Austria. The dialogue with our customers was extremely important from the very With more than 2.5 million customers, engaging in dialogue beginning of the conceptual design process. Customers as equals is among the basic requirements for BAWAG were incorporated into the development of the concept in Group’s day-to-day operations. Providing comprehensive, the course of co-creation workshops. With the new accompanying advice over the entire life cycle is key in our branches, the Bank intends to increase the space for customer communication. Along with the employees who customer dialogue, best-in-class financial advisory and work in customer service, the Complaint Desk and social personal discussions. In the “community areas”, trainings networks serve as important feedback platforms. for customers are planned. Confidential discussions with customers will take place in private meeting rooms. More than 46,000 customers were contacted by telephone to inform them of the new branch locations and invite them to explore the new branches. 13 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 “Digital Hour” event series Partnership with the Vienna University of Economics and Business BAWAG P.S.K. introduced the “Digital Hour” event series in summer 2018 in order to enable many customers to take BAWAG P.S.K. launched a cooperation project with the part in the digital transformation. At these free events, Vienna University of Economics and Business in the BAWAG P.S.K. employees provide training to customers who 2018/19 winter semester. In this project, students from the are interested in digital banking but not familiar with the Institute for Strategy, Technology and Organization are features. The advisors at the branches present information working on a problem that is interesting for our product about the advantages of digital banking and topics such as management and are generating innovative ideas for the security and the features of digital banking and the digital target group of students. banking app. The talks with customers have shown that there is a great interest and demand among customers to The goal of the project is to strengthen BAWAG P.S.K.’s profile have a direct and familiar contact person for this topic. Over among students and at the same time to better understand 1,000 customers have been shown digital banking step by and meet the wants and needs of this target group. step and have had their concerns allayed at a total of 262 “Digital Hour” events to date. This event series has been very well perceived by participants in all age groups. Deployment of mobile advisor teams In November 2018, BAWAG P.S.K. began deploying teams of mobile advisors who will provide customers in rural areas of Austria with banking advice and bank services. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION The satisfaction of our customers is our top priority and is aggregating all of the customer feedback and identifying highly dependent upon the quality of our products, services patterns. The resulting ideas for improving the customer and processes. As customer satisfaction is very important experience are presented to the responsible member of for BAWAG Group as a whole, more activities were BAWAG Group’s Managing Board at regular meetings. In undertaken in 2018 to better analyze customer feedback addition, the results of the analysis are discussed at and incorporate it into improvements in products and quarterly meetings with division and department heads at services. The continuous, broadly based monitoring and BAWAG P.S.K. systematic analysis of customer needs were professionalized through the expansion of the possibilities for providing feedback and the establishment of a Refining the digital customer experience “Customer Experience” division in 2018. One of the customer-focused measures taken by BAWAG P.S.K. is the development of a new digital customer experience, including a new digital banking app. In order to Separate division for improving the customer experience optimally get the customers involved and cater to their needs, the development team for the app conducted The “Customer Experience” division is exclusively interviews with customers in 2018. Nearly 90 people dedicated to analyzing the feedback of our customers. In between the ages of 20 and 70 were asked about their this way, BAWAG P.S.K. aims to give customer feedback an preferences. The team used the feedback as the basis for even stronger role in the improvement of its products and the development of the features and design. services. The Customer Experience team is tasked with 14 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS CUSTOMERS Expansion of customer feedback tools opinion on the quality and the level of satisfaction. This has already been common practice following consultations at The so-called touchpoint surveys were also expanded in BAWAG P.S.K. branches. However, in 2018 the service was 2018. Every time customers interact with an advisory or expanded to customers who got contact with our customer service point at BAWAG P.S.K., they are invited to give their service team. BAWAG P.S.K. was able to make improvements and commissioned a survey of its corporate customers in 2018. achieve successes for customers already in 2018 thanks to The results are a clear commendation of Südwestbank: the broad monitoring and systematic analysis of customer 86% of the customers were very satisfied or satisfied with feedback. For example, the process when customers forget the quality of the bank’s services. This confirms that their cash at a self-service machine was improved. Südwestbank’s corporate customers have a higher-thanaverage level of customer satisfaction. Südwestbank also values customer feedback as a means to realizing improvements. For example, the bank RESPONSIBILE CUSTOMER SERVICE The responsible treatment of our customers is important to  Our marketing campaigns only proactively address the us and is stipulated in the Group-wide Code of Conduct. In BAWAG P.S.K. customers whose financial situation addition, this approach is anchored in various policies, allows them to take advantage of the advertised financial measures and activities of the Group. Compliance with services product. extensive pre-contractual and contractual information obligations in relation to our customers, which are in place  The use of account overdraft facilities by BAWAG P.S.K. for almost all products, is indispensable. These information customers is monitored on an ongoing basis. If we see obligations are laid down, for example, in the Consumer that a customer is approaching the upper limit of Payment Account Act (VZKG) or the Mortgage and Real his/her overdraft facility and remains at that level over a Estate Credit Act (HIKrG). longer period of time, we contact the customer and offer an alternative to overdrawing the account. This not Based on continuous monitoring and analysis of customer only enables customers to save debit interest, but also feedback, we know that our customers value good service. gives them the possibility to reduce their debt in a clear At the same time, establishing a trust-based relationship and structured manner. This service goes beyond the with a competent personal advisor is essential. Our legal requirements as the affected customers are customers prefer products tailored to their needs. For us, proactively contacted and the criteria BAWAG P.S.K. this all comes together in the concept of “financial uses to define the relevant customer group are more wellbeing.” extensive as required by law. BAWAG Group strives to continuously treat customers in a  In order to counteract long-term credit risk for responsible way: customers, we offer special insurance packages for illness and unemployment when customers take out a loan. 15 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR CORE BUSINESS It is important to us to promote the development of At BAWAG Group, we do not aim to make only selective sustainable fields of business. Together with our partners, improvements to individual areas but rather to find longwe want to offer a diverse range of products and services term solutions to ecological, economic and social problems. that is oriented towards ecological, economic and social While the “New Chance” account is a highly successful requirements. We value the dialogue with our stakeholders showcase project in the area of social responsibility, easy as a means to identify where innovative and sustainable green energy, a subsidiary of easybank, is a good example products are needed. for a Group company that offers an environmentally friendly product. FINANCING PRINCIPLES BAWAG Group’s employees and business partners are and that these transactions do not give rise to any required to use natural resources in a responsible and reputational risk. environmentally friendly manner. We actively support measures aimed at protecting our natural surroundings In line with BAWAG Group’s risk-averse strategy, the and the environment. BAWAG Group aims to minimize the majority of the credit portfolio is distributed among negative effects of our business activities. Preserving a Western developed economies with stable legal systems. healthy environment as the basis of life for future As at 31.12.2018, 72% of the customer loans are generations is one of the fundamental principles of allocated to the DACH region. Based on the total customer BAWAG Group. These aspects are anchored in the Grouploan volume, more than half (approximately 55%) come wide Code of Conduct (page 12), which was revised in from Austria. 2018 and serves as a code of ethics for all of BAWAG Group’s employees and business partners. In addition, BAWAG Group does not provide financing to companies involved in the processing of nuclear fuels. BAWAG Group is aware of the sensitive nature of specific business areas and takes potential negative impacts into At Südwestbank, project financing in the agricultural sector consideration in its financing decisions. Projects that pose is checked to see whether the client can provide sufficient a risk of causing environmental damage are rejected or evidence of the legal requirements in the environmental scrutinized. As an example, BAWAG P.S.K. requires sector. Projects for the generation of energy such as biogas appropriate environmental assessments for the financing plants, which are based on renewable resources, are given of gas stations or landfills. In addition, BAWAG P.S.K. has special consideration and the use of public funding lending guidelines for retail and small business customers, programs is supported. which define unpermitted industries. In addition, these guidelines explicitly require loan applications to comply Retail customers who want to finance a house are with all applicable laws, which naturally include human informed and advised about attractive public funding rights and environmental regulations, and bank policies programs (including, in particular, the use of favorable financing options for low-energy houses). 16 SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR CORE BUSINESS PARTNERS WHO ACT SUSTAINABLY Our partners are committed to providing simple,  https://www.generali.at/privatkunden/uebertransparent and best-in-class products and services as well uns/nachhaltigkeit-csr/ as to acting responsibly.  https://www.generali.com/our-responsibilities BAWAG P.S.K.’s partnership with the asset manager When it comes to building society savings and loan Amundi Austria, which has been committed to agreements, we work with Bausparkasse Wüstenrot – in environmental, social and governance criteria in its addition to our own offering of start:bausparkasse – to offer investment decisions for many years, gives our customers our customers savings and loan agreements as a low-risk access to high-quality investment products that are savings option and affordable financing opportunity for sustainable and responsible. In 2018, Amundi published buying an apartment, fulfilling the dream of owning a home an ambitious three-year action plan to strengthen its and renovating existing living space. In addition to commitment to responsible investment. The asset manager obtaining building financing, customers can also invest for strives to expand its analysis based on ESG criteria to all of education or retirement needs. its active and passive fund management activities in the coming years. Additional information can be found here:  https://www.wuestenrot.at/de/ueber-uns/konzern.html  http://about.amundi.com/A-committedA long-term sales agreement with Allianz Vorsorgekasse player/Developing-responsible-finance allows BAWAG P.S.K. to offer solutions for company pension schemes to corporate customers. The Austrian BAWAG P.S.K. Versicherung also offers attractive solutions Society for Environment and Technology reviews the in the areas of retirement savings, hedging and investment investment concept of Allianz Vorsorgekasse on an annual for BAWAG P.S.K. customers. BAWAG P.S.K. Versicherung basis and evaluates its investments according to ethical is a subsidiary of Generali Group and is therefore subject to and ecological criteria. In addition, the company receives its economic, social and environmental guidelines. awards for sustainable investment every year. Additional information can be found here:  https://www.allianzvk.at/warum https://www.bawagpsk-versicherung.at/ueberallianz/nachhaltigkeit.html uns/nachhaltigkeit-soziale-verantwortung/ PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Financing with added value for rural areas  Municipal housing construction projects  Administrative buildings Many companies, municipalities and public sector entities  Swimming pools trust BAWAG P.S.K. when it comes to financing and  Aqueducts, water towers and fully biological wastewater realizing their projects. The majority of the infrastructure treatment plants undertakings the Bank has (co)financed in recent years have been projects that promoted the expansion and The majority of the orders within the projects are passed to improvement of infrastructure in rural areas throughout regional companies. This helps contribute to the creation of Austria. In 2018, the individual financing volumes ranged additional jobs in rural areas. from € 0.5 million to € 7 million and went to the following projects: In addition, BAWAG P.S.K.’s corporate customers include companies that promote the expansion of alternative power  Retirement homes, nursing homes generation systems, build important healthcare facilities,  Preschools contribute to the preservation of plant and animal habitats  Educational facilities such as elementary schools, music in Austria, advance the progress of electromobility and schools and training centers provide training and education for people who are disabled  Local streets, bridges and forest roads or difficult to employ. 17 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 Sustainable investment funds “New Chance” account The total volume of assets managed by Amundi Austria, The number of “New Chance” customers continued to BAWAG P.S.K.’s asset management partner, in socially increase in 2018. The BAWAG P.S.K. “New Chance” responsible investments (SRI funds) amounted to € 2.5 account is designed for people who otherwise would be billion at year-end 2018. Investments in sustainable excluded from electronic payment transactions. Neither the investment products – the three retail funds “Amundi Ethik account number nor the bank routing code contain any Fonds”1), “Amundi Öko Sozial Rent” and “Amundi Öko indications that it is a non-credit account. This prevents Sozial Stock” – totaled € 454 million, € 231 million and customers from being directly or indirectly stigmatized when € 108 million, respectively, as of 31 December 2018. executing their financial transactions. At BAWAG P.S.K., a total of 36,000 customers have a “New Chance” account. All three funds are certified with the EUROSIF Transparency Logo for SRI funds and were awarded the Austrian Eco-label for Sustainable Financial Products. A total of around € 1.7 Barrier-free self-service machines billion is invested in a further nine special mandates, one of which is also certified with the Austrian Eco-label for Along with the modern and intuitive design of the Sustainable Financial Products. BAWAG P.S.K. branches that will be opened all over Austria as part of the restructuring of the branch network, all of the ATMs at BAWAG P.S.K.’s branches are barrier-free. This is easy green energy being expanded to include all of the other self-service machines on an ongoing basis. The machines allow users to The Austrian power and gas utility easy green energy is a increase the level of contrast. These functions were subsidiary of easybank that was founded in 2015. The implemented in accordance with the criteria of the Austrian company supplies approximately 70,000 customers Federation of the Blind and Partially Sighted. People with throughout Austria with green electricity and natural gas. visual impairments can use the machines in a way that The company’s offerings have been certified with the meets their needs and select a high-contrast display with Austrian Eco-label since the year it was founded. easy green larger fonts and no pictures or animations, for example. As energy is a model example of a company within BAWAG in the past, customers can use the audio function to get Group with a sustainable range of products that has won assistance with checking their account balance, numerous awards. withdrawing money and managing their PIN. Südwestbank’s self-service machines also meet these requirements. 0% car loan Partner for non-profit organizations The zero-interest loan promotion, which aimed at enabling private individuals to buy a new car, was repeated for the BAWAG P.S.K. has been the main bank for many charitable fourth time in spring 2018. Financing was provided organizations in Austria for decades. Some 150 non-profit without interest or fees for new cars that emit 136 grams and non-governmental organizations are long-standing of CO2 per kilometer or less. In this way, BAWAG P.S.K. customers. made a major contribution to replacing older, highpollution vehicles with modern, low-emission cars. BAWAG P.S.K. provides special conditions for transferring donations and has charged a reduced fee of € 0.55 per cash transfer for a wide range of charitable causes at its branches for years. In addition, BAWAG P.S.K. regularly waives deposit fees for donations, for example for aid for the flooding in Carinthia in 2018. 18 1) Until 20 April 2018: “Pioneer Funds Austira – Ethik Fonds”. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND PERSONAL COMMITMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND PERSONAL COMMITMENT At BAWAG Group, we want to live up to our social Bank’s social activities for years. Südwestbank awarded the responsibility and do our part when it comes to socially “Südwestbank-Preis” for the 22nd time in 2018 and thereby relevant issues. By focusing on education, culture, social extended its commitment to promoting science in its region. affairs and the crowdfunding platform (www.crowdfunding.at), BAWAG Group sharpens its perception profile. We see We would like to emphasize the fact that many projects and ourselves as a partner at eye level who plays an active role in initiatives would not be possible without the personal creating partnerships and developing projects. It is important dedication of BAWAG Group’s employees over many years. to us to support projects on a long-term basis and give our We are extremely proud to be able to count on the commitment to initiatives for many years. Therefore, many of contributions of our employees. our campaigns and measures have a long tradition. At the same time, working together for the benefit of social BAWAG P.S.K.’s efforts on behalf of “Licht ins Dunkel”, for projects has a positive effect on the sense of solidarity within the blood drives organized by the Austrian Red Cross and for the company and helps to raise awareness for social the Caritas learning cafés have been key elements in the responsibility within the Group. INITIATIVES AND MEASURES ES GEHT! initiative and “Mitten im Leben-Preis“ “Wissens°raum” project received the € 3,000 “Mitten im Leben Preis” as well as € 15,000 in contributions from the With ES GEHT!, BAWAG P.S.K. launched a successful ES GEHT! crowdfunding platform. As a result, the project initiative in 2014 that supports individuals, brings people received assistance totaling over € 18,000 in 2018. and communities together and encourages society to work together to do good things. Projects dealing with issues related to working, living, education, healthcare, culture “Licht ins Dunkel“ und volunteer days and technology are promoted and highlighted via the online platform www.es-geht.at and by employees at the BAWAG BAWAG P.S.K. has been supporting the “Licht ins Dunkel” P.S.K. branches. initiative, which provides assistance for families and children in Austria, for over 40 years. In 2018, BAWAG P.S.K. has A significant contribution to the initiative came from donated € 50,000 for “Licht ins Dunkel” projects. BAWAG P.S.K.’s DANKESCHÖN loyalty program, in which customers and employees receive one DANKE point with a Every BAWAG P.S.K. employee has the opportunity to spend value of € 1 when they make a cashless payment of € 100, up to two working days per year volunteering for non-profit for example. The DANKE points can be used to support organizations and projects without having to use any projects on the crowdfunding platform. vacation time. Established in 2011, this initiative promotes and rewards the personal commitment of our employees BAWAG P.S.K. became the first bank in Austria to enable and highlights the value of volunteer work. For example, projects of individuals or private organizations to obtain employees volunteered at an inclusive soccer game in financing through crowdfunding with the introduction of its Gumpoldskirchen in Lower Austria in 2018. crowdfunding platform (www.crowdfunding.at). In June 2018, BAWAG P.S.K. awarded the “Mitten im Blood drives and “Bike to Work” campaigns Leben Preis” for outstanding humanitarian efforts. The prize went to the “Wissens°raum” project of the association In 2018, blood drives were again held for the Austrian Verein ScienceCenter Netzwerk, which converts vacant Red Cross at BAWAG P.S.K.’s locations on Georg-Cochbusiness spaces in socially disadvantaged districts of Platz and Buchengasse. The bank has been successfully Vienna into science centers for a period of a few months. supporting these campaigns since 1959. At the 148 Among other things, the initiative promotes access to blood drives that have been held so far, nearly 13,000 education and the dialogue in the districts. The 19 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 units of blood have been donated by employees for sick Measures to promote education and injured people who need blood. Again in 2018, a lot of employees biked to work together all The “Südwestbank-Preis”, which honors outstanding over Austria as part of the “Bike to Work” campaign in May, scientific achievements in the field of economics at the which has motivated thousands of employees to cycle to University of Hohenheim, was awarded again in 2018. The work since 2011. bank also grants scholarships to students and supports scientific work at the Walter Eucken Institute in Freiburg. Support for Pink Ribbon Day In addition, Südwestbank is a partner of the “BildungsChancen-Lotterie”, thereby supporting Germany’s first social In October 2018, all of the advisors at BAWAG P.S.K.’s lottery, which focuses on the promotion of educational branches were given a pink ribbon to wear in order to raise projects. awareness for the importance of the early detection of cancer (and specifically breast cancer in this case) and to destigmatize the disease. Support for artists Since 1998, Südwestbank has been supporting artists Donation campaign against child poverty primarily from the Baden-Württemberg region with one exhibition per year and giving them the opportunity to Before the relocation of BAWAG Group’s headquarters, present their works to a broad audience at private viewings employees were given the opportunity to buy items from the and evening events in its premises. former shop of the “WAGNER:WERK – Museum Postparkasse” in exchange for a voluntary donation. In addition, Südwestbank supports art institutions in BadenDonations in the amount of € 7,200 were received and used Württemberg such as the Staatsgalerie Stuttgart, the to support projects combating child poverty and families in Kunststiftung Baden-Württemberg and the Kunsthalle difficult situations. Riegel/messmer foundation. It is also the art partner of the Stuttgart city museum. 20 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY At BAWAG Group, we believe that our employees are one of methods and the working environment have an impact on our most important stakeholder groups. Their dedication our internal stakeholders, which we strive to proactively and high-quality work allow us to be one of the most address through various forms of communication. Our successful banks in Europe. Therefore, it is important for Women’s Mentoring Program and Management by us to offer our employees a healthy work environment in Objectives process, which provides an individualized, which they can advance their careers, to value their structured system of employee development, are aimed at performance and to accompany them on the path of reducing the risk of unequal treatment to a minimum. We transformation and digitalization. have also been working to counter health risks that arise in day-to-day operations for years with active workplace health We strive to analyze the risks that employees are promotion. confronted with and to take measures to limit them. Guidelines such as the Anti-Fraud Policy help our internal Employees from over 40 countries work side by side at stakeholders to proactively deal with legal and regulatory BAWAG Group every day. In 2018, we once again promoted requirements in their day-to-day work. In this way, we aim open dialogue and solidarity at the “BAWAG Group Summer to minimize the risk of financial crimes. In addition, the Bash,” where 1,500 employees of the Group and their increasing level of digitalization and changes in working families spent a relaxed summer afternoon together. Development of the number of employees Headcount 2016 2017 2018 Number of employees as of 31 December 2,758 3,520 4,046 The turnover rate in 2018 was 8% (2017: 6%)1). Gender distribution in % 2016 2017 2018 Women 54% 57% 57% Men 46% 43% 43% Share of women in management positions 28% 27% 28% Additional indicators pertaining to employees can be found in the Appendix starting on page 34 as well as in the GRI Index starting on page 38. 1) Exits with regard to the social plan and retirements are not considered. The calculation is based on full-time equivalents. 21 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 CHANGING WORKING ENVIRONMENT New headquarters Agile working In February 2019, BAWAG Group moved into its new In order to create a more dynamic and active working headquarters “THE ICON VIENNA” at Vienna Central environment for the Digital & Data Office team, an “agile Station. Transparent, proactive internal communication was working model” was introduced in 2018. Information about essential to ensure a smooth move. With this in mind, a the new processes, concepts and agility in general was project team made up of 25 internal employees along with developed in various projects and presented to all external consultants was formed that has been handling all employees of the Digital & Data Office in multiple training of the communication related to the relocation since the courses in order to get employees onboard with this change beginning of 2018. process. In addition, “ICON dialogues” were organized at which people were able to ask questions related to the relocation. “Ideenbörse” Internal workshops were also held for the division and department heads in order to give them guidelines for BAWAG Group employees have been able to submit internal working in the new environment. The employees were also feedback and innovative ideas quickly and easily since involved in making decisions about office furniture. January 2018. BAWAG Group introduced a digital submission form on the intranet in order to make it easier for employees to contribute to the development of the Group Digitalization with their ideas. The digital transformation of the banking industry was an Since the launch, 150 ideas on the following topics have important internal topic in 2018. With this in mind, the been submitted: “Retail Transformation Blog” was launched on the intranet in 2017. So far, 55 entries have been published on topics  Health and social issues such as agile working, digital banking and retail  Working environment and safety partnerships. The restructuring of BAWAG P.S.K.’s branch  Products and services network was also one of the key topics of the  Customer experience and customer satisfaction communication measures.  Efficiency and cost reduction  Image and competitive strength PROMOTING DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Women’s Promotion Plan  Awareness raising  Same career opportunities Since 2012, BAWAG has had a women´s promotion  Financial equality Promoting a better balance between program, which was jointly evaluated by the BAWAG P.S.K. career and family for women and men, especially the Women´s Initiative and the works council in 2018 and was provision of targeted information for employees before, agreed in writing with BAWAG P.S.K. during and after parental leave It serves as a binding framework to promote equality and equal opportunities for women and men in the enterprise. The women´s promotion program is based on four principles and concrete measures: 22 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Mentoring Program a structured audit process and was awarded a certification as a family-friendly company, which was valid for three The fifth round of the BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Mentoring years. This certification was successfully renewed in 2016. Program started successfully in March 2018 and is geared towards all female employees of BAWAG P.S.K. and its Various measures are planned for the coming years to subsidiaries who are interested in bettering themselves strengthen the Bank’s status as a family-friendly company. professionally and personally. For the current group, 15 mentees – some who work in managerial positions and some Since 2014, all fathers at BAWAG P.S.K. have received two who do not – were selected from various units after applying so-called daddy days, which are two days of special leave for the program at their own initiative. Each of them will have following the birth of a child in addition to the two days of a mentor at their side for the duration of the program. special leave stipulated by the collective bargaining agreement. This gives fathers an additional four days for The participants take part in exciting networking events and their families in total. workshops during the year-long mentoring program. In 2018, for example, they were invited to a stimulating networking Südwestbank also received the three-year certification for an evening with the motto “Get to the Point! How to Show Your excellent work-life balance at the company in 2016 as part Stance and Clearly Position Yourself,” where an external of the Audit berufundfamilie. This certification confirms a coach for managers, politicians and scientists provided them family-friendly human resources policy. with interesting insights and input. The program also included business talks with members of BAWAG Group’s Managing Board as well as other special guests. Information events for expectant parents Again in 2018, expectant mothers and fathers received useful Awarding of the sixth BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Prize information about returning to the company and coordinating parental leave at an event that is held twice a year. The BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Prize, which honors innovative projects, was awarded for the sixth time in October 2018. This year, the € 5,000 prize went to Martina Welcome-Back-Event Mara, a professor of robot psychology at Johannes Kepler University Linz, whose groundbreaking research makes her In addition, Human Resources and the BAWAG P.S.K. Works both a role model and a pioneer. Council have been organizing the welcome back event since 2009. Employees returning from parental leave are invited to inform themselves about news and developments at the Career and family Group. In November 2018, a total of 30 participants took part in the event, which was held for the tenth time this year. In 2013, BAWAG P.S.K. committed to promoting a good balance between family and career under the framework of 23 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 FLEXIBLE HOURS IN THE WORKPLACE The majority of the organizational units offer variable possible to arrange either reduced daily working hours or working hours within a set of defined operating hours. an accumulated number of hours spread out over several Telework agreements are facilitated to the extent possible days per week. There are also partial retirement models, with regard to operational needs and require employees to educational and medical care leave, and part-time medical come into the office at least one day a week. Various time care models that allow employees to balance their private models can be agreed on an individual basis, and it is and personal needs with work. TRAINING AND EDUCATION In order to ensure that the right employees are working in the Südwestbank places particular emphasis on needs-based right positions while having a structured career path, the personnel development. The HR Development department main training focus in 2018 was again on planning career plans measures aimed at ensuring the continuous, paths and human resource development. The focus was on systematic development of the employees in close keeping the staff up to date for new challenges as well as cooperation with the executive management team and the meeting all regulatory requirements – also supported by selfdivision heads. Support is also provided for employees’ learning programs and respective quick checks. individual education in the form of bachelor’s and master’s degree programs. We empower our employees to confront the challenges of their day-to-day work through professional and personal In 2018, a total of 18,233 seminar days (lasting eight hours growth. This includes not only the expansion of their each) were completed within BAWAG Group. Each employee specialized knowledge, but also topics such as time and completed an average of 4.8 days of training and education. stress management. The training also includes various IT, The female employees completed a total of 7,742 days, English and first aid courses. which translates to an average of 3.8 training days. The male employees took part in 10,491 training days in total, which At BAWAG P.S.K., we use the HR ONE learning and results in an average of 5.8 days. performance management platform for training purposes. It provides support in the sales management process and is expanded with self-directed learning programs and tutorials Finance Day on an ongoing basis. The methods used in this context include blended learning on the basis of mixed courses with In 2018, the first-ever Finance Day was held with over 30 online and on-site elements as well as social learning, in internal participants from various departments of BAWAG which participants learn with and from one another. P.S.K. with a focus on finance. Along with presentations on strategy, M&A, accounting and controlling, a Q&A session Employees at Südwestbank are also offered a wide range of with the CFO at BAWAG Group provided the participants a internal and external seminars on various topics such as good overview of the interfaces within the company. personal development, technology training, specialized knowledge and sales. After the courses, the employees’ satisfaction with the training is evaluated 24 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Apprentice training development of future managers from the Bank’s own ranks. The participants are nominated as part of the BAWAG P.S.K. has been successfully training apprentices “Sales Talent Management” succession planning process. for years and has received numerous awards, for example They go through a challenging program of technical and the “Beste Lehrbetriebe – Fit for Future” state prize. personal development training to prepare them to manage Providing young people with goals and prospects for the a branch. The training course is concluded with an exam future is a task that was once again taken very seriously in conducted by an examination board. 2018. A total number of 39 training apprentices worked at BAWAG P.S.K. in 2018. With its qualified banker The goal of these activities is to define the training needs apprenticeship program, the Bank provides high-quality in retail sales, find high-potential employees for defined training aimed at enabling the apprentices to be hired as positions, derive individual measures and thus facilitate qualified customer advisors at the end of their targeted training and succession planning. apprenticeship. In 2018, 12 apprentices successfully completed their apprenticeships – half of them with honors. In addition to the comprehensive training program, the Talent development, succession and career planning Bank supports and encourages young people to complete an apprenticeship in combination with attaining a Talented and qualified employees who show commitment secondary school leaving certificate, thus earning a and engagement are a key success factor for BAWAG second qualification in addition to their vocational training. Group. The banking landscape is undergoing constant changes and therefore it is our ultimate goal to promote a Numerous new apprentices began their training in Vienna, high-performing work environment where we can strive Linz, Salzburg and Graz in fall 2018. together as a team for long-term success. We are promoting professional as well as personal development with targeted programs. There is a clearly defined process in place in BAWAG P.S.K. apprentice at Finanzguru competition order to identify high potentials and develop potential successors for key functions. At the end of every year, the As part of a multi-bank project, all first-year apprentices Managing Board discusses all potential successors in the so took part in a competition organized by Finanzguru in called “Talent Review”. Additionally, it is aligned how to deal cooperation with the Berufsschule Wien vocational school. with potential succession risks. Students and youths explain complex financial topics in creative videos on the website derFinanzguru.at. An In our central unit, we offer the “forTalents” program. This independent jury of experts selected the best videos. program is especially tailored to support the participants, who are groomed for new management and expert positions, in both professional and personal development. Sales Talent Management and Sales Academy Furthermore, they can broaden their network as this program covers all different functions within the central unit. The “Sales Talent Management” and “Sales Academy” 13 of the 20 participants in the current group are women, programs focus on BAWAG P.S.K. sales employees. The and 55 of the 110 total participants thus far have been sales training offered in the “Sales Academy” combines women, 29 of whom already have management three essential elements: specialized knowledge as the responsibilities. basis for success, sales in the form of motivating training courses in sales methods and the development of To attract young top talents from university, we offer the managers. This provides all sales employees with well“Start & Move” traineeship. The one-year program provides rounded training tailored to their needs and includes the trainees with a detailed overview of the organization and training units covering topics such as securities, insurance allows them to develop their initial internal network. In the products, home loans, sales and small business customers. current program, there are seven female participants and eight male participants. “Leaders’ Basics” is the internal training program for potential branch managers in sales and ensures the 25 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 „Come & Learn : The 2018 internship program The “After Work Führungskräfte Forum” was successfully continued in 2018. This initiative is a platform where our In order to give students interesting and diversified insights managers can learn more about new developments in into working life, BAWAG P.S.K. offered 24 students the management and leadership and also exchange opportunity to get to know the company and actively work professional knowledge and experiences. The high interest on projects and tasks for up to six months. This allowed in this event is a testament to its success. the interns to not only gain valuable on-the-job experience in various areas, but also to familiarize themselves with the workflows and processes at the Bank and thus potentially Management by Objectives process lay the foundation for a successful career in banking. BAWAG Group’s remuneration policy is balanced in rewarding the performance, the competence and level of Leadership Development responsibility of the employees. Our “Management by Objectives” (MbO) approach remains a key management Leadership is a constant development process. tool for supporting our business strategy. Setting targets in Accordingly, the leadership development program the yearly MbO process is important for the development of encompasses a wide range of offerings. The program the bank and the performance of the employees. The focuses on a high level of practice-oriented learning, the performance evaluation reflects the employee’s targeted development of leadership skills, sharpening professional and social competence and the achievements managers’ self-reflection skills and employee guidance of the individual as well as Group targets. The MbO and development. dialogues are held on a top down basis to guarantee that the overall bank targets are spread across each level. Two In retail sales, for example, the leadership development dialogues are part of the yearly MbO process, while based activities are based on a potential assessment that is on a flat hierarchy within the bank, the regular dialogue supervised by external experts and aimed at identifying an between employees and the respective superior is given. individual’s personal strengths and areas for development. On this basis, we offer a training program that addresses exactly the skills that are needed for leadership. Recruiting award In 2018, the “LEAD neue Führungskräfte” leadership BAWAG P.S.K. was awarded the silver medal in the “Best curriculum was again held in our central units. The Recruiter 2018” ranking and was named the best recruiter program provides support and guidance for new members in its industry for the seventh time in total. In the annual of the management team during their first year in their analysis of over 500 Austrian companies, the Bank new function and serves as a platform to discuss day-toshowed once again that it competes at the front of the day leadership challenges. The 21st group started the pack in the “war for talent” among banks. A total of 133 program in October 2018. criteria were evaluated in the categories career homepage, social media, mobile recruiting, online job advertisements, Experienced leaders and management teams were online job exchanges, transparency, usability in the supported through individual (management) coaching and application process as well as response to contacts by targeted change management measures again in 2018. applicants. The focus was on individual advice and optimal assistance for the managers (and their teams) from HR Development and selected consultants. 26 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY WORKING HEALTH PROMOTION One of the cornerstones of our workplace health promotion In addition, BAWAG P.S.K. has offered its employees activities is the range of services offered by the company support and counseling in the area of occupational physician’s offices, which includes the following: psychology since 2010. Employees can take advantage of these offerings in the form of individual counseling  Occupational health examinations and sessions, among other options. assessments  Treatment of acute illnesses  Vaccination campaigns Evaluation of psychological stress factors in the workplace  First aid measures  Free annual checkups The prevention of work-related psychological stress factors  Massage therapist at the locations of the company was expanded to include new areas. The results of the physician’s offices online survey were analyzed by our external occupational psychologists from the occupational health service The measures implemented in this area in 2018 included “Arbeitsmedizinischer Dienst” and reported to the division the second “BAWAG P.S.K. Health Day,” the workshop series heads. The survey results were discussed, and possible “Fit & Focused in the Workplace,” eye exams for employees solutions and improvements were developed with at the central locations, the “Workshop for Healthy Eyes” and employees at the subsequent workshops. The division the “Healthy Fall” mental coaching session, which included heads are responsible for the implementation of the tips for how to quit smoking. measures that were developed. 27 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE PROTECTION Even though the direct environmental impact of banks is We will continue to focus on the environmental impact of very limited, BAWAG Group consistently supports the our office and branch operations and our travel activities, reduction of the consumption of natural resources. In for example. We intend to take continuous measures to addition, BAWAG Group is aware of its indirect keep the effects to a minimum. responsibility and pays attention to possible environmental hazards arising from its financing business. Our actions are oriented towards the basic approach of wanting to do our part to minimize the impact of climate BAWAG Group sets itself the goal to keep the environmental change on ourselves and other sectors of the economy impact caused by products, services and the day-to-day through our long-term, incremental measures. To this end, work activities of all employees as low as possible. In 2018, BAWAG Group is pursuing the development of the EU our efforts to improve the Group’s ecological footprint and Action Plan. Within this framework, a uniform concept is to contribute to environmental and climate protection were be established in the financial sector in order to uniformly particularly reflected in the restructuring of the BAWAG evaluate sustainable investments. P.S.K. branch network and the Group-wide digitalization of processes in order to reduce paper consumption. 28 ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE PROTECTION Key environmental figures1) Unit 2016 2017 2018 Material consumption Paper use kg 31,200,5002) 162,446 161,847 Account statement envelopes Pieces 7,862,000 6,670,433 7,034,210 Energy consumption3) Electricity Buchengasse/Quellenstraße kWh 6,119,480 5,966,880 5,697,040 Georg-Coch-Platz kWh 3,427,320 3,260,320 3,368,520 Am Tabor kWh 2,385,420 2,356,720 2,076,760 Branches4) kWh 6,069,413 5,781,643 5,424,091 Total power consumption kWh 18,001,633 17,365,563 16,566,411 Heating for central locations (district heat) Buchengasse/Quellenstraße kWh 2,843,999 3,169,681 2,978,350 Georg-Coch-Platz kWh 2,840,692 3,380,602 3,147,946 Am Tabor kWh 254,601 297,580 268,200 Heating for central locations kWh 5,939,292 6,847,863 6,394,496 Heating for branches4) Gas kWh 1,948,458 2,195,801 2,264,344 District heating kWh 533,094 564,099 547,665 Space heating for branches kWh 2,481,552 2,759,900 2,812,009 Vehicle fleet / Mobility5) Gasoline fleet kWh 38,979 236,663 167,044 Diesel fleet kWh 481,791 2,864,420 889,966 Travels by air kWh 1,147,494 1,950,556 2,473,922 Total energy consumption kWh 28,090,741 32,024,965 29,303,848 CO2 emissions6) Scope 1 – direct emissions Vehicle fleet t CO2-e 113 696 275 Heating (gas) t CO2-e 468 527 614 Subtotal Scope 1 t CO2-e 580 1,223 889 Scope 2 – indirect emissions Electricity t CO2-e 5,040 5,244 4,108 District heating t CO2-e 1,165 1,416 1,409 Subtotal Scope 2 t CO2-e 6,205 6,660 5,518 Scope 3 – other emissions Travels by air t CO2-e 697 1,200 1,718 Subtotal Scope 3 t CO2-e 697 1,200 1,718 Total CO2 emissions (scope 1 – 3) t CO2-e 7,482 9,083 8,124 1) The environmental key figures of Südwestbank AG were not fully available in 2018 and were therefore not included. A table with the available environmental figures of Südwestbank AG can be found in the appendix (page 37). 2) For 2016, the figures are presented in A4 pages. 3) The energy consumption data is presented based on current billing information. Due to varying billing periods, the presentation of data on one single cut-off date is not possible. 4) In the numbers, own branches are presented (excluding rented branches). 5) The conversion of vehicle kilometers or passenger kilometers into kilowatt hours was performed in accordance with the currently published factors of the Federal Environmental Agency. 6) Slight deviations may occur due to rounding of the decimal places. The method of calculating the CO2 balance is based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and refers each year to the currently published emission factors of the Austrian Federal Environment Agency. In addition to CO2, all other gases with GHG potential – u. a. Methane, nitrous oxide – are taken into account according to their climatic impact. Scope 2 emissions are based on the “Location Based” method. 29 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIROMENTAL ACTIVITIES Suppliers Clean energy for locations The “Supplier Code of Conduct” defines our expectations Two of the up to 26 new BAWAG P.S.K. branches are of suppliers with regard to environmental protection. In already being supplied with electricity by easy green addition, we oblige our suppliers to respect fundamental energy, which is certified with the UZ 46 environmental rights, health and safety of their employees and refer to seal. anti-corruption regulations. In the course of supplier evaluation, commercial, technical/technical, legal and Südwestbank’s locations use “GENO Strom NATUR” from general parameters relating to future cooperation are GENO Energie GmbH. The “GENO Strom NATUR” product comprehensively examined and evaluated. supplies certified green electricity to households, companies and agricultural enterprises in Germany. The energy needs at Südwestbank’s headquarters are covered Digitalization of processes with renewable hydroelectric power that is generated with no emissions. Numerous BAWAG Group companies digitalized processes in 2018 and thereby helped to reduce the consumption of Optimization measures have been implemented at paper: Südwestbank’s headquarters on an ongoing basis since 2009 in order save resources, cut costs and reduce  BAWAG P.S.K. began sending amendments to the emissions. This includes improvements to systems and general terms and conditions electronically to more efficiently designed operating methods. A new customers’ digital banking mailboxes in 2018. This lighting system featuring intelligent light control based on allowed the Bank to eliminate over 500,000 letters and the level of natural light was installed in 2017. In addition, save the associated paper. high-insulation, energy saving glass was installed in all of the windows.  By providing the fee schedule for payment accounts in electronic form, BAWAG P.S.K. will be able to avoid printing up to 4.5 million fee schedules. Employee clean energy campaign  Paper will be saved in various places at BAWAG P.S.K.’s In 2018, employees of BAWAG Group had the opportunity new branches in line with the goal of creating to receive an exclusive employee bonus by switching from “paperless branches.” For example, documents will not their previous energy supplier to easy green energy. be printed out unless customers explicitly request it, and will instead be delivered electronically. Contracts will also be signed electronically. This will allow the Green mail and courier deliveries consumption of paper to be significantly reduced. In 2018, Österreichische Post AG again delivered all  easybank expanded its digitalization measures in order BAWAG P.S.K. postal items on a carbon-neutral basis. to reduce the quantity of paper that is printed out. Documents were digitalized in 2018 and the employees Südwestbank has been sending letters and packages on a of the direct bank were encouraged to work digitally. carbon-neutral basis with GOGREEN since 2013. The CO2 emissions of all items sent is calculated precisely using an  In addition, easybank laid the foundation for a fully independent measurement system. The greenhouse gases digitalized application process with the relaunch of its are neutralized by providing support for various climate website. Customers no longer have to print out product protection projects. In addition, Südwestbank uses an applications in order to sign them. In this way, the electric car for intracity courier deliveries. direct bank also intends to motivate its customers to use less paper. 30 ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE PROTECTION New energy-efficient headquarters service and recreational facilities – and will contribute to ensuring a good work-life balance for our employees. THE ICON VIENNA has been BAWAG Group’s new headquarters since February 2019. The new offices boast THE ICON VIENNA will be supplied with clean electricity modern amenities and maximum energy efficiency and from easy green energy in the future. As a result, the provide an inspiring and effective working environment for majority of BAWAG Group’s locations in Austria – including our employees. all of the redesigned BAWAG P.S.K. branches and the headquarters – will use electricity from renewable sources. As the building is integrated into Vienna Central Station, it features infrastructure that gives the location the highest The building strives to achieve the highest Leadership in level of working quality and quality of life – including Energy and Environmental Design certification of Platinum. optimal transport connections as well as local shopping, 31 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 11 March 2019 Anas Abuzaakouk David O’Leary Chief Executive Officer Member of the Managing Board Enver Sirucic Andrew Wise Member of the Managing Board Member of the Managing Board Stefan Barth Sat Shah Member of the Managing Board Member of the Managing Board 32 SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM CSR strategy Goal: Strengthening the CSR activities and the awareness of CSR Time horizon Improving in rankings of sustainability rating agencies Ongoing Ethics and integrity Goal: Ensuring compliance with all guidelines and policies Time horizon Focusing on data protection, on information and IT security as well as on fraud prevention Ongoing Responsibility towards customers Goal: Appropriate products and services for every life circumstance and every stage of life Time horizon Continuing with the “New Chance” account and with offering sustainable investments Ongoing Sustainability in our core business Goal: Being a reliable financial partner for retail and commercial customers and for the regional Time horizon economy Introducing sustainability criteria in the product implementation process H1 2019 Expanding the range of sustainable offerings in our core business H2 2019 Social responsibility and personal commitment Goal: Strengthening the Volunteer Days and pushing the ES GEHT! initiative Time horizon Expanding opportunity to spend volunteer days to all BAWAG Group employees H1 2019 Screening, selecting and communicating of suitable ES GEHT! projects Ongoing Staff development and training, diversity and equal opportunity Goal: Appreciation and advancement of employees Time horizon Increasing the ratio of women in management positions by implementing the Women’s Promotion Plan Ongoing Raising awareness for and establishing paternity leave, “daddy month” and special vacation for new Ongoing fathers Supporting employees with changing working environment due to digitalization, agile way of working Ongoing and the new headquarters Environmental and climate protection Goal: Reducing our environmental impact so as not to endanger the basis of life for future Time horizon generations Relocating to new headquarters and switching to sustainable energy supplier easy green energy Q1 2019 Switching to sustainable energy supplier easy green energy at redesigned BAWAG P.S.K. branches Q4 2020 Continuing of measures to reduce paper consumption Ongoing 33 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 APPENDIX Table 1: Composition of workforce / governance bodies by age group and gender Age group 31.12.2018 <30 30–50 >50 Total Managing Board 6 6 Division managers / senior 25 10 35 managers Regional division and sales Men managers / sales managers / 73 25 98 department managers Branch managers / group 12 120 43 175 managers / team managers Non-management functions 238 577 626 1,441 Total (men) 250 801 704 1,755 Managing Board 0 Division managers / senior 4 4 managers Regional division and sales Women managers / sales managers / 2 33 3 38 department managers Branch managers / group 6 60 14 80 managers / team managers Non-management functions 480 1,026 663 2,169 Total (women) 488 1,123 680 2,291 Total 738 1,924 1,384 4,046 Age group 31.12.2017 <30 30–50 >50 Total Managing Board 6 6 Division managers / senior 20 8 28 managers Regional division and sales Men managers / sales managers / 57 14 71 department managers Branch managers / group 10 108 28 146 managers / team managers Non-management functions 152 492 601 1,245 Total (men) 162 683 651 1,496 Managing Board Division managers / senior 1 1 managers Regional division and sales Women managers / sales managers / 1 24 3 28 department managers Branch managers / group 7 44 14 65 managers / team managers Non-management functions 372 956 602 1,930 Total (women) 380 1,025 619 2,024 Total 542 1,708 1,270 3,520 34 APPENDIX 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Supervisory Board1) 9 9 thereof men 6 6 thereof women 3 3 1) Age group Supervisory Board 2017: 1 female member and 1 male member 30 50 years, 7 members male/female > 50 years; Age group Supervisory Board 2018: 1 female member 30 50 years, 8 Supervisory Board members male / female > 50 years Table 2: Workforce by nationality 31.12.2018 Austria Germany Others Managing Board 1 1 4 Division managers / senior managers 25 5 9 Regional division and sales managers / sales managers / 108 20 8 department managers Branch managers / group managers / team managers 207 42 6 Non-management functions 2,980 426 204 Total 3,321 494 231 31.12.2017 Austria Germany Others Managing Board 1 1 4 Division managers / senior managers 20 2 7 Regional division and sales managers / sales managers / 95 1 3 department managers Branch managers / group managers / team managers 202 4 5 Non-management functions 3,007 48 120 Total 3,325 56 139 Table 3: Employees leaving (headcount) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 By country Austria 449 423 Germany 251 Others 2 By age group <30 185 104 30–50 300 200 >50 217 119 By gender Women 360 201 Men 342 222 35 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 Table 4: Employees leaving (in percentages) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 By age group <30 26% 25% 30–50 43% 47% >50 31% 28% By gender Women 51% 52% Men 49% 48% Table 5: New hires (headcount) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 By country Austria 581 393 Germany 22 1 Others 10 7 By age group <30 374 204 30–50 198 174 >50 41 23 By gender Women 331 252 Men 282 149 Table 6: Education days according to position Total days Average days Managers Women 915 6.7 Men 2,540 7.6 Employees sales Women 4,493 6.9 Men 5,731 10.2 Employees central locations Women 2,334 1.9 Men 2,220 2.4 36 APPENDIX Table 7: Degree of employment arrangement 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Full-time 2,470 2,107 Women 1,144 994 Men 1,326 1,113 Part-time 1,576 1,413 Women 1,147 1,030 Men 429 383 Table 8: Term of employment 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Indefinite 3,739 3,286 Women 2,133 1,906 Men 1,606 1,380 Temporary 307 234 Women 158 118 Men 149 116 Table 9: Key environmental figures Südwestbank1) Unit 2018 Electricity Rotebühlstraße kWh 2,318,105 Schwabstraße kWh 91,470 Branches kWh 729,871 Total power consumption kWh 3,202,446 Heating for central locations (district heat) Rotebühlstraße kWh 1,087,657 Schwabstraße kWh 23,456 Heating for central locations kWh 1,111,113 Heating for branches2) Gas kWh 1,009,585 District heating kWh 85,557 Space heating for branches kWh 1,095,142 CO2 emissions3) Scope 2 – indirect emissions Electricity t CO2-e 1,566 District heating t CO2-e 372 Subtotal Scope 2 t CO2-e 1,938 1) The key environmental figures of Südwestbank AG for Paper (Paper use, Account statement envelopes) and Vehicle fleet / mobility (Gasoline fleet, Diesel fleet, Kilometers traveled by air) were not yet fully available in 2018. Therefore, they are not shown in this table. As a consequence, the figures for CO2 emissions „Scope 1 – direct emissions“ and „Scope 3 – other indirect emissions“ are not presented. 2) Heating oil is not included (in the period 2017–2018, around 27,000 liters of heating oil were purchased). 3) The calculation method of the CO2 balance is based on the Greenhouse Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting standard and refers to the published emission factors of the German Federal Environment Agency. 37 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 GRI INDEX This GRI Index was prepared in accordance with the The key focuses of action were identified by BAWAG Group current guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI in the course of the materiality analysis process. These Standards, Core “In Accordance” option, including were assigned to the individual GRI topics. The following disclosures specified by the set of industry-specific table provides an overview of the material topics and the indicators for financial services). All data refer to the year corresponding GRI indicators according to the GRI 2018 or 31 December 2018, unless otherwise stated. Standards. Focuses of action GRI topics (codes) Economic success 201 Ethics and integrity 205, 206, 415, 418, 419 Responsibility towards customers 417 Sustainability in our core business 203, 204, 412, FS7, FS8, FS11 Social responsibility and personal commitment 413, FS14 Staff development and training, diversity and 401, 404, 405, 406 equal opportunity Environmental and climate protection 205, 301, 302 38 GRI INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (Core) Reference/Comments 102-1 Name of the organization p. 49 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services p. 6 102-3 Location of headquarters p. 49 102-4 Location of operations https://www.bawaggroup.com 102-5 Ownership and legal form p. 6 102-6 Markets served p. 6 p. 7 (BAWAG P.S.K. and Südwestbank 156 branch 102-7 Scale of the organization offices, 4 central locations, 5 other locations) p. 21 (no significant share of 102-8 Information on employees and other workers not employed workers) p. 17, 30; BAWAG Group is Organizational profile supplied by around 30 suppliers, most of whom are regional (Austrian and 102-9 Supply chain German), with office equipment (including hardware), office supplies and marketing materials Significant changes to the organization and its supply 102-10 p. 17 chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach p. 11–12 102-12 External initiatives p. 11–12 Transparency International (Austrian Chapter), UN Global 102-13 Membership of associations Compact, UN Global Compact WEP Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p. 4 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior p. 11–12 p. 6, 12; Corporate Governance Governance 102-18 Governance structure Report 2018 (p. 4–7) 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 9 93% of BAWAG P.S.K. employees are covered by 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Stakeholder collective bargaining engagement agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 9 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 9 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p. 9 p. 5; Consolidated Annual Report 2018 (Note 47), Entities included in the consolidated financial 102-45 available at statements https://www.bawaggroup.com/ Reporting practice financial-results 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries p. 5 102-47 List of material topics p. 10 102-48 Restatements of information p. 5 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 5 102-50 Reporting period p. 5 39 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (Core) Reference/Comments 102-51 Date of most recent report March 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report p. 49 Reporting practice Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 102-54 p. 5, 38 Standards 102-55 GRI content index p. 38 102-56 External assurance p. 45–46 40 GRI INDEX MANAGEMENT APPROACHES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Focus of action 1: Economic success GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (Core) Reference/Comments 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary p. 6–8 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 6–8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 6–8 p. 7; Consolidated Annual Report 2018 (p. 3–4), available 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic Performance at https://www.bawaggroup.com/ financial-results 201-4 Financial assistance received from government None Focus of action 2: Ethics and integrity GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (Core) Reference/Comments 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary p. 11–12, 19–20 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 11–12, 19–20 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 11–12, 19–20 The risk of fraud is assessed for each audit topic in the internal audits. This includes corruption. All locations are 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption assessed in a multi-year audit cycle. In 2018, easygroup, the E2E business and the Südwestbank were audited. p. 11; 100% of the Supervisory Antiand Managing Board, as well corruption as 95% of BAWAG P.S.K. employees in central locations Communication and training about anti-corruption 205-2 were trained in 2018. policies and procedures The indicator is partially reported (this indicator is not required for correspondence with the Core reporting option). No incidents in the reporting 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken period Anti-competitive Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, No incidents in the reporting 206-1 Behavior and monopoly practices period No contributions in the Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions reporting period 10 complaints by third parties that were deemed to be substantiated; 1 complaint by the supervisory authorities; 6 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Customer Privacy 418-1 incidents of data leaks, data customer privacy and losses of customer data theft and data loss in connection with customer data. Measures for process improvements were derived. Socioeconomic Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social No incidents in the reporting 419-1 Compliance and economic area period 41 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 Focus of action 3: Responsibility towards customers GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (Core) Reference/Comments 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary p. 13–15 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 13–15 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 13–15 Requirements for product and service information and 417-1 p. 16–18 labeling 3 warnings from a consumer Incidents related to product and service information and protection organization, which 417-2 labeling were immediately taken into Marketing and Labeling account 3 warnings from a consumer Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing protection organization, which 417-3 communications were immediately taken into account Focus of action 4: Sustainability in our core business GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (Core) Reference/Comments 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary p. 16–18 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 16–18 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 16–18 p. 16–18; The proportion of the total value is not shown Monetary value of products and services designed to because there is no uniform FS7 deliver a specific social benefit for each business line concept for valuation and no broken down by purpose Sector Disclosures: corresponding reporting is set up. Product Portfolio p. 16–18; The proportion of the total value is not shown Monetary value of products and services designed to because there is no uniform FS8 deliver a specific environmental benefit for each concept for valuation and no business line broken down by purpose corresponding reporting is set up. p. 16; The proportion of the Sector Disclosures: total value is not shown Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative because there is no uniform Active Ownership FS11 environmental or social screening concept for valuation and no corresponding reporting is set up. Indirect Economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported p. 16–18 Impacts The Code of Conduct defines the standards for respecting human rights, which are Significant investment agreements and contracts mandatory for all business Human Rights activities. This includes the 412-3 that include human rights clauses or that underwent Assessment conclusion of contracts. human rights screening Beyond this, there are no human rights clauses in investment agreements/ contracts. 42 GRI INDEX Focus of action 5: Social responsibility and personal commitment GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (Core) Reference/Comments 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary p. 19–20 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 19–20 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 19–20 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for Local Communities FS14 p. 14, 18 disadvantaged people Focus of action 6: Staff development and training, diversity and equal opportunity GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (Core) Reference/Comments 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary p. 21–27 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 21–27 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 21–27 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p. 21, 36 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee p. 24, 36 p. 26; In principle, all Training and Education employees have annual Percentage of employees receiving regular performance performance reviews. In 2018, 404-3 and career development reviews 93% of all BAWAG P.S.K.'s employees had their feedback interviews Diversity and Equal p. 34–35 (Specification in 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Opportunity absolute values) No incidents in the reporting Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken period 43 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 Focus of action 7: Environmental and climate protection GRI code Content according to GRI Standards (Core) Reference/Comments 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary p. 28 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 28 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 28 p. 29; The indicator is partially Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume reported (paper use) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p. 29 Energy 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization p. 29 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 29 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p. 29 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions p. 29 44 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT We have performed an independent assurance on the to plan and perform the engagement to enable us to consolidated non-financial report” (“NFI-report”) for the express a conclusion with limited assurance, taking into financial year 2018 of account materiality. BAWAG Group AG, An independent assurance engagement with the purpose of expressing a conclusion with limited assurance is (“the Company“). substantially less in scope than an independent assurance engagement with the purpose of expressing a conclusion with reasonable assurance, thus providing reduced Management’s Responsibility assurance. In spite of conscientious planning and execution of the engagement it cannot be ruled out that The Company's management is responsible for the proper material mistakes, unlawful acts or irregularities within the preparation of the NFI-Report in accordance with the non-financial reporting will remain undetected. reporting criteria. The Company applies the legal requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment Improvement Act (§267a UGB) and the sustainability and included the following procedures in particular: reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards, Option “Core”) as reporting criteria and  Inquiries of personnel on corporate level, which are publishes the NFI-report as “BAWAG Group Corporate responsible for the materiality analysis, in order to gain Social Responsibility Report 2018 an understanding of the processes for determining material sustainability topics and respective reporting The responsibility of the legal representatives of the boundaries of the Company; company includes the selection and application of reasonable methods for non-financial reporting (especially  Conduct of a media analysis on relevant information the selection of material topics) as well as the use of concerning the sustainability performance of the assumptions and estimates for individual non-financial Company in the reporting period; disclosures that are reasonable under the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes the design,  Evaluation of the design and implementation of the implementation and maintenance of systems, processes systems and processes for the collection, processing and internal controls relevant for the preparation of the and control of the disclosures on environmental, socialsustainability reporting in a way that is free of – intended or and employees matters, respect for human rights and unintended – material misstatements. anti-corruption and bribery, including the consolidation of the data; Auditors‘ Responsibility and Scope of the Engagement  Inquiries of personnel on corporate level responsible for providing and consolidating and for carrying out internal Our responsibility is to state whether, based on our control procedures concerning the disclosures on procedures performed, anything has come to our attention concepts, risks, due diligence processes, results and that causes us to believe that the NFI-Report of the performance indicators; Company is not in accordance with the legal requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement  Inspection of selected internal and external documents Act (§267a UGB) and the sustainability reporting guidelines in order to determine whether qualitative and of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards), Option quantitative information is supported by sufficient “Core”, in all material respects. evidence and presented in an accurate and balanced manner; Our engagement was conducted in conformity with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements  Inquiry of employees as part of site visits at Stuttgart (ISAE 3000) applicable to such engagements. These (Südwestbank AG) to assess local data collection and standards require us to comply with our professional reporting processes and the reliability of the reported requirements including independence requirements, and data; 45 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018  Analytical evaluation of the data and trend explanations This assurance report is issued based on the assurance of quantitative disclosures regarding the GRI Standards agreement concluded with the Company. Our responsibility listed in the GRI-Index, submitted by all sites for and liability towards the Company and any third party is consolidation at corporate level; subject to paragraph 7 of the General Conditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions. The  Evaluation of the consistency of the for the Company respective latest version of the AAB is accessible at applicable requirements of the Austrian Sustainability http://www.kpmg.at/aab. and Diversity Improvement Act (§267a UGB) and the GRI Standards, Option “Core” with disclosures and indicators of the NFI-report Conclusion  Evaluation of the overall presentation of the disclosures Based on the procedures performed, nothing has come to by critical reading of the NFI-report. our attention that causes us to believe that the NFI-Report of the Company is not in accordance with the legal The procedures that we performed do not constitute an requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity audit or a review in accordance with Austrian professional Improvement Act (§267a UGB) and the GRI Standards, guidelines, International Standards on Auditing (ISA) or Option “Core” in all material respects. International Standards on Review Engagements (ISRE). Our engagement did not focus on revealing and clarifying of illegal acts such as fraud, nor did it focus on assessing the efficiency of management. Furthermore, it is not part Vienna, 11 March 2019 of our engagement to review future-related disclosures, figures from previous periods and statements from external information sources and expert opinions. Disclosures which were audited within the scope of the KPMG Austria GmbH Annual Financial Statement were assessed for correct presentation (no substantial testing). Mag. Peter Ertl Austrian Chartered Accountant 46 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, BAWAG Group is 2015, BAWAG Group is committed to complying with the committed to complying with its ten principles, which focus seven WEP. The CSR Report 2018 is also an annual on labor standards, human rights, environmental protection Communication on Progress (COP). Examples are provided and anti-corruption, and as a signatory to the UN Global of how each principle has been and is being implemented Compact Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) since within BAWAG Group. THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT AND EXAMPLES OF THEIR IMPLEMENTATION The 10 principles Examples of their implementation Principle 1: Businesses should support and p. 11–12 respect the protection of internationally General/Principles/Guidelines: Code of Conduct proclaimed human rights (COP 1) Principle 2: Businesses should make sure p. 11–12 that they are not complicit in human rights General/Principles/Guidelines: Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct abuses (COP 2) Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the General/Principles/Guidelines: Freedom of association and the authorization freedom of association and the effective of labor unions are protected by law in Austria. There is an ongoing recognition of the right to collective exchange of information between management and the Works Council, and bargaining (COP 3) new works council agreements are concluded on a regular basis. p. 11–12, 30 General/Principles/Guidelines: Supplier Code of Conduct; the majority of our Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the suppliers are located in Austria or Germany. The topics of freedom of elimination of all forms of forced and negotiation, compulsory labor, working hours and wages are covered in the compulsory labor (COP 4) Supplier Code of Conduct under item 3 “Respect for the basic rights, health and safety of employees.” Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the p. 11–12 effective abolition of child labor (COP 5) General/Principles/Guidelines: Supplier Code of Conduct p. 11–12, 22–26 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the General/Principles/Guidelines: Code of Conduct, Recruiting Policies elimination of discrimination in respect of Measures/Results in 2018: Revision of the women’s promotion plan, launch employment and occupation (COP 6) of the Women’s Mentoring Program Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental p. 28–31 challenges (COP 7) Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental p. 28–31 responsibility (COP 8) Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environp. 28–31 mentally friendly technologies (COP 9) p. 11–12 General/Principles/Guidelines: Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption and Gift Principle 10: Businesses should work Policy, Conflict of Interest Policy. The division Non-Financial Risk Management against corruption in all its forms, including & Regulatory Compliance monitors compliance with the rules and regulations. extortion and bribery (COP 10) All new hires must successfully complete training courses on the prevention of money laundering. 47 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 THE 7 UN GLOBAL COMPACT WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES AND EXAMPLES OF THEIR IMPLEMENTATION The 7 principles Examples of their implementation p. 22–24 Defined target ratio for the underrepresented gender in the Managing Board Principle 1: Establish high-level corporate and Supervisory Board, Women’s Promotion Program, Women’s Mentoring leadership for gender equality Program, flexible working time models, point of emphasis in management development programs Principle 2: Treat all women and men fairly p. 22–24, 26 at work – respect and support human rights Recruitment Policy, Women’s Promotion Program and non-discrimination For further indicators, see: 405-1, 406-1 p. 22–27 Principle 3: Ensure the health, safety, and Career and Family Audit, generation management, information events for well-being of all women and men workers expectant parents, welcome back events for parents returning from parental leave, company daycare centers at two locations Principle 4: Promote education, p. 22–26 training, and professional Women’s Promotion Plan, Women’s Mentoring Program, specific seminars development for women focusing on the further development of women Principle 5: Implement enterprise p. 23 development, supply chain, and marketing Women’s Prize practices that empower women Principle 6: Promote equality through p. 22–24 community initiatives and advocacy Women’s Prize, Women’s Initiative Principle 7: Measure and publicly report on Report on measures, objectives and achievements in the annual CSR Report progress to achieve gender equality and the Communication on Progress (COP) 48 OWNER AND PUBLISHER Get in touch with BAWAG Group: BAWAG Group CSR team E-mail: csr@bawaggroup.com OWNER AND PUBLISHER BAWAG Group AG Wiedner Gürtel 11, A-1100 Vienna Companies Registry number: 269842b EU VAT number: ATU72252867 Telephone: +43 (0)5 99 05-0 Internet: www.bawaggroup.com Investor Relations: investor.relations@bawaggroup.com Media: communications@bawaggroup.com Typesetting: In-house using firesys 49 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY BERICHT 2017 www.bawaggroup.com 50
