ING Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global SDG Compact Link/Location Principle 5, 10, ING’s respect for human rights and their integration 12 into our business engagements are guided by the standards established in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; the eight Fundamental International Labour Organisation Conventions (‘ILO Conventions’); the Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights under the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the UN Global Compact. We base our own human rights policy on these conventions. We seek to judge employees on ING Values: their merit and skills and without discrimination https://www.ing.co on race, age, sex, religion, ability or belief. We m/Aboutbelieve that by respecting human rights and us/Purposeincreasing our efforts in diversity, we are strategy.htm strengthening our workforce and our business. Principle As part of this, we developed a framework to ING Statement on 1 help us balance human rights in our operations. Human Rights: Business Launched in February 2018, it helps guide our https://www.ing.co should decisions on whether to maintain, start or m/sustainability/st support expand our activities in specific countries, as atement-onand well as to protect employees from human rights human-rights.htm respect risks in new markets. the ING Annual Report protectio 2018: In 2018, ING published its first ever UNGP n of Report of the internatio Human Rights Report. In the report, we take a Executive Board: nally look at five salient human rights issues. For ING Risk–Commitment to proclaime as an employer, these are work-related stress Human Rights d human and discrimination; as a corporate lender, these p. 57 – 59. rights are land-related community issues, child labour and forced labour. Knowing the biggest risk to ING Human Rights our people and the people in the supply chains report: that we finance, (known as ‘salient’ issues) https://www.ing.com/ means we can start managing them first. Sustainability/Theworld-around-usThe report outline our policies, performance 1/Reporting.htm and transparent examples of our human rights management. It also describes our human rights governance structures. This report is a landmark for how we communicate about managing human rights. It allows us to share insights clearly and obtain feedback on how we can further improve. We aim to continue this transparency, with this first human rights report acting as a starting point for future disclosures on our performance. Human rights are an integral part of ING’s ESR 5, 8, Policy Framework and apply to all economic 12 sectors that we conduct business with. ING’s has adopted a Statement on Human Rights ING Statement on based on the ILO Core Conventions. The Human Rights: Statement sets our expectations of employees, suppliers and clients. https://www.ing.co m/sustainability/st We ask our suppliers to agree to comply with atement-onthe UNGC principles that promote human rights, human-rights.htm fair labour practices, environmental protection, Principle and anti-corruption. 2 ING Annual Report Businesse ING is a member of the Thun Group of Banks, 2018, s should dedicated to investigating how the United Report of the make Nations guidelines on business and human Executive Board: sure that rights can be applied. We are also Equator Risk– they are Principle steering members and actively take Commitment to not park in OECD working groups on due diligence, Human Rights complicit including human rights. These and other p. 57 – 59. in human external engagements help us improve our rights practices and also promote a level playing field ING Human Rights abuses across our sector. report: https://www.ing.com/ In our 2018 human rights report, we Sustainability/Thetransparently outline how we screen corporate world-around-usclients, how we approach procurement, and 1/Reporting.htm how we make sure our own work force does not risk human rights abuses. This publication goes into detail on our current approach and future priorities. Principle 3 8 We uphold freedom of association for all our ING Statement on ILO employees and recognise the right to collective Human Rights: Conventi bargaining in accordance with ILO Conventions https://www.ing.com/I ons 87 number 87 and 98. NG-inand 98 Society/Sustainability/ Businesse Human-Rights.htm s should uphold ING Human Rights and the the Workplace freedom Statement: of https://www.ing.com/ associatio web/file?uuid=ab4fa4 n and the ba-0590-49da-943feffective cb042eac631b&owner recognitio =b03bc017-e0dbn of the right to 4b5d-abbfcollective 003b12934429&conte bargainin ntid=28342 g Through ING’s Statement on Human Rights we 1, 3, 8 express our commitment to support international labour rights standards for our employees. ING Statement on ING upholds the elimination of all forms of Human Rights: forced labour and compulsory labour. ING’s https://www.ing.com/I Human Rights and the Workplace Statement NG-inexplicitly prohibits all forms of forced and Principle Society/Sustainability/ compulsory labour in line with ILO Conventions 4 Human-Rights.htm 29 and 105. ILO Conventi ING Human Rights and ING goes beyond our own workplace and the Workplace ons 29 and 105 addressed forced labour as a salient issue Statement: Businesse through lending to corporate clients. We https://www.ing.com/ s should manage this risk through our ESR policy, web/file?uuid=ab4fa4b support applying international standards, and also a-0590-49da-943fthe engaging with clients. Through the Dutch cb042eac631b&owner eliminatio Banking Sector Agreement on Human Rights we =b03bc017-e0dbn of all are also participating in value chain analysis to 4b5d-abbfforms of understand where key human rights risks occur 003b12934429&conte forced in the value chains of our clients. This is ntid=28342 and outlined in our 2018 human rights report. compulso ING Human Rights ry labour In 2018 we also began proactive client report: engagement with corporate clients. Through https://www.ing.com/ this engagement me are discussing forced Sustainability/Thelabour explicitly with corporate clients. This also world-around-usincludes the understanding of the risk in the 1/Reporting.htm supply chains though which we are exposed through corporate lending. This is outlined in our 2018 human rights report. At ING, we will uphold the Children’s Rights and ING Statement on 1, 3, 4, Business Principles in our activities. Human Rights: 8 https://www.ing.com/ Principle ING does not tolerate any form of exploitative sustainability/stateme 5 child labour, as defined in the International nt-on-humanILO Labour Organization Convention 182, Article 3 rights.htm Conventi (Worst Forms of Child Labour) and in line with ons 138 ILO Conventions 138 (Minimum Age). ING Human Rights and and 182 the Workplace Businesse ING goes beyond our own workplace and Statement: s should addressed child labour as a salient issue support through lending to corporate clients. We https://www.ing.com/ the manage this risk through our ESR policy, web/file?uuid=ab4fa4 effective applying international standards, and also ba-0590-49da-943fabolition engaging with clients. Through the Dutch cb042eac631b&owner of child Banking Sector Agreement on Human Rights we =b03bc017-e0dblabour are also participating in value chain analysis to 4b5d-abbfunderstand where key human rights risks occur 003b12934429&conte ntid=28342 in the value chains of our clients. This is outlined in our 2018 human rights report. In 2018 we also began proactive client engagement with corporate clients. Through this engagement me are discussing child labour explicitly with corporate clients. This also includes the understanding of the risk in the supply chains though which we are exposed through corporate lending. This is outlined in our 2018 human rights report. As a global company ING needs a workforce 5, 8, that reflects and understands the demographics ING Values: 10 we serve in the various markets where we https://www.ing.co operate. Studies show that teams with a m/Abouthealthy mix of Turkey prepares for data-driven us/Purposefuture Data science can be a real game-changer strategy.htm for ING. To accelerate in this area, we partnered with Özyeğin University in Turkey to set up our ING Diversity and own data science training and certification Inclusion: programme for employees. Close to 600 people https://www.ing.com/ applied, of which 55 were selected to sustainability/ourPrinciple participate in the first two training rounds. The own6 ILO one-year programme is a combination of online operations/diversityConventi and classroom training and will count towards a and-inclusion.htm ons 100 future degree should they continue their and 111 studies. The programme reaffirms ING’s ING Diversity Businesse commitment to a data-driven future by Manifesto: s should cultivating its own talent pool and empowering https://www.ing.com/ support employees to keep developing themselves web/file?uuid=3499d0f the professionally. people contrasting perspectives 1-2a56-4c2e-b5c4eliminatio are more creative, more inventive and faster to c1d8893d1a86&owner n of =b03bc017-e0dbadapt. When people feel free to be themselves discrimin 4b5d-abbfthey perform better. In 2018, we defined a new ation in 003b12934429&conte direction to promote a more diverse and respect of ntid=36656 inclusive workforce introducing ‘mixed teams’ employm and the 70 percent principle. This principle ent and ING Annual Report strives for 30 percent difference in team make2018, occupatio up. Mixed teams include all types of diversity, Report of the n both visible and less visible. Ultimately, Executive Board: managers are responsible for building mixed Risk–Commitment to teams by choosing the dimensions of diversity Human Rights to focus on while also being guided by the p. 57 – 59. global 70 percent principle as far as possible. At the same time, we will continue our efforts to make all people feel included whatever their background, culture, experience, religion or sexuality. Like many other financial organisations, getting the right mix of people remains a challenge in parts of the business and there is more to be done to redress imbalances that still exist. Women in leadership positions remained stable at 38 percent of managers (39 percent in 2017) and 30 percent of managers of managers (29 percent in 2017 and 2016). Initiatives to improve the gender balance include having more female candidates on succession lists and more representative decision panels and interviewers during the recruitment process. Nevertheless, we continue to be recognised for our efforts in this area. In an independent genderequality report by Amsterdam-based interest group Equileap, ING ranks among the top 200 companies in the world and among the top five in the Netherlands. The 2018 report compared more than 3,000 companies from 23 countries on a wide range of criteria around gender issues in the workplace. It found the financial sector to be the strongest performer. Banks were the highest performing group in any sector. As part of our commitment to a diverse and inclusive organisation, our CEO Ralph Hamers signed the United Nations’ Global Compact Women Empowerment Principles in 2018. We also supported the UN Standards for Combatting LGBTI Discrimination in the Workplace. Our support of these standards will continue to guide our approach and be a source of learning for our own practices to combat discrimination and promote diversity and inclusion. ING’s ESR Policy Framework aims to mitigate 7, 11, environmental and social risks to our business ESR Policy Framework: 12, 13 activities. ING applies the Equator Principles to https://www.ing.com/S project finance. ustainability/Sustainab Principle le7 The ING Procurement Code of Conduct includes business/Environment Businesse environmental criteria. al-and-social-risks should policies.htm support a ING’s environmental management programme precautio aims to limit the environmental impact of our Equator Principles: nary own operations. https://www.ing.com/S approach ustainability/Theto world-around-usenvironm 1/Equatorental Principles.htm challenge s ING Annual Report 2018, Report of the Executive Board: Environmental and social risk management (p. 7073) ING Annual Report 2018, Consolidated Annual accounts (p. 302) 6, 7, 9, ING’s Environmental Approach outlines how we 11, 12, manage our direct and indirect environmental 13, 14, impacts, as well as how we mitigate risks and 15 create and seize opportunities. ING Environmental Programme: ING’s ESR Policy Framework helps us mitigate https://www.ing.com/ environmental and social risks through our Sustainability/Ourfinance. In project finance, ING applies the ownEquator Principles. operations/Environme ntal-programme.htm The ING Procurement Sustainability Standards include environmental criteria to ensure the Responsible Finance environmental sustainability of our suppliers. and Investments: Principle https://www.ing.com/ 8 Furthermore, in lending, ING promotes greater Sustainability/Sustaina Businesse environmental sustainability by growing its ble-business/How-wes should business with companies considered to be measure.htm undertak industry environmental, social and governance (ESG) leaders and by growing its Climate e ING Annual Report Finance deals. In investments, ING aims to initiatives 2016, Non-financial increase its sustainable investments year-overto appendix (349-351) year. promote greater Terra Approach: environm In 2018, we received perfect scores for environmental reporting and climate https://www.ing.com/ ental Sustainability/Sustaina responsibi strategy in ratings from the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. We also achieved the ble-business/INGslity Terra-approach.htm highest possible score on CDP’s climate change assessment, receiving the Euronext/CDP Leadership award and being ING Annual Report included in the ‘A-list’. 2018, Report of the Executive Board: Environmental and As a bank, ING makes the most impact social risk through our financing, via the money we management (p. 45loan to companies and customers. We 46) have a loan book of about €600 billion across many sectors, which we have now begun steering towards meeting the Paris Agreement’s two-degree goal. We call our strategy to get there the Terra approach. How does it work? ING will focus on the sectors in our loan book that are responsible for most greenhouse gas emissions: energy (oil & gas, renewables and conventional power), automotive, shipping & aviation, steel, cement, residential mortgages and commercial real estate. We will use a specific approach per sector in order to make the most impact, partnering with leading external climate measurement experts where it makes sense. At ING we understand that our activities impact 7, 9, the environment we operate in both directly, Our Stance: Energy: 11, 12 through the operations of our buildings, IT http://www.ing.com/IN systems and business travel, but also indirectly, G-inthrough our financing portfolio and our through Society/Sustainability/ our procurement supply chains. OurStance/Energy.htm Principle We are committed to reducing our own 9 environmental footprint and working closely Our Stance: Climate Businesse with both customers and suppliers to adapt and https://www.ing.com/I s should take advantage of opportunities within the lowNG-inencourag carbon economy of the future. Society/Sustainability/ e the Ourdevelopm We are proactively identifying opportunities to Stance/Climate.htm ent and finance environmentally impactful projects and diffusion industry ESG leaders. Responsible Finance: of https://www.ing.com/I environm And we will double lending to NG-inentally environmental, social and governance Society/Sustainability/ friendly (ESG) industry leaders by 2022 compared Sustainabletechnolog to 2017. business/How-weies measure.htm We were well on track in 2018 as Climate Finance rose 11% to €16.5 billion, Social ING Annual Report Impact finance was up 73% to €774 million 2018, Report of the and lending to industry ESG leaders grew Executive board (p.4, 29% to €7.1 billion. The tables below 46, 419,428) provide a breakdown of our Responsible Finance portfolio as of December 2018. Only by acting with professionalism and Principle 12, 16, integrity can we maintain our stakeholders’ Bribery and 10 17 trust and our company’s reputation. The ING Corruption: Businesse Values play an important role in this respect. http://www.ing.com/ s should ING has zero tolerance towards bribery and Aboutwork corruption and has clear policies on this. ING against us/Compliance/Zeroimplements a Corporate Policy on Financial corruptio Tolerance-BriberyEconomic Crime (FEC). n in all its Statement.htm forms, including ING Values: extortion http://www.ing.com/ and About-us/INGbribery Values-1.htm
