Profit with Purpose ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018-19 ABOUT THIS REPORT CONTENTS This is our first combined annual and sustainability report, where we document the business and related sustainability OVERVIEW performance of our company, subsidiaries, affiliates, and investments through 2018 and into 2019. Crescent Enterprises at a glance 02 A message from our CEO 06 Financial highlights 08 Period and information covered Scope of the report 2019-20 reporting framework The report captures the synergies The reporting boundary covers the As we have further defined our four OUR APPROACH between our operations and our activities of all our four platforms: business platforms in 2018, we have economic, social, governance and CE-Operates, CE-Invests, CE-Ventures, developed a new reporting framework Our vision11 environmental performance from and CE-Creates. to be implemented in 2019-20. A Our values 11 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. snapshot of this framework is available Our sustainability framework  11 It also includes selected business The reporting boundary for in the section titled “Sustainability Our stakeholder engagement 12 updates up to the publication date CE-Operates excludes Uruk Engineering reporting for 2019-20”. and Contracting, which provides Our materiality assessment 12 of the report. turnkey solutions in engineering, We welcome your feedback on Our contribution to the UN Sustainable Unless specified otherwise, all dollar procurement, and construction in our business performance on Development Goals 14 figures refer to US dollars. Iraq as it conducted minimal business ce@crescent.ae and encourage you during the year under review. to share any comments, inquiries, OUR PLATFORMS Reference guidelines used or suggestions you may have CE-Operates16 The sustainability disclosures have been Forward-looking statements on our sustainability journey on cesustainability@crescent.ae. CE-Invests24 prepared in accordance with the Global This report contains forward-looking CE-Ventures36 Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: statements, which reflect the current CE-Creates46 Core option. views and predictions of management. The forward-looking statements address As signatories to the United Nations CORPORATE GOVERNANCE matters that we expect, anticipate, Global Compact (UNGC) since July or plan for in the future but that are, Governance framework55 2013, this report also serves as our fifth by their nature, uncertain. These Senior leadership 56 annual communication on progress on statements are subject to change based the implementation of the ten UNGC on uncontrollable factors, such as OUR PEOPLE  principles, in addition to highlighting general economic conditions, foreign our efforts to advance the United exchange fluctuations, competitive Our evolving workforce64 Nations (UN) Sustainable Development product and pricing pressures, and Embracing diversity and inclusion 68 Goals (SDGs). regulatory developments. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP  70 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 76 THE WAY FORWARD  80 GRI CONTENT INDEX 82 Published in 2019 by Crescent Enterprises © Crescent Enterprises 2019 This report is printed on 100% recycled paper and has been designed to optimise paper usage. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 1 Our platforms OVERVIEW Crescent Enterprises at a glance CE-Operates is Crescent Enterprises’ operating platform. Its subsidiaries and affiliates are involved CE-Invests, our strategic investments platform, maintains a balanced portfolio of investments across in ports and logistics and in power and engineering. alternative asset classes, such as private equity, The subsidiaries and affiliates working under this real estate, and other structured investments. Its Crescent Enterprises is a multinational company Our areas of focus platform include Gulftainer, Momentum Logistics, holdings include investments in Growthgate Capital, headquartered in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). and Uruk Engineering & Contracting. TVM Capital Healthcare, and Gama Aviation Plc, We work globally through four distinct platforms: among others. CE-Operates, CE-Invests, CE-Ventures, and CE-Creates; across numerous sectors, including ports and logistics, power and engineering, and food and beverages; and Ports and Business Healthcare in verticals such as private equity, venture capital, logistics aviation and business incubation. Our business interests span 33 subsidiaries, affiliates, and investments in 15 countries. Together with our subsidiaries, we employ over 3,000 people. Food and Sustainable Power and We are a subsidiary of the Crescent Group, a beverage mobility engineering CE-Ventures is our corporate venture capital CE-Creates, our internal business incubation progressive, family-owned business group that platform and, as such, strategically invests in earlyplatform, develops early-stage concepts into socially has contributed to shaping the economic landscape to late-stage tech and tech-enabled start-ups and responsible, economically viable, and scalable of the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) for more select venture funds regionally and globally. It aims businesses. It has to date launched four businesses than 48 years. Crescent Group's other subsidiary, to invest $150 million by 2020 in proven start-ups in the food and beverages, industrial clothing, Crescent Petroleum, is the first and largest privately around the world. CE-Ventures’ portfolio includes e-commerce, and sustainable transport sectors. owned indigenous upstream oil and gas company Private Business Venture start-ups in medical, educational, consumer, and in the Middle East. capital equity incubation supply chain technology, among other fields. Our global footprint UK Turkey Jersey China USA Pakistan Lebanon Iraq Palestine Egypt Saudi Arabia India UAE Singapore 15 33 3,000+ Sri Lanka COUNTRIES SUBSIDIARIES, EMPLOYEES AFFILIATES, AND INVESTMENTS CE-Operates CE-Invests CE-Ventures CE-Creates Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 3 Founded: Founded: Founded: 2017 2013 2010 Industry: Industry: Industry: Our operations and investments Food technology PreNav Drones Media, Kitopi Pinterest technology Country: Maker of precision Country: Cloud kitchen network UAE navigation system USA Visual discovery engine Country: that cooks and delivers on Ownership: for drones used for Ownership: that currently inspires USA Crescent Enterprises has operations and investments across numerous sectors and geographies, making it a behalf of food brands Minority infrastructure inspection Minority over 265 million users with Ownership: purposes applications for their lives truly diversified business group. Minority Founded: Founded: Founded: Founded: Founded: Founded: 1976 2008 2003 2015 2017 2012 Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: TARA Vezeeta Ports Logistics Power and Artificial Logistics Medical Momentum Logistics Transcorp Gulftainer Country: Country: Uruk Engineering & engineering Intelligent product builder intelligence Country: Leading digital healthcare technology UAE Leading integrated thirdUAE Contracting Country: and manager of software Country: One of the UAE’s most UAE booking platform and Country: World’s largest privately party logistics services UAE builds from start to finish USA practice management Egypt Ownership: Ownership: Full-service power efficient, temperatureOwnership: owned, independent port provider offering a software in the MENA region 50% 50% generation, engineering, Ownership: Ownership: controlled logistics and Significant Ownership: management company complete suite of supply procurement, and Significant Minority last-mile distribution minority Minority managing 15 facilities in chain management construction contractor minority service providers 6 countries solutions Founded: Founded: Vintage: Founded: Founded: Founded: 1983 2007 2014* 2010 2017 2017 Gama Aviation Plc Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: Volt Lines XCath, Inc. Business Growthgate Capital Private equity Private equity Vicarious Artificial Transportation Medical One of the world’s largest aviation Samena Limestone intelligence technology Medical device developer technology business aviation service Country: Country: Subscription-based Investor focused on the Holdings Developer of AI software transportation service for of life-saving steerable providers managing over Country: UAE UAE Country: Country: Country: MENA region’s middlePrivate investment fund that ‘thinks and learns like robotic micro-catheters 250 aircraft across 40 UK USA corporate users in Turkey Turkey USA Ownership: Ownership: a human’ market segment with managing substantial stake locations on 4 continents Ownership: Limited partner Limited partner Ownership: Ownership: Ownership: about $1.6 billion in assets in RAK Ceramics PJSC, one Minority Minority Minority Significant under monitoring of the largest ceramics minority producers in the world Founded: Founded: Vintage: Vintage: Vintage: Vintage: 2011 2007 2014* 2016* 2016* 2014* H E A LT H C A R E Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: ICONIQ Capital Industry: Industry: Siraj Private equity TVM Capital Private equity FIM-IBC Real Structured BOV Capital Venture capital Venture capital Wamda Capital Venture capital Estate Fund investments Privately held direct Investment firm spurring Country: Healthcare Country: Investment fund focused Country: Country: Sector-agnostic venture Country: Palestine UAE Country: Sri Lanka investment manager USA UAE job creation and economic Partnership funding real on helping Sri Lankan focused on technology capital firm focusing on Globally active healthcare UAE growth across 7 sectors in Ownership: Ownership: estate investments in the start-ups capture regional Ownership: Ownership: technology companies in the Ownership: investment specialist Palestine Limited partner Limited partner MENA region Ownership: and global opportunities Limited partner Limited partner MENA region and in Turkey Limited partner focused on emerging markets Limited partner Founded: Founded: Founded: Vintage: Vintage: Founded: 2013 2017 2012 2017* 2019* 2017 Anomali Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: Cybersecurity ColurisMX, Inc. Medical Didi Chuxing Ride sharing Venture capital Jungle Ventures Venture capital Kava & Chai Food and Threat intelligence technology Rising Tide beverage platform for early Country: Medical device developer World’s leading mobile Country: Country: Investment fund that Country: Homegrown, specialty detection and USA of next-generation Country: transportation platform, China USA helps build Asian Singapore coffeehouse that brings Country: Funder of early-stage identification of cyber Ownership: microsurgical robotic USA with 550 million users Ownership: Ownership: technology leaders Ownership: people together UAE software and biotech threats in enterprise Minority devices Ownership: Minority Limited partner Limited partner Ownership: ventures networks Significant 100% minority Founded: Founded: Founded: Founded: Founded: Founded: 2004 2015 2011 2018 Incubation stage Incubation stage Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: Industry: EdCast Furlenco ION Educational Food technology E-commerce Transportation Shamal Industrial Food and technology FreshtoHome clothing BreakBread beverage AI-powered knowledge Country: Online furniture rental Country: Sustainable transport Country: Developer of nextcloud for unified Country: India platform catering to urban India company driving onUAE Country: A digital platform, Country: E-commerce venture generation, specialised discovery, knowledge USA professionals demand availability in UAE marketplace, and hub UAE for fresh, chemical-free Ownership: Ownership: Ownership: industrial clothing management, and multi-modal, inter-urban for curated home-based Ownership: seafood and meat, Minority Minority 50% joint venture Ownership: Ownership: personalised learning transport networks food experiences Minority including poultry 100% 100% Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 CE-Operates CE-Invests CE-Ventures CE-Creates (*Vintage years are those of the funds that CE-Ventures is invested in.) 5 A message from our CEO Our raison d’être The economic headwinds a number This not only represents the largest operating investment by a private UAE company in the US, but also Honouring our commitments Sustainability remained an intrinsic of our businesses encountered aspect of our business strategy in 2018 throughout 2018 helped to crystalise offers exciting avenues for growth as we reaffirmed the sustainability goals our raison d’être even further: we at for Gulftainer, which grappled with of each of our four platforms and our Crescent Enterprises are dedicated to overcapacity, unhealthy competition, overarching mission to help us better supporting the purpose-driven economy and shipping line consolidation in some assess the socioeconomic impact of all by pursuing profit that contributes to of its other key markets. our business activities. humanity’s progress. Our investments held by CE-Invests also We also continued to invest heavily We endorse inclusive value generation, made steady progress in 2018: global in our people and communities, enabling technology, and high-impact business aviation services provider from which we draw our strengths, innovation. In so doing, we proudly Gama Aviation Plc delivered strong and sought to protect our natural support the development agendas of organic growth in the US market– environment. Internally and through progressive governments of the Gulf offsetting a weaker performance in its our global partnerships, we continue region of the Middle East, where we more challenging European markets– to promote youth engagement, regional are headquartered, as they increasingly while many of our private equity culture, and enabling innovation in prioritise entrepreneurship and youth fund investments witnessed strategic addition to environmental conservation. engagement. expansion within their key portfolio Collectively, our corporate citizenship companies. Some of these funds expect activities reached 34,776 individual We recognise that in the fast-paced to undertake strategic exits in 2019. community members in 2018. and increasingly complex business environment of the 21st century, Our corporate venture capital (VC) To further extend our expertise and delayed gratification is a path to platform CE-Ventures has to date resources to the causes we support, business longevity. Adopting such invested over $85 million of the $150 we successfully launched an Employee a mindset has enabled us to better million it pledged to invest in technology Volunteer Programme across our define goals within our four operating start-ups and VC funds by 2020. In 2018, headquarters, where employees platforms, harness resilience across our the platform made ten such investments spend a minimum of two work days operations, and further invest in our across the MENA region, the US, per year volunteering with accredited sustainability journey. Southeast Asia, and India. The startups organisations across the UAE. we invested in are spearheading artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, I thank you, for your continued A balanced performance and consumer and supply chain tech. encouragement throughout our journey We maintained our expansion strategy In 2018, CE-Ventures portfolio grew of purposeful progress, and look in 2018, entering new markets and revenues by 98% and seven out of the forward to realising further milestones Seven years into reporting our countries while witnessing the balanced 15 portfolio companies raised $100 together in the years to come. growth of our subsidiaries, affiliates, and million in follow-on funding at an investments around the world. We did sustainability journey, we are proud to average 2x multiple of invested capital so by embracing challenges, learning (MOIC) over their last round of funding. from them, and transforming them into With gratitude, be presenting our first integrated Annual opportunities across our four platforms. In June 2018, our internal business incubation platform CE-Creates Under our operating businesses platform launched another new business, and Sustainability Report for 2018-19, CE-Operates, Gulftainer—currently ION, in joint venture with renowned the world’s largest privately held ports environmental management company and logistics company—secured a Profit with Purpose, which captures our Bee’ah, as a sustainable commercial landmark 50-year concession to operate transport company. ION’s mission is Badr Jafar and develop the Port of Wilmington to introduce efficient transportation Chief Executive Officer philosophy that a sustainable vision in Delaware, US, and build a new 1.2 options to the populous cities of the Crescent Enterprises million twenty-foot equivalent units Middle East in line with global efforts (TEUs) container facility in Edgemoor. and practice is intrinsically linked with to limit global warming. business success. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 7 Financial highlights Gulftainer won a 50-year concession to manage and operate Port of Wilmington, Delaware in the US. With Gulftainer’s expected investment of $600 million, this is the largest investment by a UAE-based company in the US. The lacklustre economy that the world witnessed in 2018 affected some of our businesses, resulting in a drop in our revenues from $357 million in 2017 to $271 million in 2018. While revenues have dropped, we maintained our investment Gulftainer was recognised for its commitment to employee health and safety standards at five sites by the UK-based programme and deployed $48 million in new ventures and projects in 2018. This led to a marginal decrease in our total RoSPA Awards scheme. It was also awarded the Logistics Middle East Awards 2018 for The CSR Initiative of the year. assets. In 2019 we remain bullish on our expansion strategy and continue to pursue new opportunities for growth. Momentum Logistics added 46 new Euro 5 tractor units, increasing vehicle efficiency through better fuel consumption, In $ million 2016 2017 2018* and improving reliability through reduced vehicle down time. Total assets 1,299 1,259 1,223 New investments 18 49 48 Gama Aviation Plc raised GBP 48 million to accelerate its strategy of becoming a leading global business aviation services group. Revenues 386 357 271 Payments to employees 94 84 77 IrisGuard, a Growthgate Capital's portfolio company, was recognised as the International Innovator of the Year at the 2nd Annual Lendit Fintech Industry Awards for its novel blockchain retail project allowing processing of supermarket *Preliminary results transactions in Jordan refugee camps. It also received three other awards in 2018 (Seamless Awards, CEO Europe Today Awards, AL Global Excellence Awards). CE-Ventures has invested $85.8 million to date in 21 start-ups and funds across the MENA region, the US, Southeast Asia, and India. The platform has invested across new technology domains including education tech and supply chain tech and in new markets such as Egypt and Southeast Asia. CE-Ventures concluded ten investments in tech start-ups in 2018, including follow-on investments. Its start-ups portfolio witnessed a 98% increase in their revenues throughout the year while the B2B companies experienced a 201% growth in their customer base. FreshtoHome sourced around 5,000 tonnes of fish and meat from 1,500 fishermen, serving over 400,000 customers in 2018. It reached a milestone of 8,000 peak orders per day in the same year. Furlenco was ranked ninth on the Financial Times 1,000 High-Growth Companies Asia-Pacific List in 2018. CE-Creates launched ION, the sustainable transport company pioneered by Crescent Enterprises and Bee’ah to provide on-demand multimodal and interurban transport networks. Kava & Chai expanded its footprint by adding three more locations in Dubai. The brand now operates six stores across Sharjah and Dubai. Shamal successfully concluded the R&D of an innovative workwear that can combat extreme heat. It is in the process of preparing for the soft launch and commercial production of the garment. CE-Operates CE-Invests CE-Ventures CE-Creates Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 9 OUR APPROACH Crescent Enterprises approaches its Our vision We aspire to build a diversified group of companies that transcends geographic and cultural borders while striving for business with a long-term focus on inclusive leadership, global competitiveness, and shared value for all our stakeholders. capital generation, sustainability, Our values and social impact. Diversity and inclusion Respect cultural diversity and work Entrepreneurship Foster a culture of impact innovation inclusively with every individual across all our activities The building blocks of our investment and operating strategy are sound corporate governance principles, responsible business practices, and inclusive growth. This approach is reflected in all of our operations, including new investment deals, operational agreements, and start-up development initiatives. Responsibility Integrity Our five-step evaluation process Serve the community and protect the Conduct business ethically and adhere environment in which we work to the highest governance standards at We use a clearly defined five-step In addition to emphasising financial risk Every undertaking is put through an every level of our operations process to evaluate new investment and return analysis, we recognise the ESG litmus test before being presented opportunities and to determine how best importance of environmental-, social-, to the Crescent Enterprises Investment to leverage our expertise to create lasting and governance(ESG)-related criteria. Committee and Executive Board for value for stakeholders. This process helps As a result, we have incorporated the approval. us identify potential benefits, risks, and evaluation of ESG parameters in our underlying uncertainties. five-step assessment process. Our sustainability framework Crescent Enterprises has interwoven To communicate our ESG performance That framework is built on the four sustainability throughout its operations to our stakeholders and all interested pillars of our long-term strategy: and strategic investments to ensure parties, we began reporting on our enabling ethical business, enabling a Evaluation process Our operational management lasting value for its stakeholders and for sustainability efforts six years ago. Then, stronger society, enabling stewardship At Crescent Enterprises, we strive for society at large. We consider the impact in 2015, we formalised our commitment of the planet, and enabling talent. 1 Initial screening Conduct an initial screening of the opportunity against long-term partnerships that foster mutual growth and sustainability. We are involved of our activities on the environment and on the communities wherever we to pioneering sustainable development by devising a sustainability framework. pre-defined criteria for assessment. with our partner companies and ventures operate to the same extent as on our through participation on their boards stakeholders. 2 of directors and select committees. We Preliminary evaluation monitor their progress and performance Investigate the opportunity by performing preliminary industry and provide them with strategic and and market research; analysis of the company’s business plan operational guidance, market and and growth strategy; assessment of the management team; financial intelligence, and advice to adopt and a preliminary ESG screening to ensure the opportunity best-in-class corporate governance complies with the ESG policy. A summary of this information is standards. It is this direct, collaborative developed into an Opportunity Memorandum. Enabling ethical business Enabling a stronger society partnering that ensures value creation Enabling responsible business Driving the socioeconomic beyond financing and that sets us apart 3 operations through a firm commitment development of the countries where Investment terms and valuation from other organisations. to transparency and accountability we have operations Develop a valuation model and commence discussion on investment terms and key principles (legal and commercial). Enabling sustainable 4 Detailed diligence and legal documentation Coordinate and execute multiple streams of due diligence growth (commercial, financial, legal, and ESG assessment), and subsequently finalise all execution documents to produce a Post-Execution Memorandum. Enabling talent Enabling stewardship of the planet Being an employer of choice and Understanding our impact on 5 Investment decision Present a Final Investment Memorandum and Post-Execution supporting young people and entrepreneurs the environment and identifying opportunities for improvement Memorandum to the Executive Board for final decision. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 11 Our stakeholder engagement Material topics Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) We have identified ten stakeholder We inform our business stakeholders We collaborate with accredited nongroups that could potentially affect of our latest activities by publishing profit organisations to engage with or be affected by our business bimonthly newsletters and, at yearour stakeholders in outreach activities activities. We regularly engage with end, our annual and sustainability to further benefit the communities we them through multiple channels report. We also participate in and hold serve across the entrepreneurship, 1 Anti-corruption and bribery (GRI 205) to understand their concerns and industry events to share best practice environment, and art and culture expectations and to develop a broad with our peers. fields. We offer targeted, skill-based consensus on our initiatives. workshops to community members Employee well-being 2 (GRI 401, 404) while our employees immerse themselves in community volunteerism. Governance 3 (GRI 102-18, 102-22) Training and career Governments and regulators Customers 4 development (GRI 404) Employees Communities Occupational health 5 and safety (GRI 403) Suppliers Capital providers 6 Economic performance (GRI 201) Industry partners Non-profit organisations Regulatory compliance 7 (GRI 307, 419) Business leaders and entrepreneurs Operating businesses Energy and emissions 8 (GRI 302, 305) Infrastructure 9 Materiality assessment development (203-1) Heading into 2018, we updated our list From 2019 on, we will follow our updated Effluent and waste of material topics as we had done in method of assessment and will report on 10 (GRI 306) the past—in accordance with feedback our progress in addressing topics found from our stakeholders and our review to be germane to our four platforms of the Global Reporting Initiative, or GRI, and company overall. A snapshot of Human rights 11 (GRI 412) Standards for sustainability. the updated method of assessment is available in the section titled This report reviews the topics that were “Sustainability reporting for 2019-20”. Inclusiveness 12 (GRI 405, 406) determined to be most material to our business at the outset of 2018. The following table summarises those topics Community 13 engagement (GRI 413) and lists them in descending order of relevance for stakeholders and our business. It also illustrates how those Biodiversity topics relate to the GRI Standards and 14 (GRI 304) to the UN SDGs. Local market presence 15 (GRI 202) Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 13 Our contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals Crescent Enterprises endorses the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and seeks to align its operations and activities with and thereby contribute to the UN SDG, as well as with the GRI standards and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. We also encourage other businesses in the MENA region to optimise their sustainability efforts and to likewise contribute to the SDGs. SDG Why it matters Highlights of Crescent Enterprises’ contribution in 2018 SDG Why it matters Highlights of Crescent Enterprises’ contribution in 2018 SDG 1: Ending poverty requires universal social • We generate local employment opportunities through SDG 10: Inequalities based on income, sex, age, • We welcome all people through our inclusive, nonNo poverty protection systems and targeted measures investments in our operating businesses and portfolio Reduced disability, race, class, ethnicity, religion, discriminatory policies. to reduce vulnerability to disasters while companies. inequalities and opportunity persist worldwide—to the • Many of our partner companies and ventures also enforce addressing specific underserved geographic detriment of shortand long-term social and • We empower youth and women through our corporate policies aimed at ensuring non-discrimination in the areas within each country. economic development. citizenship programmes. workplace. SDG 3: Ensuring healthy lives and promoting well• We are committed to providing safe and healthy workplaces SDG 11: Cities are hubs for ideas, commerce, culture, • We aim to reduce our environmental footprint, including by Good health being at all ages is essential to sustainable for our employees and to protecting people, property, and Sustainable science, productivity, social development, paying special attention to waste management. and well-being development. environments wherever we do business. cities and and more and will be home for a majority • We develop innovative businesses that address economic, communities of people. As such, cities should provide • We invest in companies that help address medical and health social, and environmental challenges. opportunities for all, with access to basic challenges. services, energy, housing, transportation, jobs, and more. SDG 4: Obtaining a quality education is the • We provide our employees with continuous training on select Quality foundation for sustainable development. It topics ranging from soft skills and technical competencies. SDG 12: Sustainable consumption and production • We strive throughout our operations to reduce the waste we education can improve people’s quality of life and equip • We promote employability skills in local communities. Responsible practices will reduce economic, generate, to recycle the waste that we do generate, and to them with the tools to innovate solutions to consumption environmental, and social costs and will help lower our consumption of resources. the world’s challenges. and production to lower poverty rates and to strengthen economic competitiveness. SDG 5: Gender equality is a fundamental human right • We are a signatory to the UN Women’s Empowerment Gender and a necessity for a peaceful, prosperous, Principles and have pledged to give equal opportunity to men SDG 13: Climate change is a global challenge, • We regularly educate our employees on the potential impact equality and sustainable world. Implementing legal and women at our workplaces. Climate action affecting all countries and economies, to the of climate change and motivate them to reduce their footprint frameworks for female equality in the • We support women in our organisation through progressive community level. Without action, the world’s on the environment. workplace and eradicating harmful practices employment policies that include extended maternity leave average surface temperature is likely to is crucial for gender equality. • We also strive to reduce our energy consumption from nonand flexible working hours for new mothers. surpass 3°C this century. renewable sources and to adopt energy-efficient practices. • We are invested in developing the careers of our female employees with training and capacity-building sessions. SDG 15: Biodiversity delivers multiple benefits, • We support biodiversity conservation initiatives through our Life on land locally and globally. Along with enhancing corporate citizenship programmes. SDG 8: A lack of good jobs and investments poses a • We endeavour to build local supply chains and to support ecosystems, it can be the basis for climate Decent work challenge to eradicating poverty, requiring us local suppliers and small and medium enterprises. change adaptation and disaster risk reduction and economic to rethink our economic and social policies. strategies. • We provide a safe, fair, and empowering work environment growth Sustainable economic growth requires that and offer competitive benefits. societies foster the conditions for quality jobs SDG 16: Implementing efficient and transparent • We are committed to the highest standards of integrity and and sound economies while preserving the • We enable entrepreneurs through strategic alliances and Peace, justice, regulations and ensuring accountable accountability. environment. investments. and strong institutions are essential to establishing institutions peaceful and inclusive societies. SDG 9: Investments in infrastructure are crucial • Our platforms invest in infrastructure projects to support Industry, to achieving sustainable development and economic development, including in Palestine through an SDG 17: A successful sustainable development agenda • We frequently consult with our stakeholder groups to address innovation, and empowering communities. investment in Siraj. Partnership for requires partnerships among governments, their concerns. infrastructure the goals the private sector, and civil society. Such • We have committed to various partnerships, such as the Pearl inclusive partnerships are needed at the Initiative, the UN Global Compact, among others, to drive global, regional, national, and local levels. engagement on ESG issues. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 15 OUR PLATFORMS CE-OPERATES CE-Operates is the operating business platform of Crescent Enterprises. Its subsidiaries and affiliates span sectors such as ports and logistics and power and engineering. Its subsidiaries and affiliates include Gulftainer, Momentum Logistics, and Uruk Engineering and Contracting. In 2018, CE-Operates exited its holdings in Gama Aviation MENA but continued its minority shareholding in Gama Aviation Plc. Accordingly, Gama Aviation Plc is now under Crescent Enterprises’ investment platform, CE-Invests. 50 YEARS Concession to operate $ 600 million 6,000 Investment to upgrade and New jobs to be created at Gulftainer and Momentum will focus on expanding their Port of Wilmington at expand Port of Wilmington over Port of Wilmington geographic coverage in the Delaware in the US the next 9 years MENA region and overseas. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 17 Business overview Record productivity and operational efficiencies despite Gross moves per crane hour industry challenges Gulftainer continued to achieve high levels of productivity and efficiency at its operations in 2018 despite the global economic slowdown and the turbulent times faced by the shipping industry. Gulftainer Momentum Logistics In April 2018, the SCT, at Sharjah’s Port Khalid, achieved record gross Gulftainer, established in the Emirate of Momentum Logistics (Momentum) is crane productivity of 32.2 crane Sharjah, is the world’s largest privately a leading UAE-based integrated thirdmoves per hour. The milestone feat vastly exceeds the industry average owned, independent port operator. The party logistics (3PL) services provider 25 crane moves per hour and marks company has rapidly expanded its operations that offers a complete suite of supply the highest productivity at the SCT and built up a strong presence in various chain management solutions. These since its inception. The SCT also parts of the world. In the UAE, the company solutions include transportation with registered a high volume of demand from customers for its new warehouse operates three main port facilities on behalf interconnectivity across the Gulf region, facility at Port Khalid. Shed 3, as it is either the Empire State Building or As the largest modern container of the Sharjah Port Authority—the Sharjah freight forwarding, warehousing, logistics, known, increased the SCT’s annual the Eiffel Tower. That it would call at terminal in Jeddah Port, the NCT has Container Terminal (SCT), the Khorfakkan container services, and specialised capacity 8%, to 690,000 TEUs. Local the KCT signifies Gulftainer’s ability regularly handled 14,000-TEU megaSharjah businesses are increasingly to deliver the highest standards of vessels following the maiden call of Container Terminal (KCT), and Hamriyah Port. capabilities, such as oilfield services. choosing Shed 3 as a cost-effective and operational efficiency to the largest Evergreen’s Tampa Triumph in May efficient alternative to other storage ships on the planet. 2017. The terminal has also adopted Internationally, Gulftainer operates ports, Momentum was established in 2008 to facilities in the area. an innovative in-house spreader design port facilities, and port-related companies. In enhance Gulftainer’s service offerings. The KCT is recognised by the Journal to extend the reach of its ship-toIraq, it operates the Iraq Container Terminal, Headquartered at the Sharjah Inland Shed 3 is designed to store less of Commerce as the fastest terminal shore (STS) gantry crane to the highest than container load (LCL) shipments in the MENA region and as the third container tiers. What is more, the NCT the Iraq Project Terminal, and the Umm Container Depot (SICD), its operations and loose-loaded cargo. It also fastest worldwide. Its strategic location is the only terminal at JIP to possess Qasr Logistics Centre; in Lebanon, the Tripoli throughout the UAE include the KCT, at includes an area designated for the on the main Asia–Europe trade lane, slip-sheet technology for the loading Container Terminal; and in Saudi Arabia the Jebel Ali Port; the SCT, in the Sharjah storage of hazardous goods that has moreover, enables it to connect the and unloading of containers in place through its subsidiary, the Gulf Stevedoring Airport Industrial Free Zone and in Ras Al been certified by the International Gulf, the Indian subcontinent, and the of traditional wooden pallets. This Maritime Organization (IMO). The new east coast of Africa, making the KCT an optimises the use of space, allowing up Contracting Company (GSCCO), it operates Khor. Momentum has also expanded its ideal hub for mainline carriers. warehouse, moreover, is located near to 30% more product per container and the Jeddah Northern Container Terminal operations to other countries, including the SCT’s yards and berths. As such, a 15% reduction in transport costs. In (NCT) and the Jubail Industrial Port and Saudi Arabia, Iraq, and Pakistan. In Saudi Arabia, Gulftainer operates it offers convenient access to on-site addition, JIP’s scanning facilities have the NCT at the Jeddah Islamic Port Jubail Commercial Port. Outside the MENA, destuffing and customs clearance. been upgraded to align with the Saudi Crescent Enterprises is a 50% owner of (JIP) through its subsidiary the Gulf Customs Authority’s 24-hour clearance Gulftainer operates in the US, in Florida’s With its strategic location and advanced Stevedoring Contracting Company Momentum. The company’s representation initiative. Cape Canaveral Cargo Terminal and in racking systems, Shed 3 will replace (GSCCO). The NCT marked a major on Momentum’s Executive Committee Gulftainer’s Shed 2. The latter will milestone in 2018, registering container The Jubail Container Terminal (JCT), Delaware’s Port of Wilmington. allows it, Crescent Enterprises, to provide be removed to facilitate, in turn, the volumes of 25 million TEUs since it operated by the GSCCO at the Jubail overall capacity expansion of the SCT started operation 18 years prior, in 2000. Commercial Port, on the east coast of Crescent Enterprises has been associated strategic guidance on expansion and through the installation of rubber-tyred Saudi Arabia, witnessed an impressive with Gulftainer since 1976, when its parent business opportunities. gantry (RTG) stacks. The GSCCO likewise achieved a 8% year-on-year increase in container company, the Crescent Group, established significant milestone in 2018 when it volume in 2018. This growth was driven Gulftainer’s KCT, meanwhile, welcomed passed the 30 million TEUs mark in Gulftainer to manage the SCT in Sharjah. by the expansion of Jubail and of Saudi the CMA CGM Antoine De Saint Exupery container volume. This corresponds Today, Crescent Enterprises holds a 50% Arabia’s east coast petrochemical on its maiden call in 2018. This is one of to a 50% increase in throughput in industry. The planned linking of the ownership stake in Gulftainer, to which it the world’s largest container ships and just five years for all of the GSCCO’s JCT with the national rail network will continues to provide strategic guidance on the largest-ever container ship to call facilities in Saudi Arabia: the NCT at JIP, further the terminal’s growth. at the KCT. The Antoine De Saint Exupery the Jubail Industrial Port, and the Jubail expansion and other opportunities through Commercial Port. At the NCT especially, boasts a capacity of 20,600 TEUs, and, its representation on Gulftainer’s Executive at 400 metres in length, is longer than the average crane productivity rate is Board and Investment Committee. more than 30 moves per hour. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 19 Joint investment in local The heightened efficiencies of these The high degree of activity that results infrastructure new vehicles have led Momentum from the Port of Wilmington make it the to estimate savings of more than principal driver of the region’s economic Port of Wilmington Gulftainer and Momentum Logistics 800 tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2) well-being. It annually contributes $436 commenced their construction of the Saja’a Permanent Access Road in 2018. emissions, or around an 11% reduction million in business revenue, $409 million Began operations in $436 million Their joint investment aligns with their in its carbon footprint. The 46 additional vehicles have increased Momentum’s in personal income, and $41 million in taxes to the region and state. The port 1923 Contributed annually in regional and state business revenue individual objectives of helping to drive fleet to 690 multipurpose trailers and also provides 5,900 people with direct, Sharjah’s economy. The highway will commercial trucks. indirect, and induced jobs. extend over two kilometres to link the Saja’a Industrial Investment Park (SIIP), Gulftainer will spread the $600 million Top $409 million the companies’ first leasehold initiative, Gulftainer’s expanded footprint North American port for Contributed annually in it plans to invest in the port over a nine imports of fresh fruit into regional and state personal via the Emirates Road (E611), to the Gulftainer, in its bid to cement its vision year period. Chief among its plans is a the US income three major seaports in Sharjah: Port of becoming one of the world’s top $410 million investment to develop a Khalid, the Hamriyah Port, and the terminal operators in the next ten years, defunct facility at Edgemoor that was Khorfakkan Port. continued to expand its global reach in 2018. Through its US subsidiary, GT USA, acquired by Delaware’s Diamond State 5,900 $41 million Port Corporation in 2016. Gulftainer Direct, indirect, and Contributed annually in SIIP is set to become a fully bonded Gulftainer won a 50-year concession induced job provided regional and state taxes proposes to revitalise the Edgemoor mixed-use logistics facility. Goods to manage and operate the Port of site from its shuttered brownfield imported under bond will therefore be Wilmington in the US state of Delaware. condition to a semi-automated, 1.2 exempt from duty or value-added tax Gulftainer will invest up to $600 million million TEU capacity container terminal. (VAT) until released to the local market. to upgrade and expand the port and its Upon completion, the Edgemoor SIIP, moreover, will offer convenient terminal to turn it into one of the largest facility will be a gateway for the mid“For decades, jobs at the Port of Wilmington access to premier air and sea hubs to assure connectivity within the UAE and most modern facilities of its kind Atlantic, Northeastern, and Midwestern have helped stabilise Delaware families and the on the eastern seaboard of the US. The and beyond. deal represents the largest operation American states. communities where they live. We were proud to ever run by a UAE company in the US Shortly after Gulftainer started partner with Gulftainer and the International This new industrial park aims to address the growing demand for logistics facilities and the single largest investment ever in managing the Port of Wilmington, the Longshoremen’s Association to invest in the future that country by a privately owned UAE in the UAE in the run-up to mega events, port welcomed a new customer. The of the Port. Our historic agreement will result in company. world’s second-largest shipping line such as Expo 2020 Dubai. As such, SIIP, by container vessel capacity, MSC, or significant new investment and good-paying jobs at which spans 750,000 square metres, is Gulftainer has exclusive rights to Mediterranean Shipping Company, the Port of Wilmington, which has long been one of designed for scalability and flexibility. It operate and develop the Port of will accommodate warehouse space of launched service to the port, which it has Delaware’s most important industrial job centres.” Wilmington in the US. For the next already expanded 714% because of the varied size, modern light industrial units, 50 years, therefore, Gulftainer is Governor John Carney, Delaware port’s exemplary service offerings made offices, employee accommodation, and responsible for managing the port’s possible by Gulftainer’s investments to multiple other options. It is expected 350,000 TEUs per year container volume date. Chiquita, a long-standing customer upon opening to bring more than a 100 and for enhancing its productivity to of the port, showed similar confidence in million dirhams of third-party investment handle a forecasted doubling of its the port’s new management by signing a money into Sharjah, generating revenue container volume in the coming years. for Gulftainer, Momentum, and the Gulftainer’s investment will add to 12-year contract for all of its stevedoring and storage requirements. 600,000 1,200,000 Job creation Emirate of Sharjah. the port’s capacity for roll-on/roll-off cargo. Gulftainer is procuring new To complement Gulftainer’s service TEUs TEUs and indirect Momentum’s upgraded cargo equipment from several vendor offerings, Momentum Logistics PROJECTED NEW TERMINAL economic impact trucking fleet companies in a phased manner. entered the niche market of generator CAPACITY CAPACITY Gulftainer’s investment in the In 2018, Momentum delivered on its maintenance and repair services at the The Port of Wilmington is the first Port of Wilmington is projected long-term plan to operate only vehicles Port of Wilmington in 2018. to create approximately 6,000 less than five years old. The company significant port on the Delaware River, traditionally a major waterway for US 350,000 US$600 new jobs—3,057 of them direct continued its fleet renewal plan with the purchase of 46 state-of-the-art Euro 5 imports of fresh fruit. The port as a TEUs million and 2,940 indirect—over the term of the concession and generate consequence has the largest dockside tractor units, which feature improved CURRENT $1.2 billion in concession fees. cold storage facility in the US. It is also PROJECTED reliability and fuel consumption that CAPACITY INVESTMENTS As a result, millions of Delaware one of the country’s most strategically should reduce costs and down time taxpayer dollars can be redirected situated marine ports, located as it for the company. These efficiencies for infrastructure developments is only a four-hour voyage from the will enable Momentum to provide throughout the state. customers with ever-more effective Atlantic Ocean. 6,000 50 years and reliable services. NEW JOBS CONCESSION TERM Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 21 Employee health and safety Concern for employee health and safety including ISO 9001:2015 (Quality employees to experience and assess in and out of the workplace and for Management Systems); ISO 14001:2015 various scenarios in real time. CE–Operates: Employee health safeguarding people, property, and (Environment Management Systems); The company delivered QHSE training and safety at Gulftainer the environment prompted Gulftainer and OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational to reinforce its Quality, Health, Safety, Health and Safety Management on ten topics in 2018 and actively and Environment (QHSE) Policy. That Systems). In this manner, the company encouraged its employees to report policy gives voice to the company’s is able to adhere to its self-stated QHSE potentially unsafe practices and to share Due to its initiatives and commitment vision and commitment regarding the obligations. recommendations. Gulftainer also put to safety of its employees, contractors, health and safety of its employees in place enhanced traffic management and guests, Gulftainer received the and the surrounding community; its In 2018, Gulftainer committed to systems and provided refresher training International Safety Award from British protection of the environment; the reducing its number of workplace on road safety to its operators. Gulftainer Safety Council for five sites in 2018 (Sharjah quality of its products and services; and accidents 15% and its number of is proud to report that the number of Container Terminal, Momentum Logistics its compliance with client and regulatory fatalities to zero. To achieve these workplace accidents dropped 29% and L.L.C., Khorfakkan Container Terminal, requirements. targets, it offered regular training on that it had zero fatalities in 2018. Iraq Container Terminal, and Umm Qasr safety through monthly safety forums, Logistics Centre). Gulftainer’s UAE terminals are compliant management safety walks, and toolbox with numerous international standards, talks. It also used simulators to enable Total number of Lost-time injury Gulftainer’s 2019 commitments on health and safety lost-time injuries frequency 50 1.95 1.19 1.1 10 8 10% 15% 10 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 REDUCE NUMBER OF REDUCE GROUP ACCIDENT CONDUCT 10 SAFETY LOST-TIME INJURIES INCIDENT RATE INSPECTIONS PER MONTH Outlook Gulftainer intends on upgrading its port the SICD; launching a transport system facilities in the UAE to ensure that it to minimise costs and emissions; continues its industry-leading, fast, and introducing new, lighter weight semiefficient service delivery to customers. trailers; increasing fuel efficiency; The company also aims to expand its reducing tyre wear; and heightening operations worldwide over the next ten road safety. Momentum also intends years to encompass, annually, more than on introducing its CargoWise freight 10,000 vessel calls and throughput of 18 forwarding solution in its overseas million TEUs. operations. Momentum Logistics will continue Over the next few years, Momentum to develop its distinct identity as a will focus on expanding its geographic premier logistics service provider. coverage in the MENA region and It will strengthen its operational overseas, in North America, including on capabilities and expand its service the West Coast, in the Gulf of Mexico, in offerings. Its planned initiatives include Canada's Nova Scotia, and elsewhere, constructing nine warehouses within including Africa. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 23 CE-INVESTS CE-Invests, Crescent Enterprises’ strategic investments platform, holds all of the company’s private equity investments. It takes a long-term view with an investment strategy geared towards maintaining a balanced portfolio of alternative asset classes, including private equity, real estate, and other structured investments. CE-Invests’ principal holdings include investments in Growthgate Capital, TVM Capital Healthcare, and Siraj Fund Management Company, among others. In 2018, CE-Invests began monitoring the company’s minority shareholding in Gama Aviation Plc following CE-Operates’ exit of its shareholding in Gama Aviation MENA. CE-Invests provides strategic guidance to all of its investments through representation either on their boards of directors or on their limited partners advisory committees. Our company also take a keen interest in the strategic rationale employed by these firms in their select investment decisions and co-investment opportunities. 67 million 388 million 756 million CE-Invests' private equity $ $ $ holdings expanded their investments in companies, Capital raised by Gama Aviation Growthgate Capital's net RAK Ceramics' annual turnover sectors, and regions. asset value Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 25 CE-Invests' portfolio H E A LT H C A R E Gama Aviation Plc is one of the world’s largest Samena Limestone Holdings is a special-purpose TVM Capital Healthcare is a globally active private The Siraj Fund Management Company (Siraj) was business aviation service providers. It offers finance vehicle managed by Samena Capital, a equity healthcare company with emerging market founded by Palestine-based Massar International to extensive support to large multinational principal investment group focusing on the Indian strengths. The firm, headquartered and regulated in manage and oversee investment funds in Palestine corporations, military and police services, healthcare Subcontinent, Asia, Middle East, and North Africa Dubai, expanded to Singapore in 2018 and invests that spur industrial development, economic growth, providers, and high net worth individuals. Its (collectively, the SAMENA region). in companies that transform the way healthcare and sustainable development. To those ends, Siraj services are split into two divisions: Air and Ground. is delivered to make it better, more cost-effective, launched Siraj Palestine Fund I (SPF I), a $90 million Samena Limestone Holdings is part of a consortium Air services include aircraft management, special faster, and more accessible. private equity fund comprising $60 million in equity of investors that owns a 30.6% stake in RAK Ceramics, mission support, and charters. Ground services cover one of the largest ceramics producers in the world. funding and $30 million in financing from the aircraft maintenance, aircraft modification design TVM Capital Healthcare brings over 35 years of Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC), the RAK Ceramics has a production capacity of 125 and installation, and fixed base operations (FBO). dedicated international private equity healthcare US government’s development finance institution. million square metres of tiles, 5 million pieces of experience to some of the fastest-growing healthcare sanitary ware, and 24 million pieces of tableware per Gama Aviation’s growing fleet features a wide markets in the world. Its success in connecting novel SPF I invests in start-ups; growth prospects; annum across 22 production facilities in the UAE, variety of aircraft types to meet all client needs. solutions with unmet medical demand will generate distressed businesses; buyouts; and small, medium, India, and Bangladesh. The company serves more The company manages over 200 aircraft in the sustainable returns for investors while ensuring and large enterprises across diverse, high-growth than 150 clients worldwide. US and over 250 worldwide. Its network spans measurable positive impact for people requiring economic sectors in Palestine. It has assessed more more than 40 locations on four continents and RAK Ceramics was established in 1991 by His healthcare. The company’s expertise and location than 200 potential deals in 11 sectors, including employs over 1,300 professionals. The company’s Highness Sheikh Saud Bin Saqr Al Qasimi, the Ruler make it ideally placed to apply healthcare solutions start-ups and small and midsize enterprises requiring global headquarters is at Farnborough Airport of the Emirate of Ras Al Khaimah and a UAE Supreme from Europe and North America to needs in growth capital, and has concluded 14 investments in the United Kingdom, and it has regional Council Member, and by His Highness Sheikh Southeast Asia, the MENA, and Turkey and to employ in 7 sectors: information, communication and headquarters in Connecticut, USA; Sharjah, Mohammed Bin Saud Al Qasimi, the Crown Prince of those novel solutions using skilled local people. technology, banking and financial services, energy, UAE; and Hong Kong, China. Ras Al Khaimah. It is a publicly listed company on the infrastructure, healthcare, logistics, and agriculture. Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange in the UAE and on the TVM Capital Healthcare undertakes extensive Crescent Enterprises is a minority shareholder Dhaka Stock Exchange in Bangladesh. research to identify unmet needs and then invests in Crescent Enterprises is a limited partner in and in Gama Aviation Plc. companies best positioned and equipped to fill those a provider of strategic guidance to SPF I through Crescent Enterprises is a limited partner in and a needs. It contributes to developing and pursuing its representation on the fund’s Limited Partners’ provider of strategic guidance to Samena Limestone the growth strategies of its investments through a Advisory Committee. Holdings through representation on its Limited hands-on approach when necessary but mostly by Partners Advisory Committee. fostering in-house management, operational, and strategic expertise to support companies execute their growth plans. Crescent Enterprises is a limited partner in and a provider of strategic guidance to TVM Capital Healthcare through representation on its Limited Partners Advisory Committee. Growthgate Capital is a private equity firm that focuses It was established by a select group of state-owned on the middle-market segment and follows a buybanks, public pension funds, and single-family offices and-build investment strategy. The firm specialises in from around the Middle East. Since 2008, the firm buying into well-managed, privately held companies has invested in eight companies and conducted more with scalable business models and then scaling them than 24 bolt-on acquisitions on their behalf. It has up through serial acquisitions that directly contribute also completed four exits, selling some of its portfolio to building lasting value. companies in full or in part. As of 2018, Growthgate had a net asset value of $388 million and had about Growthgate’s investments span waste management $1.6 billion in assets under monitoring. and environmental services, construction and building materials, retailing, food and consumables, biometrics Crescent Enterprises provides strategic guidance to technology, and animation and themed entertainment. Growthgate through its representation on the firm’s board of directors. It takes a close interest in the firm’s Growthgate was established in 2007 as a closed joint strategic rationale for select investment decisions and stock company in the Kingdom of Bahrain. co-investment opportunities. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 27 Advancements in 2018 Gama Aviation is deploying the proceeds • Winning contracts: In 2018, Gama RAK Ceramics remained true • Expanding in Saudi Arabia and in CE-Invests witnessed considerable of its 2018 equity placing through a Aviation’s European Air and Ground to its strategy India: In Saudi Arabia, the restructuring progress in its private equity holdings series of organic growth programs in divisions were awarded over £90 million Despite challenging economic conditions of the company’s distribution network in 2018. Its holdings expanded their the Middle East and the US and through (roughly $125 million) for two special in 2018, including highly volatile crude was completed following the acquisition investments, in companies, sectors, a pipeline of acquisition opportunities, mission services contracts. The first, oil prices and increasing raw material of two joint venture operations. This and regions, generating value subject to the potential purchases an 11-year contract commencing from costs, RAK Ceramics delivered on its provides RAK Ceramics with greater for CE-Invests and other of their meeting its disciplined acquisition 1 April 2019, is for the provision of strategy of increasing production and control over market channels and investors. Each of CE-Invests’ private criteria. maintenance and spare parts logistical operational efficiencies across the eliminates overlaps in distribution, equity investments has a distinctive support for eight government special business, improving profitability, and which previously cannibalised sales. The • Investing in facilities: Gama Aviation mission aircraft. This contract is expected company also began planning a state-ofapproach to growing its respective implementing strategic initiatives in transferred its primary turboprop to deliver revenues between £66 million the-art, low-cost ceramics manufacturing portfolio companies organically and India and Saudi Arabia. and jet maintenance facilities from (roughly $92 million) and £88 million facility in Saudi Arabia, which will add inorganically. In addition to delivering its 25,000-square-foot facility at the (roughly $122 million). The second The company reported revenues of approximately 10 million square metres robust financial performances in 2018, UK’s Farnborough Airport and its contract is for five years beginning AED 2.8 billion ($756.46 million), a 2.8% per annum of tile production capacity. CE-Invests’ investments reaffirmed their 48,000-square-foot facility at London 1 July 2019 and is to support four special decrease compared to 2017 driven by This will allow RAK Ceramics to drive commitment to corporate governance, Oxford Airport, respectively, into its mission services aircraft by drawing a 43.4% decline in non-core revenues growth in the company’s core net corporate citizenship, and sustainability. flagship 135,000-square-foot secure on a range of specialist services that in-line with the company’s strategy to income going forward. They further developed their policies facility at Bournemouth International Gama Aviation’s holistic business model divest underperforming and non-core and undertook innovative internal and Airport during the second half of provides, including aircraft modifications operations. Non-core revenues were In India, RAK Ceramics recently began external initiatives for such. 2018. Consolidating jet and turboprop and maintenance and flight operations. at an all-time low of AED135.8 million commercial production at its newly maintenance into a single facility creates This contract is expected to deliver ($36.67 million) for 2018, representing expanded manufacturing facility in Gama Aviation Plc furthered the capacity for growth and the crossMorbi (Gujarat), in which it acquired a its operations revenues of approximately £27.5 million just 4.5% of total group revenues. utilisation of resources. (about $38 million). 51% stake in 2017. A second greenfield Gama Aviation’s strategy targets global The company’s core revenue from its joint venture in Morbi with a production leadership in business aviation services In the US, Gama Aviation will develop • Expanding its fleet: Gama Aviation has tiles, sanitary ware, and tableware capacity of 3 million square metres per through organic means, joint ventures, a base maintenance capability to serve placed a £20 million (around $28 million) divisions was stable at AED2.6 billion annum is expected to come online in and acquisitions. To execute its strategy, the Western US market. Gama Aviation order for three Airbus H145 Helicopters ($712.8 million), driven by robust 2019 to cater to markets in Europe and it focuses on deepening its expertise, is also in advanced discussions to secure to be delivered in the fourth quarter of performance in the UAE, India, and the Asia Pacific. expanding its breadth of regional hangar capacity in south Florida to 2019 in support of a long-term contract. Bangladesh as well as the tableware capability and delivering a scale of develop its base maintenance capability In the United States, meanwhile, Gama business in Europe and North America. operation that is aligned to the needs to serve the Eastern US market. In Aviation Signature, the largest aircraft of its client base. addition, Gama Aviation will expand its management company in the US, added The group’s total gross profit margin base maintenance capabilities at five of four new large-cabin aircraft to its fleet increased by 160bps YoY to 33.2%, with • Raising capital: Gama Aviation its other US line maintenance centres: in 2018. core gross profit margins increasing by raised £48 million (approximately New York Teterboro, New York White 80bps YoY to 33.3%, despite continued $67 million) in March 2018 to accelerate Plains, Palm Beach International, Dallas increases in energy and raw material its strategy of becoming the leading Love Field, and Los Angeles Van Nuys. costs. This was achieved on the back global business aviation services group. The company’s US operation is also of improvements to operational Hutchison Whampoa (China) Limited continuing to expand the reach of its efficiencies in the UAE and Bangladesh, (Hutchison) subscribed to shares in the line maintenance network, to which it coupled with strong performance in the placing and originally held approximately recently added facilities at the Chicago tableware business. 21% of Gama Aviation’s issued share and the Miami Opa-locka airports. capital. In turn Gama Aviation acquired Reported net income decreased to a portfolio of Hutchison’s Hong Kong Gama Aviation’s UAE operation, AED225.1 million (-28.7% YoY) owing aviation interests, including its 50% stake meanwhile, continues as planned its to higher energy costs, the decline in in Gama Aviation Hutchison Holdings development of the Business Aviation non-core revenue, and the prior year Ltd and its 20% stake in China Aircraft Centre in Sharjah. including an extraordinary gain on the Services Limited (a commercial airline sale of two non-core entities. A 5% stock maintenance business), for $19.8 million. dividend and 15 fils/share cash dividend were announced for 2018 yielding a healthy dividend yield of 8.2% as at 31 December 2018. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 29 The Siraj Palestine Fund left a • The National Bank: The National PalGaz serves customers from four main TVM Capital Healthcare solidified • Bourn Hall International: TVM Capital The CMRC is accredited by the bigger footprint on Palestinian Bank (TNB) is a commercial bank offices: its headquarters in Nablus and its portfolio of transformational Healthcare co-developed the concept international non-profit Commission infrastructure incorporated as a public shareholding offices in Hebron, Ramallah, and Rawabi. healthcare companies for Bourn Hall International (BHI) in on Accreditation of Rehabilitation The Siraj Palestine Fund invests company and listed on the PEX. It was In 2018 PalGaz added more customer In 2018 TVM Capital Healthcare’s focused 2010 with the UK’s Bourn Hall Clinic. The Facilities (CARF) and achieved the Gold strategically in crucial sectors in established following a merger between service representatives to cover more on expanding its portfolio companies, concept centres on operating worldSeal of Approval from Joint Commission Palestine. Its investments—some Al Rafah Microfinance Bank and the territory geographically and improve which successfully scaled up their core class, branded in vitro fertilisation (IVF) International with a highly successful of which are highlighted below—in Arab Palestinian Investment Bank and its supply chain efficiency. It also used operations and penetrated new markets, reference centres in the UAE. Today, BHI triennial re-accreditation survey. infrastructure, banking, energy, and is the third-largest and a leading bank social media to communicate with both geographically and vertically. operates two such clinics in the UAE, in That accreditation signals the CMRC’s agriculture expanded further in 2018. in Palestine. It has paid-in capital of its customers; activated online billing Dubai and, newly opened, in Al Ain. commitment to continually improving $75 million and more than 13,000 local through the Arab Bank; and provided • Amecath Medical Technologies: In its services, encouraging feedback, and • PADICO Holding: PADICO Holding, a and foreign individual and corporate all-day, every-day supply and support to 2014 TVM Capital Healthcare acquired The flagship clinic in Dubai shows serving the community. limited public shareholding company shareholders. TNB provides extensive customers. a majority stake in Amecath Medical continuous growth in enquiries, traded on the Palestine Exchange financial solutions to the corporate and Technologies, the leading catheter consultations, IVF cycles, and worldTo best serve communities, the CMRC (PEX), aims to develop and strengthen retail sectors and offers investment • Nakheel Palestine for Agricultural maker in Egypt. Amecath offers highclass fertility success rates. BHI’s 2019 has opened facilities in Abu Dhabi, Al the Palestinian economy by investing banking and microfinance lending. Investments: Nakheel Palestine for quality, low-cost, differentiated and regional expansion strategy consists Ain, and Dubai, in 2014, 2015, and 2017, in the region’s vital economic sectors. Agricultural Investments was established select intellectual property protected of rolling out and developing clinics respectively. Increased demand for PADICO’s asset base is well diversified As part of a consortium, TNB acquired a in 2010 to contribute to Palestinian catheters and related products. It is a around the Dubai clinic. In addition quality patient care in Abu Dhabi and in the crucial and growing sectors 45% stake in the Palestine Islamic Bank agriculture and specifically its cultivation leader in the design and production to its success, the Dubai clinic bears Al Ain and the opening of the Dubai of telecommunications, real estate, in 2018. TNB also signed a $6 million of dates. It is introducing high-quality of a comprehensive range of dialysis, Joint Commission International (JCI) facility in 2017 led to a 54% increase finance, agriculture, industrial, and agreement with the European Bank for Palestinian Medjool dates to local urology, and central venous catheter healthcare accreditation, which covers in outpatients in 2018, to 26,171. The infrastructure. Reconstruction and Development to and international markets. Nakheel products and boasts a new line of environment, health, and safety issues number of inpatients admitted in 2018 increase lending for SMEs and a trade is a regional front-runner in growing, percutaneous sheath introducers and and involves monthly internal auditing. increased 38.4% and numbered 294. The In 2018, PADICO’s performance improved facility in Palestine. In addition, it fulfilled packing, and exporting fine Medjool diagnostic catheters. Fully five of its CMRC, meanwhile, is proceeding with significantly. Its consolidated net income its digital transformation strategy and and Berhi dates, over 50% of whose In November 2018, Mediclinic Middle its establishment of a clinic in Dhahran, products are approved by the US Food increased 213%, to $15.54 million, opened a first for a Middle Eastern production it exports regionally and East, part of Mediclinic International, Saudi Arabia, which it anticipates will be and Drug Administration (FDA). Amecath compared with $4.96 million in 2017. bank, a digital service centre. For these internationally. acquired a minority stake in BHI. This operational in the first quarter of 2019. is ISO 14001:2015 certified and holds This was attributable to the improved initiatives, TNB was named “The Most marks an unprecedented emphasis the necessary quality and security performances of its subsidiaries, PADICO Innovative Bank in Palestine 2018” by In 2018, Nakheel grew substantially when on assisted reproduction in the MENA • Manzil Healthcare Services: Manzil certificates to export to more than 55 Tourism and PRICO. International Finance Magazine. it acquired Sultan, Palestine’s secondregion. On 1 November 2018, BHI Healthcare Services is the UAE’s largest international markets on five continents, largest Medjool farm, and its packing took over the operations of Mediclinic home healthcare services and disease including Europe and North America. • PalGaz: PalGaz is a liquefied petroleum and refrigerating facilities. Nakheel also Middle East’s IVF clinic at the Mediclinic management provider to paediatric and gas (LPG) distribution company. It also harvested and processed in record time Formerly known as Ameco Medical Al Ain Hospital. Mediclinic Middle East’s adult patients. It offers its services to refills and distributes gas cylinders, with superlative results, allowing it to put Industries, the company rebranded in minority stake, meanwhile, grants patients in the UAE, Qatar, and Egypt, installs meters, and establishes largeits premium-brand Palestinian dates in 2018 under its new legal name Amecath Mediclinic International representation including wide-ranging services provided scale central gas network piping for front of customers in over 20 countries Medical Technologies, Amecath also on the board of BHI. by licensed physicians, nurses, and cities, such as Rawabi; for residential earlier than usual. In 2018, Nakheel sold being the brand name of the company’s therapists at patients’ homes. neighbourhoods, such as Reehan; 1,191 tonnes of dates, compared with • Cambridge Medical and Rehabilitation internationally successful products. In and for factories, hospitals, and 901 tonnes in 2017. Center: In 2012 TVM Capital Healthcare Manzil is a leader in remote patient 2019 Amecath will emphasise increasing residential buildings. The latter function invested in the Cambridge Medical care and health counselling. It uses its international presence and market is significant for ensuring gas supply and Rehabilitation Center (CMRC), the innovative technologies and is the first share, prioritising in particular the US in winter at vast commercial and UAE’s leading dedicated medical care home care provider licensed by the and European markets. residential complexes that usually and rehabilitation service provider. The Dubai Health Authority (DHA) to provide face a lack of storage. CMRC accommodates patients requiring telemedicine and teleconsulting to short-term comprehensive rehabilitation patients with chronic diseases. It designs and patients in need of long-term care customised disease management for the treatment of chronic illness or for programmes (DMP) for patients with injury rehabilitation. It devises treatment specific chronic conditions and uses plans tailored to the needs of individual phone-based health coaching to reduce patients. It also encourages family complications and the drain on hospital members’ involvement in the patients’ resources. In 2018 Manzil provided treatment. This latter is especially services to 531 patients, including 383 in significant for the outpatient therapy the UAE, 94 in Egypt, and 54 in Qatar. offered by the CMRC in addition to its inpatient services at its medical centres. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 31 Growthgate Capital’s portfolio • Retail Holding: Retail Holding, ESG and risk management The company’s reputation for safety, RAK Ceramics enhanced its internal companies expanded their the owner and operator of initiatives reliability, and high service standards is systems for greater impact operations international retail franchises in IrisGuard was recognised The differing strategies and business essential for maintaining customer loyalty Strengthening corporate governance Morocco, increased its revenues and and premium pricing. So, Gama Aviation • Averda International: Averda profitability in 2018. Organic growth as the International challenges of CE-Invests’ private equity has processes in place to monitor and is a key pillar of Samena Capital’s value International is an end-to-end waste creation initiatives at RAK Ceramics. due to the company’s strategic Innovator of the Year at holdings necessitates individualised maintain its usual operating standards as management company. It collects, ESG and risk management approaches. In 2018 RAK Ceramics focused on cleans, sorts, treats, and recycles nonchanges to the pricing and marketing the 2nd Annual Lendit Gama Aviation, for instance, requires manifested in the performance of those productivity and analytics enhancements hazardous, hazardous, and electronic strategies of its hypermarket and Fintech Industry Awards a very different set of corporate of its staff who interact with customers by purchasing and implementing “ACL”, supermarket stores was primarily and by its back-office staff. The company waste, and constructs and operates responsible for the increases. Retail for its novel blockchain governance imperatives than Siraj examines any deviation from these the leading global audit SaaS analytics landfills that generate power for or TVM Capital Healthcare. Here, we application. In addition, the company communities. Averda performed Holding, moreover, opened 30 new retail project that allows the standards and implements changes to extended its delegation of authority look at the ESG and risk management strongly in 2018 because of increased stores in 2018, including 16 Carrefour processing of supermarket mechanisms being adopted by portfolio prevent recurrence. (DOA) to its operations in Europe and in markets, 1 Carrefour hypermarket, demand for waste management in transactions in Jordanian companies to meet the challenges of To enforce the highest levels of safety, Saudi Arabia. developing nations. It initiated 13 8 CDCI stores, 3 Burger King restaurants, and 2 Kiabi stores. refugee camps. It also a dynamic global marketplace while the aviation industry has in place In the area of environmental health projects in Tangier and Casablanca, balancing business expansion and Morocco, and in Saudi Arabia, Oman, received three other awards corporate responsibility. important but complex regulations and safety, RAK Ceramics has a • IrisGuard: IrisGuard is the world’s for training, engineering, safety, and and South Africa. in 2018: the Seamless, dedicated department that continued leading supplier of end-to-end operations. Gama Aviation’s employees to implement best practices in adhering iris recognition financial delivery CEO Europe Today, and AL Gama Aviation emphasised robust are dedicated to liaising with the In 2018 Averda collected 11,939 to local, national, and international tonnes of waste daily and operated platforms. It has integrated its Global Excellence awards. ESG standards regulatory authorities to stay up to date legislative compliance programmes. The 45,514,950 cubic metres of iris recognition technology into a The governance structure at Gama and in compliance with all requirements. company conducts itself locally through constructed landfill. It also launched mobile phone that is being deployed Aviation ensures that its employees Employees are also regularly retrained the Ras Al Khaimah (RAK) Environment several waste management in refugee missions in Jordan in maintain the conduct expected of and reappraised to ensure their Protection and Development Authority campaigns to raise awareness collaboration with the Jordan them and represent the company in understanding of the regulations and and RAK Civil Defence, nationally of waste management and Telecommunication Regulatory line with its policies. That structure why they must comply with them. through the UAE’s Ministry of Climate environmental concerns. For the third Commission (TRC) and Nationwide also ensures that Gama Aviation has Change and Environment and Ministry Micro Finance Ltd. (NFC) Ghana. As adopted best practice to ensure, in turn, Moreover, Gama Aviation recognises consecutive year, Averda partnered of Health and the Abu Dhabi Centre for a result, 2.7 million refugees have a that compliance with laws and local the importance of committing to with Uber in Dubai to collect Occupational Safety and Health and secure digital identity and over half a regulations is observed and corruption society and environment. It strives electronic waste in the city. That joint internationally, through ISO 14001 and billion US dollars have been securely and bribery are prevented. to heighten its value to society and effort resulted in the collection of ISO 45001. dispensed in cash, with $3 million to reduce the impact of its services 946 kilograms (0.946 tonnes) of processed monthly in supermarkets. Gama Aviation is listed on the on the environment. Indeed, in 2018 electronic waste and helped contribute IrisGuard is collaborating with the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) of the company introduced a formal to the UAE’s Vision 2021 goal of United Nations High Commissioner the London Stock Exchange. Its board, corporate and social responsibility (CSR) recycling 75% of the nation’s waste. for Refugees (UNHCR) to expand its therefore, complies with the provisions programme involving environmental geographic coverage in Jordan, Syria, of AIM’s Financial Reporting Council’s and community volunteerism, Iraq, Lebanon, Egypt, and Turkey. corporate governance code insofar as it fundraising, sponsorship, and waste considers them to be appropriate to a management. The following initiatives 11,939 company of its size and nature. underlie its efforts in regard specifically to its air operations: TONNES/DAY Gama Aviation’s board is responsible for guidance and direction and for reviewing • Follow responsible flight procedures WASTE COLLECTED strategy, monitoring performance, and operations to limit fuel burn understanding risk, and revising while maintaining the highest safety controls. It is, in short, responsible for standards. Gama Aviation’s success. The board 45.5 includes non-executive directors possessing a balance of skills, experience, • Engage all aspects of operations in waste recycling schemes. MILLION m3 independence, and knowledge of the • Review all areas of consumption, LANDFILL AREA company and Audit, Remuneration, and particularly of paper, replacing paper UNDER OPERATION Nomination Committees. flight bags with electronic flight bags (EFB), removing marketing brochures, and using certified sustainable paper stock. 333,600+ WASTE CONTAINERS MOVED Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 33 TVM Capital Healthcare reinforced Siraj Capital’s portfolio companies • Complying with the directive of UN •N akheel provides annual internal its ESG policies spearheaded community Women and the International Labour and external training to its farm and Integral to the International Finance development and environmental Organization (ILO) following the gender factory employees, whether they Corporation (IFC)’s investment in stewardship audit of the bank’s operations to are permanent skilled or seasonal TVM Capital Healthcare in 2010 PADICO Holding is a proud member implement a strategy to enhance the unskilled workers. The training was the requirement that TVM of the UN Global Compact and is role of Palestinian women in Palestine’s is meant to enhance employees’ Healthcare Capital implement a social committed to investing in socially and economy. capabilities and safety awareness and environmental management environmentally conscious projects, and to increase the efficiency and the • Heralding female gender inclusion effectiveness of operational processes. system (SEMS) at each of its portfolio to driving employee and community ratios among its customer base to the companies. This complies with the IFC’s development, and to ensuring a tune of 20% current account holders, Emphasising people-centred performance standards and guidance on sustainable Palestinian economy. It has 55% savers, and 34% of total base. social and environmental sustainability. invested in environmentally conscious initiatives “It’s time to stop looking at ESG implementers as ‘dowaste management and infrastructure The companies in the CE-Invests PalGaz offers products that reduce TVM Capital Healthcare has not only gooders’, and view corporate governance as commonprojects and undertaken numerous ambient air pollution and harmful portfolio understand that their fulfilled the IFC’s condition, but it has also expanded upon it and woven ESG sense policies and measurements that are a necessity, community development initiatives to fumes, burn efficiently and economically, employees underpin their growth cultivate Palestine’s human capital. and expansion. As a service business, systems and practices into its investment rather than a nice-to-have. The benefits of adopting and result in long-run cost savings for consumers. Most importantly, it secures Gama Aviation is especially aware of philosophy and approach. In 2018 the ESG and corporate governance models into our The National Bank (TNB) prioritises sufficient gas supply in winter to the vast the fundamental role of its people. company updated its ESG policies and operations have helped us to grow our bottom line.” economic, social, and environmental commercial and residential buildings Gama Aviation is equally aware of its established an extensive implementation sustainability in its business practices facing a lack of storage. PalGaz’s duty to inform, educate, and protect its and reporting process that included its Hoda Abou-Jamra and culture in the following ways: highlights for 2018 include the following: employees. It is therefore committed promotion of gender diversity. Founding Partner, TVM Capital Healthcare • Supporting diversity in the workplace; to workplace health and safety and • PalGaz generated additional local jobs. has implemented stringent safety Social purpose is integral to TVM Capital evidenced by female employees Its workforce has grown 38% since its management systems requiring Healthcare’s investment approach. accounting for 35% of its workforce acquisition, and this has had a positive, continuous improvements. It also The company establishes centres of as opposed to the Palestinian average Manzil’s community engagement Amecath is making a difference for indirect socioeconomic influence on encourages workplace diversity, in part excellence in healthcare where there is of 19%. encompasses corporate wellness, society and for the environment. In the local communities where it does by basing hiring and advancement solely no access to much beyond the basics. business. disease management, vaccination 2017 it launched a reduce, reuse, • Focusing on building capacity through on merit. Gama Aviation, moreover, Its healthcare investments therefore campaigns, diabetes awareness, recycle programme targeted especially team education and training. strives for a healthy work-life balance for make a substantial impact on society • PalGaz educated consumers and and social support. During 2018 the at lowering its plastic waste. That its employees and for the development in line with UN SDGs 3, 5, and 8. It also stakeholders in issues relating to company held five events in the UAE, programme also involves implementing • Emphasising gender equality through of their skills beyond the workplace to ensures that its investments follow health, safety, and the environment one in Egypt, and four in Qatar. Manzil process control to decrease other waste, distinctive programmes that empower inculcate a love of life-long learning. rigorous ESG standards. (HSE) and on its quality assurance. staff, moreover, provided pro bono including from production. As of 2018, women to be self-dependent, In 2019 it is undertaking initiatives productive members of society. It organised a seminar for the Civil promoting employee well-being and Since 2017 TVM Capital Healthcare services on top of insurance-covered waste at Amecath has diminished more Department Palestinian Standards to stress awareness. investment Manzil has utilised electronic care to maintain the company’s high than 40%. Amecath has also lowered • TNB partners with the Presbyterian raise public awareness of new gas tank rather than paper-based medical standards for patient care. Pro bono its water consumption and decreased Foundation to offer an entrepreneurship installation standards, and it led public RAK Ceramics likewise places employee records at its UAE operations. This has contributions in the UAE amounted its discharge of wastewater to within programme that grants women awareness campaigns communicating training and development as a key reduced Manzil’s paper consumption to 84,603 nursing hours and 21,150 regulated limits. Its consumption of financing at low interest rates to the environmental benefits of priority and runs training sessions and raised its security for and ease of caregiver hours. In Qatar, Manzil staff electricity, however, rose slightly in 2018 develop projects from which they can switching from diesel to LPG. spanning diverse health and safety tracking in medical documentation. provided 600 pro bono nursing hours. because of higher production capacity. generate steady income and achieve issues on an annual basis. In 2018 the In 2018 Manzil’s operations in Qatar Nakheel’s business operations and The CMRC similarly aids communities Amecath has established a three-year economic self-dependence. company underscored its concern and Egypt followed suit and adopted practices affect society in multiple and their local organisations through brotherhood agreement with Abo Twala for employee welfare by having electronic medical records. Also in 2018, • TNB’s Hayati savings account is ways, from labour to gender equality philanthropic donations, helping with village, where most of its employees live. 2,535 of its employees who work in Manzil contracted a waste management immensely popular in Palestine and practices. Highlights from 2018 for the procurement if medical equipment, The agreement sees Amecath run social hazardous conditions participate company in July to recycle its general is dedicated wholly to helping women Nakheel are as follows: health screenings, health-related projects, such as building a public library in its annual health screening office waste in the UAE. entrepreneurs realise their projects charities, and health education. Pro and a water filtering station. In 2018, programme, as well as 590 of its drivers through zero-interest microloans from • Nakheel’s year-round employment of bono, it conducted 11 events in 2018 and Amecath donated 10,000 person-hours undergo eye tests to ensure their a $1.5 million pool. The bank also around 500 people is significant for the provided 20,466 hours of health services, for environmental clean-up days and effectiveness and safety. Employees offers entrepreneurial women the local agricultural community. including promotion and education. other community activities in the village. also benefited from leadership and opportunity to win prizes, such as a management programmes, including It also, moreover, donated more than • Fully 55% of Nakheel’s seasonal and house, a lifetime steady income, and MEAP (Managerial Effectiveness $473,602 in care for patients who either permanent employees are women. an education for their children. and Advancement Programme); lacked the health insurance or the financial resources for their clinical care. • An astonishing 85% of those women LEAP (Leadership Effectiveness and are the sole wage earners for their Advancement Programme); Six Sigma; households. and Lean Manufacturing. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 35 CE-VENTURES CE-Ventures is the corporate venture capital arm of Crescent Enterprises. Its focus is on strategic investments in earlyto late-stage technology start-ups and select global VC funds. CE-Ventures will be investing $150 million in start-ups by 2020 and shall target 50% of those investment funds at MENA-based ventures. CE-Ventures targets start-ups that offer synergies with Crescent Enterprises’ operations across supply chain management tech, energy tech, medical tech, and fintech. CE-Ventures, moreover, emphasises wide-ranging emerging technologies pervasive across industry sectors. These include technologies centred on artificial intelligence (AI), the Internet of things (IoT), and blockchain. CE-Ventures’ specific focus among these broad technologies is on niche consumer and enterprise software as a service (SaaS) emerging technologies. 20 85 million 1.3x CE-Ventures partners with $ purpose-driven entrepreneurs to catalyse disruptive technologies Tech start-ups and VC funds Invested to date in technology multiple of invested and generate long-term returns. invested in start-ups and VC funds capital Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 37 CE-Ventures' portfolio Start-ups Tara (talent acquisition and recruiting Transcorp is a UAE-based, temperatureVezeeta is the MENA region’s leading digital Anomali helps detect and identify ColubrisMX is a US-based designer and Didi Chuxing (DiDi) is the world’s leading automation).AI is a start-to-finish intelligent controlled, last-mile distribution and logistics healthcare platform. Its 300,000-plus verified enterprise network cyber threats early. developer of next-generation, minimally transportation platform, offering extensive software product builder. Users employ oncompany. It specialises in business-to-businessreviews equip users to search, compare, and Its Threat Platform automatically collects invasive microsurgical robotic devices. mobile app-based options to over 550 demand developers, automatically scope their to-consumer and business-to-business cold book appointments with the best healthcare and analyses cyber security intelligence Its devices can reach areas otherwise million users, including taxi, express, project, and build task lists on one platform. chain distribution and delivery in the UAE’s providers and health services in Egypt, Saudi data and integrates it with enterprise inaccessible to treat life-threatening foetal premier, luxury, hitch, bus, minibus, seven emirates. Arabia, Jordan, and Lebanon. security tools. malformations, brain abnormalities, and designated-driving, enterprise, bike, and Tara.AI bridges the innovation gap with more. These microsurgical devices result food delivery options. Its up to 30 million predictive product management powered Transcorp streamlines last-mile logistics with Vezeeta also provides healthcare providers Anomali plans to expand to the Middle from work at the University of Texas daily rides provide income to over 21 by AI and millions of projects on the web. Its end-to-end warehousing, transporting, and in the region with innovative SaaS solutions East and to Europe and Asia-Pacific. Since Medical School’s Microsurgical Robotics million drivers. distributing solutions. Its proprietary system smart platform provides and manages preutilising cloud computing and big data. its 2013 launch, it has grown to about 200 Laboratory. automates order management and offers screened, on-demand engineering resources. employees and 300 large, Fortune 100 DiDi acquired Uber China in August 2016 real-time order tracking and estimated delivery. Vezeeta has bestowed improved healthcare subscribers, including Alaska Airlines, Bank As a major investor in ColubrisMX, Crescent and is now in Brazil and Australia. It Tara.AI combines human talent and Transcorp’s focus on technology and customer on millions through data and accessibility of England, and Citigroup. Enterprises has representation on the leverages AI capabilities to transform the automation to save users time and money. satisfaction make it a third-party, last-mile leader. since its founding in 2012. It continues to board of the company. taxi and bus industry and to help cities People and entities innovate faster and avoid build infrastructure to contribute to the develop smart transportation. Transcorp uses mostly its own vehicles for production delays with immediate access to region’s healthcare ecosystem. delivery speed and reliability. These key metrics the right resources. Tara.AI’s clients include are bolstered by its solid UAE network and Orange Silicon Valley, Cisco, GSVlabs, and expanding footprint in other MENA countries. Business Majlis. Crescent Enterprises supports and provides strategic guidance through its representation on Transcorp’s board. EdCast offers cloud-based corporate FreshtoHome is an e-commerce venture Furlenco, founded in 2012, is an Indian learning and knowledge management using for fresh, chemical-free, and well-priced online furniture subscription platform machine learning technologies. It has many seafood and meat. From its expanding headquartered in Bengaluru and accessible Global 2000, Fortune 500, and public-sector base of home delivery in India, it plans in Bengaluru, Mumbai, Pune, Delhi-NCR, Vicarious-developed AI software ‘thinks and Volt Lines is a subscription transportation XCath is a US developer of next-generation, customers among its two million paid users. international growth. Hyderabad, and Chennai. learns like a human’ using the computational service founded in October 2017 to serve steerable robotic micro-catheters for principles of the brain known as the Recursive corporate users in Istanbul, Turkey. endovascular conditions, such as cerebral EdCast’s learning experience platform (LXP) FreshtoHome’s model grants it end-toFurlenco’s award-winning, in-house Cortical Network (RCN). RCN aids this strokes, that are less invasive and more ensures personalised learning based end supply chain control, disrupting furniture designs reflect urban Volt Lines’ subscribers gain access to California start-up improve machine learning flexible than conventional catheters. This on employee skills and needs. Its LXP traditional meat and seafood retail supply professionals’ lifestyles and gives unlimited rides on Volt Lines’ buses during to help robots quickly address tasks. cutting-edge technology was developed at curates a company’s learning content into by removing the middlemen. The company subscribers access to premium home commuting hours Monday to Friday in the the University of Texas Medical School’s preferred web resources and pulls external plans to replicate the model for fruits and furniture and furnishings at minimal Vicarious foresees all robots eventually same way Netflix and Spotify subscribers Microsurgical Robotics Laboratory. content from free, quality websites and vegetables. commitment. equipped with its technology. CBInsights.com have unlimited access to those services such premium sources as Harvard and 2018 ranks Vicarious in the world’s 100 most through their accounts. XCath micro-catheters have immense potential Lynda. Machine learning then adapts Crescent Enterprises has representation on Crescent Enterprises has representation on promising private AI companies, and the for helping patients remotely, especially where material to learners. the board of the company. the board of the company. World Economic Forum named Vicarious a special surgical procedures are unavailable. technology pioneer in 2015. As a major investor in XCath, Crescent Enterprises has representation on the board of the company. VC funds Dubai-based Kitopi kitchen network cooks Pinterest is a visual discovery engine California’s PRENAV makes commercial and delivers on demand for food brands. that inspires. It began in 2010 simply as drone systems capable of automated Kitopi, short for kitchen operation innovations, an online collection space for people’s navigation for close inspection of critical provides infrastructure and technology that passions but quickly evolved into a source infrastructure, such as bridges, dams, power BOV Capital is a venture capital firm in enables food brands to open delivery-only of inspiration. More than 265 million people plants, and electrical and cell towers. Rising Tide is a Silicon Valley venture capital Wamda Capital was established in 2014 in Sri Lanka and Singapore. It aims to help Dubai as a sector-agnostic venture capital locations quickly and at minimal expense. visit Pinterest monthly to be inspired by its firm with roots in the US, Canada, Europe, PRENAV’s drones tap deep learning Sri Lankan start-ups capture regional and firm. Its first fund, the $70 million Wamda over 100 billion ideas. and the Middle East. It invests in early-stage Kitopi takes orders on behalf of restaurants algorithms and leverage a lidar-enabled global opportunities, and its portfolio spans Capital I, targets earlyand growth-stage software and biotech ventures. It is a collegial through the web, a call centre, or thirdPinterest’s headquarters are in San base station for GPS-denied navigation start-ups in AI, enterprise, IoT, e-commerce, technology companies operating in Turkey partnership with diverse expertise that seeks party apps; cooks the food at its network of Francisco and it has 1,300-plus employees and take high-resolution photos for 3D logistics, media, and tourism. and the MENA region with highly scalable, to team with visionary companies breaking commercial kitchens; and then delivers it. worldwide, in Atlanta, Chicago, Detroit, reconstruction. barriers and creating markets, especially capital-efficient business models. It focuses Restaurants can focus on their brick-andLos Angeles, New York, Portland, Seattle, those leveraging technological advancements on minority positions in start-ups and mortar outlets, marketing, and product Berlin, Dublin, London, Paris, São Paulo, PRENAV began in October 2013 with the on providing ongoing, in-depth strategic in big data analytics, computer-aided design, innovation. and Tokyo. goal of autonomous flight in complex support; access to lucrative Gulf markets optical sensors, mobile applications in vertical environments. It successes include the through unique partnership programmes; markets, and community-connected networks Crescent Enterprises supports and provides first automated flight inside a functioning and in-depth subject matter expertise in and services. strategic guidance through its representation nuclear reactor. ICONIQ Capital is a private US investment firm key segments, such as shared economy, on Kitopi’s board. serving some of the world’s most influential The firm is stage-agnostic and focused on e-commerce, and digital content. families and organisations, including big character, commitment, and results. It is names in Silicon Valley. The firm manages dedicated to value creation, financially and Wamda Capital I operates with the Wamda direct investments with a focus on technology socially, and strives to shape the future. Platform, a self-sufficient ecosystem enabler growth equity, venture capital, middle-market with programmes and networks aimed at buyout, and real estate. It offers companies it Rising Tide’s portfolio has over 70 companies accelerating entrepreneurship ecosystems in invests in a unique support system through its at the intersection of science and technology the MENA region. influential network. that have the potential to positively impact people’s lives. Crescent Enterprises is a limited partner in the The firm has offices in San Francisco, New fund Wamda Capital I. We monitor the portfolio York, Palo Alto, and Singapore. ICONIQ’s of Wamda Capital and provide strategic support portfolio also includes over ten unicorns through representation on the Wamda Capital I valued at or more than $1 billion each, placing Limited Partner Advisory Board. it among elite investors. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 39 Investments in 2018 By tackling the challenges of the future, deep technology Following are CE-Ventures’ technology start-up investments In 2018, the start-ups in CE-Ventures’ Anomali, the US start-up that provides to markets everywhere. DiDi anticipates has the potential to foster a more prosperous and inclusive in 2018: portfolio expanded the scale of a platform for the early detection forging public-private partnerships for future for mankind. CE-Ventures continued in 2018 to focus its their operations by increasing their and identification of cyber threats in smart transportation solutions to achieve • Vicarious, invested in as part of a Series C round. investing activities on technology start-ups and tech-centric VC revenues, entering new markets, or enterprise networks, announced at sustainability goals for cities worldwide. funds—and not solely in the high-growth technology markets • Anomali, invested in as part of a $40 million Series D round. introducing new products or services. the Detect Conference in September of the US and India. CE-Ventures enhanced its investments The start-ups that are CE-Ventures’ 2018 the launch of the Anomali Threat Technological advances • Kitopi, invested in as the series seed lead and in the Series in technology companies and VC funds closer to home, direct investments, excluding those Platform, a comprehensive threat A rounds. ColubrisMX, a US medical device in the MENA region. Its investment portfolio contains an with limited or no information rights, detection and response suite. This company, experienced significant international and regional mix of 15 tech start-ups and five • Transcorp, invested in for a significant minority stake. witnessed 98% growth in revenues platform represents five years of progress in 2018. This developer of VC funds. Specifically, in 2018 CE-Ventures invested in the year-on-year. innovating to provide organisations • Vezeeta, invested in during a $12 million Series C round. next-generation microsurgical robotic principal technology growth sectors of the world economy with a unified solution to identify cyber devices commenced pilot projects to that it specialises in, such as supply chain management, • Furlenco, invested in as co-lead in a $17.5 million Series Disciplined expansions threats and their source of threat and to manufacture its robots and is on track enterprise software, and consumer e-commerce. C round. automate a response. Vezeeta, the leading digital healthcare to apply for Europe’s CE mark and, in • EdCast, invested in during a $34 million Series C round. booking and practice management the US, for FDA approval before yearEdCast, an AI-powered, cloud-based software platform in the MENA region, end 2019. • Volt Lines, invested in during the seed round. corporate learning and knowledge achieved impressive growth in 2018, management platform in the US, raising its revenue two and half times XCath, a US developer of steerable • FreshtoHome, invested in as a follow-on to initial doubled its revenue and customers over the previous year. It also doubled robotic micro-catheters for treating investment. in 2018. It has also acquired three its number of doctors and increased endovascular conditions, such as companies since its establishment that cerebral strokes, in a significantly • Rising Tide Ventures, invested in as a limited partner in the its bookings 125% over 2017. Vezeeta’s complement its technology and expand less-invasive and more efficient way Rising Tide Seed 2017 fund. focus for 2019 is to expand beyond its content and footprint. Outside the than conventional catheters, advanced Riyadh and Jeddah in Saudi Arabia and US, EdCast has offices in India and select The funds in CE-Ventures’ portfolio performed equally well in its product development in 2018. It is to offer new products for personalised countries in Europe and a wide network 2018. They invested a collective $908 million in 35 seed-stage preparing to submit for FDA approval experiences. of partners and resellers in Southeast to growth-stage companies during the year under review. For before the end of 2019. Early in 2019, instance, Rising Tide invested $3.2 million in 18 market-creating Asian and African countries and in Japan. XCath completed its new clean room Transcorp extended its services beyond companies leveraging AI, blockchain, healthcare, and deep CE-Ventures is working with EdCast to and received ISO certification for that its primary sector of food and beverages technology, most notably Molecular Assemblies, Evonetix, and facilitate the company’s expansion into facility’s manufacture of electroactive to fast-moving consumer industries in the MENA region. “CE-Ventures’ investment is critical eXo Imaging. Meanwhile, Wamda Capital, through its $70 million 2018, including beauty and cosmetics polymer tips. Wamda MENA Ventures I fund, added five companies to its to our long-term growth as it not portfolio: Golden Scent, AqarMap, Crowd Analyzer, Tamatem, and pharmaceuticals. With its sound FreshtoHome, the fresh, chemical-free PRENAV, a California-based start-up infrastructure and network, Transcorp is only provides us with the capital and Tarfin. poised for growth from the surging onseafood and meat e-commerce platform maker of automated commercial drone in India, procures more than 400 tonnes required to enter new geographical demand and e-commerce sectors. systems, launched the first version of its of fish and meat from fishermen and and service markets, but it also farmers a month and serves over product to customers in November 2018 Outside the MENA region, CE-Ventures and projects strong growth in 2019. enables us to benefit from Crescent In 2018: has minority investments in US and 400,000 customers. In 2018 it reached a Enterprises’ long-standing expertise other-country start-ups, and many of milestone of 8,000 peak orders per day. Vicarious has developed AI software that in the logistics sector and its 98% 10 these also had a successful 2018. Didi Chuxing, the world’s leading can ‘think and learn like a human’ using the computational principles of the brain strategic insights into the MENA GROWTH IN INVESTMENTS Pinterest, a social media giant, reached mobile transportation platform, known as RCN. In 2018 this California region throughout our expansion REVENUES OF DIRECT CONCLUDED, INCLUDING 265 million active users monthly and has globalisation as a core strategic company launched its first product in INVESTMENTS FOLLOW-ONS objective. Indeed, in 2018 DiDi expanded journey.” generated $756 million in revenue, an its global footprint and services the US: an intelligence layer that helps increase of 60% over the previous year. robots do tasks inside warehouses and Rodrigue Nacouzi offerings extensively. It acquired 99, the factories normally done by humans, Its global average revenue per user grew CEO and Founder, Transcorp International operator of Brazil’s leading ride-hailing such as assembly and packaging. Robots 25%, to $3.14. Early in 2019, Pinterest business, launched DiDi Express in have been capable of such tasks for had a successful IPO and debut on the Mexico and in Australia, and initiated a long time, but until the advent of New York Stock Exchange, raising $1.6 DiDi Mobility Japan Corp. The latter is a 201% billion with shares priced at $19 a share. Vicarious' technology were either too 1.3x joint venture with SoftBank to offer ondemand taxi-hailing services and smart costly or too difficult to programme. Vicarious expects its technology to be MULTIPLE OF INCREASE IN CUSTOMER transportation solutions for citizens and BASE FOR B2B on robots everywhere—manufacturing, INVESTED CAPITAL tourists in Japan. COMPANIES agriculture, food preparation, logistics, and more—in time. It is for now focused DiDi will continue to cultivate markets in on the enterprise sector as early Latin American countries and in Australia adopters of its technology. and Japan. Through a combination of world-class transportation AI technology and deep local expertise, Didi will bring an improved transportation experience Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 41 Fundraising for progress A second, with the Nordic Futures The MS-ISAC and CTIS-ISAC Measurable socioeconomic Raising funds is critical for start-ups project, builds awareness of the impact partnerships in particular ensure impact to sustain operations and implement of digital media on society, work, and connections with more than a dozen Key to a business’ longevity is its positive growth and expansion strategies. Many learning, among businesspeople, national, industry-specific, publicand impact on society. CE-Ventures’ portfolio CE-Ventures’ portfolio companies raised academics, and government employees private-sector ISACs. companies benefit local businesses funds in 2018 and, excluding companies in Nordic countries. A third involves Anomali also partnered with Microsoft and communities. Their products and with limited or no information rights, the World Economic Forum (WEF) and to integrate threat intelligence from the services help tackle pressing challenges, have raised $100 million in followtargets a million people for training Anomali Threat Platform with the security raising their users’ quality of life. on funding since CE-Ventures’ initial and resource opportunities on the WEF insights customers can obtain from the Another foremost impact is in direct investment. Through its representation SkillSET portal. Microsoft Graph security application and indirect employment. Many of the on their boards, CE-Ventures supports portfolio companies have business programming interface, or API. its portfolio start-ups with strategic models requiring complex value chains guidance for their fundraising and Anomali in addition partnered that include suppliers and vendors from expansion strategies. WEF Global Skilling with Visa to provide intelligence on economically marginalised sectors of “Before FreshtoHome, we were at the mercy of local Programme indicators of compromise (IoCs) drawn society in developing nations, where traders, who would pay us below market prices for our Kitopi, a Dubai-based kitchen network contributions to employment are from Visa Threat Intelligence, Visa’s fish. Due to lack of alternatives in terms of places to start-up, raised $20 million in a especially critical. The WEF is establishing a exclusive source of verified merchant Series A round in November 2018. sell our fish, we had no other options but to accept this. global platform that aggregates breach intelligence. This partnership Investors along CE-Ventures included enables merchants to collaborate to FreshtoHome, for example, disrupts Thanks to FTH’s focus on buying directly from us, we technical and professional BECO Capital, Endeavor Catalyst, and development content from mitigate threats and secure critical India’s traditional supply chain for now have bargaining power and receive better and fair VentureSouq. meat and seafood retailing through the world’s biggest companies. access points to protect payment card prices for our produce. This has increased our household disintermediation that cuts out Furlenco, an India-based online The initiative targets one and personal data. income and improved our standard of living.” middlemen and allows the company furniture subscription platform, raised million people for training and to control the supply chain end to Didi Chuxing launched an alliance with Unni associated with FreshtoHome funding in 2018 in a Series C round. resource opportunities on the end. Consumers receive high-quality, 31 members, including three of the WEF SkillSET portal, hosted on world’s biggest automakers—Volkswagen, reasonably priced fresh seafood Transcorp raised funding through a EdCast’s AI-powered Knowledge Toyota, and Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi— and meat directly from source, and Series A round, with CE-Ventures as the Cloud platform and accessible to develop a custom fleet of low-cost marginalised fishers and farmers receive primary investor. Vezeeta employs around 200 BOV also provides indirect employment to anyone using desktop or electric vehicles. Germany’s Bosch and fair prices for their products. employees in Egypt, Saudi Arabia, to rural youth by way of its portfolio Tara.AI, an intelligent software product mobile technology. Participating Continental are also participating. FreshtoHome also promotes cooperative Jordan, and Lebanon. Its innovative companies and promotes the use of builder, raised seed funding in 2018 from companies have donated their digital solutions overcome poor technology outside Sri Lanka’s major farming and fishing by assisting the Y Combinator, Moment Ventures, GSV, internally developed training Accolades earned access to healthcare providers, lack cities. It has helped with $25 million farmers and fishers in their work, Lattice VC, and Skype co-founder Jaan CE-Ventures’ portfolio companies were of healthcare information, and low in venture and angel bridge funding programmes so that individuals ensuring the availability of fresh produce Tallinn, among others. recognised in 2018 for their innovations or disengaged patient awareness of to early-stage companies and with worldwide can train, become for continued business. Its value chain certified, and discover skills. and growth: directly employs over 1,000 people disease management. Vezeeta also follow-on funding. This will have a Several companies in the portfolios and generates more than 1,500 jobs offers SaaS solutions innovatively spillover effect, sparking more startof the VC funds we have invested in Companies involved to date •V  ezeeta was ranked third on the indirectly. tied to cloud computing and big data ups and instilling more investors with likewise enhanced their value through include Cisco, PEGA, Salesforce, Forbes list of 2018 Top 100 Start-ups in to empower doctors and underpin the confidence to invest in the venture fundraising. In 2018, six of Wamda SAP, HP Enterprise, CA, the Middle East. Furlenco, too, is transforming the infrastructure development for an capital asset class. Capital’s portfolio companies raised Cognizant, Tata Consultancy, communities where it operates—by enhanced healthcare ecosystem. follow-on funds, with three more PwC, and Accenture. •F  urlenco was ranked ninth on the In December 2018, Wamda Capital streamlining its supply chain. It employs commencing fundraising rounds near Financial Times FT 1000 High-Growth Rising Tide’s portfolio companies launched Wamda X, a grant-based 350 people internally and another 500 the end of 2019. Companies Asia-Pacific list in 2018. have created around 475 full-time fellowship programme to help startexternally. Monthly, Furlenco spends Anomali signed an agreement with $500,000 to $750,000 buying furniture jobs and have an indirect impact on up founders build their business Strategic partnering • Tara.AI was recognised when its CEO and Saudi Telecom Company (STC) to from local factories. This positively affects thousands more primarily downstream through a four-month, relationshipco-founder, Iba Masood, was included in In 2018, several CE-Ventures’ establish a platform for sharing the incomes of factory workers and their jobs. Rising Tide portfolio company focused programme and $16,000 the Forbes 2018 30 under 30. portfolio companies entered strategic information on cyber threats. They households. Finaeo, for example, directly employs grant. Three companies were selected partnerships. EdCast took the lead then partnered with the Multi-State • Vicarious was among CB Insights’ 29 professionals but works with more for the programme from more than in partnering with public institutions Information Sharing and Analysis 2018 ranking of the world’s 100 most Transcorp’s operations have to date than 300 advisors who use its software. 600 applicants. This programme is in three global initiatives to upskill Center (MS-ISAC) and the Colorado promising private AI companies. generated 180 direct jobs. Its mostly Finaeo’s software enables advisors to an innovative approach to building workforces. One initiative trains Threat Intelligence Sharing Information blue-collar workers receive muchquickly close life insurance contracts, a pipeline for the next phase of software engineers and information Sharing and Analysis Center (CTIS• Anomali was cited for Best Product in needed income security from a ensuring that they transact more investing while attracting highly skilled technology professionals through daily ISAC), both of the United States. This Threat Intelligence by Cyber Defense guaranteed minimum wage. business and earn more money faster individuals with entrepreneurial urges personalised sessions in partnership collaboration enables the organisations Magazine’s 2018 InfoSec Awards, and that their clients gain quick coverage. who need help building a business. with India’s National Association of presented at RSA Conference. EdCast focuses on inclusive jobs and and their 2,200-plus members to Software and Services Companies has so far created 241 such direct BOV Capital, the first Sri Lankan VC benefit from bidirectional information (NASSCOM). positions. Fully 22% of those positions fund, has created 460 direct jobs in sharing with more than 100 public and are held by women, which has a three years through its investments or private sources. positive socioeconomic impact. those of its portfolio companies. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 43 ESG policies Diversity and inclusion CE-Ventures’ portfolio companies have Certain of CE-Ventures’ portfolio companies developed ESG policies to mitigate risks Furlenco believes in environmental protection and have developed and implemented policies BOV Capital promotes a unique programme and maximise their positive impacts. understands the importance of sustainable growth and initiatives aimed at diversity and called I AM HER, which focuses on bringing The companies design and enforce inclusion. These initiatives are critical, as and development. The furniture rental business of some of the platform’s portfolio companies female founders and female investors into their policies based on the laws and regulations where they operate. the company is built around the concept of reuse— operate in developing countries, where the mainstream start-up ecosystem. This its business model allows it to reuse 100% of the discrimination against minority groups can programme provides mentorship, workshops, FreshtoHome and Furlenco, for example, have devised ESG policies furniture offered to customers. It also ensures be high. Policies against discrimination and connections for females to become therefore provides opportunity to act as specific to India. Indian law mandates that the vendors it works with are not engaged in ‘change agents’ within communities where founders or investors. BOV partners with for equal compensation, maternity activities with negative environmental impact. portfolio companies do business. A focus Microsoft to run this programme. leave, health and safety, customer on diversity and inclusion is ever-more privacy, and grievance redress and important as the companies expand the against child and forced labour and scale and scope of their operations. corruption and bribery, and the companies have complied. They have also developed robust policies not required by law to train and upgrade the skills of their employees and supply chain partners, thereby paving the way to their operational expansion. Vezeeta has in place policies that comply with Egyptian laws and regulations and that drive its business expansion. Transcorp is heavily invested in policies on maternity leave, training and development, health and safety, forced labour, anti-corruption, and grievance redress. It provided an average of 50 of hours of training to its employees in 2018 to ensure compliance and the skills needed for corporate growth. BOV Capital, meanwhile, has developed ESG policies on equal compensation, maternity leave, and training and development. It has also devised policies for screening investments using ESG criteria to reduce its ESG risk from portfolio companies. It has in particular a policy to ensure that its portfolio companies do not engage in child or forced labour. The effectiveness of its policies is borne out in portfolio companies free of reports of child or forced labour, discrimination, and health and safety violations. In 2018, BOV increased the hours devoted to training employees and others in the value chain in anti-corruption practices and job skills. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 45 CE-CREATES CE-Creates, launched in 2014, is Crescent Enterprises’ internal business incubation platform, mandated with conceiving, incubating, and building start-ups that are socially conscious and financially feasible. CE-Creates is a manifestation of Crescent Enterprises’ focus on fostering entrepreneurship and innovation and generating positive sustainable impact. Since its inception, CE-Creates has launched four businesses in the areas of food and beverages, sustainable mobility, industrial workwear, and food technology. Approach to venture building CE-Creates takes every venture it initiates through four well-defined phases of development to ensure their viability and sustainability as businesses. Concept development Business plan development Incubation Growth • Product/service definition • Market research • Seed funding • Series A-C financing • Market size and potential • Product/service design • Management team • Expansion • High-level financial summary • Financial modelling • Product/service developemnt (franchising, acquisitions, greenfield) • Business plan and action plan • Go-to-market roadmap • Pilot/prototype • Strategic partnerships • Legal setup Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 47 A look at some of CE-Creates’ businesses For CE-Creates, 2018 was pivotal. The platform conceived, designed business plans for, and incubated ventures with a social impact. It then monitored and encouraged the continued progress of its ventures to ensure their sustainable growth. ION is launched CE-Creates launched sustainable transport company ION in the UAE on 5 June 2018: World Environment Day. The company utilises electric vehicles and manifold energy-efficient transport solutions. ION aims to offer world-class services designed to anticipate, meet, and indeed exceed the needs and expectations In the 16th century, much of the social, Ion is a UAE-based sustainable transport of clientele. Its services are summarised as follows: creative, and political activity in the company established in 2018 as a joint Arab world took place in coffeehouses. venture between Crescent Enterprises Coffeehouses from Constantinople and the UAE’s leading environmental to Cairo attracted poets, politicians, management company, Bee’ah. Through musicians, and storytellers. Launched in innovations in efficient transport, ION is 2017, Kava & Chai strives to recapture promoting economic and environmental On-demand Micromobility Freight transport Collective transport Energy network the bringing together of people of diverse sustainability and driving on-demand services services services services services cultures for an exchange of ideas and availability in multi-modal, inter-urban For fast, efficient, and Affordable and Fuel-efficient ION freight ION’s collective transport ION is working with opinions amid the age-old rituals of transport networks. It consistently ensures flexible movement, ION sustainable, ION’s services optimise supply solutions are a highinternational partners to coffee and tea. This specialty coffeehouse the high-quality, safe transport of people has several on-demand micromobility services chains through the use of quality, energy-efficient provide alternative fuel operates six locations in the UAE. and products, thereby constructing a zeroservices, such as rideoffer a viable solution green carrier modes that alternative to traditional value chains for mobility hailing and ride-sharing. to firstand last-mile offer greater returns than public transport. They applications, including for emissions transport infrastructure in the ION has acquired and transportation needs. conventional modes. Using include electric buses batteries and charging MENA region and beyond. deploys electric cars for From bikes to electric technological features such whose state-of-the-art stations. ION aims to use in corporate and scooters, its personal as aerodynamic design, features enhance the establish a blueprint for a government fleets and for mobility options ensure telematics, and live tracking, appeal of this transport future energy system that commercial use through greater reliability and ION’s long-haul services mode. ION’s solutions supports the seamless ride-hailing applications. predictability in intraimprove the efficiency can aid in events, transition to modes of urban transitions. of shipping by truck offering a green travel green transportation. exponentially. alternative at great value. ION is driven by the desire to provide value for its stakeholders. Its model for value creation encompasses the following: Shamal has developed innovative BreakBread is being tested throughout workwear that combats the extreme heat 2019 as a digital marketplace and hub for of the region it calls home. By equipping curated, home-based food experiences. Its Customers Government Partners workers with the gear to withstand hot mission is to unite cooks and food lovers Ensuring accessible, Delivering smart, Leveraging our industry climates, Shamal aims to enhance worker around the central idea that ‘food is best safe, and delightful effective, carbon-neutral knowledge to establish comfort and performance and to preserve experienced home cooked and shared’. customer experiences commercial and public thought leadership in “Driving for a company worker safety and health. The heightened The platform connects talented cooks with across all services transport solutions with sustainable transport that offers electric measurable impact functionality made possible by Shamal’s adventurous foodies throughout global vehicles that reduce specialised workwear raises worker cities to celebrate the simple joy and pollution and positively productivity, and that has a direct effect comfort of a shared, home-cooked meal. contribute to the on business profitability. environment provides me with a sense of Communities Employees pride, as I feel my work Ensuring environmental Providing a healthy, has a positive impact stewardship by driving motivating, and happy on the world. Electric awareness of the work environment cars are the future; it benefits of sustainable transport feels good to be a part of the future.” ION launched its operations for on-demand services in Dubai by deploying its Adelyn Orada Verory electric vehicles through the ride-hailing application Careem. Driver, ION Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 49 Kava & Chai opens two Shamal prepared in 2018 to launch The latest prototypes were submitted Sustainability highlights of CE-Creates’ businesses new stores in 2019 to the Textile Protection and Comfort Center at North Carolina State Kava & Chai focused on a sustainable supply chain Kava & Chai, a UAE chain of specialty The year under review was seminal for University, in the US, to undergo Kava & Chai understands that it has a responsibility to procure its coffee and tea in a sustainable manner. It screens all of its coffee houses and CE-Creates’ first Shamal. In 2018, this maker of workerfinal lab tests using standard testing international suppliers for their environmental and social footprint. This is particularly the case for those supplying its coffee. Coffee’s fully operational business in the food friendly workwear completed its R&D methods. This was followed by a last journey from bean to cup is long and complex. It involves numerous steps, and there are sustainability concerns at each step. and beverages sector. It expanded its for its novel product line and finalised footprint in 2018 with the addition of prototypes of that garment from the series field trial, which garnered positive three locations in Dubai; at the Tamani through which the garment evolved. feedback from workers. Art Tower in Business Bay, at the Dubai The final prototypes incorporate Shamal is as a result preparing for International Finance Centre, and the incremental improvements resulting the launch of its garment in 2019. Mall of the Emirates. Kava & Chai now from lab tests and field trials. Data The company is generating marketing has six stores across Sharjah and Dubai. from multiple rounds of lab tests content and planning the production that measured and quantified each of the first batch of products for the commercial market. Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 of the preceding prototype’s comfort parameters was used to determine Most of the world’s coffee is of two Coffee berries are mostly handpicked, Coffee berries are stripped of their the ideal makeup and combination varieties: arabica and robusta. Major with strip picking common. peel and pulp to expose the coffee of technical fabrics in engineering a producers of coffee are Ethiopia, Brazil, bean. This can be done through dry garment that can be worn with comfort Colombia, Vietnam, and Indonesia. The Sustainability concern: Safeguarding coffee or wet processing. in the hottest of climates. coffee plants are shaded from sunlight and pickers by ensuring health, safety, and fair profusely watered until they bear fruits, a working conditions, by offering equitable pay, and by avoiding child and compulsory labour. Sustainability concern: Using water efficiently process that takes up to four years. in wet processing as dry processing can damage the beans. Sustainability concern: Employing climate-resilient cultivation to mitigate threats posed by climate change. Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 Dried beans are transformed into Coffee beans are packed in plasticGreen coffee beans are roasted to green coffee beans through milling, lined containers or jute bags release their flavour. Various roasting which includes hulling, sorting, and containers for bulk shipping. temperatures and techniques affect the grading the beans. acidity, aroma, and body of the coffee. Sustainability concern: Reducing the weight of packaging and quantity of plastic used Sustainability concern: Ensure thorough screening of the Sustainability concern: Lowering energy to conserve resources and improve fuel beans to avoid coffee contamination and maintaining their consumption for roasting. consumption during shipping. traceability is critical at this first step of the large-scale aggregation of beans from possibly diverse sources. Step 7 Step 8 Step 9 168.05 million coffee bags are Coffee beans are ground by hand or Ground coffee can be brewed using produced annually and shipped mechanically to the desired fineness. any number of techniques and devices: worldwide using all major modes of moka pot, French press, espresso transport: land, air, rail, and sea. Sustainability concern: Recycling of machine, batch brewer, ibrik... coffee grind waste. Sustainability concern: Achieving as much local Sustainability concern: Minimising plastic packaging sourcing and distribution as possible to lessen and ensuring customer health and safety. transport-related emissions. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 51 Kava & Chai pays a lot of attention to procuring coffee from suppliers such as Great Lakes Coffee (GLC). GLC ensures that the Outlook ION is also embracing a holistic CE-Creates is expected to launch the beans it supplies to Kava & Chai’s custom roasters have gone from cultivation through transport in as environmentally friendly CE-Creates has appraised more than approach that extends its footprint beta phase of BreakBread, an online and socioeconomically beneficial a manner as possible. Kava & Chai, too, works to soften its impact on the environment, at the 40 business ideas since its inception beyond vehicles to include charging platform for connecting people who final stages of coffee’s journey. The company, as described elsewhere, has in place recycling and customer loyalty initiatives five years ago. Of those, 4 are fully infrastructure and other products love to prepare food with people who designed to minimise its waste and reduce consumer use of its cups. operational businesses and 5 others—in related to sustainable commercial love to eat, in Dubai and London before the philanthropic fintech, clean energy, transport. This ambition synchronises the end of 2019. Following its launch logistics, and education technology nicely with the growing priority on in Dubai, BreakBread will be the first sectors—are under development. renewable energy in the Gulf region. digital marketplace and hub for curated, Several Gulf countries, including the home-based food experiences in the “Our business depends on buyers like Kava & Chai Kava & Chai is gearing up for further UAE and Saudi Arabia, are setting MENA region. BreakBread’s belief in who care as much about sustainability as we do. expansion in the UAE, into cities beyond renewable energy targets. the value of sharing meals and its By paying a premium for coffee sourced from us Dubai and Sharjah, with an emphasis philosophy that meals should be more Shamal intends by August 2019 to that is traceable and has minimum environmental on Abu Dhabi. In 2019 the company have its first product line of heatthan mere sustenance make should also seeks to expand abroad. make it very attractive to tourists eager impacts, they allow us to source quality and combating workwear in the hands of to experience Dubai and its people and sustainable coffee without having to compromise ION plans in the year ahead to begin consumers and under commercial cuisine. It offers tourists an opportunity on our principles.” deploying large fleets of premium and production. Following the launch of to spend an evening alongside the city’s economy electric cars to complement that product, Shamal plans to add work residents enjoying a family-style culinary Mohamad Merhi the transport networks in nine cities gear and introduce personal protective experience prepared by local people. Managing Partner, Cypher Roastery in the MENA region. It has a phased equipment to its product offerings. rollout plan for the coming years that Shamal is dedicated to the well-being coincides with the establishment of and safety of workers in the Gulf region regulatory frameworks governing the of the Middle East, ideally in cooperation Kava & Chai makes every effort to Kava & Chai’s endeavours to nurture Open Tent by Chika in Dubai in June use of electric vehicles in the target with governmental entities to ensure lessen its resource consumption regional culture 2018 and in the second annual Sharjah markets. ION, meanwhile, is in talks that its products help as broad a crossEntrepreneurship Festival in November with UAE regulators to expand its fleet section of workers as possible. Kava & Chai tries at every turn to Kava & Chai is a proponent of the 2018. In December 2018, Kava & Chai operations to Abu Dhabi and Sharjah. minimise its consumption of paper regional culture to whose socioeconomic and plastic. Its various initiatives fabric it contributes and of which it sees was the official café sponsor of the include biodegradable and plasticitself as part. It regularly participates three-day Dubai International Coffee free packaging. Those initiatives lead in events that promote tolerance, and Tea Festival, which showcased all the company to believe that it can entrepreneurialism, and education. In aspects of the coffee and tea industry, achieve 100% biodegradable and March 2018, Kava & Chai took part in the including skills, products, services, and plastic-free packaging. 2018 brought 20th Annual Global Day at the American equipment. the company closer to that aim as 92% University of Sharjah and in the of the consumables it used were made experiential technology festival known of recyclable, biodegradable, or ecoas the Step Conference in Dubai. It was friendly materials. also involved in the iftar experience Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance is the Governance framework Our company has a multi-tiered management structure, where the highest level of oversight rests with the Crescent Group cornerstone of any successful Board of Directors. The direct management of day-to-day activities rests with five committees, each assigned a respective level of authority as defined by the company. This framework ensures the balanced governance of our operations. and sustainable company Investment Committee Good governance is essential to attract and retain talent. Good governance, moreover, infuses stakeholders with The Investment Committee reviews trust and confidence in its near assurance of lasting value. and approves certain investments, divestments, joint ventures, and other Crescent Enterprises is committed to upholding the highest standards of integrity and accountability across its platforms strategic partnerships, and reports into and investments. We work for the benefit of our stakeholders to instil in our employees and business partners the the Executive Board. principles of good corporate governance—integrity, equity, transparency, fairness, disclosure, accountability, and commitment to values—in their day-to-day work. Human Resources Committee The Human Resources Committee manages all employee-related Executive Board policy matters in alignment with Corporate Citizenship Committee Crescent Enterprises’ pledge to The Executive Board exercises strategic the UN Global Compact to provide The Corporate Citizenship Committee oversight and decision-making safe and fair working conditions formulates Crescent Enterprises’ regarding Crescent Enterprises and and the United Nations Women corporate citizenship strategy. the operations of its four platforms by Empowerment Principles. Ensuring It develops and monitors the performing strategic reviews, assessing full compliance with the company’s implementation of a disciplined capital resources, and approving key Code of Conduct is a primary role approach to achieving the corporate investments and operational decisions. of this committee. citizenship goals an objectives. The committee regularly monitors the progress of the ongoing initiatives and assesses the overall performance and impact. Sustainability Committee The Sustainability Committee develops and oversees the implementation of Crescent Enterprises’ sustainability strategy, monitors the progress of that strategy, and drives awareness and the uptake of sustainability at all levels of the organisation. “Incorporation of robust corporate governance practices can help businesses become more efficient, effective, and resilient. It leads to a more open and transparent Our five governance committees comprise the following individuals: environment, which will also boost the confidence of stakeholders. Realising this, we have put in place Executive Investment Human Resources Sustainability Corporate Citizenship appropriate governance practices to ensure trust and Board Committee Committee Committee Committee credibility with our stakeholders. We have also chosen to • Badr Jafar • Neeraj Agrawal • Badr Jafar • Ravi Kumar • Ola Al Haj Hussin be transparent voluntarily and to report periodically on • Neeraj Agrawal • Ravi Kumar • Ravi Kumar • Neeraj Agrawal • Ghada Abdelkader our corporate governance practices.” • Ravi Kumar • Tushar Singhvi • Rene Hansen • Rene Hansen • Ananth Achanta • Tushar Singhvi • Ghada Abdelkader • Sabyasachi Chatterjee Sabyasachi Chatterjee Senior Legal Counsel, Crescent Enterprises • Ola Al Haj Hussin Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 55 Senior leadership Badr Jafar Neeraj Agrawal Ravi Kumar Tushar Singhvi Chief Executive Officer Executive Director Executive Director Director, CE-Ventures Key leadership positions: Key leadership positions: Key leadership positions: Key leadership positions: • Managing Director, Crescent Group • Chief Financial Officer and Board Member, Crescent Group • Board Member, Crescent Group • Executive Board and Investment Committee Member, • President, Crescent Petroleum •E  xecutive Board Member and Investment Committee Member, • Executive Board and Investment Committee Member, Crescent Enterprises • Chairman, Pearl Petroleum Crescent Enterprises Crescent Enterprises • Fund Advisory Board Member, TVM Capital Healthcare Partners • Chairman, Executive Board, Gulftainer •E  xecutive Board Member, Gulftainer • Chair of Sustainability Committee, Crescent Enterprises • Limited Partners’ Board Member, Siraj Palestine Fund •B  oard Member, Uruk Engineering & Contracting • Executive Director, Corporate Affairs & Business Services, • Limited Partners’ Advisory Committee Member, Wamda Badr Jafar serves as the Chairman of Gas Cities LLC, a joint •E  xecutive Committee Member, Crescent Petroleum Crescent Petroleum MENA Ventures venture between Crescent Petroleum and Dana Gas PJSC, and •B  oard Member, XCath, Inc. • Executive Committee Member, Crescent Petroleum • Board Member, FreshtoHome as the Chairman of Pearl Petroleum, a partnership between •B  oard Member, ColubrisMX, Inc. • Chair of Executive Committee, Crescent Aviation • Board Member, Kitopi Crescent Petroleum, Dana Gas, OMV of Austria, MOL of • Board Member, Transcorp International Hungary, and RWEST of Germany. Neeraj Agrawal oversees Crescent Enterprises’ operations and Ravi Kumar is the Executive Director responsible for • Board Member, Furlenco investments. He has supported the company’s evolution and managing Crescent Enterprises’ global office operations with Additionally, Badr is active in a variety of other industries, transformation throughout its years of expansion, fostering new innovative and effective shared business services, including Tushar Singhvi heads corporate development and investments including ports and logistics. He is the Chair of the Executive investments and nurturing its various established businesses accounts, human resources and organisational development, and is responsible for evaluating and executing new investment Board of Gulftainer, the world’s largest private container within the fields of ports and logistics, mining, healthcare, power information and communication technology, and supply chain opportunities on behalf of Crescent Enterprises. He also manages port operator. plant engineering and construction, and, most recently, techmanagement. As part of this function, Ravi is responsible the portfolio companies through strategy and corporate In 2010, Badr founded the Pearl Initiative, a non-profit for developing the strategic landscape of the company’s SAP development. He has been instrumental in cultivating corporate related investment. venture in cooperation with the United Nations Office for ERP (enterprise resource planning) systems and for ensuring prospects and in contributing to the development of Crescent Partnerships to promote a corporate culture of transparency As a member of the Executive Board of Gulftainer, Crescent that the organisation is transformed and ready to meet the Enterprises’ strategic and operational plans within the ports and and accountability in the Gulf region of the Middle East. He has Enterprises’ ports and logistics subsidiary, Neeraj provides challenges of business growth and market dynamics. He is also logistics, business aviation, healthcare, private equity, and venture been appointed as a member of the United Nations Secretaryoversight and support in all the company’s major decisions in charge of providing strategic direction and management capital verticals. General’s High-Level Panel on Humanitarian Financing to and policies and plays a key role in its international expansion, oversight for the company’s operations and investments and is Tushar has over 16 years of global experience in investment address and examine the growing humanitarian finance crisis. diversification, and related financing activities. Recently, he played equally involved in its business development activities. management, corporate development, strategy development, and Through his advocacy for social entrepreneurship, he is the an instrumental role in the execution of Gulftainer’s $600 million Ravi initiated the development of the framework for defining project management in sectors including power, logistics, oil and Chairman of Endeavor UAE, an initiative encouraging highinvestment in the Port of Wilmington, Delaware. Crescent Enterprises’ sustainability strategy and objectives. gas, healthcare, and infrastructure development. He has worked impact entrepreneurship; is a member of the Synergos Arab In his capacity as a Board Member of the Crescent Group, Neeraj is He did so with a view to driving change and ensuring that on a range of transactions, including mergers and acquisitions, World Social Innovators (AWSI) Program Board of Governors; responsible for the finance function and for building relationships environmental health, social well-being, and economic capital raising, divestitures, and debt restructuring. and serves on the Board of Advisors for both the Sharjah performance become embedded in the organisation’s strategy, Entrepreneurship Centre (Sheraa) and Gaza Sky Geeks. with the investment and banking communities. Before joining Crescent Enterprises, Tushar worked with KPMG operations, and reporting. Corporate Finance in Dubai and, earlier, with an investment Badr is in addition active with higher-education institutions, His numerous achievements throughout his 32 years with As a board member of the Crescent Group, Ravi is responsible banking firm in London in the United Kingdom. Prior to that, he serving as a member of the Advisory Boards of Cambridge the group include securing several joint ventures within the for overseeing all business service functions. As such, he plays a spent five years in the power and infrastructure industries in Asia University’s Cambridge Judge Business School, the American international energy and port industries and leading the key role in establishing a corporate governance framework for and Africa. University of Beirut, and the American University of Sharjah. development of the company’s operations across the MENA the group and its key affiliated companies. region. Neeraj was also instrumental in the formation and Tushar holds a Bachelor of Engineering degree from the University As a keen advocate of the arts, he is an appointed member of capitalisation of Dana Gas PJSC, including the private placement Prior to joining Crescent Petroleum in 1991, Ravi worked in the of Pune, India. He also holds a Master of Business Administration the Guggenheim Museum’s Middle Eastern Circle, the Artistic and $80 billion IPO; the $1.2 billion acquisition and financing of audit divisions of Ernst & Young in the UAE and, earlier, of A. F. with distinction from the University of Oxford. Director’s Circle of The Old Vic Theatre Trust, the Kennedy TSX-listed Centurion Energy International Inc.; and the Middle Ferguson & Co. in India. Centre’s Centennial Circle, and the founder of the Middle East Tushar is a member of the World Economic Forum’s Global Future Theatre Academy. In 2014, Badr was awarded the Gold Medal in East’s first forward-looking accelerated $1 billion Sukuk issued Ravi holds a Business of Commerce (Honours) degree from the Council for Economic Growth and Social Inclusion and is part of the Arts by the Kennedy Centre International Committee on the by an associate company in 2007, which received the 2013 University of Delhi. He is a Chartered Accountant and member several other industry networks. Arts for his work to bridge cultures through music and theatre. Restructuring Deal of the Year award in New York. of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, UK, and the Institute of Cost Accountants, India. Badr is an active member of the Young Presidents’ Organisation Prior to joining Crescent Petroleum, Neeraj worked as a (YPO), serving as Ex-Officio Chair of the YPO Emirates Chapter. management consultant for PricewaterhouseCoopers and in the Badr was honoured as a Young Global Leader by the World audit and management consultancy division of Ernst & Young. Economic Forum in 2011 and is Co-chair of its Family Business Neeraj is a member of the Indian Business and Professional Community. He is also a member of the Stewardship Board of Council and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the System Initiative on Economic Progress. supports voluntary work and philanthropy through charities in India and the UAE. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 57 Samer Choucair Ghada Abdelkader Ananth Achanta Sabyasachi Chatterjee Ola Al Haj Hussin Director, CE-Creates VP, CE-Invests Head of Accounts Senior Legal Counsel Manager, Corporate Citizenship Key leadership positions: Key leadership positions: Ananth Achanta is responsible for the Sabyasachi (Sabya) Chatterjee is Ola Al Haj Hussin is responsible for developing • Executive Committee Member, Kava & Chai • Business Development and Investments Committee maintenance of accounts and financial a Senior Legal Counsel at Crescent and managing Crescent Enterprises’ corporate • Executive Committee Member, ION Member, Gulftainer reporting, and has assisted in creating Enterprises and is responsible for citizenship portfolio and its strategy. She also • Executive Committee Member, Shamal • Board Member, Transcorp International the corporate governance framework managing and providing support on a oversees the development of the company’s • Executive Committee Member, BreakBread for Crescent Enterprises. diverse range of legal matters across philanthropic partnerships with regional and Ghada Abdelkader is responsible for the monitoring of Crescent Enterprises and its business global organisations. Ananth has over 15 years of global Samer Choucair heads CE-Creates, a Crescent Enterprises’ Crescent Enterprises’ portfolio companies within the ports units, as well as its subsidiaries experience in investment analysis Ola has more than 19 years of expertise in platform that endeavours to create and develop innovative and logistics, business aviation, technology, and private and affiliates. and reporting. Prior to joining the development programmes, monitoring, and businesses that generate sustainable social impact and equity sectors and for the evaluation, structuring, execution, company, he worked with Damas Sabya has lived and worked in the UAE, management with corporations and nonaddress economic, social, and environmental challenges. and post-acquisition management of new investments. Jewellery Group in Dubai, UAE, in Singapore, and India and has extensive profit foundations in the Middle East. She has CE-Creates is driven by the strong belief that such a triple Ghada has 14 years of experience in investment banking, the Investments and Partnership experience in cross-border corporate spearheaded manifold initiatives in the culture, bottom line approach to doing business is the most effective corporate finance, and financial services consulting across Management division, where his and commercial transactions and education, and social enterprise sectors. way to generate shared value for all stakeholders. the MENA region. She has executed deals valued in excess responsibilities included monitoring disputes resolution matters, including Ola began her career at the grassroots level in Samer comes from an entrepreneurial background. He has of a billion dollars, including private and public placements, the financial performances of M&As, joint ventures, venture capital, participatory, bottom-up socioeconomic projects more than 20 years of experience with start-ups in various mergers and acquisitions, and greenfield projects. various businesses such as jewellery and private equity funding. Prior to across various demographic communities in industries, from entertainment to food and beverages, manufacturing and retail units based joining Crescent Enterprises, Sabya has Prior to joining Crescent Enterprises, Ghada worked in Syria. She then worked on enhancing social e-commerce, media, and healthcare in Canada, the UAE, in Italy and India, as well as jewellery, worked in Singapore with an AMLAW the Investment Banking Division of Al Mal Capital in the entrepreneurship practices through microfinance Saudi Arabia, Oman, and Singapore. lifestyle, retail, and hospitality units 100 US law firm, a Big Four Japanese UAE, where she participated in various private and public with the Arab Gulf Programme for Development, in the UAE, Bahrain, Kuwait, Thailand, law firm, and, prior to that, in India. Prior to joining Crescent Enterprises in 2014, Samer was transactions, including the $325 million initial public offering before joining UNICEF and UNDP in humanitarian and Turkey. Sabya is qualified in England & Wales the Chief Operating Officer of Groupon Middle East, where of Drake & Scull International. Earlier, Ghada worked contexts under fundraising and monitoring and in India and holds a Bachelor of he was instrumental in building the company to its current with ASEC Cement Holding in Egypt, a subsidiary of Qalaa Ananth is an associate of The Institute capacities. Law degree (first class with ranking) leading market position. Holdings, where she was involved in building the company’s of Chartered Accountants of India from the University of Pune, India. Ola is pursuing a postgraduate diploma in portfolio through numerous acquisitions and greenfield and and a member of the Chartered Samer holds a Master of Business Administration from Sabya is a member of the Bar Council sustainable business with the Cambridge Institute brownfield projects for cement plants throughout the MENA Institute of Management Accountants, INSEAD and is a member of several start-up communities of Delhi and the Delhi High Court Bar for Sustainable Business, University of Cambridge. region. She began her career with PricewaterhouseCoopers United Kingdom. and organisations providing mentorship on a personal Association, both in India. Ola holds an Executive Leadership and in Egypt, where she participated in business valuations level and through business competitions, universities, and Management degree from Saïd Business School, and financial due diligence transactions across the organisations such as Endeavor, StartupBootcamp, and Oxford University; an MSc in Applied Development manufacturing, services, and industrial sectors. Sheraa. He also sits on the investment committee of Studies from the University of Reading, UK; Dubai Angel Investors. Ghada holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Economics a diploma in French–Arabic Translation from from Cairo University and is a Chartered Financial Analyst Université de Lyon 2, France; and a BA in Human (CFA). She is a member of the CFA Institute and the CFA Sciences from the University of Damascus. Society Emirates. Ola was also a social business mentor with Cherie Blair Foundation for three consecutive years. Previously, she served as a steering committee member for the United Nation’s Small Grants Programme for five consecutive Years. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 59 Our commitment to business Building partnerships for With our support, the Pearl Initiative integrity governance launched the Corporate Governance in MSMEs programme in 2017 Crescent Enterprises strives to advance to boost the resilience of micro, ethical business practices in the countries small, and medium enterprises where it has operations and among other (MSMEs) in the Gulf region through businesses with which it deals. We have the implementation of sound zero tolerance for bribery and corruption UN Global Compact Pearl Initiative governance practices. In its first involving our employees and those of our We have been an adherent of the UNGC We are a founding and lead partner year, the programme focussed on subsidiaries and affiliates. All employees since July 2013. This strategic policy of the Pearl Initiative, a non-forassessing levels of awareness and are provided with orientation on our initiative seeks voluntary participation profit organisation established in implementation of governance anti-bribery and corruption policies and practices at MSMEs. Data was “The Pearl Initiative was founded in 2010 to promote the our code of conduct. from businesses committed to aligning collaboration with the United Nations their operations and strategies, policies collected through surveys, focus implementation of greater transparency, accountability and Office of Partnerships to promote Crescent Enterprises, meanwhile, has and procedures with ten principles robust corporate governance standards group meetings, and one-to-one overall improved corporate governance practices in the Gulf partnered with many organisations spanning the four areas of human and ethical business practices in the discussions of key issues. The region’s private sector. Crescent Enterprises is a founding and signed on to numerous initiatives rights, labour, environment, and antiGulf region. The Pearl Initiative works findings were published in 2017 member and we are honoured to have their continued to promote its corporate governance corruption. As a long-time signatory in a report titled Enhancing Gulf with businesses of all sizes and with Business Competitiveness. That support and active involvement with the Pearl Initiative’s agenda among its internal and external to the UNGC, we are with this report universities and students to achieve report and the research that led programmes and activities. They contribute significantly stakeholders. They include the UN Global issuing our fifth annual update on our this aim. Compact and Women’s Empowerment progress in implementing the initiative’s to it were the basis for the Pearl to our mission and vision, and are a great example of the Principles, the Pearl Initiative, and the ten principles. Principle 10, on antiInitiative’s development of a series private sector doing its part to encourage the adoption of World Economic Forum. corruption, is a particular emphasis of corporate governance tools that best practice corporate governance standards.” within our governance framework, it presented at strategic events it which espouses on a daily basis antiheld in 2018, where it reached out Yasmine Omari corruption business practices. to MSMEs with targeted solutions Executive Director, Pearl Initiative for their business concerns. The Pearl Initiative also launched its Gulf Integrity Indicator (GII) in The Pearl Initiative is also in the process 2017 to assess corporate integrity of developing its State of Governance in CE–Operates: performance according to regional Philanthropy Report to highlight trends Gulftainer reinforces and international standards. The in governance practices at philanthropic its commitment to pilot phase of GII was conducted in and not-for-profit organisations. Earlier, governance 2018. The Pearl Initiative is working it launched its Business Pledge to seek now to intensify its anti-corruption commitment from senior business Gulftainer is a signatory to the UNGC efforts by increasing participation leaders in the Gulf in adhering to the and has pledged to work against in the GII, publishing reports principles of ethical and responsible corruption in all forms. Gulftainer has and practice guides, and hosting corporate governance practices. By enforced an internal anti-corruption roundtables. year-end 2018, the Business Pledge had policy since 2010. It has initiated acquired 30 new signatories, increasing internal compliance training courses to the overall count to 187. certify and assign compliance officers who, in turn, initiate internal training Also in 2018, the Pearl Initiative’s events sessions to raise employee awareness and workshops reached 458 people of anti-corruption measures. across the region. Among them, 234 students participated in events and Gulftainer has also invited external competitions on corporate governance experts on compliance to raise antiand anti-corruption throughout the year. corruption compliance awareness among its top-tier management. The company, moreover, is designing anticorruption awareness campaigns for all of its facilities. Gulftainer also partners with the Pearl Initiative to promote the 143 234 19 458 adoption of the highest standards of accountability, transparency, and WOMEN REACHED STUDENTS ENGAGED IN EVENTS AND PEOPLE REACHED governance among other businesses. EVENTS ON CORPORATE WORKSHOPS ACROSS THE GULF GOVERNANCE AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 61 Our commitment to ethical sourcing At Crescent Enterprises, we endeavour In 2015, we introduced the following • We provide opportunities for SMEs to ensure that our procured goods and initiatives to increase our procurement to extend their services to all our World Economic Forum services are produced and delivered from SMEs: businesses and portfolio companies. Crescent Enterprises is a partner of the ethically. We expect our suppliers to implement standards that are consistent • We require a minimum three bids or • We constantly engage with our World Economic Forum (WEF) and a with our own. Our suppliers should quotes for each procurement order, SME vendors to seek their feedback member of two WEF Global Future Councils. uphold the highest standards of health, among which we aim to receive at least regarding our procurement processes. The councils encourage innovative thinking safety, and environmental stewardship one bid or quote from an SME. to ensure a sustainable and inclusive Throughout 2018, we continued future. They involve more than 700 thought and be fair, ethical, and transparent in • We divide large contracts into smaller delivering on our strategy of increasing leaders from academia, government, their activities. contracts to enable specialised vendors SME participation in our procurement. business, and civil society who provide to bid. We are proud to share that as a result of We are, moreover, focusing on building insights on global challenges and on this strategy, the percentage of SMEs in local supply chains and supporting the impact and governance of emerging • We strive to offer SMEs good payment our procurement spending has steadily local suppliers and small and medium technologies. terms and to help them access low-cost increased since 2014. enterprises (SMEs) in our areas of financial products. Our CEO, Badr Jafar, represents us on the Crescent Enterprises CEO Badr Jafar moderated operations. Global Future Council on the Humanitarian a panel titled ‘The Future of Collaborative System, which aims to define the roles of humanitarian organisations and Philanthropy: Driving Enduring Impact at other actors and to thereby add value Scale’ at the World Economic Forum in Davos % share of procurement spending to community and individual resilience. earlier in 2019. The panel featured celebrated Tushar Singhvi, our Director of CE– entrepreneurs Bill Gates and Rohini and Nandan 7 13 Ventures, represents us on the Global Future Council for Economic Growth and Nilekani, who explored the roles of the public 29 33 Social Inclusion. and private sectors in driving collaborative 43 philanthropy for a more sustainable impact. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Crescent Enterprises is also a member of the WEF’s Partnering Against Corruption 57 The event highlighted the benefits of digital Initiative (PACI). PACI has been working 67 with business leaders, international philanthropic platforms and other connective 93 87 71 organisations, and governments since 2004 infrastructure in enhancing the sector’s impact to address corruption, transparency, and while emphasising the need to experiment with Non-SMEs SMEs emerging-market risks. With approximately 90 signatories from different business new models of capital aggregation to match sectors around the globe, PACI stands out impact investors’ interest with market demand. as the world’s leading business voice on anti-corruption and transparency. UN Women’s Empowerment We strongly advocate for gender equality employment policies, including extended Principles in our and our partners’ businesses. We maternity leave and flexible working As part of its promotion of gender have pledged to give equal opportunities hours for new mothers. We also aim to equality in the workplace, marketplace, to men and women as company engage, empower, and develop the talent and community, Crescent Enterprises employees and leaders, as customers, of our female employees through training signed the UN Women’s Empowerment and as suppliers. We in particular strive to and capability development programmes. Principles. We join over 1,000 global empower and encourage women to take corporate participants in working leadership roles in our operations. Our towards implementing seven women’s support of women in our organisation empowerment principles. manifests itself in our progressive Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 63 OUR PEOPLE Nurturing our team Our people strategy A committed and productive workforce forms the bedrock of any successful business. At Crescent Enterprises, every employee has the potential to play a vital role in helping the company realise its vision of developing its strength and dynamism as a diversified, global conglomerate. We seek to enable talent, healthy, empowered employees capable of generating value for the company across cultural and geographical borders. To that end, the Good No discrimination company promotes employee diversity, supports employee learning and development, and invests in employee benefits health and well-being. Attracting Ensuring and retaining diversity and talent inclusion Annual Training and Local Gender performance development hiring equality management Enabling talent In an ongoing effort to attract, employ, These benefits include medical, life, and We also strive to provide a corporate and retain talent, Crescent Enterprises accidental insurance policies; interestculture and a workplace environment has developed a robust recruitment free loans to cover housing costs; and an conducive to a healthy work-life balance. strategy and put in place internal allowance for vacation tickets. We review Our progressive policies on maternity policies, career advancement schemes, our compensation and benefits policy and paternity leaves, and flexible working and employee engagement initiatives. annually in light of our business strategy, hours put us at the forefront in this regard. We provide excellent benefits to our legal obligations, and corporate employees at every level. best practices. In 2019 we aim for further employee engagement strategies related to wellbeing and work-life balance. Our evolving workforce 3,001 Celebrating long-term employees Number of long-term employees Just as our business evolves so, too, does our workforce as we invest or divest EMPLOYEES IN 2018, OF WHOM 62% Crescent Enterprises recognises WERE BETWEEN 30–50 YEARS OF AGE 2,735 or enter new markets. Our workforce and rewards its high-performing, declined in 2018 owing to certain industry long-serving employees with special 2,030 2,121 challenges and our exits from some of benefits determined through its annual 663 our holdings. performance management cycle commensurate with their duration of 765 625 603 service. The success of our corporate 319 NEW HIRES, OF WHOM 46% WERE 277 culture and policies are reflected in the 66 BETWEEN 30–50 YEARS OF AGE service longevity of our employees. Fully Less than 10 years 10–20 years 20+ years 21% of our employees have been with us for over 10 years, and 13% have been 2016 2017 2018 with us for more than 20 years. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 65 Promoting continuous learning We assess the needs of our employees department heads and with employees Crescent Enterprises is committed to at the beginning of the annual based on educational opportunities the development of its headquarters’ performance management cycle and that the latter have availed themselves plan our learning and development of outside of company activities— CE–Creates: Talent employees and seeks to provide initiatives for the year accordingly. ranges from soft skills and technical development at Kava & Chai each of them with challenging career opportunities that match their individual The internal and external training that competencies to Arabic language Kava & Chai expanded its team in 2018 to keep pace with its aspirations. This is the cornerstone of our our Training Department offers and classes, e-learning opportunities, and opening of additional outlets. Staff training is of the utmost talent acquisition and retention strategy oversees—typically in coordination with professional courses. importance to Kava & Chai, attested to by the 23,989 hours of and the key to our competitiveness. training it devoted to employees in 2018. Part of that training involves management concepts, and Kava & Chai encourages We utilise an annual performance Number of hours of training provided to employees in 2018 its baristas to involve themselves in tackling business issues management cycle to assess and based on what they have learned. guide employees’ career and personal development. This enables us to tailor 262 the training that we provide to our Number of hours of training provided to employees employees, training that we deliver 194 through a 70:20:10 approach: 70% learning on the job, 20% self-study, and 2017 2018 122 Senior 10% formal learning interventions. management Middle 395 183 management Male Female Staff 8,348 2,250 10,598 13,391 Male Female Male Female Providing a healthy workplace Between 14 October and 25 November, connect with their colleagues. Individual Health and well-being underlie the moreover, we held the first-ever and team winners received awards ability of our employees to live up to Crescent Sports Month, with events ranging from trophies and medals to a their potential, to their benefit and the taking place at various locations variety of sporting goods. company’s. Towards fostering employee throughout the UAE. Every day during the month, employees could participate Throughout the year, the company again health and well-being, in 2018 we in tournaments involving any of 12 sponsored those of its employees who participated in an annual community sports-fussball, table tennis, carom take part in sports events in the UAE. day in an outdoor setting between the boards, darts, badminton, football, We regularly underwrite employees who Ghaf trees in Dubai. Employees were throw ball, basketball and bowling, participate, for example, in the Dubai encouraged to stretch outside their among others-to gain and demonstrate Marathon, and Emirates NBD Unity Run. comfort zones and to interact with each other in a dynamic and unique their fitness, show their skills, and environment. The day included thrilling team-building activities, such as tightrope walking, sand surfing, rope climbing, and tent building. The community day was preceded by a team painting activity, where pairs of employees painted a section of a canvas and then worked with the remaining teams to assemble one masterpiece. The event stimulated employees’ artistic skills while fostering conviviality. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 67 Embracing diversity and in our workforce in 2018 as 67% of new instance, grants new mothers 66 paid inclusion hires at our headquarters were female. working days (90 calendar days) of leave and provides them with the options of In our efforts to promote women empowerment in We are committed to increasing the representation of women in our Part of our success in attracting female taking further days off without pay or of the region, we seek to inspire other employers to talent to our headquarters is our working part-time. We have designed this create meaningful opportunities for women by workforce and, indeed, we have commitment to work-life balance. policy in line with our commitment to the participating in leading business events. From 14 to witnessed a greater number of females Our mother and wellness policy, for UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. 15 November 2018, for example, Ghada Abdelkader, the VP of CE-Invests, shed light on the growing role of women in family business at the tenth annual Global Women in Leadership (WIL) Economic Forum MENA. 2017 2018 Diversity at Crescent Enterprises, though, At Crescent Enterprises, we do not Diversity and inclusion are key 25% of our headquarters workforce were women 27% of our headquarters workforce were women extends well beyond the employment and promotion of women. Our workforce tolerate any form of discrimination in the workplace, in employment-related criteria in all our people policies and processes, ranging from recruitment to comprises multiple nationalities. In 2018, decisions, or in our business dealings, development. We are currently focused 20% of our new hires were from the whether on the basis of race, age, gender, on strengthening our local hiring to MENA region, 21% from Asia, and 57% religion, disability, ethnicity, maternity, increase the proportion of employees from North America. or other rationale. In 2018, we did not hired from our local region. Our 549 record any incident of discrimination in local employees to date constitute 18% our workplace. of our workforce. We constantly attempt to provide equal opportunities for women, including Feedback on women-empowerment trainning programme encouraging them to occupy leadership positions. Crescent Enterprises has “At CE-Creates, we strive to build new and impactful pledged to invest in career development Overall training and venue businesses. Working with a multicultural team inspires for female employees through training me to think outside the box, to consider multiple sessions and by devising workplace Trainer's skills perspectives, and to continue learning every day. I policies that empower women within the company and at its partner benefit not only from my colleagues’ diverse cultures, Programme content companies. and structure but also from their varied backgrounds, experiences, and areas of expertise. Such everyday interactions bear In 2018, we conducted a two-day Satisfaction rate testament to our corporate culture of innovation and women-empowerment and leadership training programme for our female entrepreneurship.” 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% employees at the American University Musa Akangbe of Sharjah in collaboration with the Jafar Excellent Very good Senior Analyst, CE-Creates Center for Executive Education. The training received immensely positive feedback from the participants. Number of employees by nationality European 2016 2017 North American 61 54 “Attending the two-day Women Self-Empowerment 2016 2017 MENA workshop was an enlightening experience that helped 14 15 2018 40 2016 2017 Asian me answer many questions related to the meaning of 2018 473 575 life, my role in society, and success at the workplace. 389 2016 2017 2018 2,804 2,399 In addition, the event helped me connect with fellow African (excluding MENA) 628 women colleagues on a deeper level.” 2018 South American 2016 2017 1,895 Sheela Lazarus 67 68 Administrative Coordinator, Crescent Enterprises 2016 2017 7 3 2018 Others 40 2018 2018 4 5 Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 69 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Corporate citizenship is integral to We have pledged to devote 5% of our projected annual cash flow to our compared with 2017 and benefitted 34,776 community members, 19,127 entrepreneurship to drive economic growth and generate employment for the Crescent Enterprises culture corporate citizenship programmes. In of them women and 2,914 of them youth in the MENA region. 2018, our expenditure on corporate youth. In the year ahead, our focus is on citizenship initiatives increased 3% promoting a culture of innovation and 9% We aim always to have a positive and measurable impact on the communities where we do business. For this 5% purpose, we have devised corporate citizenship programmes that target specific areas that we have identified as crucial for the development of our local communities. 10% 19,127 34,776 OF THEM WOMEN COMMUNITY 76% MEMBERS REACHED 2,914 Entrepreneurship and employability OF THEM YOUTH Arts and culture Environment Governance Global partnerships We collaborate with renowned UAE and including their experience and track Sharjah (AUS); Emirates Nature in international academic and non-profit record of achievement, their efficiency, association with the World-Wide Fund institutions to implement our citizenship and their use of impact evaluation for Nature (EN-WWF); and the Sharjah programmes. In selecting who to work measures. Among our partners are International Children’s Film Festival. with, we examine potential institutional the Sharjah Entrepreneurship Centre partners based on their credibility, (Sheraa); the American University of The UAE declared 2018 to be the Year of the initiative and during the year under days of paid leave annually to volunteer Entrepreneurship and Arts and culture Environment Governance Zayed to commemorate the legacy of the review launched our Employee Volunteer with accredited non-governmental employability late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan. Programme. or international organisations. The Supporting creativity and Tackling climate change Encouraging good Encouraging volunteer work that serves programme, moreover, makes Empowering youth and innovation by promoting and reducing ecological governance practices The programme is meant to motivate the community ranked high among volunteerism a core competency entrepreneurs to grow cultural understanding footprint while conserving in businesses and enable our employees to volunteer. the many things to commemorate. As in employees’ annual performance and prosper by developing through art and raising marine and terrestrial It grants our full-time employees two a UAE company, we were inspired by management. critical soft skills and a new generation of habitats fostering talents in filmmakers educational institutions Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 71 Cultivating entrepreneurship and employability Mentoring American University Sharing business insights with The year 2018 also saw us renew of Sharjah students students and student entrepreneurs our association with the Renaissance Nurturing the next generation To date, Series A start-ups have made engagement programmes. In 2018, 2,764 Partners programme of the Harvard Crescent Enterprises is a long-standing We have been a patron of the AUSof entrepreneurs 174 connections. Another Sheraa teens and young adults were engaged Business Review (HBR) Arabia. The benefactor of the American University spearheaded Enterprising Youth In 2018, Crescent Enterprises reinforced initiative supported by Crescent in Mawada programmes and events. programme ensures that deserving of Sharjah (AUS). In 2018, we were initiative since 2015. This initiative its strategic partnership with Sheraa Enterprises, the Sheraa Accelerator Those initiatives, moreover, improved individuals have access to world-class pleased to be involved in an AUSaims to promote sustainably sound to help others benefit from the Program, has helped in 2018 earlythe lives of 5,594 people, including management content that addresses organised career forum. The event innovations and start-ups and typically Sharjah Entrepreneurship Center’s stage funded companies, such as Rise, underprivileged, special need, orphaned, management information gaps in the provided executives from Crescent encompasses panel discussions, social entrepreneurship track. Over a Charicycles, and the Mawada Project, and refugee children; the elderly; the Arab world in the hope that those Enterprises and other companies with workshops, and masterclasses. In 2018, period of two years, that partnership build scalable and replicable marketing sick; hospital workers; and more. individuals will, in turn, contribute an opportunity to interact with AUS executives from Crescent Enterprises— has validated 163 business ideas and and expansion strategies. to regional economic revitalisation. Charicycles upcycles used bicycles into students and alumni and to share with working alongside such of our partners developed 46 minimally viable products. them expectations of the job market. It as Sheraa, the Pearl Initiative, and the Entrepreneurs who cannot otherwise Rise is a wealth management platform vintage, trendy ones that it sells online. That partnership also enabled Sheraa to also provided a platform for companies EN-WWF—gave expert advice to 262 afford the HBR subscription fees are that helps migrants manage their It then contributes monies from every focus in 2018 on further implementing to recruit students and graduates as aspiring student entrepreneurs as part selected on the basis of their CVs and finances, learn skills, and build a future. bicycle sold to fund bicycles for children its Idea Lab, Pre-seed, Seed, and interns and employees. of the Enterprising Youth initiative. subscribed to the HBR. This includes More than 5,000 migrants have been in refugee camps. Charicycle has so far Series A programmes. Through the online and smartphone subscriptions. able to open a bank account with Rise’s upcycled more than 2,000 bicycles. latter especially, Sheraa is helping The event witnessed participation by 65 We also worked to help students from In 2018, the programme granted HBR assistance. Series A start-ups refine their growth recruiting companies and was attended by outside the MENA region navigate the access to 862 entrepreneurs from nine strategies and develop connections with The Mawada Project aims to foster over 1,300 students and alumni. A further regional business landscape. Crescent countries, 17% of whom were female. government and private companies to future leaders among youths and young 641 students and graduates benefitted Enterprise hosted 30 MBA students from gain market access. adults through skill-building community from various career development panels New York–based Columbia Business organised by AUS during the year under School at its head office in Sharjah in review and in which we also participated. March 2018. In addition, we were involved in the two job search preparation days conducted “By working closely with us and helping us develop by AUS in 2018 to develop the skills of students in curriculum vitae (CV) writing our strategy, the Sheraa program helped us gain and interviewing. invaluable insight into our market. It helped us diversify our value proposition and adapt to market demand. This made Sheraa a pivotal experience for Charicycles.” Rania Kana’an 2,622 292 862 80% Co-founder, Charicycles STUDENTS AND STUDENTS GIVEN ENTREPRENEURS REDUCTION IN GRADUATES EXPERT BUSINESS FROM NINE COUNTRIES LICENSING COSTS FOR We also supported Sheraa in organising A Sheraa initiative that we support fully ENGAGED WITH INSIGHTS SUPPORTED SHARJAH-REGISTERED the second Sharjah Entrepreneurship is the acceleration of entrepreneurial START-UPS Festival in 2018. This two-day event growth through policy advocacy. brought the region’s entrepreneurial Sheraa’s efforts in this respect saw ecosystem together to connect and Sharjah Media City (Shams) reduce the collaborate. In short, it provided a licensing costs for start-ups 80% in 2018. platform for community members to inspire one another, to share knowledge CE–Operates: Gulftainer supports education initiatives in the US and experiences, and to cultivate networks for a lifetime. Representatives from Crescent Enterprises conveyed GT USA, a subsidiary of Gulftainer, launched the GT USA Scholarship programme in 2018. This initiative endows four technical expertise on major students majoring in logistics studies with $2,500 each. The GT USA Scholarship programme has also adopted Bancroft entrepreneurial issues in the region Elementary School in Wilmington, Delaware, to which it provides uniforms; books; stationery supplies, including pencils through the festival’s panel discussions. and crayons; teaching materials; exam aids; and more. It also assists with school infrastructure repairs. This, the second Sharjah Entrepreneurship Festival, was attended by more than 3,000 people and featured 150 speakers and 75 start-ups, making it the fastest-growing such event in the region. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 73 Nurturing arts and culture Crescent Enterprises has sponsored competitions, and other activities. In themes and motifs relevant from an the Sharjah International Film Festival addition, pupils from more than 9,000 Arab perspective and thereby offered for Children and Youth for the past five schools were exposed to creative and insight into Arab culture and diversity. years. The festival brings international inspirational films as part of the 2018 In presenting the complex realities and films and new media content to the festival. In partnership with the Sharjah concerns of Arab society, these films MENA-region children and youths to help International Film Festival, moreover, also dispelled negative stereotypes develop their creative skills and interest we also hosted a workshop on basic associated with being Arab. in media arts. It also promotes cultural photography for the children of our diversity, peace, and tolerance among employees. The 2018 Arabian Sights Film Festival young people. hosted more than 2,000 people and For the third consecutive year, offered two free programmes titled El Since the festival’s inception in 2013, meanwhile, we sponsored the Gusto and ASWAT, which showcased it has witnessed the participation of 23rd Arabian Sights Film Festival in short films by and about Arab women. 136,000 children and youths. The Washington DC. This festival occurred ASWAT featured seven new short festival’s 2018 iteration alone was over two successive weekends in films that highlighted the growing attended by 26,000 young people, who October 2018 and showcased the finest participation of Arab women in the film screened 138 movies and participated in selection of films from the Arab world. industry. All the films and special events interactive panel discussions, workshops, These films featured social, political, received favourable feedback from their celebrity meet-and-greets, innovative religious, economic, and familial audiences. 28,000 18,980 9,000 PARTICIPANTS IN FEMALE PARTICIPANTS SCHOOLS EXPOSED TO FILM FESTIVALS IN FILM FESTIVALS INSPIRATIONAL FILMS Fostering innovation Regional, and National award category at Also during the year under review, we Crescent Enterprises signed a the UAE International Genetic Disorders hosted HE Dr Mariam Fatma Matar, the memorandum of understanding Conference, held under the patronage Founder and Chairperson of the UAE (MOU) with the UAE Genetic Diseases of H.E. Sheikh Nahyan bin Mubarak Al GDA, who delivered a talk on lifestyle Association (UAE GDA) in October 2018 Nahyan, Cabinet Member, Minister of and epigenetics to our staff. Going for collaboration in enhancing research Tolerance and President of the UAE GDA. forward, we will continue to partner with and innovation in genetic diseases. This enabled us to honour organisations the UAE GDA to raise awareness about Under that MOU, in 2018 we sponsored that have innovated and tested new genetic diseases by jointly hosting similar the Most Innovative Genetic Disorders models of healthcare and better community and specialist events. Research Institution: International, practices for the care and well-being of patients and community. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 75 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Environmental sustainability plays Reducing our waste Waste generation in the UAE has a significant part in the corporate CE–Operates: focus on waste management increased in recent decades, and most of the waste ends up in culture of Crescent Enterprises municipal landfills or dumpsites. Gulftainer introduced a stringent waste monitoring protocol in 2017 to generate The UAE government is promoting accurate data on the waste generated by the company. What Gulftainer realised through UAE Vision 2021 the through the implementation of this protocol in 2017 was that it was producing recycling, reusing, and treating more waste than it thought. The data generated by the monitoring protocol led to of the nation’s increasing volume the company’s implementation of initiatives for recycling and disposing its waste. We demonstrate our commitment the environmental regulations of the trend continued in 2018, with energy of waste. Crescent Enterprises is Gulftainer took steps in 2018 to recycle all the hazardous waste generated in its to environmental stewardship by countries to which those communities consumption per employee decreasing heeding the government’s call by facilities. It plans now to put in place a policy of ensuring zero usage of plastics undertaking initiatives to measure and belong. We also regularly monitor our 11% from a year earlier. We attribute reducing, reusing, and recycling and polystyrene throughout the company. mitigate our environmental footprint performance to gauge opportunities this success to increased awareness at its headquarters and across its across our operations. Our initiatives for improving our environmental among employees of the need for operations. leverage technology and innovation in stewardship. energy efficiency and to their adoption Hazardous waste generated (in kg) Hazardous waste recycled (in kg) addition to incorporating best practices of conservation-based habits, such as Crescent Group has partnered with in energy efficiency; recycling, including Lessening our water and switching off lights and IT equipment Bee’ah, a leading environmental 403,400 waste and waste water recycling; and energy footprint when it is not in use. management company, to recycle hazardous waste minimisation and non-hazardous waste generated At our headquarters in Sharjah, we have Another trend that we witness continue disposal. by its two subsidiaries. The group over the years consistently made every in 2018 was that of reduced employee also collaborates with EnviroServe 155,328 To reduce the impact of our operations effort to optimise our energy and water water use. For the fourth straight year, to recycle electronic equipment 107,567 127,160 use and reduce our carbon footprint. 106,970 on the environment and to ensure the we saw a significant reduction in our per and in such a way as to ensure that 77,054 safety of the communities where we Our energy consumption per employee employee water consumption. recycling does no harm to human conduct business, we strictly adhere to has as a result steadily declined. That or environmental health. It is also 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 transitioning from paper-based to electronic platforms and all the while Energy and water footprint at Crescent Enterprises recycling the paper that it does use. Non-hazardous waste generated Non-hazardous waste recycled and Energy consumption (kWh) per employee Water consumption (litres) per employee (in kg) composted (in kg) 32,000,000 31,999,000 4,813 997 4,282 3,806 931 759 440 kg 22,705,900 22,557,600 OF NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE RECYCLED AT CRESCENT GROUP 457,600 148,300 9,550 1,360 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Non-hazardous waste recycled 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Non-hazardous waste composted 998 kg OF E-WASTE RECYCLED AT CE–Operates: managing CRESCENT GROUP Also in 2018, Gulftainer introduced Paper consumption at Gulftainer a paperless policy toward reducing (in ream) Gulftainer’s environmental its annual paper consumption to footprint 9,529 zero. This saw the company adopt a printing management system to Gulftainer has developed a policy stating its commitment to protecting the environment 2,350,000 ACHIEVED analyse paper consumption trends with a focus on pollution prevention, waste management, and energy and water LITRES OF WATER 41% 203 trees within the company and to optimise employee paper rationing. The result 4,002 1,800 WITHDRAWN FROM was that Gulftainer reduced its paper conservation. Gulftainer aims to lower its REDUCTION IN ENERGY MUNICIPAL SUPPLY OR SAVED DUE TO PAPER consumption 55% in 2018. monthly electricity costs to less than AED50,000 CONSUMPTION FROM OTHER PUBLIC OR PRIVATE NON-RENEWABLE SOURCES RECYCLING INITIATIVES 2016 2017 2018 across its UAE operations by end of 2019. SECTOR WATER UTILITIES IN 1 YEAR BY CRESCENT GROUP Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 77 Partnering with Emirates Nature-WWF Crescent Enterprises works alongside ongoing biodiversity surveys see the •O rganising the UAE’s Earth Hour, Emirates Nature in association with organization deploy camera traps in the which in 2018 involved more than 500 World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) Hajar Mountains to record the region’s organisations across the Emirates and to build a society in harmony with mammals. Emirates Nature-WWF has key landmarks in the UAE, including the natural world. We collaborate also installed remote underwater Burj Al Arab, Emirates Palace, and in the areas of renewable energy, video cameras around Sir Bu Nair Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque climate change, terrestrial and marine Island to identify sharks, rays, and fish. biodiversity, and education. With our Other principal Emirates Nature-WWF In February 2019,Crescent Enterprises support, Emirates Nature-WWF has achievements include the following: collaborated with Emirates Nature-WWF conducted several important surveys. Its in arranging an annual field trip for its survey of the UAE’s bats, for instance, led • Supporting the development of a employees. The trip involved employees to the discovery of three species of bats. policy framework to upscale the UAE’s who volunteered to contribute to Its Gulf Green Turtle Project recorded renewable energy capacity environmental preservation by cleaning the region’s number of turtles, and its beaches. “At Emirates Nature-WWF, we collaborate with our partners for our economy, society, and environment to thrive together. We value the continued support of Crescent Enterprises in raising awareness of environmental threats and extending initiatives to safeguard our fragile ecosystems. This year, we were pleased that employees of Crescent Enterprises volunteered in a beach clean-up activity to preserve our coasts and marine life. We look forward to Crescent Enterprises’ further involvement in our causes.” Laila Mostafa Abdullatif Director General, Emirates Nature-WWF We also organised our third annual sustainability talk in 2018 on addressing climate change through sustainable transport. The talk, facilitated by the Emirates Nature-WWF Climate and Energy Project Manager Nour Mezher, was attended by 25 community members. We aim through this talk to educate audience members on the potential impact of climate change and the contribution thereto of the transport sector and to motivate audience members to reduce their transport-related carbon footprint. CE–Creates: Environmental loyalty cards of Kava & Chai Because sustainability is a shared responsibility, CE-Creates’ coffeehouse brand, Kava & Chai, engaged customers at its Crescent Group kiosk with the launch of its environmental loyalty programme in early 2019. The programme rewards customers who regularly use reusable cups and thereby limit their consumption of single-use cups. The programme has helped save 510 single-use cups and avoid 56 kilograms of carbon emissions to date. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 79 THE WAY FORWARD Sustainability reporting for 2019-20 Continuing our reporting journey This is our first combined annual and sustainability report. It provides insights into our business and sustainability activities in 2018 and serves as the model for how we will continue to report on our activities for 2019 and beyond. Our reporting for 2019, however, Updating our method of assessment will differ in an important respect from the way we have reported on our activities in the past. In reporting on our 2019 activities, we will be guided by our revised sustainability assessment strategy. We will therefore and thereafter report on topics specific to each of In late 2017, we reorganised our business over the course of 2018. This saw us geographies. With, moreover, the our four platforms and on topics material to Crescent Enterprises as a whole. around four core platforms: CE-Operates, conduct, for the first time, a materiality development of our platforms and their CE-Invests, CE-Ventures, and CE-Creates. assessment exercise to determine expansion of our activities globally, we Our platforms complement each other and the material topics specific to each of will update our sustainability reporting position our business at the forefront of our platforms and for the corporation in a manner that reflects each platform’s innovative and sustainable developments as a whole. This enhanced approach own economic, environmental, and social that reflect our expansion strategy and enables us to capture our impact more impacts and businesses and investments, the breadth of our activities. Following comprehensively. stakeholders, and geographical presence. their first year in existence, in 2018, they compelled us to update the manner in For 2019 onwards, Crescent Enterprises With this in mind, we have revised which we assess our advances in achieving will report on the progress of its the assessment strategy of our the aims of our sustainability strategy. sustainability performance against a sustainability efforts to better ensure a series of topics determined to be material growth trajectory for our sustainability We reassessed those topics early in to its full range of business activities as undertakings. 2019, however, in light of our four a conglomerate operating and investing platforms having been firmly established across diversified sectors and multiple Identifying and prioritising issues material to our platforms in 2019 In line with our newly revised strategy for evaluating the success of our sustainability efforts, we carried out materiality assessments for 2019 for each of our platforms and for the Identified material corporation at large. This approach Reviewed material topics for each topics reported by assures us of a more accurate platform in Crescent Enterprises sustainability reporting, given the consulation with in previous years defined distinctions and synergies platform leaders among our four platforms. In accordance with the 2018 GRI Standards and with the UN SDGs, we have mapped all the topics Identified Identified material to our platforms and to stakeholders for each overarching topics Crescent Enterprises overall, including platform and for the material to Crescent identifying particulars such as corporation Enterprises stakeholders and other details specific to each platform and the corporation. Our mapping also accounts for the performance indicators required by the GRI Standards. Solicited stakeholders Mapped the Benchmarked topics contribution of for their perspectives The following graphic depicts the material to each Crescent Enterprises on topics germane to platform with peer and each platform to process that we employed to assess Crescent Enterprises companies the UN SDGs the materiality of topics specific and its platforms to each of our platforms and the company overall. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 81 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page no.(s) and / or Omissions GRI Standard Disclosure Page no.(s) and / or Omissions URL(s) URL(s) General Disclosures Topic-specific Standards GRI 102: organisation Profile GRI 200 Economic Standard Series General 102-1: Name of the organisation Front cover Economic Performance Disclosures 2016 102-2: Activities, brands, products, and services 2 to 5 Economic Performance 102-3: Location of headquarters 2 GRI 103: 103-1:Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 8 102-4: Location of operations 2 to 3 Management 102-5: Ownership and legal form 2 Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 8 102-6: Markets served 2 to 3 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 55 102-7: Scale of the organisation 2, 3, 8 and 64 GRI 201: 201-1: Direct economic value generated and distributed 8, 9, 21 and 43 102-8: Information on employees and other workers 64 to 69 Economic 102-9: Supply chain 63 Performance 2016 102-10: Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 63 102-11: Precautionary principle or approach 76 Market Presence 102-12: External initiatives 14, 15, 60, 71 and 78 GRI 103: 103-1:Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 69 Management 102-13: Membership of associations 71 Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 69 Strategy 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 55 102-14: Statement from senior decision-maker 6 to 7 Ethics and Integrity GRI 202: 202-2: Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 69 To reflect Crescent Market Enterprises’ global 102-16: Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 11, 22, 44, 55, 61, 65, Presence 2016 operations, the 68 and 77 percentage of locals Governance hired of its total 102-18: Governance structure 54 to 59 workforce has been reported. Senior Stakeholder Engagement management data 102-40: List of stakeholder groups 12 has proven to be 102-41: Collective bargaining agreements Not applicable Collective bargaining more challenging. agreements are Indirect Economic Impact prohibited under UAE labour laws. GRI 103: 103-1:Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 20, 43 and 75 102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders 12 Management Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 20, 43 and 75 102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement 12 102-44: Key topics and concerns raised 13 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 55 Reporting practice GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 20, 43 and 75 102-45: Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 8 to 9 Indirect Economic 102-46: Defining report content and topic boundaries Inside front cover Impact 2016 102-47: List of material topics 13 Anti-Corruption 102-48: Restatements of information Not applicable No restatements during the reporting GRI 103: 103-1:Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 33, 45 and 61 period. Management Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 33, 45, 61 and 63 102-49: Changes in reporting Inside front cover 102-50: Reporting period Inside front cover 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 61 and 62 102-51: Date of most recent report https://www. GRI 205: 205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 61 and 62 crescententerprises. Anti-corruption procedures com/resource2016 centre/reports.php 102-52: Reporting cycle Inside front cover 102-53: Contact point for questions regarding the report Inside front cover 102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Inside front cover 102-55: GRI content index 82 to 86 102-56: External assurance Not applicable External assurance was not sought for this report. Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 83 GRI Standard Disclosure Page no.(s) and / or Omissions GRI Standard Disclosure Page no.(s) and / or Omissions URL(s) URL(s) GRI 300 Environmental Standard Series GRI 400 Social Standard Series Energy GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 64 GRI 103: Management 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 76 103-2: The management approach and its components 64 Management Approach 2016 Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 76 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 55 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 76 GRI 401: 401-3: Parental leave 69 GRI 302: Employment 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 76 Energy 2016 2016 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 76 Occupational Health and Safety Biodiversity GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 22 GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 78 Management Management Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 22 Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 78 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 23 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 78 GRI 403: 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 23 GRI 304: 304-3: Habitats protected or restored 78 Occupational and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Biodiversity Health & 2016 Safety 2016 Effluents & Waste Training and Education GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 77 Management GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 66 Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 77 Management Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 66 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 77 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 55 GRI 306: 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method 77 Effluents & GRI 404: 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 66 Waste 2016 Training & Education 404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 66 Environmental Compliance programs 2016 GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 22, 33, 44, and 61 Management 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 66 Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 22, 33, 44, and 61 career development reviews 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 55 Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 307: 307-1: Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 22, 33 and 44 GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 68 to 69 Environmental Management Compliance Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 68 to 69 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 68 to 69 GRI 405: 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 68 to 69 Diversity & Equal Opportunity Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 85 GRI Standard Disclosure Page no.(s) and / or Omissions URL(s) Non-Discrimination GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 65 and 69 Management Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 65 and 69 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 65 and 69 GRI 406: Non406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 69 Discrimination 2016 Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 60 Management Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 60 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 60 GRI 412: 412-2: Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 60 and 66 Human Rights Assessment 2016 Local Communities GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 70 Management Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 70 to 71 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 70 to 71 GRI 413: Local 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, impact 70 to 75 and 79 Communities assessments, and development programs 2016 Socioeconomic Compliance Crescent Enterprises Crescent House GRI 103: 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 70 Buhairah Corniche Management PO Box 2222, Sharjah Approach 2016 103-2: The management approach and its components 33, 44, 55 and 61 United Arab Emirates 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 55 T +971 6 554 7222 F +971 6 544 7888 GRI 419: 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 33, 44, 55 and 61 ce@crescent.ae Socioeconomic economic area www.crescententerprises.com Compliance 2016 Crescent Enterprises Annual and Sustainability Report 2018-19 www.crescententerprises.com
