COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2018 CONTENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 03 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS 04 LABOR 06 ENVIRONMENT 09 ANTI-CORRUPTION 11 CONTENTS 02 DRADURA CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT Dradura joined the United Nations Global we have taken a proactive stance on raising Compact four years ago now and we awareness of these issues, both inside and continue to support their mission to make outside the company. business a force for good. The expressed commitment to sustainability and belief that Within this context, we set down our own businesses can play an active role in creating corporate philosophy and code of conduct a better world are both aspirations that are back in 2016. These documents have given close to our heart. a clear lead to our employees, business partners and other stakeholders, and are Since joining the Compact, we have made its fully in line with the principles and goals of 10 universal principles a cornerstone for all the Global Compact. At the same time, we our actions, both within our immediate field of continue to build on our comprehensive business and in terms of how we interact with environmental management system to the societies in which we operate. We see the ensure that we honor our own rules. We goal of creating a sustainable and inclusive are also constantly implementing measures economy that achieves lasting benefits for and looking for new ways to improve our people, communities and markets as not only environmental performance. achievable but deeply necessary. This report has been compiled in the spirit of By making this public commitment, we are the Global Compact and sets out the concrete also actively communicating our willingness actions we have undertaken to support its to protect human rights, labor rights and the goals. We are proud of the progress we have environment, and to fight corruption. These made and the evidence of our efforts that is things have always been part of our DNA and contained in these pages. We look forward to we are more than happy of the opportunity continuing our support of the United Nations to demonstrate those values and encourage Global Compact as an initiative to achieve CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT others to adopt them. Since making corporate positive social, economic and environmental compliance central to our activities in 2015, change across the globe. Sincerely, Matthias Kreye 03 CEO DRADURA HOLDING GMBH & CO. KG. DRADURA Communication ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS No matter where in the world Dradura is active that document our actions and our progress today, we are guided by the same standards in achieving the targets we have set ourselves. and values that have made us so successful throughout our long history. First and foremost, As a company, we recognize the value that respect. Respect for each other. Respect for our employees bring and we express our other people. Respect for the environment. appreciation of their contributions. One example of this is our annual festive dinner for This naturally also means that we respect all employees at our Cusset site in France. On this applicable laws and meet all non-statutory occasion, we invite the entire team to join us requirements for occupational health and for an evening of good food and entertainment safety at all our sites. Our membership of at a selected restaurant. The highlight of the the Global Compact, whose goals we have event is the presentation of medals of honor unreservedly supported since we joined in to any employees who are celebrating a 2015, is not the only way of ensuring this. A significant anniversary in that year. further guarantee is that we have built up a comprehensive compliance management Participation system that ensures that we not only meet our legal obligations, but also meet all the Having respect for people also means targets we have set ourselves in these areas. accepting them as they are, which is why Specifically, these include the ten principles of we actively support physically or mentally the Global Compact. It is therefore self-evident handicapped people. At our plant in Cusset, throughout our company that we will not we have set up a workplace for six people with tolerate child labor or other unfair exploitation disabilities that enables them to participate in in any of our areas of activity, and that we will everyday life. We took their special needs into adhere to honest business practices and not account when setting up the workplace, just gain illegal or unjustified advantages. as we do when organizing work and planning working hours. More than the sum of the individual measures Furthermore, we support people outside our HUMAN RIGHTS company who need help in one way or another. In addition to these commitments, we have in In 2018, as every year, our US branch in New the past year implemented a whole series of Bern supported various charitable projects. 04 individual measures at our various locations These include the YMCA, West Carmen High DRADURA School and the New Bern Breakfast. All these Help for hurricane victims activities are aimed at improving the lives of young people from less affluent backgrounds. In 2018, we launched a special relief campaign Similarly, our site in Poland has launched for our colleagues in the USA in response to a campaign in support of children. As part a sad circumstance. Like many other people, of a major fundraising initiative, employees our staff suffered from the devastation caused donated old clothes, toys and other items. The by Hurricane Florence. The plant was forced proceeds went to a foundation that cares for to close for a week and many employees also sick children. suffered damage to their homes, including total loss. For this reason, we quickly and with With our sponsorship of the “Pfalz Trail” no administrative fuss paid a bonus to our staff (Palatinate Trail, Germany), we are also there so that they could continue to pay their supporting a campaign that we feel is well bills and not be left penniless or without food worthy of promotion. This is an annual crossand shelter. country run contested over different distances and in different categories. This year, alongside hundreds of other runners, several of our colleagues from the German Altleiningen site took part in the event. HUMAN RIGHTS 05 DRADURA LABOR Our colleagues are our most important capital. this opportunity and are given free protection With their commitment and willingness to against these diseases at their workplaces. perform, they determine whether or not our company is successful. Inspired by Stress reduction this appreciation, we have implemented or initiated various measures in the past year to At all our locations, we try to spare our make work more pleasant for our employees employees from particularly strenuous and to help them stay healthy and enjoy work. One example is the automation of coming to work. packaging at one of the production lines in Cusset, where we have installed an automatic Protection and provision packaging system that ties the shafts into handy bundles and packs them in cartons. While comprehensive health insurance is Instead of doing this tedious and fatiguing standard in European countries, basic health work by hand, the operator now monitors provision in the USA is relatively inadequate several of these machines. Our project in our and everyone has to take care of his or her Polish plant in Lodz goes far beyond such own healthcare needs. This is why, for the individual measures. Following very positive past ten years, we have been offering our US experiences in Germany, we also initiated a employees health insurance with all kinds of process in Poland to hand over more personal additional benefits and life insurance. As a responsibility to production employees and result, they are covered for all eventualities to improve communication. This gives them and can also benefit from health-preserving much more freedom to handle things as medical care without having to worry about they see fit within their individual spheres costs. A further measure to maintain health of influence. Experience has shown us that is Fruit Day, on which we make a selection of this makes people more willing to contribute fresh, healthy fruit available to all employees their own expertise, makes production more every week, free of charge. productive and increases worker satisfaction. Both sides benefit tremendously. We also organize free flu and tetanus vaccinations at our Cusset plant in France As well as the opportunity to take on more as a way of maintaining good health. Every responsibility in the workplace, we provide LABOR year, dozens of our employees make use of our employees with various opportunities for 06 DRADURA further development. Language courses in safety. The system automatically adds the English and German are offered in France and correct quantities of chemicals to the baths in Poland at the company’s expense. On the one which the components are prepared for the hand, this simplifies communication in our electroplating process. In this way, we ensure widely diversified company. At the same time, that we do not use excessive quantities our people also acquire qualifications that help of these substances while simultaneously them in many situations. The same applies reducing our employees’ exposure to them. unreservedly to our Leader Training program in Italy, where participants learn from an external Work and recreations expert how to further develop their soft skills. To ensure that our employees feel comfortable Safety is our top priority and can recover as effectively as possible during their breaks, there are of course break At Dradura, compliance with occupational areas in all our locations. In San Dona, we set safety regulations is not negotiable – not even up an additional break room in 2018 where by our employees themselves. For example, staff can relax. To support relaxation, the because the obligation to use a seat belt rest area is separated from the production was repeatedly ignored when operating area. Here, staff can buy coffee or snacks forklift trucks in Cusset despite all requests, from the vending machines or eat the food we decided to purchase a new forklift truck they have brought with them. For staff who that can only be started when the seat belt is prefer a breath of fresh air, we have upgraded fastened. At our San Dona site in Italy, on the the outdoor areas to create an agreeable other hand, we eliminated the need for forklift ambiance for a refreshing break. trucks in parts of the production process altogether. Where it was viable, we introduced We take our responsibility for our employees new transport systems that automatically very seriously. Nevertheless, it is not always move the various parts. In these areas, for possible to avoid having to part with some of example, we have significantly reduced them for economic reasons. For instance, we the risk of accidents involving warehouse were forced to reduce our workforce in San trucks. In addition, we have installed an Dona so as to preserve the remaining jobs. automated dosing system at the plant as a LABOR further measure to increase occupational 07 DRADURA We naturally tried to make these measures as tolerable as possible. 35 employees took advantage of our severance offer and left the company voluntarily. With the help of external training measures, we have made another 15 employees fit for other tasks and placed them into new employment. We were able to retain the remaining employees because the workforce agreed to a part-time arrangement that enabled us to bring personnel capacities into line with production requirements and thus safeguard the future of the site. More efficient warehouse, less overtime We also intervene in the opposite case, when there is more work than the employees can handle during their normal working hours. This was the case in our warehouse in Altleiningen, Germany. There we were able to significantly increase efficiency by reconfiguring incoming and outgoing goods processes and the way the warehouse was organized. As a result, our warehouse teams can now find where items are stored more quickly, get to them faster and have increased the speed of deliveries. In this way, we are saving our employees around 400 overtime hours a year. LABOR 08 DRADURA ENVIRONMENT Dealing sparingly with natural resources far less common in the USA. For this reason, makes economic sense and is also an we launched our own recycling program at important aspect of environmental protection. our US site in 2015. This means that used At our main plant in Altleiningen in Germany, pallets, packaging, batteries, beverage cans we have optimized our planning processes and bottles are all now being recycled. in prefabrication and have improved not just the flow of materials. We have also Better light, less energy consumption succeeded in significantly reducing scrap and waste when cutting sheet metal and wire to A project that has been running for years in all size. Elsewhere, as part of our Operational our locations is the conversion of lighting from Excellence initiative, we optimized processes conventional light sources to energy-saving at our site in Lodz, Poland, and have been LED lighting. In Cusset in France, Conzano in able to reduce scrap by five to ten percent, Italy and New Bern in the USA, we converted depending on the department. At our plant further areas of our plants in 2018. This not in Conzano, Italy, we succeeded in reducing only reduced energy consumption but, in the scrap rate by as much as 30 percent by most cases, also optimized the illumination modernizing a raw basket production line. of the respective areas, thus creating a more In the USA, we also managed to reduce the pleasant working environment. Another waste ratio by modernizing our production measure to reduce energy consumption was facilities. the introduction of an energy-monitoring system in Lodz, Poland. By keeping a close Recycling eye on the energy consumption of individual areas and making monthly comparisons with Alongside waste avoidance, the recycling of other areas, we can pinpoint optimization raw materials is an important aspect of our potential and systematically reduce energy efforts to conserve resources. In Altleiningen, consumption. Germany, we have installed a new system that removes excess coating granulate from As well as reducing electricity consumption, components more efficiently and collects it in we are looking at other areas to see what ENVIRONMENT such a way that it can be reused instead of improvements we can make. Last year in being thrown away. While waste separation is San Dona, for example, we replaced another a matter of course at our European sites, it is burner in the heating system with a modern 09 DRADURA one. This is around 23 percent more efficient instead of simply discharging it into the drain. than its predecessor and reduces CO2 At the chrome plating plant in San Dona, emissions by about 20 percent. Another Italy, we have installed an automatic filling measure in Conzano was to replace the system for the storage tanks. As a result, our compressor that supplies the plant with employees no longer need to manually add compressed air with a newer and more the necessary chemicals. This makes their economical model. In Germany, we installed work safer and eliminates the risk of chemical a water pump in the cooling water supply spills. Also in Italy but this time at our plant system at our main plant, which is around in Conzano, we have installed a new system 15 percent more energy efficient than its for extracting and filtering welding exhaust predecessor. gases, which cleans the exhaust air. In the USA, we have purchased a new truck In Altleiningen, we use spring water from to transport our wire goods to our customers. the on-site source as cooling water in our This was not only welcomed by our drivers production facilities. To guarantee that this but has also reduced fuel consumption by water complies with all standards and is five percent compared to its predecessor. free from bacterial contamination, we have installed a new water treatment system to Careful handling of chemicals ensure that the water is safe. Particularly in areas where we need to use potentially environmentally hazardous chemicals in our production processes, we are constantly looking for ways to reduce the quantities used, make handling as safe as possible or use less hazardous substances whenever possible. In Lodz, for example, we have converted the wastewater treatment system at the electroplating plant. ENVIRONMENT Instead of sulfuric acid, we now use the much less dangerous hydrochloric acid for neutralization. Moreover, we can reuse the 10 neutralized rinsing water in a closed circuit DRADURA ANTI-CORRUPTION Our commitment to ethical business Our proactive stance against illegal activity practices such as corruption, antitrust or acts of fraud sends a clear message to our employees, In many parts of the world, the culture stakeholders and partners that Dradura will of inducements continues to present a have nothing to do with any illegal business challenge to maintaining ethical business practices. We have always done business in practices. However, thanks to our clear and strict accordance with the law and with our uncompromising approach in this area, we own principles of integrity and mutual respect. are confident that we can adequately protect our own employees and stakeholders while A key milestone in this regard was the sending a clear signal about our values as a publication of our company guidelines in company. 2016, which include our philosophy and Code of Conduct. These guidelines are binding for Compliance with all applicable law is central all our employees. We also run regular training to Dradura business conduct. This applies courses that address these critical issues and to both national and international jurisdiction provide staff with the necessary knowledge to at all times, regardless of our location or the act in accordance with the law and with our location in which we provide our products and own values. services. In addition, we are proud to respect a number of international conventions that go To further underpin and facilitate these beyond mandatory compliance. measures, we provide all employees with direct access to at least one compliance In 2016, we introduced a company-wide coordinator as an on-site contact person for compliance management system that all compliance-related questions. This applies empowers our employees to comply with at every one of our locations. To support them all relevant legal stipulations and the ethical in their daily work, we also issue information standards we have set ourselves. At the same materials summarizing the most important time, this system serves to protect Dradura facts. ANTI-CORRUPTION and our employees against the consequences of any misconduct, which could result in fines Practical compliance tools include a or sanctions that may jeopardize the future of comprehensive guideline that sets out the our company. circumstances under which employees can 11 DRADURA offer or accept gifts or invitations without risk. At the same time, this makes absolutely clear when circumstances dictate the need to seek qualified advice. Supporting the more detailed guide is a one-page compliance information sheet that sets out all restrictions at a glance and guides staff through the decision-making process. In the years ahead, we will keep expanding our compliance management system to ensure that it covers any and all regulatory changes while helping us to continually improve our processes and honor our values. ANTI-CORRUPTION 12 DRADURA DRADURA Holding GmbH & Co. KG DRADURA Italia S.R.L Talstr. 2 Sede legale: Via Monferrato, 4 D-67317 Altleiningen I-15030 Conzano (AL) Tel.: +49 (0) 6356/966-0 Tel.: +39 (0) 142/925545 Fax: +49 (0) 6356/966-118 Fax: +39 (0) 142/924908 www.dradura.com www.dradura.com DRADURA France Cusset SAS DRADURA Italia S.R.L Siège Social et Usine: Via J.F. Kennedy, 8 12, Boulevard Alsace Lorraine I-30027 San Donà di Piave (VE) BP 20045 Tel.: +39 (0) 421/497511 F-03300 Cusset Cedex Fax: +39 (0) 421/497598 Tel.: +33 (0) 470/309760 www.dradura.com Fax: +33 (0) 470/306769 www.dradura.com DRADURA Polska Sp. z o.o. ul Techniczna 8/10 Saprofil S.A.R.L. 92-518 Łódź, Polska Siège Social et Usine: Tel.: +48 (0) 4225/42000 Z. l. des Fruchardières Fax: +48 (0) 4225/42020 5, rue Clément Ader www.dradura.com Olonne-sur-Mer 85340 Les Sables d´Olonne Tel.: +33 (0) 251/211309 Fax: +33 (0) 251/957410 www.dradura.com DRADURA USA Corp. 197 Bosch Boulevard New Bern, NC 28562, USA Tel.: +1 (0) 252-637-9660 Fax: +1 (0) 252-635-9473 www.dradura.com DRADURA Holding GmbH & Co. KG Tel: +49 6356 966-0 info@dradura.com 67317 Altleiningen (Germany) Fax: +49 6356 966-118 www.dradura.com
