Beckers Sustainability Report 2018 2 What is inside Table of contents – Highlights from 2018 2 Highlights Every year, we feature a few of our best stories from our environmental from 2018 Welcome from our CEO 4 and social sustainability work. We are 1.0 The big picture 5 pleased to have so much to be proud of 1.1 The world around us 6 in 2018. 1.2 How we work with sustainability 7 1.3 Working for change along our value chain 8 1.4 Staying focused on what matters most 15 Signing up Meeting customer 1.5 Our sustainability journey 17 to a better future demand for sustainability 2.0 A compelling value proposition 18 Sustainability is a global chall2.1 What drives a sustainable future? 19 enge and beyond our own commitments and progress 2.2 More sustainable solutions 20 it is important our business is 2.3 It’s all about the people! 23 part of the bigger sustainability movement. In 2018, we signed 3.0 Working on impact 26 the 10 principles of the UN 3.1 Keeping our people safe and well 27 Global Compact. By joining as a signatory, we are committed 3.2 Using all employees’ problem solving capacity 30 to a culture of integrity across 3.3 Our results 31 our business and are part of the world’s 3.4 Our Gold-rated performance 34 largest global corporate sustainability initiative. 3.5 Chain up 35 See p.42 3.6 Local social initiatives 37 3.7 Beckers Sustainability Award 39 Our social We are thrilled to see that customer demand for sustainable products and solutions is continuing to 4.0 Meet Beckers Group 40 sustainability roadmap grow. Thanks to our intensive R&D, we can meet these needs with innovative new products – like our high 4.1 Beckers in detail 41 In 2018, we finished our new social sustainability functioning water-based or bio-based coatings – as well 4.2 A new voice at Beckers 43 roadmap. We developed the roadmap working as with smart tools that empower our customers to make cross-functionally within our group. The plan is sustainable choices. 4.3 Over 30 years in the family 44 structured in four streams and anchored in our 4.4 Our global network 45 values, Code of Conduct and respect for human See the full story on p.20 4.5 Introducing our Board of Directors and Executive Group 46 and children’s rights. Glossary 47 See the full story on p.23 3 What is inside Table of contents – Highlights from 2018 2 Significant drop in Lost Welcome from our CEO 4 Time Injury rate 1.0 The big picture 5 Our number of LTIs has dropped from nine in 2017 1.1 The world around us 6 to three in 2018. We are confident this is the best 1.2 How we work with sustainability 7 LTI rate we have ever achieved, although our records do not stretch all the way back to the founding of our 1.3 Working for change along our value chain 8 business – 150 years ago! Three LTIs is still three too 1.4 Staying focused on what matters most 15 many, so we will keep focusing and working together 1.5 Our sustainability journey 17 to continue this promising downwards trend. 2.0 A compelling value proposition 18 See the full story on p.28 Safety Day 2018, Italy 2.1 What drives a sustainable future? 19 2.2 More sustainable solutions 20 High scores in 2.3 It’s all about the people! 23 sustainability survey A Gold-rated performance 3.0 Working on impact 26 We are pleased to announce In 2018, we asked our employees about sustainBeckers was awarded a 3.1 Keeping our people safe and well 27 ability at Beckers. We wanted to know whether Gold rating by EcoVadis for 3.2 Using all employees’ problem solving capacity 30 our people think sustainability is important to the second year running. 31 Beckers’ future, and whether they believe we have Even better, we increased 3.3 Our results a strong commitment to it. Achieving our sustainour overall score from 63 3.4 Our Gold-rated performance 34 ability vision without the belief and support of in 2017 to 65 in 2018. 3.5 Chain up 35 our colleagues would be impossible, so we are This is valued independent pleased to report we received both a high level of reflection of Beckers’ 3.6 Local social initiatives 37 engagement and a clear interest and commitment continuing commitment to 3.7 Beckers Sustainability Award 39 to our sustainability work. sustainable development. 4.0 Meet Beckers Group 40 See the full story on p.25 See the full story on p.34 4.1 Beckers in detail 41 4.2 A new voice at Beckers 43 4.3 Over 30 years in the family 44 4.4 Our global network 45 This report has been prepared in accordance with the 4.5 Introducing our Board of Directors and Executive Group 46 GRI Standards: Core option. To find out more, please Glossary 47 see the GRI Appendix on our website. Photo: Visual China Group 4 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers In 2018, we became a signatory Welcome to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, joining the world’s largest corporate ” Dear Stakeholders, sustainability initiative We are proud to present our Sustainability Report for not only our customers – but the entire value chain. Among 2018, which addresses our most important achievements other topics, this report highlights two examples of how our and challenges of the past year relating to the social and close cooperation with customers and suppliers can reduce environmental impact of our activities. We hope you will find environmental impact, downstream as well as upstream. valuable insights about our commitment to invest long-term in creating value and in promoting what we believe to be an Building our Social Sustainability Roadmap reduction system. Backed by such initiatives and more, we are essential transition to a more sustainable world. Corporate sustainability is as much about people as convinced that our new social sustainability roadmap will help about commercial viability and the physical environment. us in strengthening our future business. Strength in partnership Committed, engaged and satisfied personnel are fundamental to success. Our new Social Sustainability Roadmap I hope you enjoy reading this report and will follow us as No company can operate in a vacuum or achieve true change we continue to address the sustainability challenge. without the support and inspiration of like-minded partners. aims to provide guidance on how best to address social In 2018, we became a signatory to the 10 principles of the sustainability, not only in terms of our own employees, UN Global Compact, joining the world’s largest corporate but also in the context of those societies and cultures in sustainability initiative, involving more than 9 500 companies which we (and our colleagues) operate. Benefitting from in over 160 countries. Responding to accelerating demand feedback gained from a global employee survey, this Best regards, for more sustainable products, the systematic integration of roadmap highlights four areas: employee empowerment, these principles as part of our global business strategy is a safety and wellbeing, diversity – and engagement in the key priority. Pioneering research and development are crucial wider community. With particular emphasis placed on to attaining greater sustainability and to generating state-ofEnvironment, Health and Safety (EHS) issues, everyone the-art coating solutions, through close collaboration with our at Beckers strives to continually and radically reduce lost Dr. Boris Gorella customers, academia, suppliers and industry organizations. time to workplace injuries. Likewise, we have also recently CEO, Beckers Group Our value proposition features a sustainable offer that benefits introduced a proactive hazard identification and accident Berlin, Germany Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 1.1 1.2 5 The world How we work around us with sustainability A quick summary of the various From climate change to global trade, we take frameworks, systems and strategies 1.0 a closer look at how the bigger picture affects we use to stay on track towards our business at Beckers. sustainability goals. 2011 Photo: Visual China Group 1.3 Working for change The Big Picture Our value chain extends from sourcing raw materials to final product use. Here, we look at along our value chain how we understand and address impact along our value chain. Welcome to the Beckers Sustainability Report for 2018. In this chapter, we look at the wider context of sustainability and how it affects our progress towards becoming the world’s most sustainable industrial coatings company. 1.4 1.5 Staying focused on Our sustainability what matters most journey As a business committed to sustainability, Find out when and how our sustainability it is our responsibility to identify, prioritise journey started, and where we are heading and address the most relevant and urgent in the years ahead. environmental and social issues. 6 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 1.1 The world We live in rapidly changing times. Companies around the world now recognise they Globally, we are facing challenges on a cannot wait for governments and NGOs to fix the situation. Instead, business must take the lead to scale that puts humanity at a turning make things happen at the speed and scale required. around us point. In 2018, with record temperatures Together, we need to restore and replenish what has set around the world, the importance been lost, building economies and communities that and urgency of action on climate change thrive, and that allow the planet to thrive too. became even more apparent. At Beckers, we take all these issues seriously, and have done so for many years. We have a long track record Last October, the UN International Panel on Climate Challenges, trends and how Beckers is meeting them. of going beyond legislative demands for sustainable Change released a report warning that we have 12 business practices. years left to stabilise global temperatures at or below a 1.5oC rise, before extreme climate change-related We are listening closely to our customers and droughts, floods, heatwaves and widespread poverty responding to their rapidly changing expectations for become unavoidable. Alongside the direct threat of an increasingly sustainable offer. We have committed a collapsing climate, there are many interdependent to review our environmental and social impact and align issues to factor in, most significantly resource and our business with the UN’s Sustainable Development water shortage, and biodiversity loss. The effects Goals. We are also reaching out to partners and inviting of climate change (both actual and potential) cause collaborative solutions to further accelerate progress. challenges to supply chains, affecting both the raw materials we use and the people who supply them. While we are proud of our long commitment to Meanwhile, rapid technological development, our sustainability, as well as our environmental and social acceleration away from fossil fuels and globally sustainability achievements so far, we recognise there unpredictable political environments are changing is more to do. The next step is to set new stretch goals, our society’s economic landscape. At the same time, and our new sustainability 2030 roadmap – which we social issues like human rights, equality and democratic will work on during 2019 – will guide us on the journey values remain critical to our collective progress. towards sustainability. 7 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers Our sustainability approach draws on In 2018, we confirmed and further deepened our 1.2 many different systems and strategies – connection with the UN’s sustainability approach when we signed the 10 principles of the UN both external and internal. Global Compact, joining the initiative a signatory. How we The purpose of the Global Compact is to make In 2009, we started using the Framework for participating companies take responsibility within Strategic Sustainable Development (FSSD), the areas of human rights, labour, environment and promoted by The Natural Step (TNS) for strategic anti-corruption. By becoming a signatory, we make sustainability planning. Our strategy is still grounded work with a stronger commitment to following through with in the principles outlined in this framework. actions and reporting on our progress. We report according to the Global Reporting Looking ahead, we must make the UN Global Initiative’s standards. We have also aligned Compact and its principles an even more integral sustainability our efforts with the UN’s Global Compact and part of our business strategy. That means Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We take incorporating the principles in our decision-making a value chain approach to sustainability (p.8), which processes, acting in support the UN’s Sustainable engages and works with stakeholders ranging from Development Goals, and communicating annually our suppliers to our employees and customers. on our progress. Here, we share the background to the Beckers’ Over the years, our approach to sustainability sustainability story – how we have developed has evolved and matured. In 2017, we aligned our our strategy over the years. We also present the strategy and material topics with the UN’s SDGs, and thereby became part of a global movement to frameworks and systems we have adhered to work together for change. along the way. South Nanjing Station, China Photo: Visual China Group 8 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 1.3 Working for change 1. Raw materials along our value chain Beckers has a value chain that reaches from the sourcing of raw materials for our products right through to the use of coatings by our customers. 6. End of 2. Production We recognise our business has an environmental Product Life and social impact along the length of this chain. We strive to develop sustainable coatings that do not contain mined Beckers’ materials that are scarce in nature, that are free from toxic and persistent substances, and use renewable raw materials. Value Chain We operate a global network of manufacturing sites to follow customer demands and stay as geographically close to them as possible. For our manufacturing we buy all ingredients from business partners around the globe, mainly resins, pigments, solvents, and additives. All this supply is sourced from the chemical industry in Europe, Asia, Americas and Africa. Most of the components are sourced within the continent of our point of demand. Packaging is typically sourced on the local market close to our manufacturing sites. As we are manufacturing 5. Use of 3. Packaging today in 24 sites in 18 countries on five continents, the inbound supply Final Products & Distribution chain can be complex. While we typically ask our suppliers to organise transport operationally, we monitor the CO2 footprint of logistics and encourage suppliers to use rail, ship or multimodal transport in order to reduce road transport to the necessary minimum. We review this data annually. 4. Customers’ Production 9 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers UN GC 1-10 SDG 8, 12, 13, 17 1. Raw Materials Our sustainability impact 1. Raw materials • Beckers is a chemical company using fossil and mineral, sometimes scarce, raw materials • Chemicals can be toxic/hazardous in themselves, and extracting them carries a risk of negative environmental impact • Potential social and environmental impact for suppliers, employees and local communities 6. End of 2. Production Main challenges Product Life • To develop products according to our Sustainable product vision Beckers’ Value Chain • Competitive market for sustainable raw materials: Renewable, Bio-based, Reused, Non-toxic • To ensure an environmentally and socially sustainable supply chain Actions • Chain up!, a project to develop sustainability perfomance along the supply chain • Raw material governance • Sustainable product development 5. Use of 3. Packaging Future opportunities Final Products & Distribution • Increased focus on cooperation throughout the supply chain • Research 4. Customers’ Production 10 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers UN GC 1-6 1-10 SDG 5, 8, 8, 12,10, 13,17 12, 13 2. Production Our sustainability impact 1. Raw materials • Occupational health, safety & well-being • Climate impact • Energy and water use • Waste & VOC emissions Main challenges 6. End of 2. Production • To reduce emissions by, for example, using renewable Product Life energy and increasing energy efficiency • To reduce and reuse waste Beckers’ • To manufacture without health and safety impacts Value Chain • To attract and recruit the right talent Actions • EHS Policy and zero accidents vision • Automation e.g. Beckry®Mix • People Plan with e.g. recruitment trainings and employer branding 5. Use of 3. Packaging Final Products & Distribution Future opportunities • New technologies for resource efficiency • Behaviour-based training 4. Customers’ Production 11 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers UN GC (1-6), 1-10 7-10 SDG 12, 8, 12, 1313,17 3. Packaging & Distribution Our sustainability impact 1. Raw materials • Transportation emissions from both inbound and outbound deliveries • Packaging materials’ use of resources • CSR performance of our partners Main challenges 6. End of 2. Production • Supply chain optimisation Product Life Beckers’ • Sustainable logistics management • Use of reusable or recyclable packaging Actions • Multimodal transportation Value Chain • Beckry®Mix • Reuse of delivery packaging Future opportunities • Increase use of recycled packaging material • Establishing reuse of packaging as standard 5. Use of 3. Packaging Final Products & Distribution 4. Customers’ Production 12 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers UN GC 1-2, 1-107-9 SDG 8, 12, 13 13,17 4. Customers’ Production Our sustainability impact 1. Raw materials • Occupational health, safety & well-being • Climate impact • Energy use • VOC emissions Main challenges 6. End of 2. Production • To provide products and services that help and support the Product Life customer to improve their sustainability impact Actions Beckers’ • Work together with the customer to improve their sustainability impact Value Chain • Providing products with low VOC, low curing temperature, high solids, and no toxic ingredients Future opportunities • New application technologies 5. Use of 3. Packaging Final Products & Distribution 4. Customers’ Production 13 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers UN GC 1-2, 1-107-9 SDG 11, 8, 12, 12,13,17 13 5. Use of Final Products Our sustainability impact 1. Raw materials • The function and performance of our products during their end use Main challenges • To develop the market to increase demand for more sustainable products Actions 6. End of 2. Production • Promote and provide functional coatings: Product Life • Self-cleaning and anti-graffiti coatings that reduce maintenance and use of cleaning chemicals Beckers’ • Solar-reflecting and heat absorbing coatings that save energy Value Chain • Light-reflective coatings that save indoor lighting and energy • NOx depleting coatings that reduce air pollution • Durable and long-lasting coatings that reduce waste and resource use Future opportunities • Develop our Beckers Sustainability Index (BSI) to help 5. Use of 3. Packaging customers to make the right choice Final Products & Distribution • Develop more sustainable functions and put them on the market 4. Customers’ Production 14 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers UN GC 7-9 1-10 SDG 12 8, 12, 13,17 6. End of Product Life Our sustainability impact 1. Raw materials • Coatings that prolong the life of end products, with little or no maintenance Main challenges • To develop the market to increase demand for more sustainable products • Beckers has very little control over the use and end of life of our 6. End of 2. Production products Product Life Actions Beckers’ Value Chain • Research and workshops to learn more about the circular economy and end of life impact • Detailed information disclosed to automotive international material data systems Future opportunities • Find collaborative opportunities to support end-user in becoming more sustainable • Separate paint from substrate 5. Use of 3. Packaging • Re-paint for reuse of final product Final Products & Distribution 4. Customers’ Production 15 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers Sustainability presents a huge and varied challenge. It is 1.4 therefore important that we, as a business, remain focused on the issues where we can make the most positive impact. Staying Since we first started reporting according to GRI guidelines in 2012, we have mapped out the sustainability topics most relevant to our business. focused on These have evolved over time and today include: Product stewardship, employment, occupational health and safety, training and education, local communities, energy, emissions and waste. To find out more about these GRI topics, please go to the GRI Appendix on our website. what matters In 2018, we connected with various stakeholders along our value chain to start to review these focus areas. As well as other activities, this involved conducting most valuable employee surveys, the results of which you can read about on page 25. In relation to the UN’s SDGs and Global Compact, while we recognise that our business impacts all 17 SDGs, we have identified eight prioritised goals that represent sectors most influenced by our business and where we are most able to have a positive impact. We use a range of approaches to stay on track These include: as we continue to update and improve our sustainability strategy. 16 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers SDG 4: Quality education SDG 11: Sustainable cities and communities Creating opportunities for all Contributing with our products Increasing access to quality education and training, in the Creating products that positively impact the sustainability underprivileged areas of the world in which we operate, and of our built environment and the infrastructure we all use. among our own workforce. SDG 5: Gender equality SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production Empowering girls and women Creating sustainable supply chains and operations Improving equality for the people and communities where we Addressing sustainability issues along our value chain – from do business, and addressing the gender balance across our partners and resource use, to the waste we create. own company. SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth SDG 13: Climate action Offering good lives for employees and their families Improving our impact along the value chain Providing decent work along our supply chain and Reducing and mitigating climate impact along our value chain, including working to decouple economic growth from environmental through the education and empowerment of our employees. degradation. SDG 10: Reduced inequalities SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals Respecting and caring for employees Working together for the greater good and communities Building partnerships and cooperating with companies, Respecting human rights and working on remuneration, associations, universities, NGOs, UN bodies and diversity, equality and economic inclusion. organisations. 17 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 1.5 We have been working towards our vision Our to become the most sustainable industrial coatings company in the world for many years sustainability now. As 2020 appears on the horizon, we are proud to have achieved the environmental KPIs we set ourselves for this date. We have journey committed to setting a new 2030 roadmap in 2019 that will guide our strategy and stretch our ambitions in the months and years ahead. From From past past to future to future • Beckers Sustainability Index app • Aligning with the SDGs • Stakeholder workshops • Sustainability roadmap 2022 • Supplier Code of Conduct • 2030 strategy and roadmap • BeckryTherm app • Sustainability committee • EcoVadis Gold rating • Decide on clear, time-bound • Started using the four established • Sustainability e-learning climate targets system conditions for • Global sustainability • Ecolabel certified products in sustainability manager • Coil coatings with bio-resin • GRI G4 reporting Malaysia and India • Improving our social KPIs 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 + beyond • Sustainable • First GRI report (G3.1 • EcoVadis Silver rating • Beckers Sustainability Index • Beckers Group signs UN • Fully integrate sustainability in product definition guidelines) Global Compact our business • GRI materiality analysis • GRI Standards reporting • Climate report • Social sustainability roadmap • More sustainable products and • Global loss prevention • Code of Conduct e-learning solutions • EKPI reporting system standard • Relaunch of BeckryTherm app • Setting new standards in health and well-being for employees 18 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 2.1 What drives a sustainable future? Find out why this stakeholder from a major 2.0 automotive trade association believes innovation and collaboration are key to a sustainable future. 2.2 More sustainable A compelling solutions value proposition As customer demand for sustainable products and solutions continues to grow, find out how Beckers is stepping up to the challenge. We are on a mission to make sustainability irresistible to our customers. In this chapter, we take a closer look at the smart solutions we are 2.3 offering our customers and how we are working to be the best possible employer in our sector. It’s all about the people! We share our vision for how a new direction for Human Resources can add value across our business. 19 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 2.1 What drives a sustainable future? Fordonskomponentgruppen, or FKG, is the Scandinavian Automotive Supplier Association, a trade association for Scandinavian suppliers to the automotive industry. FKG has over 350 member companies and is very switched on to trends in their industry. We spoke to Fredrik Sidahl, CEO at FKG. He believes the rapid rise in sustainable solutions for the automotive industry is here to stay. Businesses that recognise and act on this trend by innovating Find the video on the Beckers Group YouTube channel and collaborating will not only strengthen their https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v8ycvIoMipY&t=1s brand, they will become more successful. Listen to the full interview to find out how we stay agile by listening to our stakeholders. 20 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 2.2 More Demand for waterborne coil and industrial coatings sustainable continues to grow solutions We are currently witnessing a rapid rise in demand for waterborne coating systems in some parts of the world, in part because of their environmental credentials. Waterborne finishes have multiple One of our partners, a major coil coater in northern China, trialled a waterborne topcoat with a solventborne primer. The performance was comparable to a standard full solvent-borne system. With results like benefits: they emit fewer VOCs than solvent-borne these, it seems likely that other countries will follow Sustainability at Beckers is grounded in the value alternatives, which is better for people’s health and China’s lead in terms of tougher legislation. we can offer our customers. And, increasingly, we the local environment, and they carry a lower risk see customer demand growing for sustainable of explosion. products and solutions. However, as with so many sustainability issues, there Our latest waterborne Through targeted R&D, we develop innovative, are numerous pros and cons to consider and weigh up. For example, waterborne paints use more energy basecoats sustainable products, such as our high functioning in their curing, transportation and storage. They also We are proud to introduce our range of state-ofwater-based or bio-based coatings and products require more investment in wastewater treatment the-art Beckqua®Color waterborne basecoats for with smart functions. The value we offer also comes facilities and – for these reasons and others – currently vehicle bumpers, mirror caps and door handles. Our from our solutions and services – such as the tools incur higher costs. Automotive Plastics Exterior business line initiated the Beckqua®Color project just two years ago, and we we develop to empower our customers to make It seems the increasingly stringent environmental are excited by the rapid progress in this area. sustainable choices. We also foster partnerships regulations being introduced by a growing number for social and environmental improvement along of countries will push the industry towards broader Find out more here: our value chain. acceptance of waterborne coatings. Most noticeably, the Chinese decision to vigorously pursue lower VOC levels has led to a dramatic change in demand across the entire Asia-Pacific region. 21 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers Introducing the Beckry®Therm app Working with 3.0 customers to We want to keep making our sustainability offer the most attractive option for our customers. Our improve impact move towards a more digital offer is one way we are fulfilling this ambition, and the Beckry®Therm app is a key part of this. From left to right: Stefano Stombelli (Painting), Aurelio Noto (Production Director), Achille Giussani (Manufacturing Engineering) In 2018, we launched the third version of the Beckry®Therm app. This new version provides Taking responsibility for the climate impact of our value chain “We wanted our new painting line to reduce our paint consumpreal time updates on financial conversion figures. means working downstream as well as upstream. To that tion per unit, become more environmentally sustainable and It uses backend servers to deliver a stronger app end, Beckers is working with several customers to improve improve the final quality of our finish. With the help of Beckers infrastructure which, in turn, offers speedy updates the partnership from an overall sustainable performance and our equipment supplier, we kicked off our Quality Improveand a more modern and agile user experience. perspective. ment Plan at the beginning of 2017. For example, Beckers is working closely with SDF (SAME The project has been a great success because of how well DEUTZ-FAHR), a multinational company with its HQ in Italy. all partners have cooperated and contributed to the process. SDF is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of tractors, This includes everyone at SDF. By being open with each harvesting machines and diesel engines. They are a longother, we have been able to identify areas for improvement, term customer of Beckers and have been using waterborne define possible technical solutions and agree qualitative and coatings on their tractors since the early 2000s. quantitative objectives. Download it here: Beckers became the sole supplier of SDF in late 2017 and By implementing the new system, we have started a program of are working hard to help them improve their performance, continuous improvement that is focused tightly on our defined while reducing how much paint and cleaning solvent they objectives. This program of improvement will keep evolving use. After a deep analysis of their painting plant and process, along with new objectives for us and for our suppliers.” Beckers has identified several areas of improvement for paint, equipment, processes and skills. For the purposes of this report, Beckers spoke to Mr. Aurelio Noto, Production Director at the SDF Treviglio site, to understand their experience of the partnership so far. 22 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers A new era of sustainable The hunt for new self-cleaning coil coatings bio-based raw materials Existing self-cleaning coil coatings require a 3-coat system, with a thin layer of inorganic At Beckers, we put a lot of time and resources into research line trial have been on natural weathering tests for over a year coating applied on top of a primer and topcoat. and development of new products and solutions. Much of and show similar performance compared with the control – This coating is hydrophilic, which means it this is channelled through our Long Term Development (LTD) a petroleum-based product. If the results continue to deliver attracts moisture from the air and creates a film laboratory, which has sustainability as a key focus area. in this way, the bio-based primer could be commercialised. of water onto which dust particles fall. When it Our LTD lab was recently involved in a three-year European rains, the dust is washed off. Union funded project called BISIGODOS, which has been looking at viable methods of producing cost-effective, In contrast, dust particles can become renewable raw materials. The consortium consisted of 14 embedded in conventional coil coatings, which partners, representing a wealth of expertise and resources means cleaning may be ineffective. Despite this, that covers the whole value chain. very few coil coating lines use a 3-coat system because of the extra production time and cost it The researchers used algae biomass as their starting material, incurs to apply (application of the third coat can which they then fed with carbon dioxide from the industrial necessitate a second pass through the line). emissions of steel mills, cement factories, thermal power plants and similar structures. The algae were then harvested and split We are currently developing a 2-coat system into proteins and fats, from which the team sought to derive in our Asia base. The results from a one-year high-value chemicals for the paint and adhesive industries. outdoor exposure test in Kuala Lumpur suggest that 3-coat performance from a 2-coat system As a partner in this project, Beckers had unique access to key may be achievable. We are continuing to raw materials produced from sustainable sources that can be monitor and optimise the system, and expect used to formulate coil coatings. As a result, we successfully to run a field trial in 2019 if exposure results developed and pilot-line trialled a chromate-free primer using continue to be positive. bio-based materials to replace petroleum. Panels from the pilot 23 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 2.3 Taking It’s all about responsibility for the people! social sustainability Our social sustainability work builds on the Our new social sustainability roadmap represents a As part of our social sustainability journey, we are foundations of our Code of Conduct, our resstrategic shift for Human Resources at Beckers and is responding to this change in several ways. For example, pect for human rights and children’s rights, designed to play to our strengths while preparing us for we are creating a new Human Resources department whatever comes next. at a global and regional level, and developing our and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. People Plan, both of which we introduce on the We believe highly engaged colleagues create In 2017, the discussion at our international Managers following page. inspiring, effective ideas that can move our busiMeeting set the tone for this shift: attendees expressed ness towards becoming even more sustainable. high expectations for human resources to add value across our business. Furthermore, the management shared their willingness to invest time and resources into the roadmap because they are convinced by its relevance and importance to our ongoing success. This enthusiasm is shared by human resources colleagues across Beckers. The demand for a more progressive approach also comes from outside our business. Increasingly, potential recruits want to work for companies that serve a higher purpose than maximising financial returns. To attract the best and the brightest, we must communicate and live by our values while also providing an engaging and rewarding work environment. Workshop to create the social sustainability roadmap, Sweden. 24 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers Introducing our new Empowering employees with the People Plan peers new insights about their fields of responsibility. We have also identified a common global survey tool to further measure Our People Plan supports our business strategy going forward. the engagement of our employees, our closest barometer for our social sustainability ” We are aligned in a shared understanding that human resources culture. (see p.25) has a fundamental role in helping us meet our business needs and move ever closer to achieving our sustainability vision. Wellbeing and safety roadmap Our People Plan is itself divided into four key streams, each with a set of clear, pragmatic targets: In this work stream, we will focus on providing: • Tools for employees to improve their health Our new social sustainability roadmap helps us address many • Skills development and training for managers issues by creating agility for change and increasing trust and Organisation & Change: we want to secure our future using an organisational model that keeps us • Safety role modelling (see page 27) understanding of our shared values throughout Beckers. Having successfully defined our values three years ago, it is moving forward, while inspiring everyone about the need and potential for change. Diversity now time to refresh awareness of them across our company, and further integrate them into everyone’s daily decisions. In this work stream, we will focus on: Culture & Values: we are building a culture based • Supporting a strong organisation that can recruit on our values and boosting employee engagement to We created the new social sustainability roadmap by drawing the best talent ensure our sustainable business success. on a wide range of stakeholders and resources. The plan is • Optimising collaboration in vivid workplaces structured in four streams, anchored in our values, our Code Talent & Learning: we are making sure we have the of Conduct and our respect for human and children’s rights. • Supporting good work-life choices, for example, for parents right people in the right roles, while endeavouring to keep enhancing our attractiveness as an employer. Community engagement The four streams are: Performance Management: we want to ensure Local community engagement has been part of our way of Empowering employees clarity on roles and targets, while creating a feedback business for many years. Around the world, Beckers’ sites Wellbeing and safety culture that ensures a company-wide attitude of have always engaged in local activities and projects, such as continuous learning. supporting and donating to schools, charity events, culture and Diversity sports clubs. Community engagement We are implementing this plan using ‘agile’ techniques, testing We are now working on global guidelines to support local processes and tools as we go and adapting each new rollout engagement around a common cause. See Local social based on our ongoing learnings. So far, we have tested several initiatives on page 37. new formats in our internal communication, such as presenting Running News as a video. We have introduced a new monthly routine in our HQ: “Lunch and learn” where colleagues give their 25 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers What Beckers thinks about sustainability Listening to our people In 2018, we conducted our third internal survey on sustainability and our sustainability report. As with previous surveys, the results showed that Beckers’ employees are increasingly highly focused on sustainability, and passionate about In 2018, we continued the rollout of employee surveys and achieving even better results. chose a single global tool to facilitate this process. The surveys reached five new countries and we are on track We asked: is sustainability important to I am very thankful for our employees’ Beckers’ future? to reach all Beckers’ sites by 2020. willingness to participate and our 100% The employee survey measures four indicators: engagement, managers’ encouragement and support. 75% leadership, net promotor score (how many would recommend Beckers as an employer) and team efficiency. This survey Communication was key to reaching our 50% aims to build a clear picture of how employees feel about 100% participation goal. Our working 25% working at Beckers. By creating a baseline from which we can improve, we have a bespoke tool for the targeted groups will begin to take actions based 0% 2013 2014 2018 development of our company. on the results while acknowledging We asked: does Beckers Group have a In 2018, the five new survey sites were France, the US, our the strengths and defining areas of strong commitment to sustainability? Berlin HQ, Malaysia and China. Four out of five of these improvement where challenges have been 100% surveys achieved 100% participation, and the fifth reached 87%. A high participation rate is great feedback and useful identified. I am very excited to be moving 75% because it leads to actionable results at both a group-wide on this path! 50% ” and local level. 25% – Kim Bator 0% HR Manager, Beckers North America How we use our employee survey 2013 2014 2018 After the survey has been conducted, a local team will work We are very pleased with these results, not through the results together, acknowledging any strengths The next survey will look to uncover any change in indicators least because they tell us our work towards a and defining areas for improvement. Together with the from the previous results. For example, we know there is more sustainable future will be well supported management team, this work will lead to a general action plan a common demand across Beckers for cross-functional by all our Beckers’ colleagues worldwide. for all sites. Different groups will then act based on this plan. collaboration and better communication. 26 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 3.1 3.2 Keeping our people Using all safe and well employees’ A closer look at how we continue problem solving capacity to drive Environment, Health and 3.0 Safety to the next level at Beckers. Find out how our new approach to Operational Excellence is paying off for our customers. 3.3 Renewable energy of total 3.4 Our results 33% Renewable Our Gold-rated Working on Our annual update on our energy, waste, 2018 performance impact climate and VOC Find out why we are so proud of performance. our latest EcoVadis score. 67% Non-renewable To fulfil our sustainability ambition – environmentally, socially and economically – we continue to work across all our functions, 3.5 3.6 3.7 with partners along in the value chain and with communities. Local social Sustainability initiatives award 2018 Stepping up to A quick summary of our local Announcing this year’s sustainability impact around the world. winners of our annual sustainability award. Meet a supplier who is proud to share their sustainability story. 27 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 3.1 Driving EHS 7. Regular EHS audits 8. Reduce risks, emissions and waste Keeping our to the next level 9. Create a safety culture Our roadmap for a safe people safe In 2018, our focus for Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) was to further embed ‘we own EHS’ as our group-wide approach. In particular, we focused on and healthy future and well The roadmap for improving EHS at Beckers is developing trust and integrity to move closer to an focused on training, hazard identification and accident organic, interdependent safety culture. reduction. It emphasises our EHS Policy, our Loss Prevention Standard, our Incident and Accident However, we recognise that culture-building is both Investigation and our Root Cause Procedure. challenging and time consuming. We have learned 2018 was a good year for Environment, Health and that safety reporting and more behaviour-based The roadmap states that all our sites must have safety Safety at Beckers. Along with a focus on building a initiatives are critical building blocks to progress. By committees, which – alongside other duties – must culture of safety, we saw a significant decrease in making sure all Beckers employees feel they can be regularly communicate with all employees about EHS open and honest about EHS, and are engaged and issues and take part in our annual Global Safety Day. our Lost Time Injury rate. committed to EHS initiatives, we will achieve our vision For example, our French site recently produced a of a safety culture. video to help communicate the highlights of last year’s Global Safety day. We established our EHS policy in June 2016. During 2018, we continued to communicate it throughout the Group. The nine key parameters of the policy are: 1. Adhere to local labour requirements and social legislation 2. Set targets and ensure regular measurements and reporting The roadmap also states that every site must imple3. Process improvement focus ment rules and signs around Personal Protection Equipment, conduct regular gap reviews of the 4. Training for all employees Beckers Loss Prevention Standard, establish a 5. Local H&S committees system for Safety Observation Tracking, use Portable 6. Follow up and communicate on serious Gas (VOC) detectors and analyse mobile pot covering accidents and incidents to learn practices (to further reduce VOCs). 28 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers Changing how we report safety Significant We have introduced a new system for safety analysis at Beckers. Previously, our safety analysis was based on Lost Time Injury (LTI) and improvement of was therefore fundamentally reactive – it could only look at root causes and corrective actions following an adverse event. LTI figures 2018 In contrast, our new near miss and safety observation reporting is a proactive method that encourages all employees to engage in hazard identification. In turn, this raises their own safety awareness and helps remove potential issues that could lead to more serious accidents. Global Safety Day 2018 35 33 In order to further embed the new reporting system, we made it the tagline for 2018’s Global 30 Safety Day: See it – Raise it – MAKE IT SAFE. 25 What is LTI? Global Safety Day also saw the heads of each Lost time injuries / LTI rate 25 site actively taking the lead in emphasising the ‘Lost Time Injury’ or LTI describes importance of EHS to their teams, with larger 20 an injury that results in someone sites arranging a series of activities to promote 18 18 18 having to take time off from their next proactive hazard analysis and awareness. 15 shift or working day. The LTI rate is 15 11.6 calculated per 1 million worked hours. So far, the new reporting approach has been a 10 9 success with engagement exceeding the targets 8.1 In 2018, we scored our lowest ever LTI 7 set in many sites. We are currently implementing 6.0 5.9 5.7 rate since records began. Although we 4.7 a fast track system to close minor reports 5 will keep striving towards a zero score 2.1 2.6 3 as our ultimate goal, we can be proud quickly, which should help make the process 0.9 of this result. more streamlined. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 LTIs LTI rate 29 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers Streamlining information An innovative solution to hazardous waste for safer chemicals At Beckers, we rely on local sites to create best practice waste solutions. In 2016, our Chicago facility installed a dust collector. This new piece of equipment greatly improves the working environment. When used correctly, chemicals are a safe and essential 45 languages, and a range of regulations governing the part of modern life. However, used incorrectly, they can automated creation of SDS and labels, involving hundreds However, the dust collector also generates a new source of hazardous cause harm to people and the natural environment. To of pre-formatted compliance-approved templates. waste – pigment dust. The Chicago team took responsibility for this mitigate this, over the years, numerous countries and new waste stream and, rather than just disposing of it (which would organisations have developed regulatory legislation that In this way, the SafeIT programme allows the collation, be expensive and unsustainable), found a way to repurpose it into requires suppliers of chemical products (like Beckers) to cross-referencing and processing of a huge range of something useful. provide detailed information on contents and usage, in the data. It ensures full cross-global compliance with the form of labelling and Safety Data Sheets (SDS). most complex labelling requirements, for even the most The Chicago site’s Director of highly-specialised niche sectors, in line with all national EHS asked Eli Lara, a Process Although similar in many respects, these regulations differ and international regulations. Engineer, to devise a solution enough to require different labels or SDS for the same for the challenge. After some product in different countries. This is time-consuming and The SafeIT team research, Eli developed a more confusing than it needs to be. SafeIT is our solution: formula to reprocess the an in-house Environmental, Health and Safety project Our SafeIT programme team contains a diverse group of experts in chemical toxicology, regulatory toxicology, pigment dust into a paste that that seeks to streamline and improve these systems, could be used to shade some enhancing the safety of our own employees, customers, organic and inorganic chemistry, the biological sciences, biochemistry, paint technology, sustainability, of our backing coats. This other stakeholders and the environment. solution has two benefits: it information technology, systems processing and systems programming. Together, they are dedicated to ensuring eliminates a hazardous waste How SafeIT works that Beckers’ labels and SDS are 100% compliant stream and provides a costThe SafeIT software contains regulatory data for wherever the group operates. effective resource for making thousands of chemical substances, a phrase library tint paste. featuring countless phrases translated into more than Dust collector, Chicago, Illinois. 30 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 3.2 Using all employees’ problem solving capacity In last year’s report, we introduced our strengthened commitment to Operational Excellence across our business. Since then, we have trained over 60 colleagues, from Operator to Manager across six sites, in hands-on ‘Practical Problem Solving (PPS)’ skills, resulting in 17 value-generating projects. In addition, we have over 30 complex high priority GreenBelt projects running globally, improving how we work from operations, Quality Control, supply chain, procurement, IT to R&D. Find the video on the Beckers Group YouTube channel https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NMRrUeNb4Gs&t=2s After successful completion of their projects, the Project Leaders are certified as Beckers Lean Six Sigma GreenBelts. Lean Six Sigma success in Sweden This year, we are pleased to report this approach is helping us fulfil We identified improvement potential in lead times for customers and quality at our customer expectations and needs both effectively and efficiently. Industrial Coatings APE business in Märsta, Sweden. As a result, we decided to run a Lean Six Sigma project to solve the challenge. A cross-functional team We have chosen a story from a recently completed project in Märsta launched an improvement project in January 2018, which led to a 30% decrease to share with you. in lead time, a significant increase in the predictability and stability of the process and a much happier, more productive workplace. To hear the full story, watch our interview with Daniel Kjell, Production supervisor. 31 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 2018 total weight of waste by type 3.3 Results: Waste and disposal method Reused material that will be Materials used back Less waste, more reuse classified into haz and non-haz waste in subsequent years Unclassified Reuse 1848 tons 23% Reused 1848 tons into the market without major re-manufacturing of reporting. processes to alter it. 2018 was a good year for waste management at Beckers. Not only did we reduce total waste generated, we also Used materials that are increased the amount of waste we reused by 20%. We Recycled broken down to make raw 32% Waste from chemicals, or that is 2596 tons materials for manufacturing are committed to delivering on our plan to quantify reused of new products. contaminated by chemicals, that have a Hazardous waste as either hazardous or non-hazardous. risk to human health or environment as 4507 tons per regulations in country of operation. As you can see, the graphs show a decrease in waste Incinerated Combustion of waste with generated. We only started measuring our reused waste 41% 3275 tons the possibility to recover stream in 2017 and the pink fraction in the graphs now of which 2707 tons Domestic waste and certain industrial was heat recovered energy from heat generated. illustrates our reused waste output. waste, that is not considered a risk to Nonhuman health and environment as per hazardous These results demonstrate our efforts to prevent waste regulations in country of operation. 1699 tons Landfilled Disposal by dumping waste in 4% generation. Many of our sites around the world have 336 tons government designated areas. initiated projects to reduce waste directly and to implement strategic operational practices that eliminate the source of waste itself. A few major examples are: Total waste, ton Waste intensity, kg/ton product • Completion of 5S initiatives in Shanghai, UK and India 10000 70 • Implementation of Practical Problem Solving (PPS) method in Vietnam 8000 60 • Reduction of packaging waste by using bulk transfer of raw materials in Poland and Vietnam 6000 50 To find out more about our performance on waste, please 4000 see the GRI Appendix on our website. 40 2000 0 30 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total waste excluding Reused waste. Share of Total waste excluding reused waste Total waste including reused waste reused waste the total waste reported for the first time in 2017 32 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 3.3 Results: Energy Renewable energy of total Accelerating towards 33% renewable energy 2013 7% 93% 2014 12% 88% 2015 23% 77% Renewable In 2018, our total energy consumption and energy consumption per ton of product remained constant. We made good progress thanks to more efficient 2018 production management. However, we were not able to fully optimise our heating and cooling to save energy and see this is an important improvement area for 27% 30% 2016 2017 67% Beckers in the future. We include electricity, heating, 73% 70% cooling and fuels in total energy. Non-renewable Last year, we received 33% of our total energy demand from renewable energy. This percentage increased for two main reasons. First, because more renewable Total energy consumption, MWh Energy intensity, MWh/ton product energy was used for district heating in Sweden, and second, because of China’s reporting of grid energy source. We also saw an increase in energy from our 70000 solar panels in Malaysia, which now support 10% of the site’s total energy demand for the year. We continue to 65000 actively seek opportunities to source more renewable energy for our operations. 0.5 60000 0.45 To find out more about our performance on renewable 55000 energy, please see the GRI Appendix on our website. 0.41 0.40 0.39 0.39 0.39 50000 0.4 45000 40000 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 33 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers Waste: Indirect emissions VOC: Direct emissions from Carbon emissions by activity*, % from the processing and purchased solvents that are 3.3 Results: Climate & VOC 6% Business travel 2% Company owned vehicles disposal of all forms of waste considered as Volatile Organic Compounds. Premises: Direct emissions Our 2018 carbon savings 9% 1% Waste from consumption of fuel (onsite), purchased energy and Business travel: Indirect emissions from water, including their indirect movement of employees and As global temperatures continue to soar, it is becoming increasingly VOC upstream emissions. external people, excluding important to Beckers’ customers and various stakeholders that we clearly vehicles owned by the measure, assess and report on our carbon footprint. We have been Outbound third-party company. monitoring and communicating carbon data since 2012. In 2018, we saw a slight reduction in CO2e emissions compared to 2017, despite no decrease 39% deliveries: Indirect emissions in production. Compared to our base year of 2013, our emissions have Premises from transporation of finished Company owned vehicles: reduced by 13% per ton of product. goods using third-party services. Direct emissions from 21% consumption of fuel in owned Tracking our reduction Inbound third-party deliveries: and long-leased vehicles of Inbound Most of last year’s savings came from two changes to inbound third-party 21% Indirect emissions from the company including their deliveries. First, we had a new emphasis on producing intermediates locally, third-party deliveries Outbound transporation of raw materials indirect upstream emissions. instead of relying on sister-companies that might be further away. And second, we sourced from more suppliers that were significantly closer to third-party deliveries using third-party services. production sites than previously. Apart from these, we also saw emission reductions from our premises, from company-owned vehicles and from business travel. We saw an increase in emissions from outbound third-party deliveries. Our VOC results Carbon emissions intensity*, ton CO2e/ton product We continue to measure and target VOC emissions from Getting smarter measurements all our production sites. Our VOC emissions per ton The Emission Factors (EF) we use to assess our climate impact are 0.50 product remained constant over 2018. provided within the tool we use Our Impacts. These convert each unit of business activity into its corresponding amount of equivalent carbon dioxide. The EFs are constantly updated based on new science, with some 0.40 VOC intensity, kg/ton product changing according to fluid factors, such as grid electricity and are provided by international agencies on climate change, such as IPCC. 0.30 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 In 2018, some of the EFs reflect an update in methodology of calculation and changes in activities over the year. As per our Recalculation Policy, the 0.02 changes to the Emission Factors over 2018 do not impact the previous years’ results in a significant manner, so there is no need to recalculate the 0.10 base year. For more information on our climate assessment, please see our climate Impact Summary for 2018 here. To find out more about our performance on 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 5 4 3 3 3 3 climate and VOC, please see the GRI Appendix on our website. Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 * All climate data reported is as per Location-based approach 34 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers EcoVadis scoring results 2018 In the category: 3.4 Manufacture of paints, varnishes and similar coatings, printing inks and mastics. Our Gold-rated Proud of our Overall score Average score within category progress performance As well as earning a Gold rating, we increased our score from 63 in 2017 to 65 in 2018. This widelyrespected certification is awarded in recognition 65 /100 We are pleased to announce we have been of a company’s Corporate Social Responsibility awarded a Gold rating by EcoVadis for the second (CSR) performance. Top 5% consecutive year! EcoVadis is an independent third-party organiEnvironment Labour & Human Rights Ethics Sustainable procurement sation, and Gold is their highest rating. Earning a Gold rating places Beckers Group in the top 5% of companies assessed by EcoVadis in the 70 /100 60 /100 60 /100 70 /100 ‘Manufacture of paints, varnishes and similar coatings, printing inks and mastics’ category. Top 11% Top 24% Top 16% Top 1% EcoVadis operates an online platform that allows companies to benchmark their CSR performance as well as monitor the environmental and social performance of their suppliers. It is also a reflection of our focus and In October 2018, Beckers conducted a global efforts to implement robust ethical assessment of CSR performance for our EcoVadis practices while continu-ously improving rating, looking at four core areas – Environment, on the other three themes. Ethics, Labour Practices & Human Rights, and Sustainable Procurement. Looking ahead, we remain strongly committed to further sustainable This result is a consequence of intensive crossdevelopment. functional work across Beckers Group. 35 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 3.5 Engaging with fail must work through a transparent corrective action plan towards a reassessment. This process allows us to take our suppliers with us as we move our industry our suppliers to Chain up in the right direction. improve In 2018, our EcoVadis-assessed raw material suppliers covered 72% of our total raw material purchase value (up from 69% in 2017). Our EcoVadisapproved (suppliers that score four-times 40 or above) Our Supplier Code of Conduct is a fundamental Because we take a holistic value chain approach to purchase value was 62% (up from 58% in 2017). part of how we communicate and collaborate with sustainability, our suppliers have a significant impact our suppliers. In 2018, the Code was signed by on our own performance. We monitor the social and Step 3: Conduct inhouse audits environmental sustainability of all our suppliers and most of our global suppliers, representing about We conduct our own in-house audits on selected key empower them to improve their performance using the suppliers – primarily operating in higher risk regions 60% of our total spend. following three-step process. – to verify their compliance with our Corporate Social Responsibility and quality expectations. We have In 2019, we would like to focus on connecting with Step 1: Sign and adhere to the seen a remarkable improvement in quality control and and engaging our local suppliers. It is essential supplier Code of Conduct sustainability performance, as shown in our story on we have an effective way to manage the 3000+ We introduced a Supplier Code of Conduct in 2017. Hua Lun Resin on p.36. accredited suppliers that support us at different Today, it is a fundamental part of how we communicate and collaborate with our suppliers. In 2018, 60% of We decide which suppliers to audit based on locations around the world. To do this, we have a risk assessment, which includes factors such our external global spend was covered by suppliers launched a new collaborative tool to help our sites that declared their adherence to our Supplier Code of as geographic location, industry or sector, selfmanage this process locally and monitor the status Conduct. In 2019, we are focusing on connecting with assessment results, length of relationship and of each single supplier. We aim to achieve 70% of and engaging our local suppliers and aim to achieve previous performance. We work together with the 70% of spend for each site by the end of the year. audited supplier to improve, sharing improvement spend for each site by the end of 2019. proposals and requesting action plans within a specific time period. Step 2: Conduct third party assessments We ask all our key suppliers to conduct EcoVadis assessments. Though user-friendly in design, these assessments are not easy, and suppliers must provide proof for all their claims. A supplier must score a minimum of 40 points in each of the four segments of the assessment to achieve full approval. Those who 36 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 3.5 Chain up Our Supplier Code of Conduct is a fundamental part of how we communicate and collaborate with our suppliers. In 2018, the Code was signed by most of our global suppliers, representing about 60% of our total spend. In 2019, we would like to focus on connecting with and engaging our local suppliers. It is essential we have an effective way to manage the 3000+ accredited suppliers that support us at different locations around the world. To do this, we have launched a new collaborative tool to help our sites manage this process locally and monitor the status Find the video on the Beckers Group YouTube channel of each single supplier. We aim to achieve 70% of https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=phRRzq3YI8A&t=1s spend for each site by the end of 2019. A supplier story: stepping up to sustainability Hua Lun Resin is a supplier of resins based in China. Having conducted their first EcoVadis review in 2014, with the help of Beckers the company has come a long way in its approach to sustainability. Here, we hear from Kevin Hou, Sales Manager, about some of Hua Lun’s sustainability improvements and their exciting plans for the future. 37 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers Germany South Africa Malaysia Beckers Germany supports Raphaelshaus, a As well as donating to two South African 3.6 Representatives from Beckers visited the youth welfare centre in the city of Dormagen that orphanages, Beckers continues to support Star Brain Injury Child Home in Cheras to make a offers engaging activities and appropriate help and for Life, a non-profit organisation with a mission donation. We arranged interactive activities support to children and young people in particularly to inspire young people to believe in their dreams for the children and invited a clown to provide Local social stressful life situations. and live healthy lives. The NGO was founded in further entertainment. Sweden and offers educational programmes and training to schools around Africa. initiatives At Beckers, we feel responsible towards the communites where we operate and engage globally with many different initiatives. In this section, we share a few highlights from our colleagues around the world. Read more about our social sustainability roadmap on page 24. Poland Sweden Beckers gave a donation to ‘Mums from Tarnów’, In Sweden, Beckers engaged in several actions and which supports local mothers by organising events projects, such as taking in apprentices newly arrived to and courses. the country, supporting Kulturskolan (cultural training for young people) and arranging a local museum exhibition. 38 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 3.6 Local social initiatives At Beckers, we feel responsible towards the communites where we operate and engage globally with many different initiatives. In this section, we share a few highlights from our colleagues around the world. Read more about our social sustainability roadmap on page 24. Find the video on the Beckers Group YouTube channel https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ioKWGJB2yDM&t=4s Star for Life, South Africa Johannesburg Star for Life is an organisation that supports children in South Africa to live healthy lives, helping them dare to dream and empowering them to reach for those dreams. We are proud to have supported Star for Life – and the children they work with – for many years. In this interview, we hear from Charmaine Jansen, at Beckers South Africa, about the work they do, how Beckers is engaged and what benefits this creates. 39 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 3.7 Presenting the 2018 winners Beckers’ Economic & Environment Award: Shanghai, China Sustainability Ida Emilsson, Mikael Johansson, Erik Karlén, Jackey Nguyen, Pablo Mesa & Susana Torron of Beckers Sweden Shanghai, China I was taught to care about ‘social Award 2018 The Industrial Coatings R&D teams from Beckers Sweden have sustainability’ from a very young developed a state-of-the-art waterborne basecoat product for the age. Today, I still believe the Automotive Plastics Exterior market. The project was very well foundation of our humanity lies managed and maintained a great team spirit. The new waterborne in caring for each other. product gives our customers a sustainable solution and our ” business a competitive advantage. The new product is NMP-free – Agnieszka Węglińska, winner of We are thrilled to announce this year’s winners and has a much higher solid content compared to other products the social sustainability award of the Beckers’ Sustainability Award. For the in the market, which directly translates to a reduction of VOCs. second year running, our judges had the difficult task of choosing the best initiative out Social Sustainability Award: of 18 amazing nominations from nine sites. All During the last three years, we contributors, especially the finalists, should be Agnieszka Węglińska of Beckers Poland have worked hard to get a new acknowledged for their effort to improve our waterborne technology to marShanghai, China Agnieszka Węglińska of Beckers Poland arranged Free Medical ket that would fulfil both the sustainability value proposition, or our social or Screening for employees at our Polish site. The screening, which needs of automotive businesses environmental impact. was sponsored by Beckers, took place at the site in Tarnow. 73% and Beckers’ vision of sustainof employees took the opportunity to be examined. Agnieszka is genuinely engaged in social sustainability, with a passion to ability. This prize indicates we motivate colleagues and improve well-being of employees. are on Shanghai, the rightChina track and aligned within our company; it encourages us to keep going and gives us strength to face upcoming challenges. ” – Susana Torron and Mikael Johansson, leaders of the winning teams of the environmental and economic award 40 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 4.1 4.2 Beckers A new voice in detail at Beckers Our company structure, 4.0 Meet Judith Jungmann, our financial performance, business Chief Human Resources Officer. segments and core values. 4.3 4.4 Over 30 Our global Meet years in network Beckers Group the family Celebrating 30 years as part of the Lindéngruppen family. A quick look at what our global presence means for Beckers. Beckers offers sustainable coating solutions to customers around the world. Find out how our business works, and how we keep our 4.5 sustainability efforts on track as we move towards fulfilling our vision. Meet our management 41 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers Financial performance presence are key for our future success, including Net sales 2018: MSEK 5,962 our sustainability work. We set financial performance targets, which are followed up in our financial reporting 4.1 Capitalisation system. Equity: MSEK 1,387 Our Chief Financial Officer is responsible for Beckers Equity ratio: 33% managing financial risks and for the correct reporting of Beckers Group’s financial performance. Net interest bearing debt of MSEK 288 in detail The Group net interest-bearing debt is interest-bearing Our Business units liabilities and provisions for defined Coil Coatings benefit pension obligations less interest-bearing receivables and cash & cash equivalents. As the leading global supplier of coil coatings, we set industry standards for high performance liquid Beckers is a global coatings company that develops Stable financial results are key for Beckers to develop coatings applied to sheet metal. high-quality environmentally compatible paint our operations, to maintain good stakeholder relations and to be a valued corporate citizen. Industrial Coatings systems. Our expertise is based on our long history We supply a complete range of specially dating back over 150 years. In 2018, 1,800 people Striving for outstanding financial results ensures that manufactured coatings for preformed metal parts and worked at 24 production sites in 18 countries, we strengthen our owners’ trust and the opportunity to plastic components as well as consumer devices. providing products and custom-made solutions extend our operations in new locations while creating fruitful customer relationships. Global reach and local to customers in close to 60 countries around the world. The company is structured into two business units: Coil Coatings and Industrial Coatings. The spirit of Beckers over time, its core consists of a clear sense of purpose derived from our values. Our culture also Our aim is to be a solutions provider that offers creates the foundation for our strategy. more value than the sum of our products. Our values and culture are our spirit. As well as Environmental responsibility is an integral part providing the foundation for our business, they are a major reason for our ongoing success. of Beckers’ mission. We are committed to setting new standards in product innovation, customer Our values represent our guiding principles and help relationships and environmental sustainability and shape our business culture. Our values guide our thus invest heavily in research and development to priorities, actions and behaviour; they are long-term and define the character of the company. produce state-of-the-art coating solutions. While culture has many aspects and may change 42 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers Our Core Values Our Code of Conduct The UN Global Compact The Beckers Code of Conduct defines key ethical principles The UN Global Compact has been a fundamental part of our that guide us in our daily business. The Beckers Code of values and Code of Conduct for many years. By signing the Customer focus Conduct applies at all levels: from executives and managers Global Compact, we take responsibility within the areas of By understanding our customers’ requirements to line employees. We consistently apply our core values with human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption, today and in the future, we provide competitive, respect to human rights, labour standards, environmental and make an even stronger commitment to taking action and sustainable solutions that create real value. standards and anti-corruption. These conditions are defined in reporting on our progress. the United Nations Global Compact. Team spirit Anti-corruption and bribery Compliance with our Code of Conduct is continuously No one may, directly or indirectly, demand or accept, offer or We are passionate about our business, and monitored by the Management of the Group. The Chief Financial give any kind of bribe, kickback or any other unlawful or unethical act as a true team towards our shared goals. Officer oversees compliance on a global level. benefit to employees or other representatives or associates of Fairness is important to us and all our business the Beckers Group or its companies or any third party. dealings are based on mutual trust and respect. Our online Code of Conduct training has been further rolled out and is available in five languages. Coverage is now 45% of all There were no legal actions for corruption in 2018. employees. Shape and adapt Building on our history, we strive for operational Our Supplier Code of Conduct Anti-competitive behaviour excellence by benchmarking and continuously All companies within our Group compete vigorously but Our Supplier Code of Conduct defines our basic requirements optimising our processes. In this way, we honestly for business and uphold the highest standards of for all suppliers of goods and services, in particular concerning prepare for the future in everything we do. business ethics. We respect anti-trust and fair competition laws their responsibilities towards their stakeholders and the that prohibit certain actions that unfairly and dishonestly harm environment. competitors. We also act in accordance with fair business, Trust and integrity marketing and advertising practices. Beckers expects its suppliers to adhere to international human Our actions are guided by the strong moral rights and environmental laws and practices, monitor their compass of a responsible company. There were no legal actions for anti-competitive conduct, antiethical performance and take immediate and thorough steps in trust or monopoly practices in 2018. cases where this ethical performance comes into question. 43 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 4.2 A new voice at Beckers Judith Jungmann is our Chief Human Resources Officer, and takes responsibility for sustainability in the Executive Group. Here, we speak to her about why she joined Beckers, what she finds exciting and challenging about sustainability, and where she thinks the next chapter will take us. Find the video on the Beckers Group YouTube channel https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cljMONk4sME&t=5s 44 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers New leadership at Lindéngruppen 4.3 As of January 2018 Paul Schrotti is the new CEO of Lindéngruppen. Paul comes from Axel Johnson AB, Over 30 years where he since 2010 has held the position as Executive Vice President. Paul combines strong leadership with extensive experience from different businesses and in the family governance models. He also has broad experience from working in a values-driven large family business. “I am convinced that by creating sustainability and building it into all parts It is with gratitude and recognition that we celebrate of our business activities we can redefine more than 30 years with Lindéngruppen our parent business value and drive growth. Going company. We are proud to share in the same vision forward, I would like to see Beckers set of making a positive impact on the world around us. ambitious goals and take a lead in this area. Our success will come from inventing new solutions to old problems and thereby achieving a higher level of economic, environmental, ethical and social performance.” Working as one strategy. Jenny Lindén Urnes, Lindéngruppen’s owner and Chair, up of all have longer histories. These companies include Colart, the largest for sustainability strongly believes that all businesses in the Lindéngruppen family should global supplier of artist materials, Höganäs AB, the world’s leading Being part of the same family for create real positive impact. In each manufacturer of metal powders, and such a long time creates stability of their respective industries, these Alex Begg, specialising in woven and loyalty. We remain grateful to be businesses including Beckers are a textile premium products. Beckers is part of a business that is governed driving force in the transition towards proud to be part of the Lindéngruppen – above all – by its values. Our full sustainability. story, and to share in its purposeful business continues to thrive as we and proactive vision. share our owner’s ambitious vision for Lindéngruppen was founded in the sustainability and long-term business eighties, but the companies it is made 45 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers 4.4 This global presence was not built in a day – it is the result of our 150 year-long history in paint making. Beckers was founded in Stockholm in 1865 by a German Our global chemist called Carl Wilhelm Becker. Since then, our company has grown and Beckers operates a global network of evolved from a one-man consumer paint shop, to a successful Swedish enterprise, manufacturing sites to follow customer to a world leader in industrial surface finishes. demands and stay as geographically network close to them as possible. Although Beckers started as a consumer paint company, today our focus is entirely on industrial coatings. With 24 production sites in 18 countries and five continents, we act as one global Beckers Group, serving customers in close to 60 countries. Corporate headquarters: Berlin, Germany Manufacturing sites Additional markets served 46 Introduction Value proposition Value Chain & Communities About Beckers Executive Group Board of Directors 4.5 Dr. Boris Gorella Paul Menezes Paul Schrotti Malin Persson CEO President Coil Coatings Chairman Introducing our Dr. Karsten Eller Chief Operating Officer Asia & Middle East Christophe Sabas Jenny Lindén Urnes Owner CEO and owner, Accuracy AB Suzanne Thoma Board of Directors Judith Jungmann President Coil Coatings Europe, Africa & Americas Dr. Boris Gorella CEO, BKW AG and the Executive Group Chief Human Resources CEO, Beckers Group Leonardo Franconeri Officer Christian Vogel Labour Representative Georg Brunstam Olivier Laune President Industrial Chairman, Hexpol AB Päivi Kukkonen Chief Financial Officer Coatings Labour Representative Beckers Group is owned by Lindéngruppen, a Mark Hamlin Swedish family business with a focus on the Chair, Organisation long-term development of industrial companies. Resource UK Our corporate headquarters are located in Berlin, Germany. Beckers Group is governed by its Board of Directors, which has four meetings a year. Our CEO and selected Executive Group members participate in this meeting. The Executive Group consists of the Global Leadership Team and Presidents of all business units; it meets once a month. Our Global Leadership Team consists of our CEO, CFO, CHRO and COO, and meets twice a month. Sustainability is part of the Chief Human Resources Officer’s agenda and thus the Global Leadership Team agenda. This is fuelled by a team led by a Global Sustainability Director. The Sustainability Committee is responsible for strategy development, stakeholder engagement and alignment. The committee is chaired by the Global Sustainability Director and consists of representatives from all key functions and regions. Executive Group: (From left to right) Christian Vogel, Olivier Laune, Board of Directors: (From left to right) Päivi Kukkonen, Mark Hamlin, Georg Christophe Sabas, Judith Jungmann, Paul Menezes, Dr. Boris Gorella, Dr. Brunstam, Dr. Boris Gorella, Jenny Lindén Urnes, Paul Schrotti, Suzanne Karsten Eller. Thoma, Malin Persson, Leonardo Franconeri. 47 47 Introduction IntroductionValue Ourproposition Value Strategy Our Chain Value & Communities Chain About Beckers About Beckers 5S NMP N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone An organisational method to maximise environmental benefits for all NMP is a reported toxic chemical. efficiency and effectiveness in the stakeholders, the purpose of According to co-ordinated workplace. Originally a Japanese CSR is to drive change towards classification and labelling (ATP09) method, it uses the following 5 S’s: sustainability. approv-ed by the European Union, Glossary Sort, Set in order, Shine, Standardise NMP N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone may and Sustain. GHG harm unborn children and cause GHG stands for greenhouse gas and serious eye, skin and respiratory APE Automotive Plastics Exterior describes a gas that absorbs and irritation. APE refers to the coatings we emits radiant energy. Greenhouse design that ensure bumpers and gasses cause the greenhouse effect SDGs other moulded plastic components and are therefore responsible for In late 2015, the United Nations have the same appearance, colour climate change. published 17 global Sustainable and durability as a vehicle’s metal Development Goals, to be achieved bodywork. GRI by 2030. The SDGs are a call to The Global Reporting Initiative is a action for all countries – poor, rich CO2e global, network-based not-for-profit and middle-income – to promote CO2e stands for carbon dioxide that publishes the world’s most prosperity while protecting the planet. equivalents and is a term to describe commonly-used guidelines on different greenhouse gases in a sustainability reporting. UN Global Compact common unit. CO2e signifies the The Global Compact is an initiative amount of CO2 that would have the EKPI of the United Nations and is based equivalent global warming impact EKPI stands for Environmental Key on ten principles for responsible for any type of greenhouse gas. Performance Indicator and describes action by companies. indicators that measure important Code of Conduct environmental objectives, such as VOC A Code of Conduct is a set of energy use, waste generation and VOC stands for volatile organic principles, values, standards or VOC emissions. compounds, which describes rules of behaviour that guide the chemicals that have a high vapour decisions, procedures and systems NGO pressure at room temperature. This of an organisation in order to respect NGOs are non-governmental high vapour pressure results from a human rights and environmental organisations, which means they are low boiling point, which causes large standards. always independent of governments numbers of molecules to evaporate and governmental organisations. into the surrounding air, a trait known CSR Corporate Social Responsibility NGOs are usually non-profit, often as volatility. a business approach that contributes international. to sustainable development by delivering economic, social and Adding value beyond the surface Sustainability Report 2018 Beckers Group Global Headquarters Wilh. Becker Holding GmbH Kurfürstendamm 57 10707 Berlin, Germany www.beckers-group.com © 2019 AB Wilh. Becker Contact: Nicklas Augustsson Global Sustainability Director Judith Jungmann Chief Human Resources Officer sustainability@beckers-group.com Beckers, Beckers rainbow logotype, Beckry® and Beckqua® are trademarks owned by AB Wilh. Becker, registered in the European Union and other countries.
