BurstIQ Connects Data. Connections Change Health. UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress Published: November 2019 www.burstiq.com United Nations Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress Legal Disclaimer This Communication on Progress, or COP, has been prepared for the United Nations and contains certain information related to BurstIQ’s participation in the United Nations Global Compact. This document is not a prospectus and is not intended to provide current or prospective investors with any information related to the future performance of BurstIQ. Neither BurstIQ nor its managers, officers, directors, employees affiliates or agents make any representation or warranty, express or implied, as to the accuracy or completeness of this COP or any of the contents herein, and no legal liability is assumed or implied against any of the aforementioned with respect hereto. This document may contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the projected future performance of BurstIQ. These statements are based on the current expectations and beliefs of BurstIQ and reflect various assumptions by management. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise noted, BurstIQ is providing this information as of the date of this communication and does not undertake any obligation to update any forwardlooking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and the information provided herein shall not be deemed to be or interpreted as a specific guarantee of performance by BurstIQ. www.burstiq.com i UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress TABLE OF CONTENTS LETTER FROM THE CEO ................................................................ III ABOUT BURSTIQ ............................................................................. 1 2018-2019 PROGRESS REPORT ...................................................... 2 HUMAN RIGHTS (Principles 1-2) .................................................................................... 3 LABOR (PRINCIPLES 3-6) ............................................................................................... 4 ENVIRONMENT (PRINCIPLES 7-9) ................................................................................. 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION (PRINCIPLE 10) .............................................................................. 6 2019-2020 ROADMAP ..................................................................... 8 www.burstiq.com ii United Nations Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress ABOUT BURSTIQ BurstIQ is a HIPAA and GDPR compliant platform that creates health profiles for people, places and things and empowers the interactions between them. We provide enterprise blockchain enablement services to the health and healthcare industry, allowing companies to create health products, services and new markets that haven’t been possible until now. The BurstIQ blockchain platform enables health applications and services to incorporate complex data ownership, consent, and monetization, and to do so at scale. Granular ownership and consent provide the basis for fully customizable, auditable and revocable data sharing – from a single data point to petabyte-scale datasets. BurstIQ builds data into profiles called LifeGraphsTM. Each LifeGraph represents the unique and dynamic identity of a person, a device, a company, a government agency, an application endpoint, or any other entity. LifeGraphs are made up of highly diverse types of data: clinical and behavioral, social, environmental, geographic, supply chain, manufacturing, and much more. By building connections between diverse and non-traditional data sets, BurstIQ empowers deeper insights into the hidden connections that drive truly meaningful, effective and personalized health. The BurstIQ platform is the industry’s only Big Data blockchain that keeps data on chain and safe in the cloud. The platform provides truly best-in-class data security – SSAE 18 SOC2 Type 2, HIPAA, GDPR, and NIST compliance in a private, permissioned blockchain network. By connecting data, BurstIQ connects people, places and things, and establishes the framework for a global health network in which artificial intelligence becomes more intelligent, health services become more personalized, medical research becomes more collaborative, and individuals become more empowered. In short, we enable businesses, governments and researchers to connect with each other, share data, discover new insights, build relationships, and empower their citizens and customers – all to create a healthier world. www.burstiq.com 1 UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress ALIGNMENT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS BurstIQ is deeply committed to achieving the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. In particular, we are executing on specific actions in the following areas: No Poverty. BurstIQ is working to eliminate poverty through the BurstIQ platform, supporting partner solutions for financial inclusion, health equity, and access to adequate food, water and shelter. Zero Hunger. BurstIQ understands the deep connection between nutrition and health and is committed to supporting solutions that increase access to adequate, nutritious and sustainable food sources. Good Health and Well-Being. This is the core of what BurstIQ does: we enable the global health ecosystem to use data to provide better, more personalized care, and we empower people with better access and understanding to live their healthiest life. Gender Equality. We believe that all people are equal and deserve to live their best life. We are actively supporting programs to improve maternal care and increase gender representation in clinical research. Clean Water and Sanitation. The link between a person’s access to clean water and sanitation and their health outcomes is undisputed. BurstIQ is actively pursuing partnerships to utilize the BurstIQ platform to increase clean water access and traceability. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure. BurstIQ truly sits at the forefront of innovation, providing the first global, secure and scalable data network that allows each data owners (including individuals) to truly own and control their valuable data assets. It is truly inclusive infrastructure. Reduced Inequalities. BurstIQ seeks to reduce inequality by providing the infrastructure that allows diverse data sources to converge and inform truly person-centric care, by increasing access to cutting-edge health services, and by increasing representation in clinical research. www.burstiq.com 2 UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress 2018-2019 PROGRESS REPORT The following provides an overview of actions that BurstIQ has taken over the last 12 months to implement the Global Compact principles and support the UN Sustainable Development Goals. HUMAN RIGHTS (Principles 1-2) The Universal Declaration of Human Rights aligns directly with the core mission and purpose of BurstIQ. The company’s HIPAAand GDPR-compliant global data network is designed to ensure that: every person has a trusted identity that is provable and recognized before the law (Article 6) every person has equal access to health, wellness and social services (Article 25) every person has the opportunity to benefit from medical advancement (Article 27) Our work in enabling these Articles of the Declaration will never truly be finished; it will be a continuous progression towards the ideal. But with each milestone that we achieve, we move closer to realizing that ideal. Specific Goals In 2019, BurstIQ established two key strategic objectives to advance our core mission and Principles One and Two of the UN Global Compact. 1. Increase the number of people on the BurstIQ Network who have access to next-generation health products, services and research opportunities. In order to achieve the vision of universal human rights, we must increase the number of people who have access to and control over their health profile and the tools and technologies that will enable the future of health. We represent this as the number of people who have a LifeGraphTM the BurstIQ Network. Individual LifeGraphs are created through a person’s engagement with the products and services on the BurstIQ Network: e-identity services, health record applications (EMRs and PHRs), personal health and wellness services, digital therapeutics, telehealth, etc. 2. Increase the number of products, services and research opportunities available through the BurstIQ Network. BurstIQ is committed to advancing next-generation health products and services that increase global health access and equity, deepen our collective medical knowledge, and promote individual empowerment and self-sovereignty. We achieve this goal by pursuing platform partnerships and increasing accessibility of the platform to the global community of health innovators. www.burstiq.com 3 UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress Progress to Date Over the last twelve months, BurstIQ has made significant progress towards the goals outlined above. In 2019, we have completed a $5.5 million dollar fundraising round that will allow us to make significant investments, both directly and through partnerships, in solutions designed to address human rights. We are actively working with Shyft Network and their joint venture company, Perseid, to implement national e-identity programs in multiple sovereign nations. This partnership will provide millions of people around the world with a trusted, provable identity to support financial inclusion and access to fundamental services such as healthcare, education and job eligibility. BurstIQ has also partnered with an Australian company, Secure Health Chain, that is dedicated to providing people with greater control over their health data and the ability to use their data to participate in cutting-edge medical research. This partnership strongly supports our commitment to the Ten Principles by empowering individuals with access to health and wellness services as well as increasing the accessibility of medical research opportunities. We are working with multiple life sciences and pharmaceutical companies to advance the accessibility of cutting-edge personalized medicine solutions, biopharmaceuticals and digital therapeutics, and streamline the exchange of critical data across the medical research ecosystem. BurstIQ significantly expanded access to our developer tools to enable health innovators to accelerate their time to market with next-generation health solutions. We now have over 50 companies in various stages of developing identity and health-related solutions on the BurstIQ platform. Our partners have collectively saved health systems over $100 million dollars. Lastly, we continue to increase our participation in global organizations that are aligned with the goals of the UN Global Compact. As an example, we have been actively involved with Humanity 2.0 for the last two years, an organization that is dedicated to building a better, more inclusive world. We expect that our role within this organization will continue to expand. LABOR (PRINCIPLES 3-6) At BurstIQ, we are strong believers that a person’s health and individual sovereignty impacts, and is impacted by, their ability to access fair and safe employment. The BurstIQ platform addresses this link between health and labor in several unique ways: E-identity services that leverage BurstIQ will allow people to maintain immutable proof of eligibility for employment, increasing individuals’ access to employment opportunities www.burstiq.com 4 UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress The ability to connect and analyze diverse data sets – environmental data, employment statistics, social and demographic data, health profiles, and more – will allow researchers and regulators to more easily identify and address discriminatory, detrimental and other negative employment practices. The immutability, auditability, and auto-adjudication that is enabled by the BurstIQ platform can be used to reduce the potential for employment fraud, including underpayments and nonpayments to laborers, underreporting to regulatory agencies, and other illegal and unethical practices. Of course, our commitment to the Labor Principles must begin with us. At BurstIQ, we encourage all of our employees to seek a career that provides them with deep fulfillment and joy. We firmly believe that family and health should always come first, and our culture, policies and employment contracts reflect this belief. We believe that diversity is a strength; we do not discriminate based on a person’s race, gender affiliation, nationality, ability status or political views. Since the company was founded in 2015, we have actively enforced policies which make qualifications and experience the basis for employee recruitment and advancement. We will never engage in or promote forced labor and child labor, whether directly or indirectly. Specific Goals 1. Continue to enforce policies and provide benefits that prevent discrimination, support fair labor practices, encourage professional development and promote a family-first culture. Preventing discrimination and building inclusivity cannot be achieved through passive aspiration; it requires the active implementation and enforcement of corporate policy. At BurstIQ, we are committed to developing and continuously improving our corporate policies to ensure that we prevent discrimination, maintain fair employment, and support the professional and personal health of our employees and their families. Progress to Date In 2019, BurstIQ solidified our partnership with Shyft Network to implement national e-identity programs in multiple sovereign nations – a first step towards enabling each person to own and control their “right to work” credentials. We will continue to pursue partnerships that support a person’s ability to seek fair and safe employment. At a corporate level, we increased our employee benefit offerings, including new health insurance and life insurance benefit offerings, to ensure that the company continues to support the health and wellbeing of our employees and their families. www.burstiq.com 5 UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT (PRINCIPLES 7-9) BurstIQ’s commitment to environmental sustainability extends far beyond the boundaries of our corporate headquarters. BurstIQ sees environmental health as inextricably linked with personal health. Access to healthy and sustainable food sources, clean water, safe housing, electricity, clean air – all of these factors significantly impact a person’s health. However, the extent to which we understand how environmental factors contribute to health is entirely dependent upon our ability to connect these data sources and examine the complex interactions between them. BurstIQ is actively pursuing partnerships with public and private organizations that seek to address environmental sustainability and illuminate the link between environmental health and personal health. Specific Goals 1. Incorporate environmental data sources onto the BurstIQ platform for the benefit of organizations seeking to investigate and illuminate the link between environmental health and personal health. There are numerous public and proprietary data sources that would be valuable in helping researchers, health solution providers, NGOs and public agencies gain deep insights into the connection between environmental conditions and population health. BurstIQ has made it a priority to increase the accessibility of these data sets. Progress to Date BurstIQ has identified multiple key data sets and expects to incorporate these onto the platform over the next six to twelve months. ANTI-CORRUPTION (PRINCIPLE 10) Corruption thrives in the dark. In systems that lack transparency and accountability, fraud is able to operate with impunity. In the health industry, corruption and fraud manifest in the misuse and ransom of highly sensitive health data, in identity theft, in the manipulation of disconnected and opaque processes. One in four security breaches are health-related, creating a multibillion-dollar black market for health data and a multibillion-dollar economic remediation burden for health providers. BurstIQ was founded to bring these systems into the light. The BurstIQ platform allows data owners to protect their valuable data assets by gaining meaningful, tangible control over their own data. It transforms identity from a single document into a dynamic, multi-faceted and verifiable data set. It brings security, transparency and accountability to the people, places, things and processes that power the health industry. For BurstIQ, ending corruption and fraud begins with establishing a trusted and verifiable identity. First and foremost, for people, but also for organizations, IoT devices, application endpoints, www.burstiq.com 6 UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress locations, and more. For BurstIQ, identity is more than a single number or document. It is the amalgamation of all the information about a person, place or thing – it is their LifeGraph. It is secure, dynamic, independently verifiable, provable and trustable. From this centerpoint, BurstIQ understands that eliminating corruption and fraud requires cooperation between numerous entities that have not, until now, had an effective mechanism to enforce the checks and procedures that make up anti-corruption and anti-fraud systems. The BurstIQ platform offers an effective and manageable solution that allows government agencies, private enterprises and consortiums to enforce anti-fraud systems and enable appropriate information sharing between needto-know stakeholders. Specific Goals 1. Establish key partnerships related to secure identity management for individuals and health professionals. BurstIQ actively supports both public and private partners for e-identity, know your customer (KYC) and anti-money laundering (AML), provider credentialing, revenue cycle, insurance fraud and other services. BurstIQ allows these partners to securely manage highly sensitive personally identifiable information (PII), regulate data access through cryptographic ownership and granular consent, provide individuals with greater control over their identity and health data, and enable independent verification and auditability of both stakeholders and processes. Progress to Date In the last year, BurstIQ established several partnerships that are focused on secure identity and health profile solutions and that will advance BurstIQ’s progress towards enabling Principle Ten of the UN Global Compact. As described above, BurstIQ’s partnership with Shyft Network is focused on enabling accountability, privacy and security in national e-identity systems. The solution provides citizens of sovereign nations with the ability to securely manage their identity information and allows institutions to verify customers’ identities while simultaneously maintaining both individual data privacy and public accountability and trust. This system reduces bad actors’ ability to illegally access identity data and manipulate identity verification processes. Secure Health Chain allows individual consumers to gain direct control over their health information and shifts the traditional model of health data marketplaces towards a more person-centric approach. Using the BurstIQ platform, Secure Health Chain provides a consumer-facing personal health record and medical data marketplace that allows consumers to directly control if and how their data is incorporated into downstream research. The Secure Health Chain solution increases transparency and reduces the potential for fraudulent and unauthorized data sharing. www.burstiq.com 7 UN Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress In addition to these partnerships, BurstIQ is pursuing multiple yet-to-be-announced initiatives focused on increasing transparency and reducing fraud in the health industry. 2019-2020 ROADMAP Over the next twelve months, BurstIQ will expand on the groundwork that has been set in this initial year of our participation in the UN Global Compact. As we begin our second year, we have identified two core goals that will allow us to progress towards full achievement of the Ten Principles: 1. Develop specific quantitative metrics that our company will capture each year to reflect our progress towards the Ten Principles. 2. Codify our platform policies and monitoring processes to ensure that usage of the BurstIQ platform does not conflict with the Ten Principles. It is our great privilege to be the first blockchain company to be accepted into the UN Global Compact, and we hold our obligations in serious regard. We remain committed to the UN Global Compact in both letter and spirit, and we look forward to furthering our progress over the next months and years. www.burstiq.com 8
