Innovating. Accelerating. Enhancing. Sustainability Report 2019 A message from the CEO The world is growing at a rapid pace. The rising middle class needs solutions. We need safe products. We need better products. We desire products that are good for the planet. With a growing population comes problems that can and must be solved — but they are problems so complex that the solutions must come at a molecular level. And that is where Eastman comes in. Across the entire portfolio, we are delivering innovations that enable lightweighting cars, improved energy efficiency of tires, safer consumer products, reduced use of antibiotics in animals, enhanced water treatment and much more. I’m incredibly proud of the work our teams are doing to not only innovate products and develop new applications but also to pursue innovative recycling solutions to address the growing challenges of waste plastic in our environment. We are currently engaging potential partners and are encouraged by the tremendous interest in providing real solutions to this issue. Global disruptions and macro trends such as the pressing need to accelerate a more circular “ We are a company of problem solvers. And right now, our people economy and enable a lower-carbon economy drive us to innovate sustainably — faster. As we are tackling the biggest problems relentlessly engage our markets and convert those market complexities into value, we are at a tipping point. Sustainability isn’t simply a nice product attribute. It’s a requirement. Consumers we’ve ever faced — problems that demand it, and our customers expect it. Sustainability isn’t a corporate initiative at Eastman but a face us all. Our goal is to transform core value of our innovation-driven growth strategy. tomorrow by revolutionizing the With the publication of this report, we are reaffirming Eastman’s commitment to the 10 principles materials that shape it today. of the United Nations Global Compact as well as alignment to global standards, including Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Sustainable Development Goals. Throughout the report, I hope you will — Mark J. Costa see that sustainability is part of who we are. We are a company of problem solvers. And right now, our people are tackling the biggest problems we’ve ever faced — problems that face us all. Our goal is to transform tomorrow by revolutionizing the materials that shape it today. Mark J. Costa Board of Directors Chair and Chief Executive Officer 2 Eastman at a glance Eastman (NYSE:EMN) Global advanced materials and specialty additives company that produces a broad range 4 business segments Additives & Functional Products (AFP) Advanced Materials (AM) Chemical Intermediates (CI) Fibers of products found in items people use every day 2018 revenue approximately $10 billion ★ Headquartered in Kingsport, Tennessee, USA 2018 sales revenue by end-use market 2018 sales revenue by region 51 manufacturing sites* Building & Construction in 14 countries 13% 16% *Including joint ventures 11% Industrial Chemicals & Consumables 42% 27% North America Europe, Middle Processing $4.3 billion East & Africa 8% – Food, Feed & $2.8 billion 25% Agriculture 20% Asia Pacific $2.5 billion 8% – Filter Media 6% Latin America Approximately Transportation $588 million 14,500 employees – Consumer/Medical around the world 7% Durables 2% – Other Health & 7% Serving customers Wellness/ 5% 3% – Electronics Energy, Fuels & Water in more than 100 countries Personal Care Awards and recognition Eighth consecutive Responsible Care® Energy Visit eastman.com ENERGY STAR® Partner Efficiency Awards from for additional awards of the Year award, sixth American Chemistry and recognition. Sustained Excellence honor Council 26 years in a row Sixth consecutive 3 An interview with our CSO, David Golden Innovating. Accelerating. Enhancing. Give us some background on what you do at Eastman. Working with a world-class team, I have the opportunity to help lead the company’s engagement of our ecosystem of stakeholders. We’ll start with our communities who grant us our license to operate. If a community isn’t behind you, you’re not going to be around very long. Our communities elect the government officials with which our government relations team engages. Government makes laws, and as the Chief Legal Officer, I help manage legal compliance and other processes for Eastman. I sometimes interface with our investors on ESG (environmental, social and governance) performance. They increasingly care about how we are addressing risks and opportunities in these areas. Our global business conduct organization is certainly a very important governance function. I also serve as secretary to the Board of Directors, which again is a good fit from a governance standpoint. As the Chief Sustainability Officer, I help marry our corporate strategy with global trends. A big piece of that is focused on health, safety, environment and security. I oversee several other supporting functions, including David Golden, Senior Vice President, Chief Legal & Sustainability Officer, and Corporate international trade strategy and product stewardship. And then there is Secretary, Eastman, confers with judges at the 2019 International Marine Advanced corporate communications, which permeates nearly everything. We’re a Technology Education (MATE) ROV competition. complex company, so it’s not an easy task to communicate our complexity to all of these various stakeholders in a simple and straightforward way. you can find a home for materials that right now don’t have a very good home, that’s a place where we can make a material difference. In order What project are you most excited to explore? to change the trajectory, we need to help give options to 7.5 billion people When you look at the demands on the world’s resources, it’s absolutely to make better choices. Through Eastman’s circular technologies, we’re the circular economy. Data shows that in North America, society is living giving, in a very dramatic fashion, other options that don’t exist today. at about seven times what the resources of the world can support in the The world is complex; the global value chain is complex; how materials long term, and Europe’s living at about five times. We can’t continue this are made and how innovation occurs is complex; and we are standing at way. So offering an end-of-life solution where there is no end of life, so the crossroads of that complexity right now and translating it into value. you can cycle that material back and reuse it, is a game changer. When It’s very exciting! continued on page 5 4 An interview with our CSO (continued) Let’s talk about that a bit deeper. What does Eastman’s involvement in advancing the circular economy mean to you personally? “ With our advanced recycling technologies, our commitment to finding innovative products with better beginning-of-life When we started working with the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution several years ago, it really made us think about the interconnectivity of and end-of-life solutions, and our engagements with other everything — energy, water, food, materials. It takes energy and water to make food. It takes food and water to make energy. Everything is a tradeorganizations through opportunities like the Ellen MacArthur off. You can’t do damage in one space without doing damage in all. And if Foundation’s CE100, I’m confident in Eastman’s ability to play a you help in one the right way, you help all. So we quickly recognized, from climate change and microplastics to the protein we consume and literally catalytic role in advancing the circular economy. the air we breathe, everything connects to the ocean. — David A. Golden Senior Vice President, Chief Legal & It’s a big deal, but as land-based creatures, we really don’t pay as much Sustainability Officer, and Corporate Secretary attention. So, yes, I’ve certainly got a great deal of passion for circular economy, in part because we’ve been on this journey before the journey What does #materialsmatter mean to you? was popular. I’ll return to this concept of changing the trajectory that we’re on. When Global issues like waste plastic can’t be solved without the Eastmans of the you look at our eight ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year awards and being world playing our part. That’s where I think the Ellen MacArthur Foundation one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies six times, we do a lot of good is doing such a superb job. It’s crystal clear to me that they’re bringing within the fence line. But our greatest good is done outside the fence line. people to the table to drive problem solving. It’s the “we’re all in this When you sell materials that enable safety glass or you innovate a together, bring your best solutions” approach. With our advanced recycling material for the health care market so fewer people get postoperative technologies, our commitment to finding innovative products with better infections because the housing is more easily disinfected, you’re literally beginning-of-life and end-of-life solutions, and our engagements with other saving lives. As we enable goods to last longer, we reduce waste. When organizations through opportunities like the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s you develop a coating that reduces 30 percent of the energy intensity CE100, I’m confident in Eastman’s ability to play a catalytic role in to make a car … you could go one by one with our materials. So when advancing the circular economy. It’s an exciting time to be at Eastman. you look at a future with two billion more people by 2050, this growing I think companies that get this right will have more engaged employees. population with more money and higher expectations for the products Employees are smart, and they have a choice. Why would they want to they purchase, we bring solutions at the molecular level that really change work with a company that’s not helping solve global problems? Why the equation. Our materials really do matter. would they want to work with a company that’s not creating more value than the resources they use? 5 Sustainability strategy Saflex® head-up display (HUD) interlayer technology Now automotive engineers can cost-effectively implement head-up display (HUD) features to bring safety and security to all sorts of vehicles — not just fighter pilots and luxury cars. Sustainability strategy Eastman is dedicated to enhancing the quality of life in a material way — making a positive impact on the world by offering our Focused stakeholders a dedicated approach to sustainable innovation. good for good Creating shared value We’re driven to help address the changing needs of the world and through strategic partnerships its growing population. In short, sustainability is at the heart of our and social innovation company purpose and strategy. Steering Driving a sustainable resource portfolio productivity Creating innovative Creating productivity To drive sustainability as a company, however, you must first define value through our value through more what it means. We ultimately define sustainability as creating more sustainable products efficient use of resources value than the resources we use. With that definition as the foundation, ongoing stakeholder and value chain engagement, and a transformational corporate vision to become “The Materials Innovation Company,” we’ve developed a comprehensive sustainability strategy with commitments to create value in three areas: steering a sustainable portfolio, driving resource productivity, and focused good for good. While we have corporate goals, While we have corporate goals, commitments and strategies in place commitments and strategies in place in each of these areas, we find that we create the greatest value — the in each of these areas, we find that we greatest collective impact — in the intersections and collaboration spaces create the greatest value — the greatest where these focus areas overlap. We firmly believe to truly enhance the collective impact — in the intersections quality of life, you can’t have one without the others. and collaboration spaces where these focus areas overlap. 7 Sustainability strategy (continued) Steering a sustainable portfolio Eastman is driving sustainable innovation Health and wellness by assessing and identifying global macro Feeding a growing population Natural resource efficiency trends and disruptions that intersect with our world-class technology platforms. We recognize that understanding global Key challenges and where our world is going is macro critical to ensure the value of our product trends portfolio and innovation pipeline. The world faces a number of issues tied Our business and innovation teams complete to disruptive macro a sustainability assessment on new innovation trends, and solutions projects and product developments. The to those issues can assessment, developed in alignment with Emerging middle class be developed on the work by the chemical sector of the World molecular level. Business Council for Sustainable Development, is designed to be a holistic framework for identifying and assessing market needs and Macro trends aligned to our corporate strategy expectations tied to sustainability. We have identified four key macro trends aligned to our corporate strategy that we are leveraging to drive innovation: health and wellness, natural resource efficiency, emerging middle class, and As we understand the sustainability impact of feeding a growing population. our projects individually, we are elevating this to look at the impact of our collective portfolio. We believe it is our responsibility to develop new molecules, products, and applications to address For example, we set our sights on best practices these trends — solutions that make a material difference in everyday lives and enhance the quality to enable carbon reductions and offsets in of life around the world. We have deepened our application development and market development manufacturing processes. We also established capabilities, enabling us to be valued as preferred innovation partners. By better understanding where a team to help address the growing impact our products go after they leave our facilities, we are actively addressing global problems, exploring of plastics in our waterways and ocean to ideas to close the loop, helping to unlock value beyond consumption, and empowering accelerate a more circular economy. new economies of scale. 8 Sustainability strategy (continued) Driving resource productivity Earning the right to operate is a expanded across the value chain — upstream and downstream — to include our customers, responsibility Eastman takes very seriously. suppliers, markets, consumers, partners and We understand that even the smallest investors. This changing landscape combined with the mounting, inextricable linkage of action can have a lasting effect. Therefore, energy, water, food and materials has never As a Challenge partner in DOE’s Better managing resources well, maintaining safe, been more complex or more critical to address. Plants program, Eastman is committed sustainable operations, and preserving the The significance of climate change, the urgency to accelerate the circular economy, and the need to improving its energy performance ecosystem are top priorities. to enable a lower-carbon economy continue to across all U.S. operations by 20% from Driving resource productivity encompasses a increase at a rapid pace. We are taking action as holistic approach to responsible and efficient a company to do our part while assessing the a 2008 baseline while sharing strategies management of our resources and goes beyond long-term risks and opportunities relative to our and results. Earlier this year, Daniel R. compliance with laws and regulations. We business that these issues may represent. recognize that the regulatory landscape has Simmons, Assistant Secretary for the In our operations, we set clear expectations and foster a zero-incident mindset, from a Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy safety and environmental perspective as well Office at DOE, recognized Eastman’s as in compliance, values and behaviors. We review our goals regularly and establish targets showcase project: the elimination of two Food that challenge us to raise the bar. As we focus compressors, which resulted in an annual our efforts on optimized natural resource efficiencies, we address the resources consumed energy and cost savings of eight percent throughout the manufacturing value chain while Energy for the associated production area. Water providing sustainable solutions for the world’s growing population. Materials 9 Sustainability strategy (continued) Focused good for good For nearly a century, we’ve had a strong history of supporting communities around the world. Our corporate responsibility and community engagement strategy allows us to focus platforms and initiatives that can make the biggest difference. Our strategy is built on strategic partnerships and collaborations, and we challenge ourselves to enable the most positive change through the lens of our four priority areas — education, environment, empowerment, and economic growth — concentrating our efforts on projects and partnerships that cross multiple priorities. See “Partnering to drive social innovation” on page 23. We also know that our employees can play a role in creating positive change in our local communities and society at large. We’re fostering inclusion that inspires innovation, encourages respect, and enables the highest level of contributions. People are the heartbeat of our societal “ We are dedicated to making a difference in our global impact, so it’s critical that every Eastman team member can show up and be their best self every day. communities by investing in For us, corporate responsibility and social innovation are more than just philanthropy. They shape how we operate and engage inside and outside the company. We call it “good for good” because we creative solutions that empower truly believe in the power of doing good for the simple purpose of doing good in the world. and inspire others to take action on Dr. Amy Cuddy, social psychologist and environmental and social issues. author of the New York Times best-selling — CeeGee McCord book Presence, inspired more than 500 Director, Global Public and Community Affairs attendees to be their boldest selves at the 2018 IDEAcademy event held in Kingsport, Tennessee. Dr. Cuddy discussed the impact nonverbal behavior can have on a person’s own thoughts, performance, and psychological and physical well-being. She shared how “victory poses” or “power poses” are a universal expression of confidence and pride that crosses cultures, encouraging attendees to strike a power pose before entering a challenging situation to build confidence and sense of power. 10 Stakeholder engagement and value chain I N FLU E N C E R S Collaboration and transparency inside the company and along RC H C OA SEA LIT IO RE NS the value chain are critical to develop innovative solutions and D AN & CO IA Co n drive positive change. EM su UN AD m CI AC er Community Eastman actively works across the value chain and within globally recognized Retail Channel s LS frameworks, partnering to address the world’s biggest challenges. As a publicly R EG S traded, global company, Eastman’s value chain represents a broad range of N ER O RY stakeholders, from employees, communities, customers and investors to S T R AT EG I C PA RT U L AT consumers, influencers, regulatory agencies and academia. We actively engage B D ra n Cu ow ds these stakeholders through a variety of ongoing processes at the corporate, st n s , Eastman o m t re rs regional and local levels. Stakeholder engagement varies in type and er am s Stakeholders ve to s G OV E R frequency by stakeholder group. While we do not report specific details In of all engagements, examples are represented below and to the right. Direct E NME D Examples of engagement TR A NT Customers Employees Su Stakeholders How we engage RY pp AC T li e T Employees Surveys, intranet, campaigns, events, training, US rs IV ST I participation in sustainability-focused teams/ D S IN organizations NS A N IZ NO Direct customers Meetings, calls, conferences, surveys, collaborative ATI NGO projects, website, industry memberships O TA L O RG ENT V ER N M Brands, original equipment manufacturers, and downstream customers Retail channel Stakeholders across Suppliers the value chain Consumers Website, social media, trade shows drive collaboration to generate sustainable Community Advisory panels, surveys, website, events, newsletters, collaborative projects, community solutions and bring about service positive change. Investors Meetings, calls, public conferences, annual report, public filings and releases, surveys 11 Stakeholder priority assessment As our strategy evolves with the world’s Stakeholder ESG Business changing demands, we continue to assess SDGs Macro trends engagement assessments strategy and identify the emerging issues that are most relevant for our stakeholders. External inputs Internal inputs Our approach to assessing stakeholder priorities • We completed a third-party assessment • We derived an internal corporate assessment involves multiple frameworks, tools and forms of our external stakeholder groups using of relevant sustainability issues through of engagement. By gaining insights to global Datamaran, a business intelligence tool cross-functional working teams within the trends and issues as well as gathering input and that analyzes public sources of information, company’s ESG Council and Sustainability feedback from a diverse range of stakeholders including annual financial reports, Subcouncils. This assessment included at the corporate, regional and local level, we sustainability reports, SEC filings, regulatory prioritization of global macro trends that better understand relevant sustainability initiatives, accredited media, and social media. inform the company’s overarching innovationissues and macro trends that align to the driven growth strategy as well as business • We assessed Eastman’s performance and company’s strategy. strategies and priorities. public commitments on sustainabilityOver the past year, we completed an related issues that fall within the standard • We surveyed a random representative sample updated stakeholder priority matrix based environmental, social and governance (ESG) of Eastman’s global employee population. on the importance our stakeholders place on framework based on a number of third-party • We surveyed a sample of local community sustainability issues, Eastman’s prioritization of ESG assessments and reporting frameworks, representatives. these issues relative to our business strategy, including Sustainalytics, MSCI, Institutional The results of the internal and external surveys and the level of impact an issue may have on Shareholder Services (ISS), Carbon Disclosure were combined and presented in the matrix our reputation. The process included several Project (CDP), and EcoVadis. visualization on page 13. Prioritization inputs to develop a comprehensive view of • We assessed the company’s goals and and effective management of these priorities, potential risk areas and opportunities: commitments against the United Nations ESG issues and opportunities are integrated Sustainable Development Goals. in our strategy, business models, risk management, and governance, driving continued commercial success. 12 Stakeholder assessment matrix ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE EMPLOYEE RIGHTS CLIMATE CHANGE AND AIR QUALITY HIGH IMPORTANCE GEOPOLITICAL EVENTS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY POLLUTION/WASTE INNOVATION COMPETITIVE PRESSURE WATER SOLVENCY AND ECONOMIC VALUE External stakeholder view CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITY HEALTH AND SAFETY ENERGY EFFICIENCY GOVERNANCE NATURAL CAPITAL FAIR AND INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE TRANSPARENCY RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN HUMAN RIGHTS TALENT AND DEVELOPMENT LOCAL COMMUNITY SUPPORT RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES HIGH IMPORTANCE Eastman view Relative ranking LOW The results of the internal and external surveys were MEDIUM combined and presented in this matrix visualization. HIGH 13 Governance Creating sustainable value for our stakeholders is Sustainability is ingrained in our governance structure at every level important to us, and how we achieve those results is Presented to Eastman Board of Directors at least twice a year just as important. We are committed to conducting all business activities in accordance with the highest legal Provides executiveSustainability Council level guidance and ethical standards, and sustainability is ingrained in and direction our governance structure at every level. Sustainability Subcouncils Identify and assess Design, risks and opportunities Board of Directors Sustainable Environment, Social Make recommendations for short-, midand Eastman’s Board of Directors and the Board’s committees Portfolio & Natural Innovation long-term action oversee compliance with legal and regulatory requirements Resources as well as development and management of policies and practices in their respective areas of responsibility (see more online at eastman.com/investors). Chaired by Julie F. Holder, Eastman Functions Prepare for the Health, Safety, Environment & Security (HSES) Committee midterm opportunities is a board committee of all the independent directors and oversees the company’s sustainability performance. Additives & Execute against Eastman’s Chief Sustainability Officer meets regularly with Functional Advanced Chemical Fibers short-term Materials Intermediates the HSES Committee to review and, where appropriate, make Products opportunities recommendations to the Board regarding the Company’s policies and practices concerning health, safety, environment, security, sustainability, and political activities. Eastman’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters are available on the website. Additional information is available in Governance structure Eastman’s 2019 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement. Sustainability Subcouncils identify and assess risks and opportunities to make recommendations for short-, Sustainability Council midand long-term action. The Sustainability Council Eastman’s Sustainability Council was established in 2010 provides executive-level guidance and direction. to lead the development of an integrated sustainability strategy that informs the corporation’s innovation platform and influences Eastman’s business objectives. Comprised of continued on page 15 14 Governance (continued) senior leaders from across the corporation, the Sustainability Examples of other Executive Team responsibilities Council drives alignment across the enterprise to address Chief Human Resources Officer emerging opportunities for Eastman as the world undergoes continuous transformation. • Inclusion and diversity • Ensure excellence in talent acquisition, retention, Sustainability Subcouncils management and development • Organizational effectiveness, employee relations and Eastman’s three Sustainability Subcouncils continue to labor relations activate deeper integration of sustainability throughout the corporation, bringing established goals to life. They are Chief Manufacturing, Engineering and Supply Chain Officer dedicated to changing the trajectory by driving a sustainable • Alignment of manufacturing operations and supply chain portfolio, effectively managing all of our resources and strategy to the company’s sustainability commitments enhancing social innovation. The Sustainability subcouncils • Asset design and improvements proactively identify emerging issues, assess internal gaps, • Capital spending for projects that help reduce the engage cross-functional teams and execute strategically company’s environmental footprint where Eastman can make the most impact. Chief Technology Officer Executive Team responsibility • Alignment of corporate innovation and technology Because sustainability is foundational to Eastman’s values strategies to Eastman’s sustainability commitments • Assessment of disruptive macro trends and integral to the company’s business strategy, members of • Development of robust innovation pipeline our executive team carry responsibility for our environment, • Sustainability assessment of product portfolio social and governance policies, processes and commitments. Eastman’s Chief Executive Officer and Board Chair Mark Chief Commercial Officer Costa has executive responsibility for the company’s strategy • Alignment of procurement and sales strategies and and performance, including sustainability performance as priorities with company’s sustainability strategy • Customer engagement to understand market needs it aligns to the corporate strategy. Company sustainability • Alignment to business strategies goals are included in the CEO’s annual personal performance commitments, including environmental performance goals and safety commitments, which align to the company’s focus on fostering a zero-incident mindset. Sustainability progress is reported to the Executive Team and the Board of Directors to ensure alignment of the company’s sustainability strategy with the corporate strategy. 15 Values, policies, and guidelines Core values Code of Business Conduct Our people are the heart of our success. We’re To be successful and fulfill our purpose of a team focused on winning, and we know it’s enhancing the quality of life in a material way, not just what we achieve together; it’s how we must maintain trust and confidence with we achieve it that helps us create value and all of our stakeholders. Eastman has a number sustain success. Eastman’s culture is rooted of policies and initiatives in place that allow in a common set of values that are shared employees to cultivate a culture of integrity and by the global Eastman team. These values — ethical standards. The company has an Office safety and wellness, honesty and integrity, of Global Business Conduct, which administers inclusion and diversity, sustainability — are our the Code of Business Conduct. The code raises Responsible Care® foundation. They remain constant. We strive to awareness of legal and ethical issues that may Eastman has an established Responsible always do the right thing. From maintaining safe arise and outlines the company’s expectations Care® policy that outlines the company’s and reliable operations to developing insights for compliance with the most current commitment to continually improve its health, that benefit our customers to innovating the regulations and standards. Annual training on safety, environment and security performance. future, we’re focused on making a difference for the Code of Business Conduct is required for For more than 30 years, Responsible Care has the many people who count on Eastman, today 100% of employees. been the cornerstone of Eastman’s global HSES and tomorrow. In conjunction with the Code of Business policies and practices. Eastman also adheres to Conduct, Eastman provides a Third-Party Code the Responsible Care Global Charter, which goes of Conduct to our suppliers, which defines our beyond the original elements of Responsible Safety and Honesty and expectations for conducting business with Care. The charter focuses on new and important Wellness Integrity Eastman. We expect the same ethical behavior challenges facing the chemical industry and of our suppliers and hold them accountable global society, as well as the need for greater via annual supplier surveys to drive the highest industry transparency and the opportunity to Inclusion and Sustainability standards of sustainability, fair labor practices achieve greater harmonization and consistency Diversity and safety along our value chain. among the national Responsible Care programs currently implemented. 16 Values, policy, and guidelines (continued) Environmental stewardship Safety Eastman is committed to global excellence in Eastman operates in a culture environmental stewardship as outlined in our committed to safety excellence. environmental stewardship policy. Caring for By fostering a zero-incident the environment continues to be an important mindset, we believe that part of our legacy, our culture, and our brand. workplace incidents and injuries The guiding principles listed within the policy are preventable. The safety of are expectations and basic responsibilities for all our employees, contractors, customers, visitors, employees and contractors at all times and at and communities is a core value. Working safely all locations. and looking out for the safety of others is an expectation and a basic responsibility of all The concept of a holistic zero-incident employees and contractors at all times and at all locations. mindset centers on a complete focus on each task at hand and a view that all Climate and carbon Eastman realizes the significance of climate incidents are preventable. The zero incident change and the need to act in response to its mindset embraces all of our values: effects. We understand that even small actions Natural resource management can create positive change. We continually safety and wellness, inclusion and diversity, An understanding of increasing global evaluate and improve our strategies focused ethics and integrity, and sustainability. demands and limited natural resources drives on the efficient use of natural resources our commitment to improved performance and environmental protection and seek and continual innovation. Energy, water, opportunities for decarbonization within our food and materials are critically linked, operations. We also innovate to bring lowerand an understanding and appreciation of carbon solutions to the market through this nexus is imperative to provide for the sustainable products. We are committed to needs of future generations in a resourcecontinuing voluntary, responsible actions on constrained environment. The guiding principles climate change. listed within our policy complement the environmental stewardship policy with a clear focus on responsible management of our finite natural resources. 17 Sustainability in action Eastman Naia™ cellulosic yarn Made from the cellulose esters of renewable wood pulp, Eastman Naia™ cellulosic yarn is a new brand of fiber that can be knitted or woven into fabric, providing comfort, ease of care, and excellent dry rates for textiles and garments. Accelerating a more circular economy Sustainability in action Collaborations As an innovation-driven materials Fast forward and the global issue of waste plastics and plastics in the ocean has company developing solutions for the quickly escalated. While the desire to create world, it’s critical that we have a better a more circular economy has grown over time, the concept has become one of critical understanding of the world around us mass across nearly all industries and markets. and the macro trends impacting it. Driven by increasing public awareness and the changing regulatory landscape, many consumer In 2012, Eastman connected with product companies are setting aggressive goals Advanced circular recycling for reducing waste, incorporating sustainably Through the process of methanolysis, polyester world-class ocean scientists at the Woods sourced feedstocks and increasing the plastic materials are taken back to their polymer recyclability of their products or packaging. As a building blocks. These building blocks can then Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI) materials company, we are actively engaging our be reintroduced to the production of new to hear their thoughts on some of the markets and our customers to determine how polyester-based polymers. Advanced circular we can leverage our technologies and application recycling technology can be an especially biggest challenges facing the planet. development expertise to help enable those impactful solution as low-quality polyester companies to meet their goals and accelerate a waste that would typically be diverted to From this interaction, we came to more circular economy. landfills can instead be recycled into highquality polyesters in our specialty plastics realize the threat of climate change In early 2019, Eastman introduced two portfolio suitable for use in a variety of end innovative chemical recycling technologies: and waste plastics. markets, including food contact applications. advanced circular recycling and carbon renewal technology. Complementary to mechanical Carbon renewal technology (traditional) recycling, these solutions can unlock Capable of recycling some of the most complex value in waste plastics that cannot be recycled plastic materials, from specialty materials to or is difficult to recycle today, delivering a true mixed plastics to alloys and components, this circular solution. new recycling technology addresses plastics that cannot be recycled with conventional continued on page 20 19 Accelerating a more circular economy (continued) recycling technologies, diverting materials such A pictorial model of Eastman’s as flexible packaging and plastic films, among advanced circular recycling others, from landfills. By modifying the front end of Eastman’s acetyls production stream, carbon renewal technology converts mixed plastic LANDFILL feedstock back to simple and versatile molecular MECHANICAL components. The process partially oxidizes the RECYCLING plastic, converting the feedstock input at very Consumers dispose of Eastman provides high efficiency back into the basic building 1 polyester and waste plastic is collected. 2 the advanced rrecycling technology to complement mechanical rrecycling. blocks of Eastman’s cellulosics product lines that serve industries such as ophthalmics, durables, packaging, textiles and nonwovens. Eastman is a partner in the Ellen MacArthur Foundation Mass Balance white paper project. Partnership and collaboration across the value chain is critical to give these circular solutions the scale and capacity that the challenges demand. Earlier this year, Eastman joined the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s Circular Economy Downstream products Through methanolysis, 100 (CE100), a collaborative environment 5 provide brands with opportunity to meet 3 waste plastic is converted back to its monomer building blocks focused on bringing business, innovators, their commitments on recycled content. The rrecycled feedstock can to create recycled feedstock. cities, governments, universities, and thought 4 then be rreintroduced to the production of new materials. leaders together to create solutions that enable a more circular economy. We collaborated with other members on the Mass Balance white paper project. continued on page 21 20 Accelerating a more circular economy (continued) A pictorial model of Eastman’s Because preventing plastic leakage through the carbon renewal technology. supply chain of a product is a key component to circular economy, Eastman also joined the Plastic Leak Project led by Quantis with the By modifying the front end of our cellulosics and acetyls primary focus of increasing science, data and methodology to better measure plastic leakage. LANDFILL MECHANICAL 2 production, mixed waste plastics are converted back to Through our established relationship with Woods simple and versatile molecular RECYCLING Consumers dispose components via our carbon Hole Oceanographic Institution, Eastman is renewal technology. 1 other of mix mixed plastics and feedstocks. serving as a facilitator to help engage scientific experts and advocate for sound science. Other initiatives and memberships to reduce leakage include Plastics Industry Association and Operation Clean Sweep. Learn more at eastman.com/circulareconomy. By rrecycling postindustrial or pre-consumer scrap materials or 5 products, we can help close the loop and prevent leakages throughout the product life. 4 Downstream products provide brands with opportunity to meet their commitments on 3 Without compromising safety or omising saf performance, Eastman materials with recycled content can be made into “ Ascananow leader in materials innovation, Eastman provide unique circular solutions recycled content. products used by consumers every day. that will support our customers and endusers in achieving their sustainability goals. — Steve Crawford Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer 21 Accelerating a more circular economy, continued In addition to our recycling technologies One of the biggest challenges was managing Avra™ recycled performance fibers food waste. The team contracted a local and partnerships, we are embracing a more composting company to process any food circular economy in tangible ways — from waste, which resulted in more than 1,100 pounds of food waste being diverted from reducing waste to commercializing products landfill. Beyond that, the team donated any with a better beginning and end-of-life. food that was prepared but not served to Second Harvest for distribution to local families and organizations. Minimizing waste, one event at a time Eastman’s Corporate Events team challenged themselves to embed sustainable meeting Treva™ engineering bioplastic Debuting in Spring 2020, Eastman Avra™ practices into the company’s Global Innovation recycled performance fibers transforms our Summit earlier this year. The event brought existing performance fibers technology by 1,000 employees and guests from around producing it with 100 percent post-consumer the world to Kingsport. With an emphasis on recycled PET material across the portfolio. Avra™ minimizing waste, the team served zero singleis a family of performance fibers enabled by a use bottled waters, diverting an average oneproprietary spinning technology. The exceptional to-two bottles per attendee/per day from the moisture and thermal management imparted landfill, encouraged reusable water bottles, used by Avra™ fibers means fabrics dry quickly — Eastman Treva™ engineering bioplastic will be reusable dinner ware and food service supplies, up to 50 percent faster than conventional one of the first Eastman products to benefit and worked with other Eastman teams to create polyester fabrics — helping wearers stay from carbon renewal technology, which will a mobile app for the event, resulting in limited more comfortable during demanding physical further enhance Tre-va’s beginning-of-life use of paper for printed materials. activities and reducing drying times. profile. Tre-va™ is a cellulose-based plastic for opaque and color-tinted materials with better performance and less environmental impact. In addition to having over 40 percent of its content from biobased materials, Tre-va™ enabled by carbon renewal technology will have a significant part of its remaining content derived from allocated certified recycled plastic. 22 Partnering to drive social innovation Sustainability in action Partnerships and collaborations As our company has transformed over We prioritize catalytic projects and partnerships that combine our resources, the last several years, we’ve developed expertise and influence to drive social a comprehensive, global strategy for our innovation in education, environment, empowerment and economic development. societal efforts. Our strategy focuses on Together with the Eastman Foundation, the the right projects in the right places with company works across the value chain to strategically align with business, government, the right partners where we can make the nongovernment and community organizations greatest collective impact. Perhaps the on the projects and initiatives that bring solutions to significant, real-world problems. most critical factors in this equation are the We look intently for those opportunities that partnerships and collaborations. open doors across multiple key areas, such as bringing together environment and education. We recognize the constraints on our natural resources; the inextricable linkage of water, energy, food, and materials; and the need for solutions to sustain us in the future. We also In 2018, the Eastman recognize that many of those solutions aren’t Foundation assisted in the available today. To that end, we are actively seven-acre expansion of working with organizations where we can take the Schoolyard Springs immediate actions to preserve and protect the PAUL KINGSBURY, THE NATURE CONSERVANCY Preserve in Shady Valley, environment as well as educate and develop the enabling The Nature Conservancy to implement next generation. a stream restoration For example, the Eastman Foundation’s project and open up 18-year partnership with The Nature additional opportunities for education and Conservancy has aided in the expansion of outreach efforts. continued on page 24 23 Partnering to drive social innovation (continued) wetlands for at least 26 rare, threatened or endangered plant and animal species, investing Our efforts to collaborate in this space started in 2012 with the Woods Hole Oceanographic “ Iteducation takes partners in business and to make these programs in the unique biodiversity of the Shady Valley Institution. Since that time, we’ve built a strong area of Northeast Tennessee’s South Fork platform of support for ocean research and and opportunities possible for Holston River basin. Shady Valley covers four education. We are actively promoting and preserves totaling 785 acres, including 549 acres enabling innovative technologies to accelerate students. Thanks to partners like of mountain land and 236 acres on the valley ocean research; developing unique educational Eastman, I know that our future floor. In 2018, the Eastman Foundation assisted curriculums for ocean processes, robotics and in the seven-acre expansion of the Schoolyard synthetic biology; and providing opportunities technical and engineering workforce Springs Preserve in Shady Valley, enabling The for students to compete in ocean science and is in good hands. Nature Conservancy to implement a stream robotics competitions at a national level. — Jill Zande restoration project and open up additional continued on page 25 president and executive director at MATE opportunities for education and outreach efforts. Inspiration for Innovation (MATE II) With its focus on addressing the most urgent conservation challenges at the largest scale by pursuing science-based, nonconfrontational, pragmatic, market-based solutions, The Nature Conservancy remains a valued Eastman Foundation partner as we work together to leave a sustainable world for future generations. We know that 70% of our world is covered with water — most notably, the ocean. So as we have looked at the complex macro trends facing society and our businesses over the last several years, we realized that, although the ocean is the fundamental driver of our climate, atmospheric, weather, food, energy and water systems, we know relatively little about it. If we are going to design products and technologies for the future, we need to know what that In June 2019, the Eastman Foundation, in partnership with STREAMWORKS, welcomed the 18th annual Marine Advanced future may hold. Technology Education (MATE) International ROV Competition to Kingsport, Tennessee. 24 Partnering to drive social innovation (continued) Bringing underwater robotics inland Earlier this year, the Eastman Foundation in partnership with STREAMWORKS, welcomed the 18th annual Marine Advanced Technology Education (MATE) International ROV Competition to Kingsport, Tennessee. Typically held in coastal cities, the MATE ROV Competition has historically focused on robotics in an ocean environment. To bring the competition to East Tennessee presented a unique opportunity to demonstrate how underwater robots can and are being used in inland waterways and freshwater environments. Hosted at the state-of-the-art Kingsport Aquatic Center, students put their remotely operated vehicles (ROVs) to the test with a focus on ensuring public safety, maintaining healthy waterways and preserving historical artifacts. Eastman’s education efforts to advance science, technology, engineering, arts and math (STEAM) hinge on strategic partnerships and initiatives such as MATE and STREAMWORKS to help ensure a successful workforce in the future. For more information about Eastman Foundation global initiatives, visit EastmanFoundation.com. 25 Translating trends into value Sustainability in action Macro trend examples Product examples Over the last several years, we have • Product safety in accelerated the transformation of Health and durables and packaging Eastman’s portfolio with the aspiration wellness • Low VOC coalescents to become the world’s leading materials innovation company. By leveraging our • Low odor in adhesives Emerging • Higher performing innovation-driven growth model, we’re products middle class committed to finding new applications for heritage Eastman products while acquiring specialty businesses that complement our Natural • CAFE standards resource technologies and investing in innovation • Bioplastics efﬁciency of new products to expand our portfolio. This unique model, based on our world-class Eastman Enhanz™ Feeding a • Antibiotic free Adding value to your recipe technologies, relentless market engagement growing • Crop yields Eastman population Banguard® and differentiated application development, propionic acid crop protection is central to our strategy. With a shift in strategy comes a shift in how we operate While sustainability is a term most people Eastman’s sales, marketing and procurement have heard, truly understanding global teams are doing. and engage across the value chain — sustainability drivers and macro trends was Understanding how disruptive macro trends downstream and upstream. traditionally a skill of a corporate sustainability impact consumers, markets and downstream team. That simply isn’t acceptable for us. To customers has become critical to our customer be successful, we must embrace sustainability engagement. It has also become a critical piece across the company. And that’s exactly what continued on page 27 26 Translating trends into value (continued) of supplier engagement. As we gain more insight — enabling more strategic and collaborative downstream, we must then translate that back engagements. Having a better understanding of to our internal teams and up the value chain the challenges facing our world creates the basis to our suppliers. Over the last year, our sales, for a different kind of conversation.” marketing and procurement organizations have As we look upstream to our supply base, our aligned under our Executive Vice President and sourcing teams have reenergized their focus Chief Commercial Officer, Brad Lich, and more on sustainable procurement. In 2015, Eastman recently under the leadership of Julie McAlindon, was the first U.S.-based company to join Chief Procurement Officer and Vice President, Together for Sustainability (TfS), a consortium Global Marketing & Sales. This alignment of 23 companies supporting transparency and allows us to consistently drive sustainability commitments and philosophy across these sustainable supply chains. Through this initiative, we have the ability to assess the sustainability “ Sustainability doesn’t start and stop at our manufacturing facilities. organizations — translating to a holistic performance our supply base using EcoVadis. approach to embedding sustainability into our It’s a continuum. We see that more We also provide our assessment to customers value chain engagement. looking to evaluate Eastman’s performance. and more with the heightened “The more we can integrate In 2018, the company scored in the 98th percentile, achieving EcoVadis Gold rating. focus on circular economy. sustainability into customer engagement, “Assessing the sustainability practices of our — Julie McAlindon translate that discovery into insight for supply base is essential — not optional,” says Vice President, Chief Procurement Officer, Global Marketing & Sales our innovation programs, and drive McAlindon. “If we are going to commit to sustainability as a company, then it’s a basic sustainable practices and expectations up expectation that our suppliers commit as well. the value chain to our suppliers, the more It’s simply part of doing business with Eastman. The sustainability of our portfolio relies not only success we will have,” says McAlindon. on how responsibly we manage resources to manufacture our products, but also, what basic “Embracing sustainability is a basic expectation materials are in it? How were they sourced? for our teams. We’ve invested resources into What sustainable certifications does the supplier training our sales teams to do deeper discovery have? These are all questions we must consider.” with our customers. We’ve focused on creating a differentiated experience for our customers continued on page 28 27 Translating trends into value (continued) “Sustainability doesn’t start and stop at our Based on the monomer technology found in manufacturing facilities. It’s a continuum. We Eastman Tritan™ copolyester, a leading material see that more and more with the heightened in food packaging and housewares, the unique focus on circular economy. So we are investing technology behind Eastman Tetrashield™ in our procurement and sales teams to enable protective resin systems delivers a balance them to actively integrate sustainability into of durability and flexibility for coatings used their daily operations and engagements. We in canned foods with improved performance, are reflective of the company transformation, shelf life, safety and regulatory compliance. shifting from technology-driven to marketSimply put, whether a can of food is on a store driven. It’s challenging. Change isn’t easy. But shelf or in a kitchen cabinet, a lot depends on we recognize that it is necessary to continue the coating inside: product life, food safety, delivering value and delivering on our promise regulatory compliance, and brand reputations. With BPA-free Eastman Tetrashield™ to enhance the quality of life in a material way.” Consumers trust the coating in the metal packaging will protect their food. . . and them. protective resin systems, food packaging Eastman Tetrashield ™ Additionally, the technology enables higherprofessionals can formulate coatings Through our innovation-driven growth model to solids coatings while maintaining excellent with a unique balance of durability relentlessly engage the market and leverage our application parameters. This allows for more technology platforms to deliver differentiated and flexibility. efficient film build, faster film drying, and applications, we are redefining coating systems. ultimately a more efficient coating process. And in a world that will have 2.5 billion more Tetrashield is a win for the consumer, the brands, people by 2050, including a growing middle the formulators, and Eastman. class demanding higher quality, safe and sustainable products, innovating new solutions is imperative. 28 Fostering a zero-incident mindset Sustainability in action Over the last year, we have expanded the We introduced the concept of a holistic we are making progress, we recognize the need zero-incident mindset, centered on complete to continue efforts to meet our safety targets definition of “incident” beyond personal focus on each task at hand and a view that and accelerate our journey towards the ultimate and process safety to include any departure all incidents are preventable in all of these goal of no one getting hurt. categories, focusing heavily on our values: from our core values, expected behaviors Over the last two years, we recommitted safety & wellness, inclusion & diversity, ethics & ourselves to pursuing and achieving continual and principles — the key elements of integrity, and sustainability. In short, we are who excellence in both personal and process safety. we say we are and do what we say we’re going Eastman’s strategy and culture. to do — the right way! We understand that serious events have the potential to impact all of our stakeholders — Safety especially our employees and communities Since introducing the ALL IN FOR SAFETY where we operate. We’ve shifted to measuring initiative in 2012, we’ve changed how we continued on page 30 discuss and approach safety at Eastman. While “ AFrom zero-incident mindset is an expectation for every employee. a health, safety, environmental, and security perspective, we believe all incidents are preventable and we strive for zero incidents — zero injuries, accidents, loss of primary containment events, permit deviations, and zero security breaches. We want every employee to approach each and every job with a zeroincident mindset and work proactively to prevent all incidents. — Hanneke Counts Vice President of Global Health, Safety, Environment & Security 29 Fostering a zero-incident mindset (continued) Safety, continued leading indicators to help assess and eliminate “ Amean zero-incident mindset doesn’t mean we are perfect, but it does we are committed to doing business the right way. It takes potential risks before they become an incident. For personal safety, we now track and report commitment by all of our team members to work with honesty and Serious Injuries and integrity and to speak up when we see something that doesn’t align Fatalities (SIF) and Potential SIF, and each of with our culture. — Karen Guske these cases are reviewed  Director of Public Policy and Global Business Conduct at the executive level. We are tracking process safety incidents as defined by Ethics & integrity integrity when faced with difficult decisions. the American Chemistry When it comes to fostering a zero-incident We recognize that how we treat each other at Council, looking beyond mindset, we can’t focus on safety alone. To work and how we interact with our external Tier I and II to leading indicators at Tier III be truly zero-incident, we must also focus on stakeholders determines how Eastman is viewed and IV. By reviewing lower-tier process safety having zero incidents when it comes to honesty by the business world, the communities in which events, we can proactively mitigate risk of and integrity. Our goal is to have zero incidents we operate, and potential future employees. higher-tier events. of unethical behavior. Every day, every employee A critical factor in fostering a zero-incident is personally responsible for upholding the mindset is reporting concerns. If faced with company’s values and not compromising our concerns over possible unethical behavior, we strongly encourage team members to promptly seek advice on the proper course of conduct or “ Processes and systems don’t innovate. People innovate. That means that every team we have on the ground at Eastman needs to feel report it. By voicing concern, team members help us maintain our culture of integrity and prevent or minimize harm. Eastman has a strict valued and be absolutely, fully engaged in order to contribute to no retaliation policy for employees who raise their fullest potential. Our focus on inclusion and diversity ensures concerns in good faith, even if the concern proves to be unsubstantiated. It is absolutely an environment where everyone’s unique perspectives and skills vital that we act ethically not only to maintain are leveraged to drive our corporate strategy and the experience our reputation and comply with laws and regulations, but also because it is simply the of fulfilling careers.  — Eryn O’Brien right thing to do.  Vice President of Global Talent Management continued on page 31 30 Fostering a zero-incident mindset (continued) Inclusion & diversity A key part of our commitment to operating “ Having a zero-incident mindset pushes us to set ambitious stretch goals. We may not already know exactly how we will get there, with the highest ethical business standards and integrity extends to creating an inclusive and that’s the exciting part. That drives creativity and collaboration. environment at Eastman. We’re striving to grow That drives strategic thinking. That drives innovation to deliver a workforce with increasingly diverse talents, perspectives and experiences that bring the best impactful solutions. ideas to the table. A zero-incident mindset is — Cathy Combs vital to fostering an inclusive culture that inspires  Director of Sustainability innovation, and enables our employees to bring their full selves to work every day and bring out Sustainability the best in each other. At Eastman, by leveraging Having a zero-incident mindset when it permits and regulations so that our employees, the diverse experiences and perspectives of comes to sustainability can mean many things communities, and everyone who depends all our employees, every employee has an to different people. And as we look at the on our compliance is protected. But having opportunity to achieve personal growth as well company’s value and how we are implementing a zero-incident mindset is much bigger as contribute to the growth of our business. zero-incident mindset, we realize they all than compliance. It’s about providing a future for our company, connect under the umbrella of sustainability, In a world that needs answers and solutions which is extremely important because when the encompassing governance, social and corporate that we simply don’t have today, having a zerocompany wins, our people win, our communities responsibility, and, of course, environmental incident mindset pushes us to define where we win, and all of our stakeholders win. We have performance. How we protect and conserve need to drive toward zero and think outside the a number of inclusion & diversity initiatives our natural resources and drive for continual lines to get there. The world needs innovation, that help us connect and engage our talent, environmental performance plays a critical and innovation isn’t easy. It doesn’t happen including Eastman Resource Groups (ERGs), role in Eastman’s sustainability commitments. overnight. But to be a sustainable company and immersive Leadership Learning Labs, and other We take our license to operate very seriously, sustain a growing population into the future, developmental experiences. We partner with and our communities expect us to operate in innovating smarter and faster is imperative. campuses and other organizations to recruit a manner that doesn’t negatively impact the Whether it is zero waste, zero emissions, carbon the best talent to our company. We support communities and environments where we neutrality, or circular economy, sustainability is local celebrations and events that strengthen work and live. For example, our environmental a continuum. While zero may not be realistic, it the communities where we live and work. permits, laws, and regulations are designed to will drive strategic shifts and behavior changes Learn much more about inclusion & diversity protect human health and the environment. to make a real impact. at Eastman.com. And so, because we care, we comply with these 31 Goals and progress This year, we continue to report on the goals and targets we established looking towards 2020. We review our goals regularly and establish targets that challenge us to continually improve. Priority goals Innovation Steering a sustainable PRODUCT PORTFOLIO Drive Eastman to innovate more portfolio sustainably advantaged products Creating innovative value through our sustainable products Energy Greenhouse gas emissions Driving resource Reduce energy intensity by 20% 2020by Reduce GHG intensity by 20% 2020by productivity Creating productivity value through more efficient Water Safety use of resources Increase water use efﬁciency Maintain our strong and ensure sustainable withdrawals commitment to a and supply zero-incident mindset Focused good for good Creating shared value through SUPPORT CATALYTIC strategic partnerships and projects and initiatives Focused on education, environment, empowerment, social innovation and economic development 33 Goals and progress Steering a sustainable portfolio Goal Progress details Drive Eastman to innovate more sustainably Within the first year of sustainability assessment integration into innovation: advantaged products • We completed assessments of approximately 40% of our innovation portfolio, up from 0% just one year earlier when the new assessment was launched. The assessments are completed collaboratively by project leaders, marketing and/or technical leaders in a facilitated setting guided by a Corporate Sustainability team member. Assessments adhere to the Framework for Portfolio Sustainability Assessments that Eastman collaborated with eight other chemical companies to develop jointly with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. • Approximately 80% of our innovation projects assessed (by count) are classified as sustainably advantaged or leadership level, the highest possible rating in our portfolio assessment. • Approximately 30% of the innovation portfolio (assessed and not yet assessed) is advantaged or leadership level. As we continue the integration of sustainability assessment into our innovation process, we are establishing baselines and targets. Currently, any innovation project not identified as sustainably advantaged or higher requires additional discussion and risk mitigation. Driving toward a more sustainable product portfolio requires leadership buy-in, culture and behaviors that reinforce and reward decisions to pursue development of sustainable products, tools to evaluate and track progress, goals and targets that are meaningful and strategic for our businesses and our corporation as a whole, and assurance systems to validate our evaluation and reporting. We are well into the journey to drive our portfolio decisions by intentionally incorporating sustainability as a choice in product innovation, and have made demonstrable progress by having already: created and launched a Sustainable Portfolio Subcouncil comprised of key influencers and sustainability champions across the company; designed and launched the assessment integrated into innovation; and begun to generate a baseline which we will use to set targets. We anticipate reporting the overall sustainability performance of our entire innovation portfolio in our 2020 sustainability report. Drive Eastman portfolio toward more Based on our innovation project assessments, we began to develop a commercial portfolio assessment process in sustainable offerings 2018 and are continuing through 2019 with the intention of initiating the commercial assessment toward the end of the year. At this time, we plan to report progress on metrics for this goal in the 2020 report. We anticipate tracking progress on metrics such as percent of Eastman revenue generated by sustainably advantaged products with goals for improvement over time. 34 Goals and progress (continued) Driving resource productivity Goal Progress details Improve energy efficiency of operations by Through 2018, energy intensity improved 10.9% compared to the 2008 baseline. 20% by 2020 against the 2008 baseline Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per 2018 greenhouse gas intensity decreased 20% compared to the baseline, meeting our 2020 target unit of production (GHG intensity) by 20% by ahead of schedule. 2020 against the 2008 baseline Increase water use efficiency and ensure While water is a basic need for our manufacturing operations, Eastman is committed to increasing water efficiency. sustainable withdrawals and supply Recycling water in manufacturing operations reduces water demand and raw water treatment costs and enhances energy and water efficiency. Essential recycling operations include condensate recovery and reuse and recirculating cooling towers as well as reuse of water within some processes for heat recovery. Total withdrawals are monitored for all sites where Eastman has controlling ownership. Water withdrawals for 2018 increased by 17% compared to 2017. The increase was heavily influenced by counting large rainfall events per the Carbon Disclosure Project methodology. Reduce total number of reportable releases by Improved process safety also reflects our strong commitment to environmental performance. In 2018, we had 25% by 2020 against the 2010 baseline. 54 reportable releases, a reduction of 11% compared to the 2010 baseline. Reduce volatile organic compounds (VOC) by 2018 VOC emissions decreased 17% compared to the baseline, exceeding our 2020 target. 15% by 2020 against the 2010 baseline Reduce toxic release inventory (TRI) 2017 TRI air emissions decreased 16% compared to the baseline. emissions to the air by 25% by 2020 against the 2010 baseline *See eastman.com/sustainability for detailed charts. continued on page 36 35 Goals and progress (continued) Driving resource productivity Goal Progress details Reduce hazardous waste (indexed to 2018 hazardous waste indexed to production increased 9% compared to the baseline. production) by 15% by 2020 against the 2010 baseline Maintain our strong commitment to a While we continue to make progress, we recognize the need to focus our efforts to develop a zero-incident mindset that zero-incident mindset encompasses all aspects of operational excellence, including personal safety and process safety. Specific to our safety goal, in 2018, we established process safety targets for each of our business segments and integrated process safety into the foundational structure of our business leadership teams. We understand that any process safety event isn’t acceptable in a zero-incident mindset, and serious events have the potential to impact all of our stakeholders. We are tracking process safety incidents as defined by the American Chemistry Council. Additionally, we have shifted our personal safety focus to track and report Serious Injuries and Fatalities (SIF) and Potential SIFs. This change represents a clear shift in our commitment and culture to track leading indicators and assess potential risks to prevent injury or incident before it occurs. Targets we continue to monitor and report: • 2018 Global Process Safety Incident Rate 0.11 against target of 0.13 • 2018 Global Recordable Injury Rate 0.73 against target of 0.54 • Zero employee or contractor fatalities in 2018 *See eastman.com/sustainability for detailed charts. “ Operating responsibly and driving continuous improvement takes engagement and commitment at every level of the company. There is no one-size-fits-all solution. The challenges facing our world are complex. The solutions are complex. And that’s where Eastman excels — converting complexity into value — every day. — Mark Cox Senior Vice President, Chief Manufacturing, Supply Chain, and Engineering Officer 36 Goals and progress (continued) Focused good for good Goal Progress details Support catalytic projects and initiatives Eastman leverages corporate and Eastman Foundation resources to invest in unique partnerships and initiatives that focused on education, empowerment, drive transformational change through the lens of four priority areas — education, empowerment, economic economic development and the environment development and environment. With the convergence of innovation, technology and sound science, we prioritize opportunities that allow us to combine the unique expertise of Eastman team members around the world with strategic partners to bring solutions to significant, real-world problems. Over the last year, Eastman has accelerated its efforts to help address the global waste plastic issues and advance the circular economy. In addition to the company’s investments to commercialize advanced recycling technologies for waste plastic, Eastman is partnering and actively collaborating with strategic influencers in the circular economy and blue initiatives space. Examples include Ellen MacArthur Foundation CE100, Quantis Plastic Leak Project, Business for Social Responsibility, Operation Clean Sweep, Singapore Chemical Industry Council’s Clear Shores, and the Clean Waters Campaign. Additional examples of initiatives and progress are included in this report and online at responsibility.eastman.com. 2018 Great Blue Challenge grant recipients Eastman Foundation, in conjunction with the 2018 G7 Summit, advocated for action to better understand our ocean by launching the Great Blue Challenge. The challenge is Marco Island Academy Oglethorpe Charter School Scripps Institution of designed to spark innovation Charter High School Oceanography, Mira Costa Savannah, Georgia and find unique, creative and College Naples, Florida potentially transformative Girls in Engineering and Maritime Robotic video reef observations Science (GEM) Carlsbad, California projects that will expedite ocean research. For more information, project Low-power wave energy converter visit GreatBlueChallenge.org. 37 Scope of report This report focuses on our progress and Based on the stakeholder mapping assessment other methods. Eastman has rigorous internal we completed for this report, we identified policies and practices to ensure the content of challenges during 2018 and early 2019 the topics of significance and indicators that this report is accurate. Additionally, Eastman’s and includes quantitative data for the are most relevant to our internal and external internal auditors assess the information stakeholders and their alignment to both in conformance with standards set by the year ending December 31, 2018, unless our strategy. We also examined our business Institute of Internal Auditors (U.S.). Internal otherwise noted. opportunities and risks and evaluated external auditors assessed the information contained trends related to our business. See Strategy and in the report to ensure appropriate supporting The report covers Eastman’s wholly owned Stakeholder engagement sections of this report documentation exists. Many of the financial operations. We are committed to including for more detail. data included are taken from the consolidated information on newly acquired sites within financial statements contained in the three years of acquisition. This report follows The data used in this report was collected Eastman 2018 Annual Report. the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) standard through several information management framework and meets requirements for the processes, including instrumentation, United Nations Global Compact Communication monitoring, sample collection and analysis, of Progress. engineering estimates, material balances and Other reports of interest Leadership. Innovation. Impact. Sustainability at Eastman Innovating Moving forward together with purpose Sustainability Report, June 2014 Covering the period January–December 2013 Sustainability Report 2017 Covering January–December 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Covering the period January–December 2015  1 2018 Annual 2018 Databook: 2018 Sustainability 2017 Sustainability 2016 Sustainability 2015 Sustainability 2014 Sustainability Report: Enhancing the Report: Changing the Report: Innovating Report: Report: Gaining Report: Moving Enhancing the quality of life in a Trajectory with Purpose Leadership. momentum forward together quality of life in a material way Innovation. material way Impact. 38 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Advanced Circular Recycling Advanced circular recycling complements basic mechanical recycling. Through methanolysis, polyester materials are taken back to their polymer building blocks. These building blocks can then be reintroduced to the production of new polyester-based polymers, delivering a true circular solution. Global Reporting Initiative content index This report aligns with the GRI Standards. Eastman self-declares the 2019 report as “In Accordance-Core.” The information included also serves as Eastman’s Communication of Progress as a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Disclosure UNCG* Number Description Cross-Reference or Answer Pages SDG* Connection GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization Eastman at a glance 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Eastman at a glance; Eastman brands 3 Marketing materials in all formats originate in the business organizations and are reviewed by attorneys and experts within Eastman’s Law Department. The team carefully reviews the content of the marketing materials to ensure compliance with applicable advertising laws, regulations and standards as well as Eastman’s Code of Business Conduct. When necessary, reviewers seek input from fellow Eastman experts or third-party consultants. 102-3 Location of headquarters Kingsport, Tennessee, USA 102-4 Location of operations Locations 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2018 10K Report 102-6 Markets served Eastman at a glance 3 Markets 102-7 Scale of the organization Eastman at a glance 3 2018 10K Report 102-8 Information on employees and other Appendix 54 workers 102-9 Supply chain Value Chain 13 102-10 Significant changes to the organization 2018 10K Report 8 6 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Sustainability Governance *UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals 40 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) Disclosure UNCG* Number Description Cross-Reference or Answer Pages SDG* Connection 102-12 External initiatives Responsible Care Product Stewardship 102-13 Membership of associations Memberships 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO message 2 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Stakeholder engagement and priority matrix; 2018 10K report 11 – 13 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms Values 16 10 of behavior Code of Business Conduct 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns Code of Business Conduct 16 10 about ethics 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns Code of Business Conduct about ethics Sustainability Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for Corporate Governance economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Corporate Governance 16 environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance Board of Directors 5, 16 body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Board of Directors 16 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Corporate Governance 5, 16 governance body *UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals 41 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) Disclosure UNCG* Number Description Cross-Reference or Answer Pages SDG* Connection 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance 16 102-26 Role of highest governance body in Corporate Governance 14 setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest Corporate Governance governance body 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance Corporate Governance body’s performance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, Corporate Governance 14 16 environmental, and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management Sustainability Governance processes 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and Sustainability Governance 14 social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in Sustainability Governance 14 sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Corporates Governance Guidelines 102-35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Guidelines Proxy Statement 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in Corporate Governance Guidelines 16 remuneration Proxy Statement 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio This is considered business confidential. 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total This is considered business confidential. compensation ratio 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder engagement 11 *UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals 42 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) Disclosure UNCG* Number Description Cross-Reference or Answer Pages SDG* Connection 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements As of June 1, 2018, collective bargaining agreements cover approximately 8 6 6% of Eastman’s U.S.-based workforce. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder engagement 11 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement 11 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder engagement and priority matrix 11, 13 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Scope of Report 38 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Scope of Report 38 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Stakeholder engagement and priority matrix 11, 13 102-48 Restatements of information None 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-50 Reporting period Scope of Report 38 102-51 Date of most recent report Scope of Report 38 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding Cathy Combs, Director of Sustainability the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index 40 102-56 External assurance Scope of Report 38 *UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals 43 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) Disclosure UNCG* Number Description Cross-Reference or Answer Pages SDG* Connection GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 2018 10K Report 7–13 boundary Corporate Overview Sustainability Strategy 103-2 The management approach and its 2018 10K Report, Corporate Overview, page 6 7–13 components Sustainability Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Goals and progress 32 GRI 201 Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 2018 10K Report, Part II, Item 8 2, 5 distributed 7, 8, 9 201-2 Financial implications and other risks Appendix 54 13 and opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and 2018 10K Report, Part II, Item 8, note 11 other retirement plans Benefits at Eastman 201-4 Financial assistance received from None government GRI 202 Market Presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired Appendix 55 from the local community GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services Appendix 55 2, 5 supported 7, 9 *UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals 44 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) Disclosure UNCG* Number Description Cross-Reference or Answer Pages SDG* Connection 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Appendix 55 8, 10, 17 GRI 204 Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Eastman’s policy is to procure products and services based on total value 12 for the company. Factors that Eastman considers when making purchasing decisions include competitive pricing, quality of work and materials, timely and trustworthy performance. Procurement strategies are continuously developed and implemented to provide assurance of sources for goods and services necessary to the company’s operations. Procurement strategies may include the development of a local supply based on business needs. GRI 205 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Eastman conducts an annual risk assessment of 100% of our businesses, which 16 10 corruption includes risks relating to corruption. 205-2 Communication and training about antiIn addition to our Code of Business Conduct, Eastman internal policies include 16 10 corruption policies and procedures training on anti-corruption. Each year, 100% of regular full-time and part-time, limited term and Eastman-paid employees worldwide are required to complete online Code of Business Conduct training. Employees with more sensitive roles are required to take additional training. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Where any incident of corruption was identified, appropriate disciplinary action 16 10 actions taken was taken in conformance with applicable laws. In addition, Eastman internal policies include training on anticorruption. GRI 206 Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive Any legal actions that are material for anticompetitive behavior, antitrust or behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly monopoly practices would be disclosed in Eastman’s filings with the Securities practices and Exchange Commission, and all such actions would generally be a matter of public record. *UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals 45 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) Disclosure UNCG* Number Description Cross-Reference or Answer Pages SDG* Connection GRI 301 Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Appendix 55 301-2 Recycled input materials used Appendix 56 GRI 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the Appendix 56 7, 8, 7, 8 organization CDP Climate 12, 13 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the In 2018, Eastman used about 30 trillion Btu of indirect energy in the form of 7, 8, 8 organization purchased steam and electricity to produce products. 12, 13 302-3 Energy intensity Energy 7,8, 8 CDP Climate 12, 13 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy 7, 8, 8, 9 CDP Climate 12, 13 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of Energy 7, 8, 11, products and services 12, 13 GRI 303 Water and Effluents 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared Water resource CDP Water 303-2 Management of water discharge-related Water impacts CDP Water 303-3 Water withdrawal Water CDP Water 303-4 Water discharge Appendix 56 CDP Water 303-5 Water consumption Water CDP Water *UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals 46 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) Disclosure UNCG* Number Description Cross-Reference or Answer Pages SDG* Connection GRI 304 Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, Biodiversity managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, Biodiversity products, and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity 6, 14, 8 15 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national Biodiversity conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations GRI 305 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Our 2018 direct greenhouse gas emissions using the ACC methodology were 3, 12, 7, 8 approximately 5.8 million metric tons. 13, 14, CDP Climate 15 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Our 2018 indirect greenhouse gas emissions using the ACC methodology were 3, 12, 7, 8 approximately 1.6 million metric tons. 13, 14, CDP Climate 15 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Emissions 3, 12, 7, 8 CDP Climate 13, 14, 15 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Appendix 56 13, 14, 8 CDP Climate 15 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Emissions 13, 14, 8, 9 CDP Climate 15 *UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals 47 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) Disclosure UNCG* Number Description Cross-Reference or Answer Pages SDG* Connection 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Eastman policies require all Eastman facilities, subsidiaries and majority owned 3, 12, 7, 8 (ODS) joint ventures that operate equipment containing ozone-depleting substances to develop and maintain an inventory of all ODS equipment including an identification of the equipment and type and quantity of refrigerant. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides Environmental performance 3, 12 7, 8 (SOX), and other significant air emissions 13, 15, GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste management 3, 6, 12 8 306-3 Significant spills Goals and progress 32 3, 6 8 Environmental performance 12, 14 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Goals and progress 32 Environmental performance GRI 307 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental Eastman uses an internal reporting mechanism to ensure that all fines and 8, 16 8 laws and regulations penalties associated with noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations are captured in one place. This system applies globally and includes all fines and penalties of any size. For 2018, the company is not aware of any nonmonetary sanctions that should be reported. The company paid $180,861 in 2018 for fines and penalties, which does not include amounts paid for supplemental environmental projects. GRI 401 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee Appendix 57 5, 8 6 turnover *UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals 48 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) Disclosure UNCG* Number Description Cross-Reference or Answer Pages SDG* Connection 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Benefits at Eastman 8 that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave We do not report in detail on the return to work and retention rate after parental 5, 8 6 leave by gender. GRI 402 Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding In the event of operational changes that involve a change in staffing levels or 8 3 operational changes otherwise affect employment, the company engages in significant planning to ensure affected employees are treated with the utmost respect and dignity. Labor and employment law requirements, including but not limited to reasonable employee notice of job loss, and requirements under collective bargaining agreements, are carefully assessed in every global location. GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety Health and Safety management system 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and Health and Safety communication on occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health Health and Safety and safety 403-6 Promotion of worker health Employee Wellness 403-9 Work-related injuries Health and Safety GRI 404 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per Appendix 57 8 6 employee *UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals 49 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) Disclosure UNCG* Number Description Cross-Reference or Answer Pages SDG* Connection 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills Careers at Eastman 8 and transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving We do not report on the percentage of employees receiving regular performance 5, 8 6 regular performance and career and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category. development reviews GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Appendix 57 5, 8 6 employees Board of Directors 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Eastman establishes and administers compensation based on business needs and 8, 10 6 women to men external market competitiveness without regard to gender. GRI 406 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and Eastman does not publicly report the total number of such incidents or any of corrective actions taken their corrective actions. GRI 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the Eastman complies with all laws designed to preserve the right to exercise 8 3 right to freedom of association and freedom of association and collective bargaining. Eastman has not identified any collective bargaining may be at risk operations at which those rights are at significant risk. GRI 408 Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant Code of Business Conduct 8, 16 5 risk for incidents of child labor *UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals 50 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) Disclosure UNCG* Number Description Cross-Reference or Answer Pages SDG* Connection GRI 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at Code of Business Conduct 8 4 significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor GRI 410 Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human Security 16 1 rights policies or procedures GRI 411 Rights of Indigenous Peoples 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of As of December 2018, zero operations have been subject to human rights reviews 1 indigenous peoples or impact assessments. GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights Each year, 100% of regular full-time and part-time, limited-term and Eastmanpolicies or procedures paid employees worldwide are required to complete online training, which includes a course on the Eastman Code of Business Conduct which governs our human rights policy and additional courses that focus on topics within the Code. Some additional courses may be assigned by managers to their employees based on job relevancy, development, or for other reasons. On average, employees receive approximately five hours of training through this system on these topics. 412-3 Significant investment agreements and Appendix 57 contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening *UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals 51 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) Disclosure UNCG* Number Description Cross-Reference or Answer Pages SDG* Connection GRI 413 Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community Appendix 58 1 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using We do not report on the percentage of new suppliers screened using labor 2 social criteria practices criteria because these data are not available. We report on the procedure used for assessment. We provide our third-party Code of Business Conduct to our suppliers, which includes our expectations regarding societal issues such as labor practices and human rights. It also defines our expectations for conducting business with Eastman. We desire the same ethical behavior of our suppliers and hold them accountable by annual supplier surveys. 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply Eastman is not aware of any significant impacts in our supply chain with respect 2 chain and actions taken to the environment, labor, human rights, or societal issues that occurred in 2018. GRI 415 Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Appendix 16 10 GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) impacts of product and service categories *UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals 52 Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) Disclosure UNCG* Number Description Cross-Reference or Answer Pages SDG* Connection GRI 417 Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service Product Safety 12 information and labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning All of our product safety data sheets and labeling comply with regulatory 16 product and service information and requirements for hazard communication in all countries and regions. In 2016, we labeling implemented the Globally Harmonized System for Classification and Labeling (GHS) process to define, classify and communicate chemical hazard and safety information for all of our products. 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Eastman is unaware of any significant fines in 2018 concerning marketing marketing communications communications. GRI 418 Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Eastman is unaware of any complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy or breaches of customer privacy and losses loss of customer data in 2018. of customer data GRI 419 Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance Eastman is unaware of any significant fines in 2018 concerning the provision and 16 with laws and regulations in the social use of our products and services. and economic area *UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals 53 Global Reporting Initiative appendix 102-8 • Information on employees and other workers While Eastman’s operations are energy intense, Eastman relies heavily on combined heat and power, which produces significantly fewer emissions and therefore has less impact Total Employment Employment on air quality. Electricity produced by combined heat and power plants are approximately Workforce Type Contract Region twice as efficient as purchasing electricity from a utility with conventional power stations. Full-time: Permanent North America: Eastman’s use of cogeneration therefore helps reduce the carbon emissions that would 97.5% Contract: 95.5% 73% otherwise be required to operate these facilities. Eastman is no more at risk from climate Part-time: 2.5% Temporary Europe, Middle change regulation than other energy-intensive industries. Regulatory constraints on carbon 14,819 employees Contract: East and Africa: emissions can impact the development of new processes and facilities for Eastman, as well as of Dec 31, 2018 4.5% 15% as our customers and suppliers. Asia Pacific: 10% Emission standards or uncertainty about future standards may delay investments by Latin America: our customers and, as a result, impact our future business opportunities. The direct 3% impact of controlling CO2 emissions from electric power generation may impact the cost of electric power supplied to Eastman manufacturing facilities, our customers and our Global total turnover 8.2% suppliers. On the other hand, climate change may represent opportunities for Eastman with regard to the development and use of materials that enable or enhance efforts to 201-2 • Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to mitigate or adapt to the effects of climate change. For example, use of window films climate change to enhance energy efficiency, use of interlayers in window glass to provide strength for Chemical manufacturing by its very nature is energy intense and can result in substantial storm resistance, and development of coatings for extreme exposures represent potential carbon emissions. However, many products of chemistry, including Eastman products, opportunities. The company has diversified product offerings, serves broad markets and reduce greenhouse gas emissions over time. Risks posed by climate change may manifest regions and attempts to mitigate our exposure to swings in energy and raw material themselves in physical risks due to potential impacts of climate change and regulatory prices. These diversified product offerings and diversified customer base mitigate potential risks associated with actions to mitigate or respond to climate change. In particular, the commercial impact to Eastman. company may be exposed to increased capital and operational costs associated with a move from fossil derived fuels and feedstocks to more renewable sources of energy and Eastman complies with current regulations of GHG emissions in those countries where materials. Carbon pricing has the potential to increase operational costs due to use of fossil they are regulated, with minimal financial impact. Proposed legislation and regulations fuels in power generation. More stringent emission limits have the potential to increase are evaluated and the impact on Eastman is estimated. We engage policymakers directly both capital and operational costs. Physical impacts and a transition to a lower carbon and through trade associations with the objective that any climate change legislation economy have the potential to advantage Eastman products in some markets. In particular, or regulation enacted will not have an adverse impact on the economy or create a performance films and interlayers can be advantaged due to energy efficiency attributes. competitive disadvantage. See Eastman’s CDP disclosure report for more information. Innovations in coatings (such as Tetrashield™) are advantaged as they offer durability to withstand weather extremes, and opportunities exist for tire additives that provide increased fuel efficiency. 54 Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) 202-2 • Proportion of senior management hired from 203-2 • Significant indirect economic impacts the local community Eastman’s educational and workforce development efforts create significant indirect Eastman has a large geographic footprint within the U.S. and globally. Talent strategies are economic impacts to our site communities. We partner with Patrick Henry Community developed to align with business strategy to attract, acquire and retain talent. Talent is College to provide workforce training through the Center for Advanced Film Manufacturing sourced proactively and reactively at the local, regional, national and international levels. in Martinsville, Virginia, to advance skills development in advanced film production. Although a majority of talent is acquired at the local level, we as a company do relocate Eastman continues its nationally recognized partnership with Northeast State Community well over 100 new hires globally each year to Eastman facilities to begin their employment with the organization at all levels. Eastman uses a number of different approaches for College through the Regional Center for Advanced Manufacturing (RCAM) in Kingsport, Tennessee, to develop and equip the 21st century manufacturing workforce. Our identifying talent for the organization. Some of the more effective methods are social media, employee referrals, career fairs, visitors to Eastman.com, and job postings. The commitment to public/private partnerships in the areas of education, environment, company then puts the candidates through a rigorous selection process to assess their level economic development, and empowerment all encourage innovative and productive of capability, competencies and alignment with the organizational vision and culture. thinking to create positive change in our site communities and around the world. Job placement rates for RCAM-related programs are consistently near 100%, and RCAM has been instrumental in meeting industry demand for customized and highly specialized skills. 203-1 • Infrastructure investments and services supported Eastman and the Eastman Foundation provided funding and in-kind donations totaling In 2018, Eastman’s economic impact from employee and contractor compensation was more than $5.62 million in 2018 to support public/private partnership initiatives related estimated to be a total of $8-10 billion in the states where we have manufacturing sites to our corporate responsibility focus areas of education, environment, empowerment, and and sales offices. These figures are indicative of Eastman’s reputation of being a responsible economic development. Eastman employees are afforded opportunities and many are economic steward through the creation of jobs and investment in the community. active in volunteer initiatives and involved with nonprofits and educational institutions in their respective communities. 301-1 • Materials used by weight or volume Eastman is an integrated manufacturing company, purchasing basic feedstocks to feed In 2018, Eastman employees contributed approximately 100,000 hours of volunteer service three primary streams: olefins, polyesters and acetyls. Basic raw materials include ethane/ to a variety of community efforts. These service hours represent only a handful of Eastman propane for the olefin stream, paraxylene for polyesters, and coal as a major building block sites and the total numbers of hours are not representative of all global sites. for acetyls. These building block materials are processed through various downstream processes to yield products that are sold as finished goods. In 2018, major raw materials purchased, including feedstocks and materials consumed as fuel, were nearly 5.3 million tons. Eastman is beginning to implement and, in the future, will look to use fuel sources with lower emissions. At our Kingsport, Tennessee, facility, we recently completed the conversion of a powerhouse that provides approximately 50% of the steam and electricity for site manufacturing from coal to natural gas combustion. 55 Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) 301-2 • Recycled input materials used 302-1 • Energy consumption within the organization Eastman manufactures a large number of products, most of which are sold as feedstocks Eastman used about 88 trillion Btu in 2018 to produce products. About 69% of direct for our downstream customers. With integrated manufacturing streams, internal recycling energy was produced from purchased natural gas and coal, and about 16% was recovered of materials and developing value-up opportunities for coproduct streams are critical to fuel from feedstock. Our direct energy consumption is almost 70% of our total energy minimizing waste and maximizing value creation. Opportunities to purchase materials consumption. with recycled content are limited due to our vertical integration to basic commodity raw materials and currently represent a relatively small percentage of total purchases. However, 303-4 • Water discharge Eastman is committed to value added recycling and has many examples of the use of Eastman discharges process wastewater in accordance with applicable permits, licenses recycled material including: and agreements. The wastewater is either treated in Eastman-owned treatment facilities and discharged directly to surface waters, or it is treated in Eastman-owned pretreatment Recycled acid: Eastman purchases recycled acid for use as an internal feedstock or for facilities and conveyed to third-party providers (e.g. utilities, municipalities) for additional resale as a feedstock to other manufacturers. treatment and/or discharge, or it is conveyed directly to third-party providers (e.g. utilities, Recycled Saflex®: Eastman assets associated with Saflex production recover waste municipalities) for treatment and/or discharge. An estimated 811 thousand megaliters (ML) Saflex sheets in the U.S. and European regions through a toll agreement with Soca. of water was discharged in 2018. Catalyst recycling program: When possible, Eastman replaces spent catalysts with fresh catalysts, both of which contain varying amounts of precious metals. As the spent 305-4 • GHG emissions intensity catalyst becomes available, the material is sent to catalyst refiners who extract the Eastman committed to a 20% reduction in GHG intensity by 2020. The intensity measure precious metals from the spent material for reuse in the production of fresh catalysts. for this effort is GHG emissions per unit of production as measured against the baseline This recycling program helps reduce the amount of precious metals mined to satisfy of 2008. As of 2018, GHG intensity measured 0.79, which represents a 20% reduction global demand. compared to the baseline. The boiler conversions from coal to natural gas at our sites Other purchased materials made with recycled materials include drums (steel, plastic, in Massachusetts and Tennessee enhanced our emission reduction efforts and helped us and fiber), bulk boxes, plastic liners and plastic and steel pails. In addition to purchasing attain our goal. Emissions reductions attributed to the conversions will be fully realized in feedstocks with recycled content, our Special Materials Team oversees the sale of reporting year 2020. View site specific emissions. Eastman’s used materials streams to manufacturers who recover and convert these materials into useful products. 56 Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) 401-1 • New employee hires and employee turnover 405-1 • Diversity of governance bodies and employees Attrition by Gender Attrition by Age Attrition by Region Gender Age Ethnicity Male employees: 7.7% Less than 30 years: 11.1% Asia Pacific: 14.2% Male: 75.5% Less than 30 years: 13.8% Minority: 12% Female employees: 30 to 50 years: 6.9% Europe, Middle East and Female: 24.5% 30 to 50 years: 50.2% White: 88% 9.1% Africa: 8.8% Greater than 50 years: 8.5% Latin America: 10.9% Greater than 50 years: 36.0% North America: 7.0% 412-3 • Significant investment agreements and contracts that include Hires by Gender Hires by Age Hires by Region human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Eastman is committed to conducting business activities in accordance with the highest Male employees: 9.9% Less than 30 years: 34.9% Asia Pacific: 18.5% legal and ethical standards. To that end, Eastman’s Code of Business Conduct includes Female employees: 30 to 50 years: Europe, Middle East and provisions against child labor, forced labor, fraud, and discrimination, among others. These 11.0% 9.2% Africa: 8.5% same expectations are assessed as part of Eastman’s due diligence process on any potential Greater than 50 years: 1.9% Latin America: 10.2% investment. Eastman has an established process within our Corporate Development organization that prescreens potential mergers and acquisitions against criteria with North America: 9.3% respect to all three dimensions of sustainability — economic, environmental and societal. Percentages based on total population of respective category. 404-1 • Average hours of training per year per employee Employee category Hours* Professional/management 32 Nonexempt (nonoperations) 16 Nonexempt (operations) 113 Technicians/technologists 26 Average 67 * MyLearningLab was fully implemented at the end of 2018 and more sites were able to track their training completions, including operations. 57 Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) 413-1 • Operations with local community engagement, impact 415-1 • Political contributions assessments, and development programs Eligible U.S. employees may contribute voluntarily to EastmanPAC, the Political Action Eastman facilitates engagement efforts at all global sites with support from employees Committee of Eastman. The Advisory Council of EastmanPAC approves an annual budget with diverse skills and talents and a common commitment to the communities in which proposed by the company’s director of government relations. The Advisory Council they live and work. meets annually and is made up of employees from U.S. sites, as well as at-large company representatives. EastmanPAC is bipartisan and supports candidates who: With fourteen community advisory panels (CAPs) at our largest global operating sites, Eastman provides regular opportunities for open dialogue between community members • Support business-friendly laws and regulations and company leaders. • Represent a state/district where an Eastman facility is located As a Responsible Care® company, we also operate a 24/7 Care Line phone number at • Are active and responsible members of key committees company headquarters that community members can call for inquiries. • Hold a leadership position within Congress or a state legislature In 2018, EastmanPAC contributed $231,500 to state and federal candidates in the U.S. No To encourage an inclusive culture, Eastman provides opportunities for employees to political contributions are made to entities outside the U.S. Eastman works with outside participate in resource groups for members and allies of the following communities: vendors to file all reports and to make sure all contributions comply with state and federal veterans and active duty military employees, Hispanics, Black and African Americans, campaign finance regulations. All of EastmanPAC’s Federal Election Commission (FEC) women, LGBT, and young professionals. We currently have over 900 employees who filings are available online at www.fec.gov. State disclosure reports are also available participate in these programs. by visiting the state campaign finance websites in Alabama, California, Massachusetts, We have a global compliance line that provides a confidential way for employees Tennessee and Texas. In states where the law allows corporate contributions, Eastman and others to ask questions about Eastman policies as well as seek guidance or report supports state candidates. Corporate contributions to state candidates in Tennessee concerns that may involve illegal activity or any other violations of the Company’s Code totaled $54,350 in 2018. The federal government requires all registered lobbyists to of Business Conduct. report personal campaign contributions semiannually. Each year, Eastman employees who meet the requirements file the necessary reports. These reports are available online at http://lobbyingdisclosure.house.gov/. Eastman’s political activity policies and guidelines are located on its website: Eastman Political Activity. 58 Eastman Corporate Headquarters P.O. Box 431 Kingsport, TN 37662-5280 U.S.A. U.S.A. and Canada, 800-EASTMAN (800-327-8626) Other Locations, +(1) 423-229-2000 www.eastman.com/locations © 2019 Eastman. Eastman brands referenced herein are trademarks of Eastman or one of its subsidiaries or are being used under license. The ® symbol denotes registered trademark status in the U.S.; marks may also be registered internationally. Non-Eastman brands referenced herein are trademarks of their respective owners. EMN-CC-9468 7/19
