발 간 등 록 번 호 2018-19 KORAIL Sustainability Report This report was printed using soy ink and eco-friendly paper. 홍보문화-02-19097-01 2018-19 KORAIL Sustainability Report Connecting the People, World, and the Future Connecting Railroad of the Republic of Korea the People, World, and the Future korail korail the People • Connecting the People, World, and the Future Railroad of the Republic of Korea the World Connecting Devoted to the People,the World and the Future • the Future 240 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon (34618), Republic of Korea Korea Railroad Corporation www.korail.com Culture Promotion Division, Public Relations Team Tel : +82-42-615-3162 About This Report CONTENTS KORAIL is dedicated to fulfilling its mission to become the ‘Railroad of the Republic of Korea that Connects the People, the World, and the Future,’ and is generating various economic, environmental and social values while working toward achieving that mission. Since About this report 2008, KORAIL has been transparently disclosing all of its activities and performance to its stakeholders through its annual sustainability reports. This is the 11th sustainability report that KORAIL has published. 04 Message from the CEO ● Standard This report has been prepared in accordance with the Core Option 06 Let’s KORAIL #1. ‌Holding a Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways, of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Standards and ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility. It reports primarily on material UN equivalent in Continental Railway issues drawn from a materiality assessment and includes the #2. The 15th Anniversary of Launching KTX management approach to those issues. 10 ● Period, Scope and Boundaries This report reveals sustainability activities conducted by KORAIL Highlights 2018-19 headquarters and its regional divisions and includes activities carried out by some of its affiliates from January 2018 to December 2018. The qualitative performance data from the past three years (20162018) have been included to allow readers to see the improvements 12 Company Overview KORAIL Profile and changes made over the years, and it also contains some data considered important in terms of the timeliness, generated from the Business Portfolio first half of 2019. In addition, we have identified and covered the Vision & Strategy impact of core issues drawn from a materiality assessment on our key stakeholders. 20 There have been no significant changes related to the scope, structure, reference year and ownerships from the previous year, but KORAIL Core Values footnotes have been added on some changes in calculating data and Safe Railroad stating contents. Some of the performance data and information that have not changed since last year has been restated to help readers is Convenient Railroad better understand the content of this Report. Future Railroad ● Assurance accompanied by happiness! An independent third-party assurance review has been carried out to ensure the objectivity and reliability of this report. The third-party 38 KORAIL Social Values Realizing Social Values Sharing with Local Communities assurance provider has verified that this report complies with the GRI Standards (Core Option) Creating Jobs Creating People-Oriented Workplaces Growing Together with Partners ● Additional Information Sustainability reports are published in Korean and English versions Providing Eco-Friendly Railroads for Future Generations and can be downloaded as PDF files from our website. If you have 58 any inquiries about this report, please contact us via the following details. Our Approach to Sustainability Governance Risk Management Ethical Management Stakeholders’ Inclusiveness Human Rights Management Materiality Assessment Culture Promotion Division, Public Relations Team, Korea Railroad Corporation Address 240 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon (34618), Republic of Korea 72 APPENDIX Sustainability Performance UN SDGs & UNGC Phone 042-615-3162 Website www.korail.com Independent Third-Party Assurance Statement Email sustainability@korail.com GRI & ISO 26000 Index Key Awards and Memberships Sustainability Reporting Bodies KORAIL Message Sustainability Report 2018-19 Message from the CEO from the CEO Railway is a future-oriented industry and eco-friendly transportation. By using trains that is energy efficient with low carbon emission, resources can be saved and the environment can be protected. KORAIL will continue to strive to win love and trust of the people for the railway-centered sustainable future. We will make sure the Korean railway stays with the people, the world and the future and fulfill our field-oriented commitment. We will innovate railway safety for the people. Securing the safety of passengers and We will put safety matters as our top hard-working people in the field is the most important issue. We will change our safety priority. management paradigms from post-restoration processes to proactive prevention processes. To this end, we will spare no efforts and investments. We will invest 8.7 trillion KRW in renovating facilities and equipment by 2023. By actively utilizing the 4th industrial revolution technology, we will introduce cutting-edge maintenance systems. We will ensure safety, which is the lifeblood of the railway. We will make sure everyone can conveniently use the railway regardless of their regions We will provide universal welfare and circumstances. We will expand facilities for the underprivileged including the elderly services through the railway to and the disabled. We will further establish lines to remote areas and transportation means enhance the public good. connected to the railway. We will also apply cutting-edge IT including AI and IoT to the railway public service. We will further expand the public concessionary fare policy that benefits over 600,000 users annually. We will become the railway that is accessible to everyone. We will achieve social values by creating jobs. We will increase jobs through new We will create decent jobs. recruitments, temp-to-perm coversions and others. We will help the underprivileged to start their own businesses by utilizing idle properties including stations nationwide. We will revive the regional economy by developing railway stations into spaces for social values to support direct marketing channels. Through fair agreements, we will grow together with SMEs. We will create job opportunities for the increased public value. We will lead the new era of railway that expands to the continent beyond the two We will work hard to carry out our Koreas. We will live up to the people’s expectations on the continental railway by signing mission to open up the inter-Korean & agreements needed to run international railways, such as the contracts on international To all who cherish KORAIL, as always, KORAIL will open continental railways. freight transport and passenger transport. As an official member of the continental railway, we will expand exchanges with related members. We will lay the groundwork for peace on the new era of The Korean railway has been with us as an indispensable means of public transportation. It has for many years been operated to promote Korea’s economic growth and people’s the Korean Peninsula and cooperation and co-prosperity among Eurasian nations. We will steadily prepare for the future of the Korean railway. railway with more affluent lives. Thanks to the Korean railroad, the nation's economy and culture have blossomed in regions and cities along the railroad tracks. The Korean railway can move forward only through promoting stakeholders’ interests and ceaseless change cooperation. KORAIL opens up communication channels and carefully listens to valuable The year 2018 was marked as the year of preparations for a journey to actively usher in opinions. We will actively back up the railway industry to advance into overseas markets and a challenging the Railroad Renaissance era. It was a fruitful year indeed. By recruiting over 2,100 new and to develop technologies, while closely working together with related organizations. We employees, the largest number among the nation's public institutions, we have contributed spirit. to creating jobs which is one of the most important issues facing our society. We have will nurture sound railway communities. We ask for your unwavering encouragement and support for our efforts toward sustainable management. achieved a zero level of contract workers thanks to meaningful endeavors of labor/ management for mutual growth. KORAIL became an official member of the Organization for Cooperation between Railways (OSJD), also known as the UN of the continental August 2019 railways, laying the foundation for continental railroads. In 2019, we successfully completed Son Byung-seok, President of KORAIL the Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways in Seoul, Korea. 04 05 KORAIL Let’s KORAIL Sustainability Report 2018-19 Let’s KORAIL In September, 2005 In March, 2013 In April, 2013 Let's KORAIL #1 KORAIL’s Journey KORAIL indicated its intention to KORAIL applied to become an KORAIL has participated in Ministerial Holding a Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways to Becoming join the Trans Asia Railway (TAR) at affiliated member -> in March, 2014, a government-led meeting (the Ministry KORAIL became an affiliated member of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs) (approved by more than Meetings (three times), Conferences of General Directors (five times) and ITRT General Assemblies (five times) UN equivalent in Continental Railway a Member of OSJD two-thirds of the members) since April 2014. *ITRT: International Through Railway Traffic, a general meeting on the international In June, 2018 In May, 2015 railway traffic convention KORAIL became an official member KORAIL held the Conference of General with the unanimous approval Directors of OSJD Railways in Seoul and the at the 46th OSJD Ministerial Meeting. 10th Subcommittee Meeting on Logistics. After the Ministry of Land (then the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs) stressed the necessity of joining OSJD at a government-led meeting on the TAR convention in September, 2005, we became an affiliated member with the approval of more than twothirds of the members in March 2014. The Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways and the 10th Subcommittee Meeting on Logistics held in April 2015 served as an opportunity for those involved in the railway industry to agree on the need for connecting the inter-Korean railways. At ‘the 33rd Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways’ held in Da Nang, Vietnam in April 2018, KORAIL stressed that South Korea’s membership of OSJD would be the last piece in the puzzle to complete the ‘Iron Silk Road’, and asserted the need for its becoming ‘The 33rd Conference of General Directors of “Global Railway Leaders to Find Ways of Developing Continental Railways” OSJD Railways held’ in Vietnam, in April 2018 an official member. As a result, OSJD members unanimously decided to accept South Korea as an official member at an OSJD Ministerial Meeting held in Kyrgyzstan in June 2018. at a Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways Successfully Held in Seoul Becoming Admission as an Affiliated Member March 2014 an Official Member of OSJD June 2018 ‘The 34th Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways (April 8~11, 2019)’, a so-called TSR TMR “Continental Railway UN General Assembly,” was held in Seoul. Over 300 involved in the What is OSJD? Beginning of Our Journey Trans-Siberian Trans-Manchurian Railway Railway railway industry at home and abroad including 140 foreign representatives from around 20 (Organization for to Connect the Two countries worldwide participated in the meeting to discuss how to realize cooperation and Cooperation between Koreas and the World Yekaterinburg Novosibirsk Ulan Ude Chita exchanges among nations regarding the continental railway. Railways) Omsk Irkutsk Eurasian Continental Railway Lines Moscow Nauski Khabarovsk The conference slogan, ‘Toward a Future of Peace and Prosperity’, conveys a meaning of Manzai OSJD is a railway cooperation organization Berlin Warsaw Ulaanbaatar Harbin creating a prosperous future for all by keeping peace on the Korean Peninsula, establishing Astina formed in June 1956 by socialist states Kiev Arctogai Vladivostok peaceful and cooperative communities among Eurasian nations, reducing logistics costs Paris Prague Budapest Urumqi under the former Soviet Union system Hassan through the envisaged Eurasian railway, and strengthening economic cooperation. Atlantic Beijing Yingkou including Russia (then Soviet Union), Madrid Turfan Seoul In particular, ‘the 34th Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways’ was the first Ocean Tenjin Busan China, Kazakhstan, North Korea and Lisbon Ankara Teheran TCR international railway conference held and attended by Korea as an official member since it Trans-China Railway Zhengzhou Lianyungang Mokpo others and Eastern European countries became an official member of OSJD in 2018. The conference was a venue to strengthen for coordinating railway transportation KORAIL had expanded exchanges and cooperation with continental railway nations by cooperation among members and to confirm their unwavering support for the inter-Korean TMGR Pacific ocean among Eastern European and Asian working as an affiliated member of OSJD since March 2014. In the end, we achieved a Trans-Mongolian Railway and continental railway connection. At the same time, KORAIL could show its capability countries. fruitful result of being admitted as an official member of OSJD in June 2018. and technology to OSJD members through the outstanding preparation and process of the Since February 2019, KORAIL has been working hard by dispatching Korean Indian high-class conference. HQs Poland Warsaw Ocean TSR Trans-Siberian Railway delegations to meetings of OSJD subcommittees on passengers and freight TCR Trans-China Railway The 34th Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways Establishment Year 1956 respectively. TMR Trans-Manchurian Railway TMGR Trans-Mongolian Railway Official Members 29 Countries KORAIL is planning to hold a Freight Subcommittee Meeting on ETT in 2020. Countries Participants Sessions Agendas Moreover, we supported the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport at the Affiliated Members 45 Companies OSJD Ministerial Meeting in June 2019 to help the Ministry organize and hold the 51st 20 300 5 15 Observers 7 Organizations OSJD Ministerial Meeting in 2023. KORAIL will do its best to build railways that start from Korea, the Far East Asian country to Europe. 06 07 KORAIL Let’s KORAIL Sustainability Report 2018-19 Let’s KORAIL Let's KORAIL #2 th The 15 Running 1 Anniversary of Million Times Launching KTX 420 Million Marking its 15th Anniversary, Times KTX Has Run around the Earth 10,000 Times for the Past 15 Years. Traveling KTX Records Around the Earth Total no. of Passengers 10,000 720 Million People Times (Equivalent to 14.4 times of use per person) Total Distance Traveled By Passengers 190 Billion ㎞ (Equivalent to the same distance traveled April 1, 2019 marked the 15th anniversary of KTX (Korea Train eXpress), Korea’s leading rail Various IT-Based and In addition to KTX's high-speed quality, KTX is also offering various and convenient from the Earth to the Sun 12.5 times) transportation that was launched in April 2004. KTX has run 420 million km through its Convenient Services optional services. With the rate of purchasing tickets by using ‘KorailTalk’, a smartphone Total Distance Traveled by KTX six lines over the past 15 years, equivalent to 10,000 laps around the Earth (40,000 km). app., standing at 71%, searching and buying tickets has been made possible anywhere and 420 Million ㎞ While running on the rails one million times, KTX has transported 720 million passengers, equivalent to the 50 million people of Korea having used it 14 times. The sum of the total anytime. An increasing number of people are purchasing their tickets through the app. We are providing information on real-time train services, TSS (Time-Saving Service) and a (Equivalent to the same distance traveled around the Earth 10,000 times) distances traveled by all passengers stands at 190 billion km. ticket-refunding service after the train has departed. By installing the Wi-Fi service, power outlets to the electronic devices, and USB ports in KTX trains, we are steadily improving facilities in KTX trains to meet the growing needs of Shrinking the Entire Nation into KTX running From Seoul to Busan 2 hours and 15 minutes Truly shrinking the passengers with smartphones, laptop computers, tablet PCs and other electronic devices. at speeds of entire nation a Half-Day Distance up to From Seoul to Gangneung 1 hours and 57 minutes into a half-day 15 Years of KTX in Numbers Thanks to KTX, Korea has become the 5th nation that operates high-speed railways. Except 300㎞ Distance for Jeju-do, KTX is most rapidly linking 48 stations in 15 cities and provinces. KORAIL will work harder to make Korea’s leading railway brand of KTX to become your best partner for a safer and more convenient journey. Transporting 180,000 Passengers The number of KTX services per day has more than doubled from 132 times at the (As of March 13, 2019) per Day to Change ‘the Concept of beginning to 316 times on weekends. The daily number of passengers has increased by 2.5 Commuting’ times from around 72,000 at the beginning to over 180,000, and the number of stops has Annual no. of Passengers Average no. of Daily Passengers The Largest no. of Daily Passengers The Most Largely-Used Station tripled or more. As the gateway to Korea, Seoul station has the largest number of users. 76,000 passengers arrive and depart through this gateway on a daily basis. 67,041,194 Passengers 183,675 Passengers 300,891 Passengers Seoul Station (1.3 Times of Use Per Person) (76,716 Passengers Daily) (As of December 31, 2018, Unit: Persons) Average Daily No. of KTX Passengers per Stop (2018) Total no. of Accumulated Passengers No. of Times of Operating Railways No. of KTX Trains in Korea(As of 2018) No. of KTX Stops Seoul Dongdaegu Busan Yongsan Daejeon Equivalent to 14Times of 316 Times 1,310 Cars 48 Stops 76,304 33,166 31,698 27,562 26,825 Use Per Person on Every Saturday (85 KTX Trains) 08 09 KORAIL Highlights 2018-19 Sustainability Report 2018-19 Highlights 2018-19 The Largest Employer Among Korea’s Public KTX Gangneung Line was Vital to the Success of ‘KorailTalk’ Provides Complete Travel Services Declaring a New Vision and Service Slogan Based on Institutions though Fair Recruitment Policies the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang ‘KorailTalk’, a universal smartphone app, has made customerPublic Opinion KORAIL is taking the lead in creating decent jobs by recruiting KTX Gangneung line was chosen as the transportation network that friendly improvements in its core function, the ticket-purchasing KORAIL has declared its new vision and service slogan to renew approximately 2,000 in 2018 and 1,448 in the first half of 2019, made possible the successful 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang. UI, to provide more convenient and pleasant railway services its commitment to providing better services for the public and which is the largest recruitment in 13 years since its founding. Behind the passionate cheering during the Winter Olympics and for customers in line with changes in travel trends. The app has winning their hearts. While taking the initiative in guiding the When recruiting people, we provide equal opportunities for Paralympics in Pyeongchang, there were the unseen endeavors of all become a total travel service platform through which you can future of the Korean railways, KORAIL will strengthen its public all applicants through blind evaluations based on their job the employees of KORAIL to safely transport over one million athletes purchase all items needed for your travel at once, such as booking services to realize a happier future for the nation and the people. competence, excluding any of their personal information. And, it and visitors. Through this, KORAIL was able to show the superiority of tickets for holidays (for the first time), reserving car-sharing At the same time, it will ensure considerate, reliable, intimate and was proven to be zero out of 108,846 applicants in 2018 raised the Korean high-speed railway to athletes and visitors coming from services/rent-a-car/locally-connected transportation services, convenient services together with the people. objections or made complaints regarding the recruitment fairness. around the world. ordering affiliated products and reserving accommodation. Vison Slogan ITX-Saemaeul to Receive a Low Carbon Product Certificate KTX Carried Over 700 Million Passengers Expanding a ‘Win-Win Railway Platform’ Supporting the Areas Affected by a Forest Fire KORAIL has received ‘Low Carbon Product Certification’ for its in Accumulated Totals for Shared-Growth with SMEs in Gangneung to Assist their Economic Recovery ITX-Saemaeul Seoul-Busan section in the ‘Carbon Footprint’ Since its launch in 2004, the cumulative number of passengers ‘Win-Win Railway Platform (a portal site to provide technical To help the Gangwon region suffering from a large fire disaster certification evaluation organized by the Korea Environmental topped 700 million as of December 13, 2018. The figure shows support for SMEs)’ for the shared-growth with SMEs has recover its economy, we have given a 30% discount on KTX Industry and Technology Institute under the Ministry of that the equivalent of every person in the entire population of been expanded and reformed not only to suggest technical Gangneung line and let volunteers use all trains nationwide for Environment. As KTX’s Seoul-Busan section became the first Korea has used KTX 14 times on average. KTX, which operated 132 development but also to provide information on KORAIL’s various free. In addition, we have given full support for the locals that lost to receive the low carbon certificate in the industry last year, times and carried 72,000 passengers per day at the beginning, shared-growth strategies. SMEs with outstanding technologies their living grounds due to the recent forest fire to overcome their KORAIL proved once again that the railway is an eco-friendly has become an irreplaceable transportation that runs 316 times can suggest tasks such as new technologies, new products, new physical and mental hardships by utilizing our available resources transportation means that reduces greenhouse gas emissions. and carries 182,000 passengers on a daily basis. processes and others through the platform and make contract including our Naksan training institute as a shelter for the affected *’Low Carbon Product Certification’: This is a system through which a product that with KORAIL in the event that they can successfully develop locals. has already passed the first step of ‘Carbon Footprint Certification’ is further certified by the government when it is added with low-carbon technology to selected tasks. In addition, trainings to enhance capabilities of reduce greenhouse gas emissions by more than 4.24%. SMEs, financial supports and consulting services could be provided for SMEs. 10 11 KORAIL Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability COMPANY Overview Let’s KORAIL KORAIL Profile Business Portfolio Vision & Strategy KORAIL KORAIL Profile Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability (As of March 31, 2019) Overview Starting from the founding of the Railway Bureau in 1894 and the launch of Gyeongin Line (33.2km from Noryang jin to Jemulpo) in 1899, KORAIL is a key driver of Company Name CEO Business No. of Employees Capital Sales in (KRW 100 2017 (KRW Shares (%) million) 100 million) economic growth in Korea by connecting people and transporting goods along the KORAIL Retail Park Jong-bin Commercial Facility Operation, Advertizing Media Operation 477 80 5,347 100.0 railway tracks nationwide over the past 100 years. We will continue to prepare for the KORAIL Logis Park Kee-hong Railway-Connected Logistics Business 134 77 550 92.1 future where People and supplies in Koera advance into the world through the railway KORAIL Tourism Development Kim Soon-chul Tourism & Leisure, In-Train Retail/Crew Business 1,065 40 602 51.0 that will be connected to the continent. And, we will strive to provide the people with KORAIL Networks Kang Kwi-seop Labor Management and Customer Center Consignment, Parking Lot Operation 1,886 72 917 89.5 Management of Tracks and Electrical Facilities, Maintenance of Trains, Facilities & Transportation Performance better lives and a valuable future by offering efficient and safe transportation services. KORAIL Tech Ban Keug-dong 4,782 19 781 97.3 Keeping Stations Clean (As of December 31, 2018) Trains Length of Railway Lines Company Korea Railroad Corporation Competent Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Name (KORAIL) Authority Transport ● Overview of Overseas offices Ministry of Economy and Finance KORAIL opened overseas branches in France, China and Russia and strengthen the networks President Son Byung-seok Shareholders 90.1% / Ministry of Land, and cooperation systems with those nations along the continental railway tracks to prepare Infrastructure and Transport 9.9% Overseas Branches France for the inter-Korean railway connection by dispatching its employees to International 16,574 Cars Railway Length 4,077.7 ㎞ Date of Establishment June 28, 1894 (KRAIL: January 1, 2005) Total Assets KRW 22.1168 trillion Dispatch UIC(France) Union of Railways (UIC) and OSJD as part of its endeavors to follow the government’s new (96 lines in total) Overseas Branches Russia Daily run Double(HQs) 7 headquarter, 5 office, Northern policy and form East Asian railway communities. Track Railway 2,573.7 ㎞ Head Quarters 240, Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Organizational 6 division (65 department) Dispatch OSJD(Poland) Branch in France is conducting exchanges & cooperation with advanced European nations Daejeon, Republic of Korea Structure (Region) 12 Regional headquarter, Electrified 14 Affiliated Organizations in terms of the railways and utilizing various networks to back up the procurement of track length 2,932.8 ㎞ Korea Railroad Corporation Act components for rolling stock. Meanwhile, our China-based branch is carrying out to promote No. of 3,433 Times Average Transported Volume per Day Legal Basis (Act No. 7052, December 31, 2003) Employees 26,983 exchanges & cooperation with those nations along the continental railroad tracks to prepare for the connection to Eurasian continental railways, working hard to attract Chinese tourists, Stations and implementing a project of directly purchasing components for rolling stock. In addition, ● Subsidiaries Dispatch Tanzania we also established our branch in Russia in August, 2018 to proactively conduct exchanges KORAIL has its subsidiaries in order to secure expertise in specific business areas. Passengers 3.515 Million By coordinating businesses among the subsidiaries, KORAIL is strengthening its Overseas Branches China with Russia including various joint researches and studies for the railway cooperation project 697 Stations Freight 85,000 Tons competitiveness and creating synergies managing the group. By stabilizing the revenue Dispatch Philippines among the two Koreas and Russia and the connected operation between TKR and TSR. we base of its subsidiaries, KORAIL is supporting mutual sustainable growth. are pursuing profitable businesses including railway operation consulting services and so forth 1894 2018 by dispatching our employees to the Philippines and Tanzania to explore overseas railway markets with KORAIL’s outstanding railway technologies The history of Korea’s railway is and operation-related experience. the history of KORAIL 1894 Established the Railway Bureau by a central government office during the Joseon Dynasty period 2010 Opened Gyeongbu High-Speed Railway Phase 2 1899 Opened Gyeongin Railway Line (33.2km Opened KTX Gyeongjeon Line between Noryangjin and Jemulpo) 1905 Opened Gyeongbu Railway Line 2011 Opened KTX Jeolla Line 1974 Opened Seoul Metropolitan Subway 2015 Opened Honam High-Speed Railway Lines (Seoul-Suwon, Guro-Incheon, Opened KTX Donghae (Pohang) Line Yongsan-Seongbuk) 2016 Opened Suin Metropolitan Line Phase 2 2004 Opened Gyeongbu High-Speed Railway Opened Gyeonggang Metropolitan Line Phase 1 Opened Donghae Metropolitan Line 1897 1899 1974 2005 Launched the Korea Railroad Corporation 2010 2017 Opened KTX Gangneung Line 2018 Became an Official Member of OSJD 2019 Held a Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways in Seoul 2004 2005 2017 14 15 KORAIL Business Portfolio Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Six Main Businesses KORAIL is doing its best to ensure safe and convenient railway operations to achieve its foundation purpose: contributing to the development of the railway industry and the national Key Achievements in Logistics Business (As of December 31, 2018) Daily Operation Average Sales Amount economy. We are also working hard to make the nation better in the future and improve Freight Average (Tuesdays Daily Transported Freight Comprehensive Transport Daily Sales KORAIL for the people by diversifying businesses and providing enhanced services. To this end, to Thursdays) Volume Transport Logistics we are achieving our goals in various business areas. 30.915 217Times 85,000 KRW 1.090 KRW 361.2 KRW 36.8 Million Tons Tons(Freight) Million Billion Billion Passenger Transport Business Metropolitan Railroad Business Logistic Business • Passenger transport business • Passenger transport business • Transport of containers, through train services through metropolitan subways cement, coal, steel, oil, etc. ● Asset Development Business Transport • Development and operation of and ITX-Cheongchun line • Loading and unloading, railway tourism products by • O&M business for private storage, warehousing KORAIL is contributing to boosting local business and culture and enhancing the value establishing railway tourism railways and bidding-based • KTX express delivery/affiliated of the people’s lives through various services around its stations. KORAIL’s new growth infrastructure lines home delivery services businesses are significant in securing its sustainability by nurturing and stabilizing future Asset Development Business Overseas Business & International Cooperation businesses and creating new growth engines. KORAIL is focusing on achieving new value Business Development • Development and operation of businesses by • O&M of and consultation for overseas railways, by expanding and diversifying businesses for its sustainable growth. utilizing the corporation’s assets including stations, export of used locomotives, international areas nearby stations, and lands nearby railways railway training programs Rolling Stock Maintenance & Rental and Facilities Maintenance Business Key Achievements in Asset Development Business (As of December 31, 2018) • Rolling stock maintenance and rental Revenues from Effect of Recovering the Ownership of Maintenance • Train facilities maintenance and management Revenues from Assets Lands Around Yongsan Station & Repair • Maintenance of tracks, subway power facilities, signaling systems and other structures Assets Utilization Development Capital Increase Liability Rate Reduction Before After Before After Key Achievements in Passenger Transport Business (As of December 31, 2018) ● Passenger Transport Business KRW 7.4 Billion KRW 375.1 Billion KRW 0.5Trillion KRW 2.8Trillion 327% 218% KORAIL is generating revenues by providing transportation services including high-speed No. of Passengers 134.818 Million Passengers trains (KTX), general trains (ITX-Saemaeul, Saemaeul, etc.), metropolitan railways and other ● Overseas Business & International Cooperation Daily Operation (Tuesdays to Thursdays) 639Times main passenger trains, operating trains, transporting passengers, establishing infrastructures KORAIL is securing new growth engines by carrying out overseas businesses based on Key Achievements in Overseas Business Average Daily related with railway tourism and developing relevant products. By providing safe, precise railway operation know-how and technologies it has acquired over the past 120 years. We Transported Volume 369,000 Passengers and universal railway transport services, we are contributing to the development of (As of December 31, 2018) Revenues from New Business Orders are promoting the outstanding technology of the Korean railroads throughout the world Average Daily Sales KRW 6.639 Billion the national economy and promoting welfare services through railway transportation. Overseas Businesses by developing and implementing various overseas railway projects and exchanging and Train High-Speed 99.79% Furthermore, we are concentrating on the improvement of the transport convenience for cooperating with foreign railways and international railway organizations. Starting from a Punctuality General 99.30% the public and on the enhancement of public good by increasing the operation of trains vision proclamation ceremony for the inter-Korean and continental railways future growth * Applicable only to high-speed trains (KTX) and general trains and establishing efficient connection & transfer systems. KRW 7.5 Billion 2 Orders in 2018, we have built trust between the two Koreas by creating a task force team for the inter-Korean railway operation to conduct a joint research on the inter-Korean railway, find ● Metro Business out exact situations and collect relevant data. In addition, we were able to gain a foothold Starting with 29 stations in 1974, KORAIL’s metropolitan railways have now become Overseas Business Orders (Accumulated) in 28 continental railways after becoming an official member of OSJD. Furthermore, we are indispensable for citizens in the capital area, transporting approximately 3.15 million users (As of June 30, 2019) continuously discovering new businesses by gradually advancing into overseas markets and Amount of daily at 261 stations as of 2019. In 2018, we improved our customers’ time value by No. of No. of Business Orders carving out niche markets based on current projects. Countries Projects increasing the operation of express subway trains to 34 times, stably launching Seohae (Accumulated) Line that provides links between the south-west and north-south of the capital area and ● Rolling Stock Maintenance & Rental and Facility Maintenance Business reducing transfer time thanks to the extended operation of Bundang Line. In addition, we KORAIL has established a scientific system for maintaining rolling stock and managing Key Achievements in Metropolitan Railroad Business are working hard to contribute to the development of local communities by beefing up 13 49 facilities in order to guarantee safe train operations and keep them in the best condition. 80.6 Billion (As of December 31, 2018) the safety management, improving convenient facilities for users and developing tourism Countries Projects KRW By doing so, we could swiftly respond to emergency situations and prevent train errors and No. of Passengers 1.167063 facilities around stations. Billion Passengers accidents. We are working hard to realize a reliable railway that the people trust by securing Daily Operation rolling stock safety, strengthening the railway’s public value and minimizing rolling stock (Tuesdays to Thursdays) 2,571Times ● Logistics Business failure rates and facility error rates. Average Daily Transported 31,970,000 KORAIL operates a comprehensive logistics business that includes transporting, loading, Volume Passengers unloading, storage, and warehousing mainly containers, cement, coal, steel and other core Key Achievements in Facilities Maintenance Business (As of December 31, 2018) Average Daily Sales KRW 2.422 Billion items. KORAIL’s logistics business aims for the long-distance, large-scale and eco-friendly Rolling Stock Failure Rate Facility Error Rate KTX Failure Rate Reduction in General Trains 60Minutes transport and for driving the development of the nation’s industries. We are endeavoring Commuting ⇓ to create social value out of our logistics business with the purpose of securing our own 0.054 Case/One Million ㎞ 1.012 Case/1,000㎞ 0.077 ⇀ 0.044 Hours Express Trains 40 Minutes competitiveness and strengthening our public value in order to lead the continental railway (Decreased by 29% compared with that of 2017) (Decreased by 11% compared with that of 2017) (Decreased by 43% compared with that of 2017) era. 16 17 KORAIL Vision & Strategy Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Management Value Korea’s Future, People’s KORAIL KORAIL’s new vision contains its resolution to realize a better future for the nation and Sustainability Vision and Strategy System the people by leading the future of the Korean railway and strengthening its public value. Vision Korean Railway Connecting the People, the World and the Future KORAIL's Management Value System Korea Railroad, Connecting the People, MISSION World and the Future Strategies Trust Responsibility Ardor Innovation Nature VISION Korail, a companion for Laying the groundwork for VISION Completing its responsibility every step of your journey Growing into a reliable employees to concentrate all Korail, corporation based on its righteous management by as a public institution by conducting social contribution their capabilities on the development of the corporation Growing into the world’s best railway corporation by Enhancing the status of KORAIL as a green railway by Safety Safety of the People, Ability to Secure Safety activities specialized in the implementing eco-friendly a companion for spreading ethical culture railway, making shared by achieving non-discriminatory improving human and policies, reducing greenhouse Customers Customer Satisfaction | Employee Happiness throughout the corporation HR policies such as an open physical services and safety every step of your journey Core and its employees, expanding growth with local recruitment culture and matters and continuously gases, realizing low-carbon Values Communications with the Public communities, providing green growth and preventing anti-corruption and integrity provision of equal opportunities, innovating various policies for Communications technical support for SMEs various kinds of Win-Win Labor-Management Relations culture and internalizing taking care of grievances and customers and actively pursuing shared environmental contamination ethics health care of employees to growth policies enhance their satisfaction Management Safe Railway, Convenient Railway, Principles Railway of the People, Railway of the Future Sustainability Implementation Process Decision-Making Sustainability Implementation Process Strengthening Value-Oriented Future Corporate Five Main Smart Railway Establishing visions and making Committees on Sustainable Management Public Value Customer Growth Culture Implementing and Operating Sustainability Strategies Safety decisions on management activities Providing Professional Advice and Setting Directions of the Railway Services Engine Innovation considering sustainable growth Service Environmental Eco-Friendly Environmental Advisory Committee Green Growth Slogan Management Policies Building an Achieving a Providing Strategic Optimizing railway Internalizing advanced system Strengthening transparent, fair and Driving Human Error Research Committee Employee Safety Health Promotion Mental Health network future core CEO Tasks for the railway universal services responsible Force operations technologies Safety Elimination of Connecting Minds safety management Improving railways management system Pursuing win-win Railway Safety Review Committee Absolute Safety Technologies Unsafe Conditions Your KORAIL Strengthening environment and Establishing Expanding multiTransparent and Ethical Ethical Anti-Corruption laborFair Trade people-oriented energy connected traffic faceted business Management Committee Management and Integrity management railway safety management services portfolios Implementing relations Contribution to Board of Directors and Providing Social Contribution Steering Committee Happiness Sharing Talent Sharing Laying the Feedback Local Communities Improving railway Expanding Realizing ICTgroundwork for Communication Creating pleasant Customer Evaluation Team Customer Services Feedback safety awareness number of based railway the inter-Korean workplaces Channels Carefully and culture decent jobs services and overseas and Warmly railways Core KORAIL’s Service Divisions implementing Sustainability and Their roles Excellent Creative, Innovative and Global Experts to Lead the Railway Industry Values Caring Reliably and Talents Strategies Main Subcommittees Roles and Tasks Implementing Bodies Pleasantly! People-Oriented Communicators Customer-Oriented Experts Future-Oriented Innovators Sustainability Conducting overall management of sustainability and handling external affairs / Inspecting and consulting about Cultural Affairs Department Convenience Trust Reliable Subcommittee progress and performance of each area / Increasing awareness-levels and strengthening promotions Talented persons who make Corporation Integrity Implementing policies and institutions on anti-corruption and integrity / Internalizing employee ethics (conducting Integrity Inspection Open-minded, caring persons Innovative persons strenuous effort to learn about Subcommittee training and improving institutions) / Supporting integrity and strengthening incentives Department who facilitate active who enhance global consumers to achieve consumer communication and cooperation competitiveness of KORAIL Social Value Realization Subcommittee / Conducing overall management of social value realization activities Conveniently Friendliness satisfaction Social Contribution Shared Value Creation throughout the corporation / Strengthening the public nature of the railway work·Producing results on social values and Comfortably! Fulfilling Social Subcommittee Department that the people can benefit from Responsibilities Shared Growth Establishing and implementing shared growth policies / Supporting SMEs by encouraging them to develop new Materials Management Like Your Families and Subcommittee products under the condition of purchasing them Department Like Your Friends! ● Sustainability Value System Human Resource KORAIL is pursuing continuous growth by conducting its own specified social responsibility Complying with the Labor Standards Act and conducing overall management of government policies / Management Department Personnel Realizing Making non-discriminatory and fair recruitments (employment, appointment and others) / Subcommittee Welfare Management activities in order to carry out its mission as a public institution, develop itself, and improve a Passionate Implementing programs to develop employees’ capabilities / Operating welfare policies to achieve GWP Department Organization social values. KORAIL’s sustainability activities are carried out after dividing five strategies Health Implementing policies and institutions on anti-corruption and integrity / Internalizing employee ethics (conducting Integrity Inspection Subcommittee training and improving institutions) / Supporting integrity and strengthening incentives Department of Trust, Responsibility, Ardor, Innovation and Nature into 10 categories. Each of the Innovative Customer Establishing and implementing policies on improving customer services / Facilitating communication channels with Service Innovation categories has a committee consisting of internal and external experts to discover and Corporation Subcommittee customers and collecting their feedback / Handling VOC and operating information protection system Department Satisfying implement practical tasks for KORAIL’s sustainability. We are creating future values for the Customers Safety Subcommittee Establishing and implementing policies on railway safety / Implementing customer safety management system Safety Planning Department railway industry by proactively responding to the rapidly-changing external environment Environment Establishing and managing policies on environment-related jobs / Establishing and implementing waste management Eco-Friendly Subcommittee system / Introducing and utilizing eco-friendly technologies Environment Management and risks, internalizing sustainability through the corporation and considering ‘the and Green Railway Department Energy Establishing and managing policies on saving energy/Implementing energy efficiency programs / Developing and protection of people’s safety and lives’ as the mission of KORAIL as a public railway. Subcommittee utilizing new renewable energy / Implementing polices on reducing greenhouse gas emissions 18 19 KORAIL Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability KORAIL Core Values Let’s KORAIL Safe Railway Convenient Railway Future Railway KORAIL Safe Railway Safe Railway Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Background Safety management is growing in importance as the environment threatening the railway Safety ● Safety Management for People to Protect Their Lives Life-Centered Safety Project safety has been diversified due to the occurrence of abnormal climate including fine dust, Management We have installed platform safety doors at 240 stations and safety chains at 44 stations heat waves and others and the increase in natural disasters. In order to create a safe railway to prevent life-threatening risks. We have also added 2,090 CCTVs to monitor dangers, environment for all people, innovation in safety awareness, establishment of proactive installed bars to prevent safety door accidents at 16 stations to enhance facilities for system for safety management and other safety-related activities are key matters that customers and completed the installation of 60 devices that prevent reverse operation of should be continuously and effectively dealt with. an escalator. In addition, we’ve carried out safety campaigns with relevant organizations and produced and promoted public service advertisements for suicide prevention. Thanks Strategies and Management Directions to such endeavors, the rate of passenger accidents dropped by 63.4 % to 15 cases in 2018 Passenger Accidents Expanding Capabilities for Strengthening Proactive Strengthening Safety-First Intensive Management of and the number of those claiming their own lives in railways decreased by 45.2% compared Safety Management Safety Management Policies and Institutions Risk Factors 41 Cases to the previous year. •Realizing systems to •Strengthening safety management for handle public relief and •Innovating the safety awareness throughout •Securing workers’ safety 63.4% emergency situations •Strengthening the people’s lives the corporation Building a common ground for Safety Awareness •Placing top priority on safety of rolling stock •Supplying safe rolling •Creating safe railway We have set up a field-based safety culture by holding safety forums in each region based rolling stock and facilities 15 Cases stock spaces maintenance quality on the management’s field-based close-up communications. Moreover, we have improved safety blind spots by implementing a safety diagnosis throughout the corporation to review 2017 2018 Key Achievements in 2018/19 unstable factors for the public safety from the beginning. At safety workshops together with the management, we have had discussions on how to enhance the railway safety Safety Human Error Privacy Cyber reflecting on-site feedback. As a result of forming the corporate-wide consensus, we could Management Rate* Rate* Infringement Infringement No. of Accidents and Errors achieve the best level of safety operation service at 1.215 (customer damage cases/one 1.215 0.342 ZERO 14.9% million km). 276 Cases *Customer Damage Cases/ *Mishandling Fault Cases/ ZERO 235 Cases Distance Traveled per Distance Traveled per Train Establishing Systems to Proactively Prevent Accidents Train (One Million km) (One Million km) To secure the foundation to scientifically manage safety matters in line with the acceleration of the 4th Industrial Revolution; we have implemented science-based railway safety systems. To enhance a Big-data-based system that analyzes risk management, we have integrated data 2017 2018 related with safety management and improved risk assessment processes. And, we have also Monitoring Achievement Index Inspection Assessment Methods Evaluation and Feedback digitalized risk factors by utilizing a reporting system on safety matters and minimized the Period chances of incurring accidents through proactive improvements. Inspection of Safety Management Safety Management Safety Management System, Railway Rate Daily Operation Information System Rate, Human Error Rate, Rolling Stock Failure Rate and Facility Error Rate Winning the Prize ●Promoting the Innovation of Safety Awareness throughout the Corporation Human Error Rate Weekly Corporate-wide Management Conference Inspection of Main Issues from the Minister of In order to create a safety culture atmosphere by beefing up the corporate-wide safety capabilities, Rolling Stock Failure Rate Monthly Achievement Analysis Conference Inspection of Each Achievement Index Health and Welfare we are carrying out KORAIL-Way safety culture campaigns with reward program for preventing Reflection of Internal Management accidents to encourage our employees. As a result, we prevented 480 accidents, award Facility Error Rate Yearly Internal Management Information System Evaluation for ‘Suicide Prevention’ 149 employees,and improve 75 issues. In addition, we’ve conducted safety-related contests including UCC, posters, pictures, slogans during an intensive safety activity period. as well as activities for improving facilities, fixing rolling stock defects and discovering and eliminating any Future Plans Link to UN SDGs danger on sites. Thanks to the corporate-wide activities of improving the safety awareness, the human error rate dropped by 11.9% to 0.342 compared with the previous year. •Establishing a Smart Safety Management System •Establishing a Smart Rolling Stock Repair and Human Error Rate Safety Management Rate Evaluation of Safety Culture Level Maintenance System (Mishandling Failure Cases/Distance Traveled per Train (Customer Damage Cases/Distance Traveled per Train (One Million km)) (One Million km)) 80.4 Points 1.386 0.388 1.215 79.6 Points 0.342 Establishing Infrastructure and Expanding Commercialization 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 22 23 KORAIL Safe Railway Safe Railway Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Detailizing main Dividing Organizations Responding to Accidents and Errors Rolling Stock ● Safe Operation of Rolling Stock We have established a proactive failure prevention system by adopting a smart Securing Implementation Capabilities Maintenance maintenance program to take care of rolling stock defects in advance. A scanning system by Improving Individually Assigned has been set up to check up defects in the driving device on the underbody of a highPersonal Mission Responsibility speed train at the high-speed railway section (at Daejeon Station) on the Gyeongbu Line 8 26 and improved the positioning system of KTX-Sancheon high-speed trains to take swift action when facing abnormal situations. Furthermore, we could drop the failure rate of Individuals Organizations high-speed trains by 43% compared with the previous year after replacing and improving 2017 2018 outdated components and repairing defects in new trains. Intensifying Emergency Response Drills Failure Rate of High-Speed Trains High-Speed Train Scanning System* 2,469 Times (Case/One Million km) 8,173 Times 10,642 Times Field Inspection at Gangneung Station ● Establishing a Crisis-Response System 0.077 43% Emergency Response System for the Public Safety To increase the level of safety in practical sense, we have established an emergency response system applicable to real-time and actual emergency situations from the public viewpoint. 0.044 When an accident occurs, people are first saved and protected before restoring the accident 2017 2018 in accordance with our revised Code of Conduct, with specified details depending on And, 2017 2018 we have specified what we should do in the manual, depending on the type of the accident Hardware Result of Analyzing the Thermal Imaging Camera Selected as an Outstanding and when and where the accident occurred. In addition, we have enhanced our capabilities in * Capturing an image of the underbody with a high-speed camera to analyze the image patterns and monitor distorted status Agency company responding to and handing crises by fully taking follow-up measures and actively conducting for Disaster Control Evaluation emergency-response drills. ● Putting the Top Priority on Maintenance Quality and Disaster Status Management Securing the Quality of Rolling Stock Components (by the Ministry of ● Establishing a System for Management of Information Security In order to secure the quality of rolling stock components, we have improved a component Public Administration Establishing New Security Infrastructure procurement system to guarantee quality assurance. By sharing mid/long-term plans on and Security) To address issues arising from blind areas related to information security, we have purchasing supplies with our partners, we have improved our supply system so as to anticipate segregated the hybrid Internet network, enhanced out network in line with the innovatively the amount of supplies for them to produce. By introducing a qualification evaluation system expedited network speed and established a ransomware-blocking system and other new when purchasing supplies and intensively inspecting suppliers’ manufacturing capabilities, security infrastructure to handle new types of cyber threats. As a result, we have had no we have made it possible to procure high-quality components. In addition, we could resolve information breach incidents and no ransomware cases, and doubled the Internet speed. our difficulties in procuring spare parts by stipulating suppliers’ obligations to provide spare parts when making a contract on purchasing new trains. Meanwhile, we have secured the Enhancing Countermeasures against Cyber Infringement Accidents competitiveness of the domestic railway components industry by localizing foreign parts and In order to thoroughly respond to cyber violation accidents happening to the nation and brought about 201 recruits by purchasing domestic products. individuals, we have heightened our cyber infringement response system. By conducting evaluations on the basic infrastructure of EMP* due to the request for protecting such Strengthening Mechanics’ Capabilities infrastructures, we have come up with protection measures and established an integrated We have enhanced mechanics’ capabilities by fostering outstanding technical experts controlling system based on big-data. to swiftly respond to hacking attacks. In addition, we holding railway-related qualifications. Job competence has been improved thanks to have set up personal information control systems between internal and external networks training programs to nurture rolling stock mechanics, rolling stock maintenance mater and personal information diagnosis systems inside servers in order to protect privacy. mechanics, cutting-edge engineers, etc. In particular, 43% of the rolling stock mechanics * EMP (Electro-Magnetic Pulse Shelter) belong to KORAIL. 13 44 28 7 Consecutive Years Minstry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport Excellent ZERO ZERO (13 in cumulative numbers) Rolling Stock (124 in cumulative numbers) (163 in cumulative numbers) 4 Consecutive 4 Consecutive Mock Drills to Cyber-Infringement Years Personal-Information Years Rolling Stock Maintenance High Tech Respond to Cyber Attacks Accidents Leakage Accidents Engineers Master Craftsman Engineers 24 25 KORAIL Safe Railway Convenient Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Railway Background Facility ● Enhancing ICT-based Railway Facility Maintenance For data-based and cutting-edge maintenance, we have expanded automatic inspections Our customers’ needs have been diversified due to direct and indirect changes in the railway Maintenance and remote surveillance of facilities. We have installed video devices that automatically environment including the 4th Industrial Revolution, expansion of overseas railway markets, low birthrate, aging population, abnormal climate changes and others. It has become a detect birds’ nests on railway tracks as part of automatic inspection of facilities. A system critical issue to create a railway environment for all the people to conveniently use as the of automatically detecting the quality of radio waves of wireless and disaster broadcasting expectations have grown for KORAIL, the nation’s backbone transport network, to carry out devices installed in trains has been developed and established. In addition, we have its public roles. expanded drone inspection activities to remotely monitor dangerous areas and established an information system that provides 3-D images inside and outside stations along the Strategies and Management Directions tracks of Gyeongbu Line to rapidly inform us of the site. Meanwhile, we have strengthened the verification and practical utilization of new technologies by expanding the industryStrengthening Business Expanding Establishing Comprehensive Responding to Capabilities ICT-based Services Transport Platforms Customers’ Needs university of cooperation to practically utilize ICT-based cutting-edge maintenance •Strengthening KTX •Establishing smart transport •Establishing •Vitalizing city airport technologies. transport capabilities for platforms comprehensivelyterminals international events •Expanding Increasing the connected transport •Strengthening railway Facility Error Rate Convenience of Using IT tools •Expanding transport systems tourism partnership systems for for underprivileged services for remote and •Establishing mobile apps for •Improving KTX operation •Providing customized (Case/Distance Traveled per Train (1,000km)) isolated areas systems services passengers to purchase tickets 1.138 1.012 Key Achievements in 2018/19 The A Share of Winner of The Size of Public Customer Satisfaction Railway Transport during Concessionary Fares as a Public Institution the Winter Olympics the Presidential Inspecting Railway Facilities by Utilizing Drones KRW 33% Award A 2017 2018 ● Establishing Safe Infrastructures 121.6 Billion Grade (91.7 Points) (1.06 Million People) The Rate of KTX Punctuality in the Government Innovation for Pubic Taxi-Railway Annually We are working hard to prevent operation errors and safety related acccidents by greatly 99.79% Connection Services improving outdated tracks and facilities in order to proactively prevent safety-threatening factors of railway facilities. We are also conducting activities related with scientific facility safety management in order to secure safety in response to abnormal climate changes. We Monitoring were able to drop the temperature of rails by 5~6℃ after developing and installing heatAchievement Index Inspection Period Evaluation Method Evaluation and Feedback shielding paint spraying devices in 101 areas in order to respond to catastrophic level of No. of High-Speed •Identifying service trends by monitoring stations •Figuring out real-time customers’ and trains all the time and analyzing PCSI and VOC needs by analyzing monthly VOC Railway Passengers record-breaking •Analyzing transport performance monthly, quarterly and reflecting them in policies Monthly, and yearly •Identifying issues of each index by heatwaves. We have also established IoT-based real-time rail temperature checking systems No. of General Railway Quarterly, •Making responsible management agreements with continuously inspecting at 37 areas and detection systems equipped with ultrasonic-wave sensors to monitor any Passengers Half-Yearly, division heads, conducting MBO evaluations and management goals and making Yearly internal management evaluations for HQs and relevant improvements changes in the tension of traction lines at 20 areas. In order to prevent rail ruptures, freezing No. of Metropolitan divisions •Securing motivations to crease •Holding regular and constant executive systemic achievements by bursts and others due to cold periods in the winter, covers preventing snowdrifts from piling Railway Passengers management meetings reflecting performance evaluations on rail switches and heating devices have been installed in 246 locations. Heat-shielding paint spraying devices ● Creating Safe Railway Spaces Future Plans Link to UN SDGs 2018 Smart Construction To create railway spaces that anyone including the underprivileged can safely use, various Technology Safety Contest •Preparing for the launch of new KTX lines (bound safety and convenience facilities have been installed. We have also conducted jobs to for Suwon and Incheon) and completing one-stop The Grand Prize replace and improve elevator components, to install and expand laser radars that improve platforms ground-detecting functions at railroad crossings and to improve safety doors at platforms •Establishing ICT-based services and connecting (Heat-Shielding in order to eliminate safety hazards when using railways. At the same time, we have built high-speed trains to all sections Paint Spraying Device for Rail Temperature waiting rooms equipped with cooling and heating devices at nine stations in order to •Operating metropolitan express/general/shuttle Constructing Creating Sustainable Promoting Peaceful Reduction) expand convenience facilities inside railway stations. And, we have newly constructed trains and establishing smart stations and train Restorable Cities and Residences Societies, Securing environment Infrastructure and Accessibility to Justice and the Gyeongui Line at Seoul Station and the south entrance at Hoeryong Station, installed Facilitating Establishing Institutions additional platforms, conducted jobs to improve the audio guiding devices for the visually Industrialization impaired and expanded free Wi-Fi in all stations and in all trains to provide universal services. 26 27 KORAIL Convenient Convenient Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Railway Railway Innovating ● Improving Public Services Successful Holding of 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics and Paralympics Improving KorailTalk Functions ticket for pre-determined time and routes with in set number of travel of customer's choice reached over 10,000 within only nine days after the launch. Customer Services KORAIL has successfully supported the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics & Paralympics by exerting its capabilities. By designating 56 days during the Olympics as a special transport TimeStrengthening ICT-based Services with enhanced Computer Networks Saving period, we have expanded the operation of trains, and by establishing ‘Pyeongchang Service By linking our computer networks to government bodies and external organizations, An Official Railway Transport Company for Olympics Transport HQs’, we ensured 24-hour emergency response systems. In addition, UI Smart we have improved the convenience of purchasing railway tickets. In order to handle Pyeongchang Winter Olympics Improvement Alarm we have expanded additional temporary trains and come up with measures on special inconveniences of directly visiting ticket counters at stations for public concessionary fares, transport at the opening and closing ceremonies to actively back up the Olympics. we have made it possible to validate eligibilities by connecting to the ‘Social Security System’ Railway Furthermore, we have also added the number of wheelchair seats, installed additional Ordering under the Ministry of Health and Welfare on a real-time basis, and to use such services Improving Stop Affiliated wheelchair lifts at main stations, provided ticket-booking services for the disabled and Checking through our website or KorailTalk by linking to the ‘Public Information Sharing Service’ Products KorailTalk+ Functions Function carried out helper services to get on and off and move inside the train in order to enhance under Ministry of the Interior and Safety. In addition, we have expanded such services as Weather the travel convenience for the disabled. Meanwhile, we have also expanded services to Connected at the the simple sign in with Kakao accounts and the simple payment and simple credit transfer Transfer respond to the increasing number of foreign visitors by preparing information signs and Destination associated with Kakao Pay in order to minimize payment processes. At the same time, we announcement in foreign languages and allocating staffs speaking foreign languages in have also improved ticket-booking services by allowing passengers to book and purchase railway customer centers. tickets for Korean Thanksgiving Day using their smartphones. We will continue striving to provide more convenient railway services for the public. Major performance of Pyeongchang Winter Olympics and Paralympics Transported Seats Supported No. of Accidents during the Establishing Highly Accessible Railway Transport Networks Train Operation Passengers for the Disabled Whole Olympics Period Best Practice KORAIL has implemented a master plan for the establishment of ‘The Comprehensive 4,135 Times 106 Million People 3,825 ZERO Transport Platform’, a railway-centered connected-transport service outperforming a KTX NCard (As of June, 2019) Seats on Daily Average Expanding customer convenience simple provider-centered transport service. In order to provide a door-to-door service that Recoded the Sales of by being the first to introduce Zero would connect all trips from the house to the destination, we have cooperated with local Pursuing Various Fare-Saving Programs governments to introduce a public taxi-railway connecting service, van rent-a-car sharing 61,000 in Number Pay among the public Enterprise We are Improve service satisfactions Levels by providing various fare discounts to ease O2O pilot service, KorailTalk-based rent-a-car and car-sharing integrated reservation corporation financial burdens for the public. We have enhanced the convenience of Commuter rail system and other connected transport services. And, the result of conducting a survey* on KORAIL introduced pass by launching ‘new commutation products’ that would relax limits of the existing ‘Zero Pay’, a mobilethe satisfaction level of using railway-connected transport service has shown that more commutation tickets after listening to opinions of commuters and external experts. In based simple payment than 96% of the respondents answered positively. In addition, we have unified the first system, for small addition, we have launched new KTX cut-price fares such as ’KRW 50,000 for 4 (a 50% Zero Pay and last stops of KTX trains bound for Busan, Pohang and Masan passing through Yongsan businesses and discount given to a group of four passengers using Gangneung Line), KRW 100,000 for customers in June 2019 for the first time Station into one at Seoul Station so as to increase the chances of using KTX. And, we 4 (up to a 60% discount given to a group of four passengers using any lines)’ for a small as a public Enterprise corporation. Through have also expanded the number of trains and seats for highly-used lines and sections and group of travelers. In particular, the sales of ‘KTX NCard’, a mobile-based discount card ‘Zero Pay’ which can be conveniently used Launching New Commutation Tickets improved train operation systems. At the same time, we have improved the convenience by Improving Existing Commuting Tickets in 975 railway shops nationwide, small business owners can lower burdens arising of accessing Incheon Airport in line with the increasing number of overseas trips and Limits of Existing Commuting Tickets Launching ‘New Commuting Ticket’ Products from commission rates and customers vitalized the use of Gwangmyeong Station by having 21 additional calls there, increasing the •Impossible to use on weekends •Launching ‘free-period type commutation tickets’ usable on weekends as well can get income tax deductions. As such, number of airport bus operation times and improving convenience facilities and customer •Purchasable only for 10, 20 and 30 days •Launching ‘NCard’ deducting the number of times used from the pre-designated number of times KORAIL is actively engaging with the •No seats available when traveling long distance •Establishing a ‘seat-designating’ system available when needed by customers government policy to facilitate mutual information services and so on to facilitate the use of city airport terminals. KORAIL will •Using standing room due to the lack of free seats •Increasing the no. of free seat by 10.55 (179 cars) growth of small businesses and customers. continue to work hard to further develop railways into the hub of transport by establishing We will do our best to grow together with Best Practice easily accessible railway networks. all members of the public. * A Survey of Passengers Using the Railway-Connected Transport System (Surveyed 1,248 Passengers from Launching ‘KTX NCard’, a Mobile-based Discount Card Deducting No. of Times Used 80 railway stations nationwide in November, 2018) Types of NCards KORAIL launched ‘KTX NCard’, a mobile-based discount card ticket that takes the number of times traveled out of the number of times pre-defined when purchasing it in order to improve inconveniences Types of the existing commutation ticket as of the end of December, 2018. KTX NCard is a ticket that gives (Possible to 10~20 21~30 Three Main Directions in Introducing a New Connected-Transport System Select No. of Times Times a discount of up to 40% based on the pre-designated sections and number of times used and has Times) Introducing Public Transport Means Introducing Transport Means Responding to Demands Expanding Sharing Transport Means features of giving discounts when needed unlike the existing commutation ticket for which a passenger Two Three Directions Public Taxi-Railway Connecting Services through pays a monthly fare in advance. KTX NCard has made a big hit, recording sales of over 10,000 within Validity Period Months Months KorailTalk-Based Integrated Reservation Van Rent-a-Car Sharing O2O Pilot Services only nine days after its launch. In particular, the facts that it has enhanced the convenience of those Cooperation with Local Governments Services for Shared Public Transportation Means 5% of the Normal Card Price passengers who occasionally use KTX and where a and that a discount of up to 40% is given when Fare NCard Launching Targets Disdavantaged Regions in Terms of Public Transport Innovative City Areas Metropolitan Areas buying up to 40% is given when buying the ticket are believed to be behind such a big success. We will Ticket Discount Poster 15∼40% Rate Activities Public Taxi-Railway Connecting Services for Locals in Van Rent-a-Car Sharing O2O Services in Innovative City KorailTalk-Based Integrated Reservation continue to provide better services by actively collecting feedback from train users. Conducted Mountainous Areas Nationwide Areas from Manjong Station to Wonju City Services for Rental Cars and Car sharing 28 29 KORAIL Convenient Convenient Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Railway Railway Improving User-Centered Convenience Facilities Status of Concessionary Fare Services for the Public Providing Concessionary Fare Services for the Public We are constantly conducting activities directed toward improving user-oriented facilities We have expanded the scope of beneficiaries eligible for concessionary fare services in MomA 40%-off concessionary fare for for passengers to conveniently and pleasantly use railway facilities. In order for our order to reduce transport fees for ordinary people and encourage childbirth for the public Comfortable an VIP room for a pregnant customers to have better services, we have implemented projects of renovating outdated KTX woman and one for her guardian purposes. To this end, we have increased the age cap of children eligible for free rides and Gwanak and Namyoung stations and replaced 336 outdated trains. We have also installed A 30%-off concessionary fare for relaxed the qualifications for multi-child families to get discounted tickets. In addition, we Multi-Child an adult ticket when more than large-sized fans and ventilators at 27 stations to prepare for heatand cold-waves, waiting have made it possible for passengers to purchase public discount products such as MomHappiness two members of a verified multiProject to Renovate Outdated Stations rooms equipped with cooling and heating devices on platforms of eight stations along the child family travel Comfortable KTX, Multi-Child Happiness and other Basic Living discounts not only through (Namyoung Station) Gyeongui-jungang Line and air curtains inside electric trains of Gyeongin Line. In addition, A 30%-off concessionary fare for our website and KorailTalk, but also at ticket counters of stations. While the discounted Basic Living new entrances at four stations have been established to improve access to stations and validated recipients of basic living tickets for Multi-Child Happiness and Basic Living were were available till one day before be Discount guarantees information signs have been enhanced for convenient transfers. Meanwhile, we have purchased one day before their train departures, we have now extended the discounted also carried out activities to handle fine dust and create pleasant indoor environments by ticket-selling time up to 20 minutes before the departure. replacing filters of air-conditioning facilities at 15 stations, removing acoustic boards found to be the source of fine dust from Ilsan and Bundang Lines, increasing the number of Expanding Concessional Fare Services for the Public cleanings from two to four per month and installing air-purifying devices in new trains. Increasing the Age Cap of Children Eligible for Free Rides Under the Age of 4 Under the Age of 6 Project to Improve Convenient Facilities (Air Curtains for Electric Trains) Loosening the Qualification for Multi-Child Families to Get Discounted Tickets More than 3 Children Aged under 25 More than 2 Children Aged under 25 Extending the Discounted Ticket-Selling Time 1 Day before the Departure 20 Minutes before the Departure ● Social Integration in Railway Services Expanding the Range of Pregnancy Eligible for Discounted Only Herself Including 1 Guardian Enhancing Convenience for underprivileged Tickets Realizing In order to guarantee the right to travel for underprivileged, we have expanded Extending the Eligible Period for Pregnant Women to Due Date + 1 Month Due Date + 1 Year Get Concessionary Fares the Public Nature convenience facilities and improved the convenience of using trains. We have also increased the number of seats for pregnant women and added English signs in order to enhance the of Railway convenience for the pregnant women when using subways. In addition, we have further Best Practice installed elevators and other convenience facilities, and improved services for the disabled to help them book tickets and get on and off the train by operating each local government’ Creating Social Values through Public Taxi-Railway Connecting Services In order to enhance the railway’s own public nature, we started public taxi-railway connecting services in July 2018. As The Presidential s call taxis for the handicapped, which are associated with stations. In particular, the range there are not many buses going to mountainous and remote regions and it is far to get to a railway station, people living Prize of eligible passengers for the handicapped call taxis has increased from those with disability around such regions are facing hardships in using railways. In order to improve the traveling convenience for such local in the Government rating 1 and 2 to those with disability rating 1, 2 and 3. And, the pregnant women and people who have so far suffered from insufficient connected-transport services, KORAIL has taxi service for passengers in Innovation Outstanding temporary wheelchair users are able to use such taxis from now on. In the future, we are remote region to nearby stations by utilizing local governments’ public taxis. Considering the fact that most of the users are Practices Contest senior citizens, all they need to do is just make a single call to get taxi and book a railway ticket at the same time. And, we in 2018 planning to make our trains more convenient for all the people to use by introducing a new have also enhanced their convenience by developing a system that enables them to postpone the payment of their booked voice-recognizing ticket reservation system for the visually disabled, increasing designated tickets until 20 minutes before the departure. seats for those with guide dogs, installing a voice-recognition system in automatic ticketKORAIL is honored to have won ‘The Presidential Prize in the Government Innovation Outstanding Cases in 2018’ for its innovative achievements in creating social values. We are planning to create a virtuous circle for the service of connecting railway issuing machines and strengthening various services for underprivileged. with public taxis to take firm root by forming a regional consultative body that local communities would join later on. We will The Outcome of Using continue to improve the railway’s pubic nature by improving the railway-connected transportation service for the disadvantaged. Public Taxies * Public Taxi Service: This is a project to subsidize taxi fares for locals living in mountainous and remote regions and areas 31 Stations where there are less than three times of bus services in a day. (Around 3,206 people) Increasing the No. of Seats for Pregnant Women Expanding the Scope of Passengers Eligible to Use Call Taxis for the Disabled How to Use Public Taxis Locals living in remote regions Deferring the payment 4,896 Seats far from transport access settlement up to 20 minutes Before ☞ railway station/ before the train departure Disability call center Ratings 1 Current Subsidized Using trains and 2 by local governments Disability Ratings 1, 2 and 3 Using public taxies Getting to the station Calling to book train tickets 2,596 Seats + and issuing tickets Pregnant Women and Temporary Wheelchair Seats for Pregnant Women Users 2017 2018 30 31 KORAIL Convenient Future Railway Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Railway Improving the Convenience of Lines to Remote Rural Areas Background KORAIL is operating in remote and rural routes despite the high cost with low profit Market demands for securing future growth engines have rapidly changed due to such reasons margin, as to expand travel convenience for the people who are residing in those as limitations of freight transport businesses, increased demands for the public nature of the areas. As of December 2018, we are operating seven lines connected to such areas: railway assets, and railway market expansions to foreign nations through the inter-Korean Gyeongbuk Line (Gimcheon~Yeongju), Geyongjeon Line (Jinju~Gwangju Songjeong), railway connections. For KORAIL’s sustainable future, we believe it is time for us to find new growth engines by the utilizing unique assets and competitiveness of the Korean railway. Daegu Line (Gacheon~Yeongcheon), Yeongdong Line (Yeongju~Anin), Jeongseon Line (Auraji~Mindoongsan) and Taebaek Line (Jecheon~Baeksan). And, the average weekly Strategies and Management Directions number of trains running via such sections stood at 140. In order to increase the Passengers Using Lines to the Boondocks convenience of such lines connected to the remote rural areas, we are planning to develop Strengthening Business Responding to Securing Strengthening Capabilities Customers’ Demands New Growth Engines Win-Win Cooperation unique railway tour services, create railway theme parks, establish railway-centered •Establishing high-speed •Strengthening win-win comprehensively-connected transport networks and develop low-cost and high-efficiency and large-sized transport management and public •Pursuing new projects of •Regenerating cities and light trains customized for mountainous and remote regions in the future. To this end, we systems functions utilizing railway assets developing unused •Activating comprehensive •Developing stations and •Expanding overseas railway lands will continue to carefully listen to complaints about using railways, communicate with locals, logistics businesses expanding connecting markets in preparation •Leading private •Strengthening international and transfer facilities for the inter-Korean companies to advance and further strengthen organic cooperation with local governments. competitiveness regarding •Increasing the public use railway era into overseas markets continental railways of railway assets ● Increasing KTX Punctuality rate Key Achievements in 2018/19 We are doing all we can to improve our customers’ time value by achieving the world’s Improving best punctuality. In order to proactively find and improve factors delaying trains, we have Operating Revenues from Revenues from Overseas OSJD Becoming an OSJD Holding raised ‘The Committee on Punctual Train Operation’ of the HQs to a higher level to enhance Customers’ Time the punctuality of train operations. And, we have managed and improved 13 habitually Utilizing Assets KRW Businesses KRW Official Member of a Conference of Value postponed trains by conducting ‘The Period of Intensively Managing Punctual Operation’ in 365.1 7.5 OSJD General Directors of OSJD Railways the field. In addition, we have carried out activities of adjusting operation hours and stops Billion Billion (2019) and intensively monitoring delayed trains and bottleneck sections. moreover, we have resolved biggest causes for train delays in advance by actively taking care of serial delays of nearby lines and following trains when a proceeding train is in trouble. As a result of such Monitoring Achieving a Record-Breaking Punctuality Rate endeavors, we could achieve the world’s highest punctuality rate of KTX at 99.79%. Achievement Index Inspection PeriodEvaluation Method Evaluation and Feedback Punctuality Rate of KTX •Strategic Meetings on Logistics Innovation (Bimonthly), Strategic •Coming up with measures and joint responses through daily marketing 99.79% Transported Volume per Person ● Increasing Punctuality rate of General Trains 99.76% Meetings on Logistics Marketing (Monthly), Weekly Meetings analyses and weekly meetings Transported Volume per Freight Weekly and (Weekly), Marketing Analysis (Daily) •Establishing fair management systems and measures for retrieving We’ve achieved an all-time high of 99.30% in the punctuality rate of general trains by Train Monthly •Making responsible management agreements with division through monthly index-based performance evaluations 2017 2018 intensively handling four main delay factors of general trains. To save dwelling time in the Proportion of the Sales made from heads, conducting MBO and internal management evaluations •Securing driving forces to create systemic performances by reflecting Punctuality Rate of General station, 39 wheelchair lifts were installed in 28 stations as well as adjusting the dwelling time Comprehensive Logistics Businesses •XROIS (Korea Railroad Operating Information System), KOVIS performance evaluations Operating Revenues from Asset 99.30% depending on the passenger number. In addition, we’ve changed operating hours and stops 98.14% Development Businesses •KOVIS, Open Innovation Meetings (Led by CEO) •Establishing fare management systems and measures for improvements for 152 habitually delayed trains. Furthermore, we’ve carried out activities of intensively Operating Revenues from Asset Frequently •Making responsible management agreements with division through monthly and quarterly performance evaluations Utilization Businesses 2017 2018 managing 55 bottleneck sections around the capital city areas and increased the cycle of Operating Revenues from heads, conducting MBO and internal management evaluations •Promoting performances by providing performance-based remuneration detecting the gravitational attraction of attractions of rail expansion and contraction joints. Overseas Businesses Results of Reducing Traveling Time At the same time, we’ve carried out preventive maintenance for rolling stock and intense Transported Volume management of decrepit trains to proactively. Future Plans Link to UN SDGs Increased by Rush Hour 12,308 passengers •Expanding the application of cutting-edge technologies to logistics Decreased by on Daily Average ● Reducing Traveling Time by Expanding the Operation of Express Trains businesses and establishing transport systems for large-sized footholds up to 20 Minutes By optimizing resources and expanded the train operation services by running limited •Approving and starting the construction of core railway station spheres express trains on the Gyeongin Line eight times during rush hours, adding four times of and expanding rental development businesses * Bundang Line (Wangsimni Station~Suwon Station) express train* operations, newly running express trains between Kwangwoon University •Discovering new growth engines to increase social values and Gyeongui Line (Seoul Station~Moonsan Station) •Going for large-scale overseas investment businesses, inter-Korean & ** Section between Seoul Station~Ilsan Station → Station to Dongducheon Station for 10 times and extending express-running sections** to continental railway businesses and international freight transport Growing Sustainable Constructing Restorable Section between Seoul Station~Moonsan Station 12 times. As a result, we reduced 20 minutes of traveling time the average number of daily businesses Economies and Infrastructures and (adding 10 times of operations)/ Section between Creating Decent Jobs Facilitating Industrialization passengers has been increased by 12,308. By establishing railway infrastructures through Yongsan Station~Cheonan Station → Section between Yongsan Station~Shinchang Station improving facilities and procurement of trains later on, we will continue to enhance the (adding two times of operations) convenience of the public transport for the people. 32 33 KORAIL Future Railway Future Railway Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Logistics Business ● Enhancing the Eco-Friendliness and Public Value of Freight Transport In order to vitalize safe and eco-friendly railway logistics, we are carrying out activities ● Establishing Safe Transport Systems Regarding logistics businesses, the most important value is the safety of customer and to increase eco-friendly railway transported volume, and providing supplies for public employees. KORAIL is coming up with absolutely safe transport systems for safety purposes. As eco-friendly railway transported volume is increasing, we are working hard management of workers’ industrial accidents and hazardous materials. In order to to bring in new supplies utilizing transportation containers to deliver large-scale export & fundamentally eliminate industrial accidents that would arise when conducting shunting Key Achievements import supplies in time. As for general supplies, we are trying to bring in them by flexibly jobs, we have improved the overall work processes, facilities and institutions through Transported volume of eco-friendly railways operating trains to respond to changes in relevant demands. At the same time, we have communications with our stakeholders. In addition, we have carried out ‘institutionmade transport structures that back up large-scale export industries in order to support improving activities’ by lowering the minimum tons to be transported and internalizing 9.87 million tons 8.45 million tons transportation of goods for public purposes. And, we are also actively helping transportation A Corporation-Wide Workshop to Establish Safety System inspection methods for each of the stations, ‘activities for improving tying methods for of heavy, long & large-sized and special goods that are not transported on roads. steel products’ by marking balance lines to prevent uneven loadings and strengthening * Energy Consumption (consumed energy per person/km) When Using the Railway: 1/8 of a Passenger Vehicle train maintenance and linking criteria and ‘complementary activities for loading-inspection and 1/14 of a Truck / CO2 Emissions: 1/6 of a Passenger Vehicle and 1/13 of a Truck Key Achievements processes’ by installing CCTVs to monitor uneven loadings and making a plan to install scale 2017 2018 Expanding Walking-Shunting tables so as to improve the process of loading freight. ● Optimizing Business Structures and Transport Systems Transported volume for public purposes Through the improvement of business structures and enhancement of transport 59 Stations Installing Safety Handrails ● Expanding Logistics Business through Win-Win Cooperation 2.90 million tons competitiveness, we have laid the foundations for sustainable growth for logistics 1,081 Cars 2.13 million tons KORAIL is continuously expanding comprehensive logistics businesses by making businesses. By responding to decreased demands for small-quantity, frequently-used Installing Remotely-Controlled Shunting Systems cooperation with other companies. In order to respond to the sharp increase in the and bulk freights and to changes in logistics environment and by optimizing stations, organizations and operation systems of trains and freight trains, we have saved costs of 2 Units transported volume of home delivery service goods, we have made cooperation among No. of Overloads of Bulk Freights private companies, government bodies and public organizations by utilizing sales network 2017 2018 KRW 15.18 billion. And, we have adopted two units of a remotely-controlled shunting system* in order to increase job efficiency and improve safety. At the same time, we have 243 Cases ⇀ 51 Case of KTX express delivery. Thanks to such endeavors, the number of deliveries transported * Remotely controlled shunting system: A system (Dropped by 79.0%) by KTX has increased by 15.5% or to 550,000 compared with the previous year. And, nine that enables shunting handlers to remotely control increased the number of operations of high-speed freight trains from 12 to 18 to enhance trains externally for shunting jobs including workers have been hired by private companies for two newly-established KTX express the transportation competitiveness. Moreover, we were able to increase the transported connecting, disconnecting, replacing and moving deliver sales offices. Meanwhile, we have pushed forward a project of developing and trains volume by 180,000 tons and the sales by KRW 1.2 billion after adding another four long directly operating new warehouses through win-win cooperation with private companies in trains to improve the productivity of train operations. In addition, we are pushing forward order to expand warehouse businesses, resulting in creating 185 jobs for private companies. ‘the project of expanding Anin Station for large-scale transportation of new & renewable power generation fuels’ aimed to be completed in 2019. ● Preparing for Transportation through the Inter-Korean and Continental Railways We are working hard to prepare for transportation and to expand infrastructure for ● Railway Logistics Close to Customers systemic operation of international freight trains when launching the inter-Korean and We continue to improve customer value by coming up with various measures for growing KTX Express continental railway. To have access to international freight information systems and together with our customers. In order to increase attention to the punctual operation of prepare for transportation methods, we are carrying out activities such as the operation freight trains and to reduce costs for repeated delay compensations, we have implemented of a task force team for the inter-Korean and continental railway, the association with the ‘a system of compensating for delays of freight trains.’ We are making compensations A KORAIL Employee Demonstrating Remotely information on freight transported through international railways and the preparation of only for exclusive trains delayed more than three hours because of the corporation’ Controlled Shunting our own transportation methods and asked expert organizations to conduct researches s fault, resulting in the increase of the punctuality rate by 3.9%p and the decrease of based on mid/long-term road maps. And, we are also trying to develop multi-containers for train delays by 4,846 hours. In addition, we have introduced and are implementing a transportation between the two Koreas to provide efficient transport services. Meanwhile, green rail certification system to grant various incentives for companies with outstanding we’ve reviewed the efficiency and feasibility of the project of constructing a logistics hub in performances in practicing low carbon and green logistics railway transportation. We will the capital city area by checking how to guide transportation methods, how to cooperate continue to actively reflect agendas proposed through lively communications with our with private companies and how to handle complaints in response to trade increases when stakeholders to make KORAIL grow together with its customers. On-Site Survey on the Inter-Korean Railway vitalizing the international freight railway. (December 2018) Best Practice Coming up with Measures to Associate with Information systems and to Prepare for Transportation Methods for the Operation of International Freight Trains Improving Time Value and Satisfaction for Customers by Implementing a System of Punctuality Rate of Operation Delayed Hours Short Term (2018) Medium Term (2019~2021) Long Term (after 2022) Compensating for Delays of Freight Trains KORAIL is implementing ‘a system of compensating for delays of freight trains’ as it does for delays of After Before After •Forming and operating a task force team for the inter•Establishing international transport institutions for the Before 83.9% inter-Korean and continental railway •Constructing a logistics hub in the capital city area 9,285 Hours Korean and continental railway 14,131 Hours passenger trains. When any of the 147 freight trains that have made exclusive contracts with KORAIL is 80.0% •Reviewing the association with the information on freights •Conducting researches in association with the information •Running comprehensive logistics businesses based on delayed more than three hours due to the corporation’s fault, 10% of the fare is compensated. In this way, on freights transported by international trains (national transported through international railways international railways we are improving customer value by providing monetary compensation for our customer’s lost time value. 2017 2018 2017 2018 R&D) •Regular operation in international freight trains •Reviewing logistics infrastructure and transportation methods •Conducting pilot operations of international freight trains 34 35 KORAIL Future Railway Future Railway Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Creating Values ● Laying the Foundation for Future Growth by Developing Core Station Spheres Continuing to develop the Yongsan Station Area Status of Improving Asset Rental Institutions and Unfair Terms disclosure, introducing a right to claim for price reduction and finding ways to grow together with convenience store owners, we have modified our asset rental programs. Furthermore, we from Railway KORAIL is pushing forward the development of the Yongsan Station area and other core station Classification Improvements will improve unfair agreements by giving additional points to the underprivileged when they Assets spheres in order to lay the groundwork for future growth. Even as the project of developing A monthly minimum Abolished sales system participate in tenders, offering special options, expanding the contractual period and the scope the Yongsan Station area was on the brink of being foundered due to a dispute over the land Improving Expanding information Disclosing expected prices, items to be of compensation for damages and changing the interpretation of contracts. We will continue disclosure evaluated, evaluated details and others Institutions ownership and other issues after the global financial crisis in 2008, we could regain the land and Introducing a right Stating a right to claim for reduction of to grow with small business owners by strengthening the pubic value of railway assets. Protecting to claim for price commissions and prices when facing ownership in June, 2018, leading us to restart the project. And, we could increase KORAIL’s capital the reduction sluggish sales Underprivileged Increasing the payments to by KRW 2.3 trillion and reduce the debt ratio by 109%p. For now, we are discussing with the Seoul Cooperating with convenience store owners within Utilizing the Corporate Assets for Social Enterprises convenience store railway stations (KRW 1.8 billion as of municipal government on how to develop lands around Yongsan Station and are implementing owners January 2019) We are carrying out a project for helping social enterprises to locate their businesses in our Taking care of the Giving additional points when a project of purifying polluted soils. In the long run, we are going to develop the area into “a new underprivileged participating in a tender property assets in order to create social values. We have expanded and relocated it in order Offering special optionsLeaser → Mutual Agreement hub of future Seoul” that would work as a foothold of our global competitiveness. Expanding the scope to expand the sales network of SMEs and local products. We have increased the number of Improving of compensation for Stating a leaser’s liability for damages Unfair damages goods produced by social enterprises. As a result, 22.4% of 214 stores located in our premises Terms Expanding the Developing Areas nearby Stations Accelerating Development Projects for Main Station Areas contractual period 5 year+3 year → 5 year+5 year have products made by social enterprises for sales. With rental supports for social enterprises KORAIL is carrying out development in Seoul and Deajeon. As for the Kwangwoon University Changing the in June, 2018, they could have rental discounts up to 75%. And, we could achieve 21 cases of Deleting “unilateral decision made by a interpretation of leaser” contracts Station area development project contract, we are discussing with the Seoul municipal reducing rental fees and 31 cases of supporting direct marketing channels for social enterprises. government on the urban planning change. Regarding the project of developing lands KORAIL will create ‘social value hubs’ in its premises maximizing our great accessibility. around the northern part of Seoul Station and former Yongsan Hospital, we are planning to Before the development of After the Sungkyunkwan development of enter into an agreement with and grant approval to the implementer. As for the 1st Susaek University Station Sungkyunkwan University Station into a Complex Building Station area development project (DMC Station), we are going to set up the urban design ● Strengthening the International Competitiveness of Continental Railways planning for the 2nd development area (integrating shunting yards and Susaek Station) and Participating in the Modernization of Railways in North Korea Best Practice draw up guidelines before calling for bids on the project implementation. In the case of the Diversifying In order to lay the groundwork for the operation of the inter-Korean and continental railways, Daejeon Station area development project, we are having discussions with the Daejeon Vitalizing Local Economies through municipal government on how to make improvements before requesting for proposals. Overseas and Interwe are carrying out activities of strengthening the competitiveness of continental railways and establishing international cooperation networks. We have been conducting trainings to nurture Urban Regeneration New Deal Projects KORAIL is carrying out ‘urban regeneration Korean Businesses experts of the inter-Korean and continental railways twice a year since 2014 and studies on new deal projects’ in order to vitalize local Developing Outdated Stations into Complexes international transport treaties of OSJD twice a month since October, 2018. In addition, we economies together with local communities. We have carried out a project of developing decrepit stations into complex stations to meet could enter into agreements with 28 official member countries after becoming an official Under the concept of developing railway station spheres to create diversions, cultural the demands of railway users for facility improvements. We have completed the project member of OSJD in June, 2018 and successfully hold a Conference of General Directors of spaces, youth startups and other we are of developing 41-year-old Sungkyunkwan University Station into a complex building with OSJD Railways in April, 2019. Meanwhile, we have enhanced the foundation for advancing jointly carrying out urban regeneration new deal projects based on the cooperation with one basement and six stories. We have also installed entrances, elevators, escalators and into overseas railway markets by signing an MOU with the Russian Railway Corporation on the local governments to develop Cheonan other convenient mobility facilities to contribute to the improvement of the convenience railway cooperation and signing a business agreement with the Polish Railway Corporation. Station and Jochiwon Station into ‘a central urban type complex’, Jecheon station into ‘a for customers. In addition, we have changed urban designs to enhance development my-town-vitalizing complex’ and Gwangju conditions for Donong Station and Incheon Station and requested for proposals to improve Preperation for Inter-Korean and Continental Railway Operation Station into ‘a economy-based complex’. development conditions. At the same time, we entered into a business agreement with We are improving the competitiveness of continental railways and establishing international KORAIL will play its social role, as a catalyst, in vitalizing local economies by conducting Geumcheon-gu Office and LH in November, 2018 to upgrade Geumcheon-gu Office Station cooperation networks for inter-Korean and continental railways. We have been training value-creating activities based on the and supply houses for young people by developing the Station into a complex building. experts of the inter-Korean and continental railways twice a year since 2014 and studies utilization of railway assets. on international transport treaties of OSJD twice a month since October 2018. We settled Improving Connection and Transfer Convenience agreements with 28 official member in OSJD after becoming the member in June 2018 Smart City, Public Rental Shops and Cheonan As customers’ demands for parking increase, we are adding parking facilities for the Station Houses, Transfer and Industrial Jointly Inspecting Connecting Sections between and successfully hold a Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways in April 2019. Complex convenience through car-train connections. In Mangwoo Station, a parking facility with 186 Donghae Line and Gyeongui Line Meanwhile, we have signed an MOU with the Russian Railway Corporation on railway Jochiwon Smart City, Startup Center, Rental Station Housing, BRT* Transfer Center vehicle parking capacity was constructed in September 2018, and a 24-hour unmanned cooperation, business agreement with the Polish Railway Corporation. settlement system. We have called for bids to find private investors for the development of a Key Achievements Jecheon Town Café, Creative House for the Station Young, Jecheon History Museum parking lot at Gwangmyeong Station.Parking facility project in Gwangju Songjeong Station and Operating Revenues from Overseas Markets ●Advancing into Overseas Railway Markets Creating and Supporting Startups Jeonju Station is currently under way. We will continue to enhance the parking convenience. We are implementing a technical consultation project for MRT-7 line in Manila, the Philippines, related with Cultural Contents, Gwangju Station Urban Regeneration Startup Bank, Dream Innovation Center for the 2017 KRW 7.1Billion ⇀ 2018 KRW 7.5 Billion and trying to get a business chance of operating the same line. We are also carrying out Young, Asian Culture Hall ● Strengthening the Public Value of Railway Assets Jointly Participating in Overseas Businesses projects of constructing a railway training center and providing O&M (operation & maintenance) * BRT (Bus Rapid Transit): an express bus system for Improving Institutions Regarding Shops at Stations and Railway Asset Rental consultation services in addition to the Tanzanian central railway technical advice project. main roads Programs and Unfair Terms Obtaining Orders Worth KRW 19.3 Billion Furthermore, we have put idle properties for sales as a strategy for moving into niche markets, by Private Companies at Home We have improved unfair institutions and terms in order to protect tenants when renting creating revenues of KRW 2.5 billion. In addition, we have supplied about 2.34 million Rail+ railway assets. By abolishing the monthly minimum sales system, expanding information transport cards for 15 years by exporting the Rail+ transport card system to Kazakhstan. 36 37 KORAIL Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability KORAIL Social Values Let’s KORAIL Realizing Social Values Creating Jobs Growing Together with Partners Sharing with Local Communities Creating People-Oriented Workplaces Developing Eco-Friendly Railways for Future Generations KORAIL Realizing Realizing Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Social Values Social Values Strategies for ● Strategic Systems for Realizing Social Values KORAIL is working hard to create social values by setting up five major strategic directions Main Tasks ● Forming a Steering Committee Organization and Internal & External Network Realizing Social and 14 tasks with the aim of ‘realizing social values through the strengthened public nature Classification Main Tasks Steering Committee Values of railways.’ Secretariat Discovering and checking tasks to be implemented, Managing steering committee and network in general We have established ‘The Steering Bureau for Realizing Social Values’ headed by the vicepresident in order to achieve social values. The Bureau is made up of nine teams including Safety & Systemizing safety management, Goal and Tasks to Realize Social Values Environment Preventing industrial disasters, ‘The Future Innovation Office’ that controls the overall operation of the Bureau and 17 Team Reducing find dust Addressing irregular job issues, regional steering committees. The nine teams of the Bureau are implementing tasks in Job Creation HQ (24 People in Five Teams) Hiring new employees, Developing Team jobs for the private sector responding to the government’s evaluations of our business management, to quantitative Goal Realizing Social Values by Strengthening the Pubic Nature of Railways Enhancing transport system, fare objectives and to other specialized evaluations, while 17 regional steering committees are Transport system, transfer system and other Business Team convenience matters when using supporting the projects carried out by the Bureau and working to establish and develop Making win-win Implementing ethical the railway Strategic Achieving smart Strengthening safety and ecoCreating socially universal railway cooperation and management based Expanding marketing channels for regional cooperation networks. KORAIL will do its best to create its own social values Directions integrated jobs developing local on communications Win-Win friendly railways services SMEs and social enterprises, communities and trust Partnership mainly led by ‘The Steering Committee for Realizing Social Values.’ Vitalizing the regional economy Establishing a Strengthening Expanding chances Eradicating unfair contracts, Ethical system for smart Improving job railway-based mobility of win-win railway Addressing unfair business Tasks Realizing reliable Management Org. Chart of ‘The Steering Committee for Realizing Social Values’ safety management quality rights for the public cooperation practices, Protecting human rights, railways Team Strengthening social contributions Expanding safety Realizing services Diversifying sharedSupporting and implementing HQ’s Creating internal investments in customized for economy business Regional Driving tasks, Operating regional The Steering Committee for job positions Divisions (17 of Them) decrepit railways underprivileged models cooperation network Realizing Social Values Branding happy Realizing ecoCreating jobs in Reducing transport fares Contributing to trains and other (Headed by: Vice-President) for the public by providing boosting local social contributions Secretariat friendly railways the private sector public concessionary fares economies (Headed by: Chief of the Future Strategy Office) HQs (Five Teams) ● Progress In order to achieve social values aligned with the governmental philosophy, we established Safety & Environment Team Job Creation Team Transport Business Team Win-Win Cooperation Team Ethical Management Team ‘The Future Innovation Office’ under the president in March 2018. And, we have defined the concept of KORAIL’s unique social values and set up directions in advancing relevant <Regional Driving Divisions(17 of Them)> projects. Having the new vision proclamation ceremony, we placed the realization of social West East Daejeon & Seoul Gangwon Chugbuk Jeonbuk Gwangju Jeonnam values on top of the management goals so as to restore and improve the public value of Metropolitan Metropolitan Chungnam Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department railways. Furthermore, we completed the establishment of ‘mid/long-term social value systems’ in June 2018. Busan & Metropolitan Daejeon Busan Honam Gyeongbuk Daegu Talent Nurturing Gyeongnam Maintenance Maintenance Maintenance Maintenance Department Department Institute Department Division Division Division Division Progress in Realizing Social Values ’18.04 ’18.05 Establishing directions Introducing a safe lawyer system Proclaiming clean railways with Forming an Advisory Group Expanding public discounts Providing free training on railway in creating social values for the first time as a public no concerns over fine dust for Social Values for the underprivileged certificates for young job seekers corporation including those receiving basic living guarantees and pregnant women ’18.09 ’18.07 Supporting marketing channels Expanding the operation Introducing connecting services between Launching a steering committee Conducting special lectures on Declaring a new vision for social enterprises at stations of metropolitan express public taxies and railways for locals for realizing social values social values for all employees (Korea’s Tomorrow, trains to improve in remote areas People’s KORAIL) commuting quality ’18.12 ’19.03 Decided to convert 100% of Recruiting the largest number of ‘Expanding and establishing the irregular positions to regular new employees (2,185 people) railway win-win platform’ positions (6,769 workers) in history to grow with SMEs 40 41 KORAIL Creating Jobs Creating Jobs Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Directions for Managing Key Achievements Creating Jobs ● Comprehensive Plan for Creating Jobs KORAIL is coming up with ‘comprehensive plans for creating jobs’, which are associated with a mid/long-term job creation roadmap, in order to systematically create jobs. With the aim of The necessity and importance of social values are becoming more emphasized in the current society ‘strengthening the public nature of the railway by creating decent jobs’, we have set up two that is represented by complexity and uncertainty, and the government’s policies for guiding the nation main strategies: ‘creating jobs in the public sector by converting irregular positions into regular are also focusing on social values. In particular, job creation is the main priority of the government and Status of Job Creation ones’ and ‘creating jobs in the private sector by utilizing railway infrastructures’; and established the major issue that the public sector should address. four implementation tasks: ‘increasing new recruits to 1,600’; ‘improving workplaces for 4,631 KORAIL has redefined the concept of its own social values in order to set up the railway’s unique social workers’; ‘creating 3,508 jobs in the private sector’; and ‘improving relevant institutions.’ value systems. Contributing to the enhancement of the quality of lives for the people by strengthening Increased by 252.9% 10,552 People the public value of all railway-related businesses has been defined as our social values. In line with this ● Converting Jobs to Regular Positions based on Discussions effort, we have built a roadmap associated with mid/long-term strategic management plans in order 4,173 Based on active communications between labor and management, we are converting to realize social values. At the same time, we are systematically implementing our activities of creating People decent jobs by establishing a comprehensive job creation plan associated with a mid/long-term job irregular positions into regular ones. In order to secure procedural legitimacy based on creation roadmap. sufficient discussions between labor and management, we have come up with ways of 2017 2018 shifting into regular positions by forming ‘a labor & management and expert consultative committee.’ Through such discussions, we have decided to directly hire employees that Key Achievements in 2018/19 Life & Safety Position would be involved with jobs related with life and safety matters of the public and to convert those workers taking care of customer services and non-safety matters into Winning 21.8% regular workers of our subsidiaries. Through such endeavors, we believe that we could achieve railway safety and service innovation and our subsidiaries could enhance their Introducing the Prize of (1,466 People) the Minister of expertise. As of August 2018, 34.4% or 2,329 people out of those whose positions were to Temp-to-Perm Conversion Rate job-based Employment Creating Jobs for be converted to full-time ones became regular workers, and the remaining 4,440 people 100% Wage System for the First time and Labor 10,552 are planned to be gradually hired by 2021 when their service contracts expire. for Rationalizing Labor People as a Public & Management Converting into corporation Relations as a Public Regular Positions ● Introducing KORAIL’s Own Position-Based Wage System Organization. 100% KORAIL, as a public corporation, was the first to introduce a position-based wage system to raise actual wages for those converted to regular positions and to improve their employment stabilities and conditions in accordance with the principle of equal pay for work Link to UN SDGs of equal value. In order to introduce ‘KORAIL’s own position-based wage system’, we have created consensus between labor and management and narrowed down differences arising Customer service and non-safety work from conflicts among labors by having one-on-one talks with individual representatives. We have simplified our wage system from the existing seven classes of duty to five classes 78.2% of duty. And, we have set 90% of the prevailing wage as a basic pay for those with simple laboring jobs, exceeding the minimum wage level as it is on a par with 102.9% of the (5,327 People) minimum wage. In addition, we have upwardly revised the wage system to six levels based on the length of service and performance evaluations. Meanwhile, we have clearly stated Growing Sustainable Economies and Constructing Restorable Infrastructures and Creating Decent Jobs Facilitating Industrialization the retirement age at 65 and decided to guarantee the employment up to the age of 70 on a yearly basis for those with jobs of taking care of crew dormitories if they want. ● Creating Customized Jobs Utilizing Railway Assets and Creating Customized Jobs We have taken the lead in creating jobs in the private sector by utilizing railway assets and discovering customized projects. We have created jobs through projects of developing Creating Sustainable Cities and Promoting Peaceful Societies and Establishing station areas and unused lands and of establishing new warehouses. We have also created Residences Institutions jobs in the private sector through projects of constructing parking buildings, expanding urban delivery services provided by KTX express and establishing transport networks. In addition, we have contributed to the creation of jobs by supporting the Olympics, operating tour trains associated with regional festivals and events and developing themed stations as part of conducting customized tourist attraction projects. 42 43 KORAIL Creating Jobs Shared-Growth Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability with Partners Status of Creating Jobs in the Private Sector Directions for Managing Key Achievements Project for Project for Operating Tour Developing Establishing Trains Associated Unused Lands Transport Networks with Regional Festivals As there are increasing demands for shared growth and mutual prosperity with the public sector, it and Events has become important for a public organization, there are increasing demands for shared growth and 86 428 185 163 1,503 352 337 mutual prosperity with the public sector. Thus, it has become important for a public corporation to play a role in creating a trust-based business environment for mutual growth. People People People People People People People In order to create a sound ecosystem for the railway industry, KORAIL is supporting SMEs for their Project for Project for Project for competitiveness enhancement through technology development for public purposes, management Developing Station Establishing New Supporting the Developing support, localization of core railway components and others. Moreover, we are leading sustainable Areas Warehouses Olympics Theme Stations growth of our partners by improving payment processes, expanding and introducing systems of performance sharing and cooperative profit sharing, correcting unfair regulations and utilizing a number of institutions in order to lay the foundation for a just society. Creating Jobs for the Underprivileged We have conducted activities of creating jobs by utilizing our assets such as stations in order to help the underprivileged including homeless people and the social minorities to be more independent. In order to offer jobs for homeless people, we have expanded the cleaning project at Seoul Station to Busan, Daejeon and other main stations to create 60 jobs for them. And, we have test-operated call-out car wash services at regional selfKey Achievements in 2018/19 support centers within parking lots of stations to create six jobs. In addition, we have hired 852 senior citizens willing to work as railway-station ushers and order-maintaining helpers in cooperation with seniors’ welfare centers. Meanwhile, we have created 10 jobs for single Registered Protecting Cases of Performance mothers by providing rights to operate commercial shops on the 1st floor of Busan Station Sub-Contractors -Sharing Programs to assist their economic independence and 24 jobs for young people who have brilliant in 2018 Establishing Correcting business items by supporting the opening of their shops (7 of them). KORAIL will continue Designated as an Outstanding 63 Cases Railway 175 to work hard to realize social values by creating more jobs relevant for the underprivileged. Confirmed Cases of Platform Cases Organization Performance-Sharing for Shared-Growth Unfair Stipulations (by the Public Programs for Partners with SMEs 44 Procurement Service) Best Practice Cases Conducting Free Training on Railway certification to Enhance job Competency After deliberating on what we could do to enhance the job competency of the young, we have conducted ‘railway certification training for free.’ The free training is aimed to support young people for their employment by utilizing KORAIL’s railway-related infrastructure including station, operation, rolling stock, electricity and other training devices and internal experts and are conducted on eight different certificates such as Industrial Engineer Railroad Transport, Industrial Engineer Electric Railway, Link to UN SDGs Craftsman Railroad Car Maintenance, Class 2 Electric Rolling Stock Driver’s License, Railroad Traffic Controller Qualification, Diesel Railway Car Driver’s License, Engineer Plant Maintenance and Engineer Electric Railway. KORAIL will continue to take the lead in realizing social values as a public corporation by creating differentiate jobs. Free Field Training on Railway certification Growing Sustainable Economies and Creating Promoting Sustainable Consumption and Decent Jobs Production Industrial Engineer Industrial Engineer Craftsman Railroad Car Rolling Stock Driver’s Railroad Transport Electric Railway Maintenance License 146 People 2 People 2 People 20 People 44 45 KORAIL Shared-Growth Shared-Growth Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability with Partners with Partners Shared Growth ● Strategies for Shared Growth In order to develop the railway industry and create a sound industrial ecosystem, KORAIL Laying the ● Establishment of Fair Trade Order KORAIL is improving payment processes and establishing a fair trade order. For healthy with Partners has set up strategies for shared growth with the aim of ‘becoming KORAIL that takes Groundwork for management activities for secondary and lower partners, we have shortened the the lead in growing SMEs and developing local communities.’ At the same time, we have a Fair Society payment period from 40 days to five days to 50 partners. We have also shortened the newly established the corporate-wide operation system for ‘KORAIL Companion Club’ in period of making deposits from 14 days to five days and increased the size of the down order to enhance our implementation competence in expanding shared growth. KORAIL payment from 70% to 80% to expand initial funding supports. At the same time, we have Companion Club is an organization whose workforce that was mainly from the HQs in increased the range of constructions for which we make direct payments (protecting subthe past is now expanded to 24 regional divisions and offices nationwide in order to contractors) in full swing from the existing facility constructions to all constructions and lead shared growth with SMEs throughout the nation. We will continue to improve our investigated all arrears by making field inspections for four times. As a result, we were implementation competence and expertise for win-win growth by expanding internal and designated as an outstanding organization for protecting sub-contractors in 2018. Strategies for Shared Growth external networks for shared growth. ● Performance and Cooperative Profit Sharing Shared Growth to Realize Social Values KORAIL is shraing profit and performance in collaboration of SMEs. Companion Club is Goal “KORAIL that Takes the Lead in Growing SMEs and Developing Local Communities’ actively involved with the headquarters, regional divisions and partners,conducting trainings for working-level people. In addition, we’ve carried out academies on a performance sharing system with partner foundations and itinerant education programs customized for each of the regions. We settled an agreement with the Korea Foundation for Cooperation of Large Enhancing Cooperation and Shared Projects & Small Business, Rural Affairs on introducing a system of cooperative profit-sharing. As a Expanding Support to Move into Markets Directions Boosting Practical Support (Systems of Performance Sharing and at Home and Abroad Cooperative Profit Sharing) result, the number of cases for performance-sharing system has increased by 394%, 63 cases from the previous year, and the number of confirmed cases of a performance sharing •Leading innovative growth by developing •Laying the foundation for fair and strong •Raising internal and external awareness on a technologies together with partners cooperation projects system of cooperative profit sharing system has grown by 880% or to 44 compared with the previous year. •Supporting SMEs to move into markets by •Supporting management for cooperative •Discovering tasks on cooperation and shared utilizing infrastructures relations with SMEs projects and implementing relevant projects ●Improving Unfair Culture We’ve conducted inspections to find case of power trips towards partners, providing Key Achievements ● Joint Technology Development and Supporting Management legal advice and consulting to find and correct unfair provisions. During the inspection, In order to boost the competitiveness of SMEs and small businesses, we are actively 175 unfair stipulations(unfair terms, abuse of power and unlimited liabilities) were found Implementing Support Projects of Commercializing Railway Technologies pushing forward projects for developing technologies and supporting management. For and corrected. We have abolished ‘a term on monthly minimum sales,’ which is an unfair technical development with SMEs, we have made visits to SMEs for technical supports and provision stated in the rental contract of the commercial space in a railway stations, 11 Cases Holding Purchase Meetings for Regions Facing for purchase meetings. For management supports for partners, we have launched the ‘Rail+ equivalent to the financial support worth KRW 5.4 billion to 49 companies. Through the Employment and Industrial Crises Win-Win Funding System’ to support loan interest and implemented a support project new version of an incentive system as an aid to higher performances of parter companies, 11 Times for commercializing railway technologies. As part of a project for helping SMEs to find we’ve granted incentives worth KRW 39 million to 70 outstanding businesses. KORAIL has Discovering New Partners markets by utilizing railway networks, we have carried out purchase meetings for regions increased the contract transparency point and the contract responsibility point by 0.34 and 29 Cases facing employment and industrial crises, discovered new partners, conducted campaigns 0.06. Conducting Campaigns for Saving Traditional for saving traditional markets and opened market places at stations to support small Markets businesses. In addition, as part of projects for supporting management, we have held a job Best Practice 22 Times fair for the young, provided rewards for those in the railway service for a long time, lowered Opening Market Places at Stations for Small Businesses commissions for logistics partners and conducted training on the environment for partners Establishing a ‘Railway Win-Win Platform’ Working as an Interactive Communication Existing Communication Barriers to prevent environmental accidents. Channel for Purchasing New Technologies Developed by the Private Sector SMEs KORAIL 20 Times KORAIL has launched the ‘Railway Win-Win Platform’, a technical support portal for SMEs, in >>> Helping to Find Markets >>> <<< Introducing Technologies <<< Providing Rewards for Those Working for order for SMEs equipped with excellent new technologies to each have access to the railway Partners in the Railway Service for a Long Time ● Localizing Core Railway Components technology market. Thanks to the opening of ‘Railway Win-Win Platform’, it has become possible KORAIL Establishing an Interactive Communication Channel 30 Partners We have achieved the localization of core railway components through shared growth for SMEs with outstanding technologies to visit the portal site and propose new technologies Railway Win-Win Market based on cooperation with SMEs. We have jointly developed railway technologies and products and other tasks. We have recently revised the portal site for them to suggest their ideas and information on how to achieve shared growth. Through the portal site, we are providing Helping to Business Proposals by participating in 15 national R&D projects with SMEs for the localization of railway Find Markets services including ‘suggestion & public proposals of technologies, promotion of technical products, Certifies Products Online Platform technologies. And, we have spent KRW 19.7 billion and KRW 1.6 billion to purchase localized application for purchase meetings, introduction of & application for railway safety products and Technology Contests Introducing railway products and new technologies respectively in order to lead SMEs’ initial market for information on financial & management supports and on consultations.’ KORAIL will continue Technologies Registration Status to take the initiative in enhancing the competitiveness of the railway industry through organic railway components. By doing so, we could create 201 jobs in SMEs and newly establish Financial Support cooperation with SMEs and pursuing innovative growth through joint development of technologies. and expand markets for the railway components industry. We will continue to take the SMEs initiative in nurturing SMEs and implementing win-win management of the railway industry based on the localization of railway components. 46 47 KORAIL Sharing with Sharing with Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Local Communities Local Communities Directions for Managing Key Achievements Vitalizing ● Creating New Demands by Strengthening a Cooperative System with Railway Tourism We are operating tourist trains reflecting regional features in cooperation with the Local Economies government, local autonomous governments and public organizations and developing A company, as an entity that constitutes a society, must carry out its socially responsible activities. A affordable travel packages and theme travel packages to meet various demands of company can establish differentiated competitiveness and lay the foundation for sustainable growth by customers. In cooperation with the Ministry of SMEs and Startups. We have renovated trains actively making social contributions beyond its business activities. Key Achievements and developed travel packages linked with traditional markets. In cooperation with the Korea Under the social contribution slogan of ‘A Happy World Connected by Railways’, KORAIL is systemically Tourism Organization, we have launched railway-connected city tour packages, a travelmaking social contributions based on three main strategies of ‘Sharing Talent’ by utilizing railway Boosting the Regional Economies week product of ’Happiness of 10,000 Won’, and a product associated with the Olympics infrastructures, ‘Sharing Happiness’ specialized for the industry, and ‘Regional Contributions’ at a special price of 50,000 won. In addition, we have also shown in the market travel customized for each of the regions. Headed by the CEO, KORAIL’s volunteer team is implementing KRW 360 Billion packages associated with four biennale events, an art-week railway pass of ‘Mirorang’ and social contributions and is actively vitalizing KORAIL-led local economies by utilizing railway networks Creating Jobs for Regional Economies other unique packages in cooperation with the Korea Arts Management Service. ‘KORAILcovering the entire nation. linked Complete Travel Platform’ is working with travel agencies to increase their margins by 2,192 People lowering sales commissions for win-win cooperation with local SMEs. We have also raised * Calculation Data incentives, provided rewards for excellent employees and holding regular meetings. Production Inducement (amount): Key Achievements in 2018/19 tourist expenditures (No. of tourists x KRW 103,719) ● Developing Cultural Contents around Stations x production inducement coefficients (2.0862) / For the purpose of invigorate local festivals, we are operating trains connected to traditional Social & Economic Value Research (Social Science Research Center at Chungbuk University) markets in all eight provinces of Korea and other tourist trains associated with local events Cumulative No. of Per-Capita Hours Successfully Happy Train Beneficiaries Effect of Inducing Employment Inducement (people): and traditional markets. In addition, we have contributed to the vitalization of local tourism Spent for Social Incubating Breaking Production for tourist expenditures (No. of tourists x KRW 103,719) businesses by developing theme stations such as Buncheon Station and Jeongdongjin Contributions the 1st Social Enterprise Local Communities x employment inducement coefficients (12.7 Station into the Santa Town Festival and the Sunrise Platform respectively and by operating 15 Hours (A Single Mother’s the Record KRW 360 Billion* people/KRW 1 billion) / Social & Economic Value such stations converted into places to enjoy local cultures and leisure activities. We are Startup of ‘Sodam Hangeureut’) of 100,000 Research (Social Science Research Center at Chungbuk University) planning to find new theme stations and renovate existing theme stations. At the same people time, we have launched ‘trains for humanities’ by inviting renowned lecturers and ‘trains Regional Tourism: 1,663,922 passengers (7,112 free tourists, 1,141,163 heading toward forests’ for teenagers to build up their characters while experiencing Olympic visitors and 515,647 visitors for regional the nature. Through the operation of various tourism products associated with local tourism) communities, customers nationwide have enjoyed unique local cultures. Link to UN SDGs Status of Main Theme Stations Guaranteeing Quality Education and Promoting Growing Sustainable Economies and Creating Life-Long Learning Opportunity Decent Jobs Buncheon Station ‘Santa Town Platform’ Deungyang Station ‘7080 Trip Down Memory Lane’ Jeongdongjin Station ‘Sunrise Platform’ Samtan Station ‘Healing Woods’, ‘Witchcraft School’ (150,000 Visitors Annually) (40,000 Visitors Annually) (350,000 Visitors Annually) (10,000 Visitors Annually) ● Social Contribution Activities for Healing the Sufferings of Local Communities KORAIL has conducted a number of activities to help the Gangneung region suffering from a forest fire to recover its economy. To prevent additional damages arising from the decrease in the number of tourists and support the local economic recovery, we lowered Creating Sustainable Cities and Residences Promoting Peaceful Societies, Securing the fare of KTX for Gangneung Line by 30% and let volunteers going to the region to help Accessibility to Justice and Establishing restore damage, from April to May of 2018. In addition, we’ve opened our training institute Institutions in Naksan as a shelter to the suffering locals, and donated KRW 100 million for a disaster relief fund. At the same time, we’ve discounted the price of train travel packages heading toward Gangwon-do and conducted the ‘Again, Go East’ campaign to invigorate the local tourism industry. We will continue to conduct social contribution activities and share in the sufferings of local communities. 48 49 KORAIL Sharing with Sharing with Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Local Communities Local Communities Social ● Carrying Out Activities Under the social contribution slogan of ‘A Happy World Connected by Railways’, KORAIL is Contributions systemically making social contributions based on three main strategies of ‘Sharing Talent’ by utilizing railway infrastructures and its employees’ talents, ‘Sharing Happiness’ specialized for the industry and ‘Regional Contributions’ customized for each of the regions. In order to enhance our implementation competence for social contributions, we are operating ‘KORAIL’s volunteer team’ that is consist of our employees and managing employees’ volunteer activity performances by operating a social contribution portal site. KORAIL’s Social Contribution Activities KORAIL Village Conducing activities of providing employees’ talents to visit housing facilities of the disadvantaged and the socially disadvantaged and improve their living spaces Sharing Railway Experiencing & Designating and operating Railway Experiencing & Learning Zone at 18 stations Talent Learning Zone nationwide to provide teenagers with opportunities to discover their future careers Founding and operating talent-sharing orchestra teams to give various performances at KORAIL Symphony main stations and art halls for the culturally disadvantaged who cannot enjoy sufficient Orchestra cultural contents Carrying out KORAIL’s representative social contribution program of providing train Happy Train travels for orphans, senior citizens living alone, North Korean defectors, the disabled, the underprivileged, and others who hardly take trips Sharing Hope Railway Implementing various labor-management joint social contribution activities through Happiness ‘Hope Railway Foundation’, the first labor-management joint social contribution Foundation corporation, founded in February 2016 Hope Project for the Carrying out self-reliance, self-support and recovery programs for the homeless to stand Homeless on their own feet again and implementing projects for enhancing their job competencies KORAIL Symphony Orchestra’s Performance at a Station Launching and Launching and operating affordable travel packages customized for low-income brackets, Operating Public the disadvantaged and the socially weak Products Local Contributions Local-Based •Sharing Love Event: conducting activities of providing ritual goods and donations Volunteer Activities during major holidays ever year for the underprivileged •Relief Activities: supporting relief activities and providing donations for natural disasterhit regions •Others: supporting energy such as briquettes and fuels for the low-income brackets and conducting kimchi-making volunteer services and other local-based activities Best Practice Operating Startup Programs to Help the Youth and Single Mothers* Independence KORAIL is implementing programs for supporting startups by utilizing railway assets for the young, disadvantaged, and single mothers to stand on their feet. We are also running ‘Station Cheongchun Café’ as a program to support startups of young people and develop food items to be enjoyed at railway stations. For those young people elected through contests, we are supporting shop interior costs, guaranteeing no deposits and providing indoor shop marketing consulting services. The first Cheongchun Café of ‘Damda’ was launched at Daejeon Station in December 2018, and another 25 Station Cheongchun Cafes are to be opened by 2022. In addition, we opened the first shop of ‘Sodang Hangeureut’ Opening the First Cheongchun Café of at Busan Station in cooperating with relevant organizations to help single mothers who have taken care of their lives ‘Damda’ in December 2018 and kids on their own to be financially independent. We are supporting them to be financially independent while jointly running such shops that are KORAIL’s first successful cases of incubating social enterprises. We will continue to support the disadvantaged to open such startups and expand the project of incubating social enterprises to contribute to the creation of sustainable long-term jobs. Opening the First ‘Sodang Hangeureut’ in November 2018 Happy Train to Give Hope Sharing Briquettes 50 51 KORAIL Creating Creating Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability People-Oriented Workplaces People-Oriented Workplaces Directions for Managing Key Achievements Fair HR ● Implementing Fair and Transparent Recruitment Processes KORAIL is striving to secure fairness when hiring people by designing fair and transparent recruitment processes that emphasize job competence. We have excluded any information The competence, competitiveness and happiness of each and every one of our employees are the that would cause examiners to make biased decisions and personal information that is driving force for KORAIL’s growth. In order to create people-oriented workplaces where everyone not related to job competence from the beginning in order to enhance NCS-based blind can work safely and happily, we spare no efforts to creating fair and transparent personnel systems recruitment, and have realized fair employment by expanding blind processes when and conduct proper training for our employees. We are actively supporting our employees to make reviewing each of the applications. In addition, we have revised our company policies to successful achievements at work based on the enhancement of job concentration and at home as well. enhance transparency when hiring people and punish for recruitment irregularities, and To this end, we are creating an organization culture where work and family life are well balanced. have clearly stated the revisions in the HR regulations. Furthermore, we have more strictly improved the existing blind recruitment with the presence of auditors and rigidly selected internal & external inspectors, and introducing a process of preventing interviewers from receiving illegal solicitations and manipulating interview scores so as to strengthen management and supervision of each of the recruitment processes. Introducing Expanded Blind Recruitment Processes for Each of the Applications Key Achievements in 2018/19 Before After Designated as Transparent •Making and posting videos on practical skills Winner of •Including the job description in the notice the Only Employment •Disclosing the number to be hired for each open job and in each region •Disclosing the number to be hired for each open job Objections and Training Grand Prize for Family-Friendly Notice •Banning illegal solicitations for employment and notifying corruption-reporting centers Complaints from 100,000 Job Applicants Organization for Developing Certificate •Submitting types of certificates and registered numbers only ZERO Railway Traffic Human Resources from the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family Applicants’ Scores •Submitting copies of job-related certificates through the system (preventing personal information leakage) •Deleting unnecessary qualification requests from the system Controls by the Human Resources Development (Nine Consecutive Years) in Korea Association of Korea Screening •Providing no learning materials in advance •Disclosing sample questions for each area in advance Test in Writing •Including a photo in an examinee’s ID slip •Excluding a photo from an examinee’s ID slip (including only the name and birthday) •Interviewing by internal interviewers •Consisting of more than 50% of external experts Link to UN SDGs Interviewing •Keeping the examinee’s initial slate number •Giving new examinee’s slate number after getting in the waiting room for the interview Key Achievements ● Equal Recruitment KORAIL has come up with preferential policies customized for the socially vulnerable and High-school Graduate Employment the underprivileged in terms of employment in order to expand socially equal recruitment. 2017 2018 We have expanded the recruitment of talented people from each of the regions Promoting Health Guaranteeing Quality Education and Promoting 293 People ⇀ 556 People nationwide, increased the number of jobs for the employment of high-school graduates, (89.7%↑) Life-Long Learning Opportunities operated a mentor & mentee program to help newcomers to adapt to the organization, Local Employment offered five additional scores for the disabled, identified jobs from each of the positions, 2017 2018 created positions with restricted competition for patriots & veterans and injured men 529 People ⇀ 1,131.5 People of national merit, and introduced preferential measures customized for each of the job (113.9%↑) applications, resulting in hiring the largest number of high-school graduates and talented Disabled Employment people in local area in the history of a public organization in Korea. 2017 2018 11 People ⇀ 106 People ● Strategies for Developing Human Resources Growing Sustainable Economies and Creating Addressing Inequalities Home and Abroad (863.6%↑) Decent Jobs Under the HRD vision of ‘Nurturing Talented People for Realizing Core Values in the Future’, Veteran Employment KORAIL has set itself three main tasks, namely, ‘managing the organizational commitment 2017 2018 and changes, fostering job experts and improving the expertise and public nature of 72 People ⇀ 154 People training. Through the operation of systemic HRD based on training needs and performance (113.8%↑) feedback, we will help our employees to enhance their job expertise and organizational commitment. 52 53 KORAIL Creating Creating Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability People-Oriented Workplaces People-Oriented Workplaces Systemically ● Nurturing Talented People to Lead the Railway Industry In order to nurture job experts who will lead the railway industry, we have expanded and A Harmonious ● Establishing a Labor-Management Consultative System In order to create a harmonious and cooperative labor-management culture, KORAIL is Nurturing Talented strengthened capability-developing programs in the directions of ‘enhancing competence Labor-Management operating ‘The Labor-Management Joint Realization Committee’ co-chaired by the CEO People for core projects, securing new growth engines and nurturing persons for the interCulture and the labor union head. The Committee is an organization for communication and Korean railway.’ In order to improve the expertise of railway training, we have enhanced cooperation between labor and the management, playing a role in discussing how to the training quality by strengthening the strategic competence of those in charge of the address main issues and achieve win-win growth. At the same time, we have recovered headquarters’ HRD, expanding training and seminars conducted by internal lecturers and mutual trust between labor and management by establishing the Labor-Management external special lectures and increasing the pool of external lecturers in each training Joint Committee in which external experts are participating in order to address internal category. Gaining trust and public value, of railway training, we have been designate as the and external issues of the corporation, expanding talks and meetings with the CEO and only training organization for railway transport controls in Korea and received an honor operating short-term consultative groups for each of the current issues. of winning the grand prize for developing human resources by the Human Resources Development Association of Korea. ● Labor-Management Communications We are carrying out step-by-step communication channels of open participation and share Training Programs for Enhancing Capabilities in order to establish smooth communication systems for every involved person to join. We will create a labor-management culture for mutual prosperity through smooth and Classification Directions Achievements Step-by-Step Communication Strategies sustainable communication between labor and management. Anticipating transport demands and developing capabilities Enhancing •Conducting training for overseas operators (five persons) •Opening a course on demand analysis (40 persons) for profit management Capabilities of Nurturing rolling stock mechanic masters for zero-failure rate •Running a class for the master craftsman certification (41 people) •Running study clubs (89 persons) Core Projects of trains •Conducting commissioned training for producers (37 persons overseas, 70 persons at home) Securing core technologies on each of the areas for the future •Conducting commissioned training on specialized areas including Big Data and information security (336 persons) Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 railway industry •Opening expert courses on rolling stock, facilities and electro-fusion (76 persons) Operating open windows for Expanding various opportunities Sharing various issues Securing New Establishing and enhancing an organizational culture where •Implementing a system of proposing innovative ideas (once per quarter) anyone to easily communicate Opening in which both labor and Participating including current management Sharing Growth Engines involved people learn by themselves •Selecting the largest number of college (graduate school) trainees in history (93 persons) and suggest their opinions management can participate -related matters Enhancing international management capabilities of core •Opening a course to send those willing to study for master’s and/or doctor’s degrees abroad talented people and relevant networks at an early stage Nurturing Enhancing capabilities of managers above grade 2 in order to LaborCollecting opinions from the labor •Providing education services through special training institutions and conducting overseas training (seven persons) Arranging open and year-round Briefings Talented People deal with the future opening of the inter-Korean railway KORAIL Square Management union on the wage plans of the venues for discussions on the Holding briefing sessions for for the InterIncreasing understanding of North Korea and Eurasia for those Joint Wage TF corporation •Opening an expert course on the inter-Korean and Eurasian railways (48 persons) Management the labor union Korean Railway in charge of overseas projects Labor-Management Cooperative participation of labor and Issues Online Q&A Operating Q&A systems on Joint Implementation management through the laborSystem the company website Group management joint implementation group Sharing various current issues KORAIL through ‘management issues and Conducting surveys of LaborRegular labor-management Surveys Work Portal briefing materials’ in the company ● Improving the Working Environment by Creating a Safety Culture all employees Management conferences, industrial safety and work portal site Conferences and health committee, mutual cooperation We are implementing measures on the management of the corporation-wide industrial Meetings committee, meetings on current issues Establishing and operating systems Improving safety and health. Based on the survey of current conditions of the work environment , SuggestionsHandling that enable work-site managers to proactively handle grievances of LaborLabor-management joint workshops LaborManagement Sharing the management issues through computer & mobile-based we have conducted activities for demonstrating safe practice that is relevant to the field. Systems Employees’ Quality In addition, we’have updated medical checkup criteria and networks for psychological workers Management to enhance safety and job Joint Workshops competence Newsletters newsletters of Life counseling services with increased fund to support heath management. Meanwhile, we have improved moving lines and facilities for the disabled workers. Our policy on Best Practice Activities for Improving the Environment of Workplace guaranteeing medical-checkup leave and working only during days for those pregnant Detecting Unsafe Factors workers is firmly kept. We have also stipulated to ban discrimination against the socially Introducing Recruitment Policies that Care for and Empathize with Others 5,455 Cases disadvantaged and their protection in the collective agreement in 2018. At the same time, Establishing fair recruitment processes an obvious task for KORAIL. Therefore, KORAIL has endeavored to Raising Objections and Complaints Repairing Signs improve its recruitment processes from the perspectives of job applicants. After checking complaints raised 2,214 Cases we strengthened the safety cooperation system,provided safety-related training materials, by applicants during recruitment processes, we have introduced some programs for them such as providing ZERO Improving Moving Lines and Facilities supported consulting services on the prevention of industrial accidents, and expanded two KTX tickets with 50% off to reduce financial burdens when traveling for job interviews, conducting (Out of 108,846 Applicants) for the Disabled Workers safety facilities through a mutual safety consultative group to support our partners that are interviews and personality tests on the same day, letting the applicants submit their evidence materials 30 Cases relatively vulnerable to safety matters. after getting the final notice of their success, and signing an employment contract online. In addition, we Reporting Recruitment Irregularities have produced video education materials for applicants to prepare for their practical skill evaluations for Key Achievements ● Forming an Organizational Culture of Work-Family Balance the first time as a public organization and provided some time for each of them to rehearse individual skills before evaluation processes to help them to adjust to such unfamiliar circumstances arising from practical ZERO Flexible Working Hour Users* Use of Parental Leave skill evaluations. At the same time, we have transparently disclosed the recruitment results and thus To support the balance between work and family life, we introduced flexible work increased the rate of accepting the results. By individually disclosing written test results of each applicant Designated as an Exemplary 20.6%p programs, improved parental leave systems and address issues arising from working long 2,480 persons 4,504 persons online, improving the system of raising objections at each of the recruitment stages, opening an online Q&A Innovative HR Case 589 persons increase 561 persons hours. We have reflected employees' opinions via survey and adding ‘types of staggered and transparently disclosing results, we are striving to address complaints and inquiries from the viewpoint working hours and types of short term working hours’ to come up with plans on how to of applicants. We, as a public corporation representing Korea, will continue to communicate and empathize Regarding Caring for Job Applicants with applicants and lay the foundation for a fair society. implement flexible work programs. We also improved parental leave programs including 2017 2018 2017 2018 setting detailed policies parental leave for both males and females. *Based on the daily workers of 10,031 persons 54 55 KORAIL Developing Developing Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Eco-Friendly Railways for Future Generations Eco-Friendly Railways for Future Generations Directions for Managing Key Achievements Eco-Friendly ● Environmental Visions and Strategies KORAIL is aiming for 'stable implementation of new climate systems and enhancement of Management environmental operation and management’ to achieve eco-friendly railways. And, we pursuing As the awareness on the environmental issue grow world-wide after the Paris Agreement on Climate, Systems sustainable environment via 12 tasks based on three main strategies of ‘establishing the stable a new climate-regulating system for reducing greenhouse gases has emerged. Our government is also implementation of new climate systems, building the basis for integration and management of implementing ‘renewable energy 3020 policies’ and other energy-conversion policies are in full swing, environmental infrastructures and stabilizing railway’s eco-friendly culture.’ In addition, our goal requesting companies to follow strict environmental criteria. Therefore, KORAIL, as a public corporation by 2025 on GHG reduction is being implemented with mid/long-term road-maps via ethical that runs eco-friendly transport means, is pursuing environmental preservation to pass a sustainable and environmental management. environment onto future generations, and to minimize environmental impacts by reducing greenhouse gases, setting up a system of implementing resource recirculation, coming up with comprehensive ● Strategic Organizations measures for reducing fine dust and managing them all more strictly than regulatory criteria require us In order to smoothly advance the environmental management and enhance to do. implementation competence, KORAIL has an office dedicated to handling environmental issues within the headquarters’ Safety Administration HQ and is establishing organic and cooperative networks with 12 regional divisions involved with current projects, four rolling stock maintenance teams, eight affiliates, stations, 952 offices, and so forth. By establishing Key Achievements in 2018/19 closely cooperating systems based on the networks throughout the nation, we will take the lead in preserving the environment. ITX-Saemaeul Dropped by V-Train (Seoul-Busan) Certified as 13.9%↓ Purchasing Green Products Worth Designated ● Reducing Greenhouse Gas(GHG) Emissions a Low Carbon Compared as the Year’s To respond to climate change, KORAIL has formed a greenhouse gas & energy committee, Product with the Government’s Goal of Reducing KRW 7.1 Billion Green Product Minimizing taking the initiative and set our own goals higher than government-set standards. In addition, our own ‘GHG managing system’ to control the usage of greenhouse gases and (Grade 2) Greenhouse Gases (Seven Consecutive Years) Environmental monitor verification systems. GHG emissions in KORAIL’s mainly comes from operating Impact trains and operating railway facilities. In order to control GHG emissions from our workplaces nationwide, we are taking ‘GHG inventories’. As a result of of the effort of we reduced GHG emissions by 260,000 tons; beyond government target. Link to UN SDGs Comprehensive Measures to Manage Indoor Air Quality Repairing Environmental Systems ● Actions for Circulating Resources and Reducing Railway Noise Establishing a system of designating people in charge of We are determined to ‘reduce the use of disposable items,’ and established a system of managing fine dust and installing systems of measuring fine dust level on a regular basis (four of them) recycling policies. To reduce disposable items within convenience stores at railway stations Improving Air Quality within Stations and encourage using multi-use items during the meetings, and purchasing green products Cleaning air-conditioning facilities, securing and with priority. As a result, green products worth KRW 7.1 billion were purchased, changing improving functionality and strengthening criteria on cleaning stations (five of them) to paper packages, reducing plastic bags, introducing paper straws. To reduce complaints Strengthening Accessibility to and Responding to Climate Change Preserving Land Ecosystems, Preventing Improving Air Quality within Tunnels on railway noise, we have revised manuals on handling VOC matters to improve institutions Management of Clean Water and Desertification and Preventing the Improving the ventilation operation hours within tunnels and related to complaints about noise, distributed guidelines on the management of low introducing special cleaning equipment (five of them) Sanitary Facilities Decrease of Biodiversity frequency noise and intensively managed managed stations. Moreover, we have adjusted the Managing Rolling Stock Installing devices to improve air quality within trains and operation time, replaced aged rails. We will continue striving to ensure a cleaner future. strengthening criteria on cleaning trains (four of them) Controlling Emergency Reduction of Emissions Publishing Environment Report ●Improving the System for Managing and Handling Fine Dust Adjusting the operation hours of facilities that produce air KORAIL, as a public corporation that runs eco-friendly transport means, is actively participating in environmental preservation and pollutants KORAIL is taking ‘comprehensive measures on managing indoor air quality’ including carrying out various activities for improving the environment in order to contribute to the global preservation of the environment. and formed a corporation-wide organization dedicated to managing fine dust. We have In order to transparently disclose such activities to our stakeholders, we are publishing the ‘Environment Report’ separate from replaced filters of a/c within underground stations, appointed six stations in controlling fine the ‘Sustainability Report’ on a yearly basis. As for the environmental performance related to ‘eco-friendly railways’, more detailed dust, removing acoustic boards generating fine dust in underground tunnels and installing information is available via the ‘Environmental Management Report’ posted on KORAIL’s website. devices that improve air quality in new trains. KORAIL aims to reduce the fine dust pollution level within stations by 13% and the level within underground stations by 10% by 2022. Replacing Filters of Air-Conditioning Systems 56 57 KORAIL Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Our Approach to Sustainability Let’s KORAIL Governance Ethical Management Human Rights Management Risk Management Stakeholders’ Participation Materiality Evaluation KORAIL Governance Governance Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Board Members ● Status of the Board of Directors Operating ● Operating the Board of Directors KORAIL’s BOD, as the highest decision-making body, is playing roles in making major The BOD is making major decisions and managing risks on KORAIL’s business management, decisions and supervising and supporting the business management for the corporation. the Board government’s policies and environmental issues. In order to enhance the efficiency and The BOD consists of seven executive directors including the CEO and eight non-executive directors and secures the independence of its governance as a senior non-executive of Directors roles of the BOD, we are keeping the business management in check, coming up with practical policies and encouraging the BOD members to actively participate in meetings director serves as the chairperson. In particular, three female non-executive directors to and express their opinions under the goal of ‘supporting decision-making processes for increase the representativeness of women, comprising 20% of the BOD. vitalizing the BOD and realizing social values.’ Status of the BOD Members (As of July 2019) Goals for Operating the BOD and Tasks of Performing Goals and Tasks of the Board of Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Operation Korea Railroad, Connecting the People, World and the Future Goals Name Gender Job Position Job Title Name Gender Main Careers Job Title Son, Senior Non-Executive Director Implementing Government’s Utilizing Expertise of Actively Keeping the Business Head of the Kim Jeong-seon Female CEO of Neo Cross Structural Engineering Operation Coming up with Practical Policies Byeong Male President and CEO Chairperson of the BOD Organization Policies Non-Executive Directors Management in Check Seok Directions Kang, Kim Jeong-geun Male Chairperson of the World Labor Movement History Initiative Non-Executive Director Male Executive Auditor Auditor Sung soo Lee Jong-kook Male President of Busan Transportation Corporation Non-Executive Director •Increasing Female •Operating Expert Sub•Frequently Sharing Business •Taking Practical Preliminary Jeong, Executive Implementation Representation Committee Management Issues Reviews Male Senior Vice President Oh Geon-ho Male Head of Global Political Economy Institute Non-Executive Director Wang-guk Director Tasks •Preparing to Introduce a Labor •Conducing Special Lectures and •Encouraging Policy Proposals •Informing of Agendas in Advance Vice President Executive Lee Chung-nam Male CEO of NEW ENERTECH Non-Executive Director Vacant Director System Advisory Activities (Safety Administration) Director Park Gong-woo Male CEO of SeeWoo, a legal firm Non-Executive Director yang, Vice President Executive Male Kim Hyun-min Female CPO of Anse Accounting Firm Non-Executive Director woon-hak (Passenger Transport) Director Joung, Male Vice President Executive Kang Joo-eon Female Researcher of Communication Consulting & Clinic Non-Executive Director ● Committees within the BOD Hyun-woo (Metro) Director Committees within the BOD Cho, Male Vice President Executive By activating sub-committees within the BOD, we are carrying out professional and inDae-sig (Engineering) Director ● Calling the BOD and Making Decisions Classification Roles Members depth discussions on agendas and minimizing business risks. By holding 15 sub-committee In order to discuss major issues, we hold regular board meetings on a monthly basis and Discussing Three Nonmeetings and presenting 38 agendas, we have so far revised the wage system, conducted Issues on temporary board meetings when requested by more than a third of the registered board Strategy and Executive practical discussions to create consensus between labor and management, improved Business Goals, Finance SubDirectors and Organizations, blind evaluation criteria when bidding for technologies and inspected disaster prevention members. For a fair operation of the BOD, we pass decisions made by a majority of the Committee Budgets and One Executive Director registered BOD members. And, we have stated the prohibition of directors with special Other Policies facilities in tunnels for safe operation of trains. We will continue to work hard to support stakes and interests related to agendas of the BOD from participating in the relevant Discussing the BOD to make rational decisions and back up the business management by invigorating Issues on New the operation of sub-committees. decision-making process in the articles of association. Projects, Sales Five NonExecutive Project Sub& Transport Directors and Committee Policies, Safety One Executive ● Strengthening Roles and Utilizing Expertise of Non-Executive Directors ● Procedures for Appointing Directors and Other Director Project We are fairly appointing directors in accordance with Article 25 (Appointment of Directors Operations To strengthen the roles of non-executive directors, we have enhanced their understanding of Public Institutions) of the Act on the Management of Public Institutions and internal Two Nonof current business issues and participation in the business management by conducting Auditing regulations set by the Director Recommendation Committee. In particular, we have a Executive reporting sessions, meetings and on-site briefing sessions on core current issues. To Audit SubBusinesses and Directors and Committee Accounting strengthen the functionality of non-executive directors in monitoring and checking the pool of external candidates from such fields as transportation, business management, One Executive Issues Auditor business management, we’ve carried out preliminary briefing sessions and separate media, law, accounting, etc., in order to enhance the expertise and representativeness of non-executive directors. In principle, 100% of the director candidates are transparently reporting sessions on major issues and matters of interest. At the same time, by and publically recommended, candidates recommended by any of the stakeholders are implementing a business consultant system utilizing each professional field of the excluded and meeting minutes are disclosed in order to secure the fairness and reliability of nonexecutive directors and exclusively appointing directors to each of the consultant the director position. groups, we’ve come up with specifically-designed polices and customized business support plans. Furthermore, we’ve activated communications between non-executive directors and Procedures of Appointing Directors our employees by carrying out special lectures conducted by those non-executive directors President Executive Auditor Senior Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director for our employees. The Director Recommendation Committee The Director Recommendation Committee (Plural Recommendations) (Plural Recommendations) The Director Recommendation Committee (Plural Recommendations) Deliberation and Decisions by the Public Deliberation and Decisions by the Public Deliberation and Decisions by the Public Institution Operation Committee Institution Operation Committee Institution Operation Committee Deliberation and Decisions by the Public Institution Operation Committee Recommendations by the Minister of Land, Recommendations by the Minister of Appointment by the Minister of Strategy Infrastructure and Transport Strategy and Finance and Finance Appointment by the Minister of Strategy and Finance Appointment by the President Appointment by the President 60 61 KORAIL Ethical Management Ethical Management Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Systems for ● Strategies and Roadmaps Activities and ● Internalizing Ethical Management through Training In order to create an incorrupt and ethical organizational culture, KORAIL has set up an Setting up an Ethical Culture through Training on Ethics Advancing Ethical enhanced system of pursuing ethical management under the goal of ‘achieving the 1st Achievements We are conducting training on integrity by inviting external professional lecturers, Management grade in overall integrity by 2020 and advancing to become an outstanding organization in terms of ethical management.’ We are presenting an ethics charter, a code of ethics, a code integrity training for newly hired employees and other collective training to increase the understanding of anti-corruption institutions for those zthat have been directly hired. In of conduct for employees and other rules to induce strict and voluntary ethical behaviors. order to expand training on ethics, we have improved cyber integrity education courses We are working hard to realize ethical management by concentrating the corporation-wide by expanding relevant courses and strengthening qualifications of selecting related tutors. capabilities on the creation of an anti-corruption and integrity culture. In addition, we have provided CEO’s special lectures on integrity and executive auditors’ Introducing Safe Attorney System lectures on integrity for those in high-ranking positions and special lectures on integrity Ethical Management Systems for employees at HQs by inviting the chairperson of the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission in order to activate integrity training by utilizing internal and external officials. Mission Korea Railroad, Connecting the People, World and the Future Reporter Realizing Win-Win Integrity with Partners Goals Achieving the 1st Grade in Overall Integrity by 2020 and Advancing to Become an Outstanding Organization in Terms of Ethical Management We are striving to take care of and monitor difficulties faced by our partners in order Setting Systems Expanding the Scope of ➋ Consultation (E-mail/ to build trust with them. And, we have published pamphlets on the corporation’s antiStrategies Transparent KORAIL Shared Ethical Management ➊ for Ethical Management Ethical Management Face-to-Face Meeting) Applying for Consultation ➎ Giving Feedback on corruption institutions and integrity policies and distributed 217 of them to partners. (E-mail) •Establishing a Control Tower for •Penalizing for Corrupt Actions and •Strengthening Synergies by Creating •Establishing Human Rights Infrastructures Report Results In addition, we have conducted training on the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act and Ethical Management Rewarding for Meritorious Services Win-Win Cooperation and Defining Specific Procedures •Operating an Ethical Management •Protecting Internal Whistle Blowers •Forming Consensus through •Internalizing Impressionability of Human KORAIL’s corruption-reporting systems for those SMEs with insufficient educationCommittee and a Transparent and Increasing Rewards Communications Rights by Conducting Training on Human Blocking the Management Committee Rights Safe Information related conditions. By granting incentives for partners’ endeavors to improve integrity, Report of a Reporter Attorney from the we are encouraging them to voluntarily carry out anti-corruption and integrity activities. 2018 2019 2020 (External Attorneys) Beginning Meanwhile, we are pursuing integrity activities customized for each of the regions by Roadmaps Invigorating Ethical Management Spreading Ethical Cultures Stabilizing and Enhancing •Defining Roles of the Control Tower •Introducing a Compensation System based on •Strengthening Roles of the Ethical Management establishing an integrity consultative body that is mainly led by regional divisions working •Launching an Ethical Management Committee Ethical Management Performances Committee •Introducing Human Rights Management •Conducting Human Rights Effect Evaluations •Restructuring Organizations Dedicated to together with NGOs, civic groups and other external organizations. Reporting by Proxy ➌ ➍ Informing of Results Handling Human Rights Management Issues •Stabilizing Human Rights Management Cultures ● Creating an Integrity Culture by Activating Reporting Systems ● Organizations Implementing Ethical Management Protecting Internal Whistleblowers Audit In order to enhance the implementation competence on ethical management, we are Office To set up infrastructures through which anyone could feel free to make a report, KORAIL has operating an ethical management implementation organization that is led by the Office become the first as a public corporation to introduce ‘Safe Report Attorney System’. Thanks of Future Planning and Innovative Strategy as a control tower and consists of others to the new system, we could enhance anonymity by blocking the information of a reporter such as the Audit & Inspection Office, Office of Financial Management, Office of Human from the beginning as an external attorney makes a report by proxy, achieving eight cases of Resources Management and Safety Administration HQs. At the same time, we are striving consultations and two cases of reports made by proxy. In addition, we have carried out mock to strengthen the expertise of ethical management by establishing the Ethical Management experiences for newcomers to make reports on corruptions to establish a reporting culture Committee and the Transparent Management Committee so as to expand ethical and implemented on-site integrity schools to actively promote the reporting systems. As a management throughout our businesses, improve internal check systems, and focus on result, the rate of concerns over ID exposures arising from making internal reports has dropped incorrupt work. In particular, the Ethical Management Committee is planned to be further by 7.1%p compared with the previous year, while the rate of willingness to make reports on developed into a committee where civic groups and external experts are included. corruptions has increased by 1.3%p. Endeavoring to Activate Reports Ethical Management For organic ethical culture to grow, KORAIL encourage employees to report on internal Control Tower Overall Management and external issues. We’ve produced promotional booklets, videos, blogs and other (Office of Future Planning and Innovative Strategy) online materials for our employees, policy customers, and partners. We have unified various reporting process on ‘corruption and breaches of the code of conduct’ into a simplified system. To encourage participation, 'system for a corruption report’, consolatory Human Right/ Areas Social Contribution/ Integrity Mutual Growth Fair Recruitment Environment & Safety compensation funds are provided to those who submitted in regards to stress and other Gender Equality disadvantages due to the corruption. ‘ Center for improperly-used power’ is installed to Office of Future Planning Office of Financial Office of Human abolish various improper and unfair behaviors, abusing power at work. Thanks to such Audit & Inspection Office Safety Administration HQs and Innovative Strategy Management Resources Management endeavors to encouraging reports, the number of cases of employees’ breaching the code of conduct has dropped by 28% to 38 cases compared with the previous year. 62 63 KORAIL Human Rights Risk Management Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Management Respecting ● Pursuing Human Rights Management Risk Management ● Risk Types and Divisions in Charge In order to prevent human rights violations that could be caused by a company and In order to systemically manage various risk factors that could arise from unexpected Employees’ implement human-right-friendly business activities. We have established a four-stage Systems circumstances, KORAIL has sorted out each type of risk, and placed divisions in charge Human Rights roadmap to realize human rights management. By forming the human rights management committee, establishing guidelines on human rights management, enacting the charter to respond to each risk type. Considering features of railway-operating projects, we have sorted risks into management crisis and disaster crisis and are trying to minimize of human rights, conducting human rights effect evaluations, providing relief procedures, any damages by managing risk factors in advance, and promptly responding to any risks and carrying out other human rights activities, we have laid the organizational, legal and afterward. institutional foundation for human rights management. Four Stages of Pursuing Human Rights Management Divisions in Charge of Handling Each Risk Type Management Crisis Disaster Crisis Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Establishing Human Rights Conducting Human Rights Implementing and Disclosing Providing Relief Management Systems Effect Evaluations Human Rights Management Procedures •Designating Divisions and People •Evaluating Effects Corporate •Establishing and Implementing •Providing Relief Organizations, in Charge Operations Would Have on Human Measures to Prevent High Risks Procedures of Reporting Damages, Information Communications Human-Caused Investment Risk Financial Risk Natural Disasters Railway Terror •Establishing Guidelines on Rights: Evaluating Comprehensive Detected after Evaluating Effects on Relief Procedures and Relief Measures Security Risk Disasters Implementing Human Right Effects Corporate Activities Would Human Rights Planning and Coordination Office of Financial Have on Human Rights Office of Future Planning and Office of Public Relations and Civil Engineering Division Safety Administration HQs Safety Administration HQs Management •Making and Disclosing Final Reports HQs Management Innovative Strategy Cultural Affairs (Infrastructure Management (Safety Management (Emergency Planning •Forming and Operating the Human •Evaluating Human Rights Effects on on Human Rights Management (Strategic Planning (Fund Management and Tax (IT Strategy Department) (Public Relations Department) Department) Department) Department) Rights Management Committee Main Projects: Finding out and including Human Rights Management Department) Affairs Department) •Proclaiming and Internally and Analyzing Negative Effects Specific Systems, Human Rights Surveys, Externally Spreading Human Rights Projects Would Have on Human Human Rights Effect Evaluation, Management Rights Measures and Projects to Prevent ● Risk Management Systems and Emergency Response Organizations Negative Effects on Human Rights and Other Improvements We have been operating institutions, regulations and systems to implement efficient investment management by proactively identifying financial and non-financial risk factors ● Forming and Operating the Human Rights Management Committee regarding the railway operation. In addition, we are striving to enhance the stability of the Forming the Human Rights Management Committee railway operations by operating various committees such as the management strategy By forming the human rights management committee chaired by the CEO, we have Classification Members committee, the financial risk management committee, the investment and project strengthened our capabilities for making decisions on implementing overall policies on CEO, Head of the Future Innovation deliberation committee, the overseas project risk management committee, and the railway human rights management. The committee consist of a wide range of stakeholders Office, Head of the Audit Office, safety deliberation committee. And, we have formed an emergency response organization Internal Members Head of the HR Management Office including the CEO, the labor union, human rights experts, customers and partners. As and Head of the Financial headed by the president in order to deal with disaster crises. Management Office recommended by the National Human Rights Commission, external members form the The Labor Union* (1), Human Rights majority of the committee. And, we are holding regular committee meeting on a yearly External Experts (2), Customer (1), Partner (1), Management/Financial Crisis Control Systems basis and temporary committee meeting when necessary to have in-depth discussions on Members One Representing the Disadvantaged** (1) various issues regarding human rights management. Risks Targets Institutions and Regulations Controlling Systems * Considering the interests of the labor union, it is Regulations on Financial Risk Management/ Market Risk included in the external members Manuals on Response to Crisis / Sales Information System (BS) Emergency Response Organization When ** A child human rights expert has been invited. ● Prohibiting Discrimination Regulations on Internal Accounting Corporation-Wide Resource Facing Disaster Crises Liquidity Risk Management Management System (KOVIS) KORAIL is prohibiting any discrimination based on gender, education background, disability, Financial Risk Comprehensive Financial age, career, social status, marriage, etc. In accordance with employment rules and personnel Financial Risk Management Committee/ Information System (KoFIS) Investment and Project Deliberation Internal Accounting System regulations, we are ensuring fair evaluations and equal opportunities for all employees CEO Investment Risk Committee / Overseas Project Risk (ICAN) and are preventing them from receiving any unfair or irrational treatment in terms of (Head of the Management Committee Organization) recruitment, wages and welfare. In addition, we are fairly and transparently hiring people Railway Safety Deliberation Committee’s Sales Risk Sales Risk Safety Management System Manuals on Emergency Response through a blind recruitment system and applying fair rules to any types of recruitments. At the same time, we have secured equality and fairness by providing irregular workers with the same level of wages paid to regular workers doing similar jobs in similar industries. Meanwhile, we are enhancing the status of female workers within the organization by Safety Transport Team PR Support Team Transport Support Team Restoration Support Team (Head of the Safety Innovation Division) (Head of the Management and Planning Division) (Head of the Supervision Division) (Head of the Technology Division) Blind nurturing female managers to overcome the ‘glass ceiling’ of hiring women due to the characteristics of the railway transport industry. In order to create a corporate culture Recruitment of gender equality, we are supporting the establishment of an external female leaders’ •Adjusting Train Operation •Handling External Affairs •Handling the Press •Handling Transporting Passengers •Handling Metropolitan Transport •Handling Rolling Stock •Handling Transporting Logistics •Handling Facilities network, implementing programs to enhance the capability of female leadership and •Handling Accident Investigation •Handling Legal Issues •Handling Compensating for Damages •Handling Electricity •Handling Support striving to increase the number of female managers. •Handling Responding to Customers 64 65 KORAIL Stakeholders’ Stakeholders’ Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Inclusiveness Inclusiveness Communications We have divided our stakeholders into four groups based on the level of their interests and influences: employees/labor union, partners/passengers, the public/local communities with Stakeholders and the government & the national assembly/media. And, we are collecting opinions from each stakeholder group by establishing communication directions and channels suitable for Employees each group’s features. KORAIL is actively reflecting valuable opinions on its management by expanding communication channels after restructuring the stakeholder groups in 2018 Matters of •Realizing Work & Life Balance Reflecting •Expanding Staggered Office Interest •Recovering Pubic Trust through Safe Railway Opinions Hour Systems, Family Days and and by strengthening innovative communication activities customized to each of the Operations Flexible Working Hours Systems •Improving Infrastructures stakeholder group. Communication •Continuing to Share Current Issues Blocking Access to Tracks Directions •Forming Cooperative and Consultative Bodies •Specially Employing Former KTX Crews and Reinstating •KORAIL Square Dismissed Workers •KORAIL Group Portal Site •Peacefully Signing of Wage and •Junior Board Collective Agreements without Main •Labor-Management Joint Committee Strikes The Public Communication •CEO’s Innovative Communications Channels •Railway Development Committee •Labor-Management Joint Implementation Realizing •Ensuring Basic Rights and Safe Matters of •Sharing Information and Infrastructure Reflecting •Actively Reflecting Public Opinions on Line Organization Interest •Expanding the Public Participation Opinions Names and New Projects Social Values Environment Rights •Labor-Management-Expert Consultative Organization •Establishing KorailTalk Total Travel Services •Launching Cheongchun Café and Coffee Shops Communication •Strengthening Promotional Channels and for Single Mothers to Stand on Their Feet Directions Expanding Proposals and Contests •Expanding Railways Connectivity with Public Taxis and Increasing Express Train Operation Main •Public Happiness KORAIL Team/Volunteers Labor Union Communication •Airing KORAIL News in KTX Trains Realizing Channels •Civic Group for Participatory Innovation •Realizing Public Participation Matters of •Addressing LaborManagement Disputes Reflecting •Expanding Staggered Office Social Values Interest •Reinstating Dismissed Workers and Addressing Other Opinions Hour Systems, Family Days and Pending Issues Flexible Working Hours Systems •Improving Infrastructures Communication •Continuing to Share Current Issues Blocking Access to Tracks Directions •Forming Cooperative and Consultative Bodies •Specially Employing Former KTX Crews and Reinstating •Empoyees' online communication space Dismissed Workers •KORAIL Group Portal Site •Peacefully Signing of Wage and •Junior Board Collective Agreements without Main •Labor-Management Joint Committee Strikes Communication •CEO’s Innovative Communications Channels •Railway Development Committee •Labor-Management Joint Implementation Let’s Realizing •Win-Win Labor-Management KORAIL Organization Social Values Relations NGO Local Communities’ NGOs •Labor-Management-Expert Consultative Organization Matters of •Contributing to Regional Development Reflecting •Actively Reflecting Public Opinions on Line Interest •Supporting the Underprivileged to Start Opinions Names and New Projects Their Businesses •Establishing KorailTalk Total Travel Services •Launching Cheongchun Café and Coffee Shops Communication •Strengthening Promotional Channels and for Single Mothers to Stand on Their Feet Partners Directions Expanding Proposals and Contests •Expanding Railways Connected with Public Taxies and Increasing Express Train Operation Matters of •Jointly Developing Technologies Reflecting •Improving Commutation Tickets and Main •Local Management Council Interest •Advancing into Overseas Markets Together Opinions Introducing Mobile-based Booking Communication •KORAIL Volunteer Group •Equal Opportunities & Social Integration, •Growing Together with Partners Systems for Holiday Tickets Realizing Channels •Meetings with Customers and Civic Groups Creating Jobs, Win-Win Cooperation and •Eradicating the Practice of Abusing Power •Expanding Concessionary Fares for Social Values Invigoration Local Communities Pregnant Women and Multiple-Child Communication •Establishing Institutional Channels to Reflect Families Directions Opinions •Revising Unfair Provisions Stipulated in Internal Regulations and Contracts •E-Procurement System •Advancing into Overseas Markets with Main •Win-Win Cooperation Academy SMEs for ‘Transport Card Projects’ Communication •Meetings with Partners •Ethical Management, Channels •Railway Win-Win Platform Realizing •Equal Opportunities and Social Government, The National Assembly, The Media •Achievement-Sharing Academy Social Values Integration Matters of •Implementing the Government’s Policies Reflecting •Successfully Supporting Interest •Securing Railway Safety Opinions Transportation through Emergency •Strengthening the Public Value of the Railway Systems during the Olympics •Supporting National Events •Holding Job Fairs for the Young and Passengers Running Dream Trains for Soldiers Communication •Increasing the No. of On-Site Briefing Sessions to •Constructing Railways and Improving Directions Draw Attention Relevant Facilities Matters of •Providing Customized Services Reflecting •Improving Commutation Tickets and Introducing Interest •Enhancing IT-Based Conveniences Opinions Mobile-based Booking Systems for Holiday Tickets •Consultative Body under the Ministry of Land, •Expanding Concessionary Fares for Pregnant Infrastructure and Transport Women and Multiple-Child Families Main Communication •Establishing Institutional Channels •Revising Unfair Provisions Stipulated in Internal •Meetings with the Media Communication Realizing •Creating Jobs, Win-Win Cooperation Directions to Reflect Opinions Regulations and Contracts •Railway Development & Cooperation Body Channels Social Values and Boosting Local Communities •Advancing into Overseas Markets with SMEs for •Railway On-Site briefing Sessions •Meetings with Transport Reporters ‘Transport Card Projects’ Main •Customer Service Evaluation Group Communication •Call Center (Phone) Realizing Channels •CEO’s Open Talks •Ensuring Basic Rights Social Values 66 67 KORAIL Stakeholders’ Stakeholders’ Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Inclusiveness Inclusiveness Interviews with Stakeholders “Growing Logistics Business through Eco-Friendly Railway” Geum Dong-hun, “Providing Innovative Services by Utilizing Network” Ahn Min-ho, Professor of Media Department Chief of the HQs of Samik Logistic Co., Ltd. at Sookmyung Women’s University In order to enhance the competitiveness of the railway logistics business, the future growth engines should KORAIL is a public corporation that holds physical network assets of railway networks and stations nationwide. be secured by expanding investment in logistics facilities, making cooperation with and establishing friendly Therefore, KORAIL should pursue sustainable growth by creating a business model based on its own core assets. relations with related organizations and utilizing other strategies. Although as issues related to public safety and It could develop customer services by converging tangible and intangible networks and provide other services environment are regarded important on the national level, eco-friendly policies on the railway logistics business by utilizing trains, stations and other spaces. For instance, it could develop services for passengers to experience have not yet been fully prepared. In such circumstances, when KORAIL’s role as an eco-friendly transportation various things around stations at affordable prices while traveling by train in cooperation with regional businesses. means is strengthened by establishing specific and long-term roadmaps to increase the modal split of freight And installation of powder rooms for female passengers could also be considered. By keeping in mind that transport environmental risks will be efficiently managed and sustainable growth will be also possible in the sector. KORAIL is a business platform with network infrastructure and by strategically utilizing such properties, it could I hope that KORAIL will carry out eco-friendly logistics businesses and contribute to sustainable environment, be a more outstanding and sustainable corporation. I hope that KORAIL will continue to provide more innovative beyond its business logics related with profitability and efficiency. services for its customers through customer-centered thoughts. “Increasing Investment in Safety by Introducing New Rolling Stocks” Hong Joon-ki, “Creating Social Values through Kim Myeong-sin, Reporter from Chosun Daily Newspaper Balanced Regional Development” Chief of Tourism Division of Jeollanam-do Municipal Government The most important issue that KORAIL, which conducts transport tasks, should manage is “safety.” All employees KORAIL should take social responsibilities and practice sustainable management by improving railway accessibility throughout the corporation need to work hard to systemically manage entire railway-related areas ranging from for the transport disadvantaged living in remote areas, continuously expanding railway networks and actively train maintenance to punctual operation. To this end, a plan to introduce trains equipped with new technology responding to indirect economic effect issues. Even as policies have been continuously updated to handle the needs to be established. Through such a plan, safety issues could be addressed and other railway issues including population issues that directly affect the future of a country, our society is drastically changing as the birthrate train noise, in-train environment management, various services, flexible fare systems and others could be widely is dropping and extinction of local communities is becoming reality. Therefore, it is expected that regional handled as well. As the public may be aware, multiple power trains have been recently introduced and there are boundaries could collapse and the railway industry could be at a critical turning point in the near future. Even plans to introduce advanced trains based on new technology such as a hydrail train and a hyperloop train which is if KORAIL is active in responding to related issues, there remain some elements that hamper the regional a supersonic maglev train running at the speed of 1,200km per hour. If such trains equipped with new technology development due to local transport inconvenience. I think it is time for KORAIL to look at the bigger picture are to be introduced in order to actively respond to such environmental changes, both profitability and service for improving the quality of life for locals and vitalizing the regional economy. By precisely analyzing regional improvement could be achieved. I hope that KORAIL will further grow beyond public corporations exceeding what private companies can populations, industrial development levels, transportation capacities, trends of visitors to Korea and so forth, policies should be devised for provide. boosting the regional economy. Moreover, future-oriented policies should be implemented even if they seem to have low social value in the short term. I hope that KORAIL will grow together with local communities through various projects affiliated with local governments. “Organizational Adaptation to Digital Environment Changes Kim Hyeong-joon , “Addressing Social Issues by Participating Park Mi-ae, th in the 4 Industrial Era” Professor of School of Business Administration at Chungnam University in Local Communities” Director of Green Umbrella Children’s Foundation In the era when drastic environmental changes and, particularly, technical environment changes bring about KORAIL continues to work hard to deliver social value as a public corporation by conducting social contribution changes in managing railway infrastructure and marketing methods, the direction of such changes should be taken activities ranging from railway experience learning zones, such as KORAIL villages, the KORAIL symphony to expect and prepare for the railway environment ten years from now. In order to respond to changes in the orchestra to Happy Train. Out of all these activities, however, I believe the social contribution activity that only digital environment led by the 4th Industrial Revolution technology, business structures should be changed, internal KORAIL is able to conduct is the Happy Train. At this moment when corporate social contributions are guided systems should be enhanced and internal capabilities should be nurtured to stably manage enhanced systems. toward ‘social impact businesses’ that can address issues of local communities and create profits at the same Moreover, infrastructure and institutions should be improved to usher in the era of the inter-Korean exchanges. time, KORAIL also needs to reconsider the direction of its social contribution activities. For instance, KORAIL’ And, marketing strategies should be upgraded to meet experience-based consumption patterns. At the same time, s closed stations could be developed into kids’ playgrounds to address the social issue of ‘low fertility rate and internal studies on countermeasures against risks arising from the technical progress of the 4th Industrial Revolution lack of play areas for children, or a project could be carried out by supporting the underprivileged and their kids should be conducted in advance, and internal consensus should be formed for sustainable growth. to obtain train-driving licenses or train-related mechanic certificates and then hiring them to work for KORAIL. If KORAIL takes the lead in addressing social issues by participating in local community-based projects, our society will further move forward. 68 69 KORAIL Materiality Materiality Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Evaluation Evaluation KORAIL’s stakeholders have evaluated the materiality of various issues for KORAIL’ Materiality KORAIL has investigated important issues for its sustainability management by conducting materiality evaluation based on the principles of sustainability context, materiality, Materiality s sustainable management and selected 17 of them as important issues for KORAIL’ Evaluation Process completeness and stakeholder inclusiveness all of which are recommended by ISO 26000 Evaluation Result s sustainable management. Such issues closely related to safety and human rights as and GRI Standards. The table and contents of this report have been structured based on ‘customer safety and health’, ‘ethics and law compliance’, 'occupational health and safety'. important issues for KORAIL’s sustainability, and we have also worked hard to faithfully ‘respecting human rights and prohibiting discriminations’ and ‘balancing work and life’, are contain relevant data in this report. considered important by KORAIL’s employees and stakeholders for KORAIL’s sustainable management in 2019. In particular, the issues related to respecting human rights and Materiality Evaluation Process corporate governance have ranked in the top and have sharply increased from the previous year. And, issues of managing indoor air quality and managing risks have first ranked in the top-10 places. Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Materiality Evaluation Result ● Sustainable Management in General ● Economy ● Society ● Environment Identification Prioritization Validation 4.80 Top Priorities of Stakeholders 1 Identifying issues for sustainable management Deciding priority of important issues 2 Verifying effectiveness 4.60 by analyzing internal and external environment through materiality evaluation 8 10 3 •Global Standard Analysis: Reviewing standard report •Relevance Evaluation: Sorting out 29 related •Checking to see if 17 issues are important for 4 requirements set by GRI Standards, ISO 26000, UNGC, DJSI issues by evaluating the relevance of issues for KORAIL’s sustainable management through 4.40 15 9 7 6 sustainable management, which were evaluated related TF discussions 16 14 12 11 •Media Analysis: Analyzing KORAIL-related news articles to check external views on KORAIL from the analysis of internal and external •Deciding the level of the report in terms of the 13 5 environments scope, boundary, period and others and 4.20 •Benchmarking: finding out issues considered important by 17 analyzing similar corporations’ sustainability reports home •Materiality Evaluation: Prioritizing relevant issues establishing the plan to draw up the report and abroad and selecting 17 major issues by conducting online surveys of KORAIL’s stakeholders from 4.00 •Stakeholders’ Interviews: conducting interviews after June 26 to July 12, 2019 selecting six people who can represent core stakeholder groups to reason out detailed issues for sustainable 3.80 management Top Priorities of KORAIL 3.60 3.80 4.00 4.20 4.40 4.60 4.80 We have analyzed the issues considered important by our internal and external Major Issues and Report TOC Structure stakeholders for KORAIL’s sustainable management through surveys. As ‘customer safety Top-10 Major Issues and health’ and ‘workplace health and safety’ selected by external stakeholders and internal No. Major Issues Report TOC Report Boundary Priority in 2018 stakeholders respectively, we believe the issue of 'safety', as selected by both internal and Securing safety and health for customers Selected by Stakeholders external stakeholders, is the most important for KORAIL’s sustainable management. 1 (safely operating railways, securing the safety of trains and facilities) Safe Railroad Internal 1 2 Complying with ethics and laws Ethical Management Internal 5 3 Securing safety and health at workplace Creating People-Oriented Workplaces Internal 8 4 Respecting human rights and prohibiting discriminations Creating People-Oriented Workplaces Internal 21 5 Work-life balance Creating People-Oriented Workplaces Internal 7 External Stakeholders ISSUE Internal Stakeholders 6 Securing governance transparency and expertise Governance Internal 19 7 Managing indoor air quality Developing Eco-Friendly Railways for Future Generations Internal New Improving customer satisfaction Securing safety and health for customers 8 Convenient Railroad External 2 … ➊ … Securing safety and health at workplace (including smart services, universal services, convenient services, etc.) (safely operating railways, securing the safety of trains and facilities) 9 Managing economic/social/environmental risks Risk Management Internal New Complying with ethics and laws … ➋ … Balancing work and family life 10 Securing information security and protecting personal information Safe Railroad Internal 14 Improving customer satisfaction Securing safety and health for customers (including smart services, universal services, convenient services, etc.) … ➌ … (safely operating railways and securing the safety of trains and facilities) Making fair contracts and procurement agreements (prohibiting price collusions and 11 Growing Together with Partners Internal 11 other unfair trades, making fair-pricing biddings and others) Securing information security and protecting personal information … ➍ … Complying with ethics and laws 12 Respecting employees’ diversity and providing equal opportunities Creating People-Oriented Workplaces Internal 17 Securing safety and health at workplace … ➎ … Respecting human rights and prohibiting discrimination Expanding future new growth engines (internalizing future core technology, carrying Respecting human rights and prohibiting discrimination … ➏ … Securing governance transparency and expertise 13 Future Railroad Internal 9 out overseas and inter-Korean railway projects and implementing multiple projects) Strengthening environment management … ➐ … Pursuing win-win labor-management relations Communicating with stakeholders (expanding communication channels and (pursuing eco-friendly management and complying with environmental laws) 14 Stakeholders’ Participation Internal/External 10 responding to their interests) Expanding future new growth engines(internalizing future core technology, carrying out Managing economic/social/environmental risks … ➑ … overseas and inter-Korean railway projects and implementing multiple projects) Strengthening environment management (pushing forward eco-friendly Developing Eco-Friendly Railways for Future 15 Internal 12 management and complying with environmental laws) Generations Reducing greenhouse gases and managing air quality Making fair contracts and procurement agreements (reducing fine dust, etc.) … ➒ … (prohibiting price collusion and other unfair trade, making fair-pricing bidding, etc.) 16 Educating and training employees Creating People-Oriented Workplaces Internal 신규 Managing indoor air quality … ➓ … Managing indoor air quality 17 Pursuing win-win labor-management relations Creating People-Oriented Workplaces Internal 20 70 71 KORAIL Sustainability Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Performance Economic Performance Summary of Consolidated Financial Statement Appendix Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Current Assets KRW 100 Million 10,961 17,134 16,267 Assets Non-Current Assets KRW 100 Million 174,168 181,649 204,901 Total Assets KRW 100 Million 185,129 198,783 221,168 Current Liabilities KRW 100 Million 29,086 28,545 38,558 Liabilities Non-Current Liabilities KRW 100 Million 108,355 120,262 116,974 Total Liabilities KRW 100 Million 137,441 148,807 155,532 Paid-in Capital KRW 100 Million 101,039 102,463 103,168 Loss KRW 100 Million (83,877) (92,279) (93,479) Capital Other Capital Components KRW 100 Million 29,305 38,394 54,335 Non-Controlling Shareholders’ Equity KRW 100 Million 1,221 1,397 1,611 Total Capital KRW 100 Million 47,688 49,976 65,636 Summary of Consolidated All-Inclusive Income Statement Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Sustainability Performance Sales KRW 100 Million 56,936 57,867 63,268 Cost of Sales KRW 100 Million 52,324 59,177 60,101 Gross Profit KRW 100 Million 4,612 (1,310) 3,167 Sales and Administrative Expenses KRW 100 Million 3,396 3,389 3,506 Third Party’s Verification Statement Operating Profit KRW 100 Million 1,216 (4,699) (339) Other Profit KRW 100 Million 340 146 233 Other Expenses KRW 100 Million 529 901 709 Other Profit (Loss) KRW 100 Million 563 (1,402) 1,140 GRI & ISO 26000 Index Financial Revenue KRW 100 Million 455 1,324 645 Financial Cost KRW 100 Million 4,543 5,285 4,530 Profit from Associates and Joint Ventures KRW 100 Million 178 (811) 205 Net (Loss) on Continuing Operations before Income Tax KRW 100 Million (2,320) (11,628) (3,355) UN SDGs & UNGC Income Tax Expenses KRW 100 Million (55) (3,073) (2,305) Profit (Loss) from Continuing Operations KRW 100 Million (2,265) (8,555) (1,050) Profit (Loss) from Discontinued Operations KRW 100 Million Key Awards and Memberships Net Income (Loss) KRW 100 Million (2,265) (8,555) (1,050) Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Owners of the Parent Company KRW 100 Million (2,058) (8,744) (1,267) Net Income Attributable to Non-Controlling Shareholders’ Equity KRW 100 Million (207) 189 218 Other Comprehensive Income (After Tax) KRW 100 Million 1,324 9,453 16,007 Sustainability Reporting Bodies Total Comprehensive Income (Loss) KRW 100 Million (941) 898 18,899 Capital Attributable to Owners of the Parent Company KRW 100 Million (734) 716 14,735 Non-Controlling Shareholders’ Equity KRW 100 Million (207) 182 221 73 KORAIL Sustainability Sustainability Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Performance Performance Creating and Distributing Economic Values Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 No. of Operations People 2,815 2,974 3,230 Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Notes Employment of Females (Mandatory Employment Rate of 7.67%) % 10.46 10.64 11.16 Female Employees Creating Economic Value (A) KRW 100 Million 55,587 52,853 58,690 No. of Female Managers (Rate) People(%) 274(8.10) 288(8.58) 322(9.37) Sales KRW 100 Million 53,651 50,572 55,545 No. of Newly-Employed Females (Rate) People(%) 98(16.4) 218(20.6) 402.5(18.4) Financial Income and Profit on Flexible Work Staggered Office Hours System (Conversion) People 150 183 271 KRW 100 Million 1,936 2,281 3,145 Assets Sold and Others System Flexible Work System (Staggered Hours System + Intensive Work System) People 689 2,297 4,326 Distributed Economic Value (B) KRW 100 Million 52,583 52,535 53,732 Parental Leave Status of Maternity Leave People 398 414 399 Wages, Benefits, Welfare Expenses, System Employees KRW 100 Million 22,327 26,499 24,824 Status of Paternity Leave People 126 147 190 Severance Payments , etc. Partners KRW 100 Million 24,868 24,219 26,352 Facility Utilization Expenses, Consignment Fees, etc. Education Budget KRW 1 Million 8,451 8,051 8,373 Investors KRW 100 Million 4,174 3,880 3,714 Interest Expenses Per-Capita Training Costs KRW 1,000 320 306 303 Education Government Bodies KRW 100 Million 203 (2,914) (2,069) National Taxes, Income Taxes, Local Taxes , etc. No. of Regular Trainees People 75,957 78,094 53,686 Customers/Local Communities KRW 100 Million 1,011 851 911 Social Contributions, KTX Public Discounts , etc. Curriculum Numbers 508 507 530 Surplus Economic Value (A-B) KRW 100 Million 3,004 318 4,958 BOD No. of Times of Holding Meetings No. of Times 18 12 13 Agendas to be Voted Cases 33 22 37 Operation Attendance % 93.7 90.2 93.2 Performance Preliminary Deliberations % 100 100 100 Agendas to be Revised (Rate) Cases(%) 3(9.1) 1(4.5) 3(6.3) Social Performance Agendas to be Reported No. of Times of Holding Meetings Cases No. of Times 15 1 13 9 11 15 Sub-Committee No. of Agendas to be Presented Cases 2 29 38 Non-Executive Speeches Made by Non-Executive Directors % 69.6 57.0 65.0 Directors Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Labor-Management Relations Employees Cooperation Level of Labor-Management Cooperation Scores 3.19 3.35 3.52 No. of Total Employees People 26,394 26,352 26,983 Ethics and Human Rights No. of Fixed-Term Workers (Male/Female) People 186(27) 70(2) 55(1) Anti-Corruption Evaluating Measures to Prevent Anti-Corruption Grade 2 1 2 Under 25 People 33 186 309 Human Rights Internal Reports Cases 15 30 51 25~34 People 2,163 2,604 3,824 Integrity Comprehensive Integrity Level Scores 7.68 8.18 8.24 No. of Employees Customers 35~44 People 7,645 6,677 6,040 Employment in Each Age Bracket Customer 45~54 People 12,296 12,619 12,634 Public-service Customers Satisfaction Index (PCSI) Grade A S A Satisfaction 55 or above People 4,257 4,266 4,176 Communitions Status of Collecting Complaints from VOC Cases(%) 15,468(35.9) 13,373(28.7) 11,941(29.8) Employment of the Disabled (Mandatory Employment Rate of 3.2%) People(%) 847(3.1) 858(3.1) 920(3.2) Punctual Operation Punctuality Rate of High-Speed Train Operations % 99.87 99.76 99.79 Rate Punctuality Rate of Regular Train Operations % 99.03 98.14 99.30 Employment of the Elderly (Mandatory Employment Rate of 6.0%) People(%) 4,955(18.0) 5,521(19.7) 4,191(14.5) Average Years of Service Years 19.2 18.6 17.8 Partners No. of Newly Employed Workers People 599 1,059 2,185 Purchasing Products made by SMEs KRW 100 Million 6,310 8,014 7,269 Rate of Purchasing Products made by SMEs % 76.2 76.0 80.8 Under 20 People 0 106 91 Supports Performance-Sharing Project Outcome Cases 13 16 64 21~25 People 187 416 648 Cooperative-Profit-Sharing Project (Implemented from 2018) Cases 1 New Recruitment 26~30 People 310 436 976 in Each Age Bracket Local Communities Recruitment 31~35 People 75 75 210 Social Contribution Fund KRW 1 Million 639 603 588 36~40 People 16 18 138.5 Raising Funds Matching Grants KRW 1 Million 630 589 639.7 41 or above People 11 8 121.5 Local Volunteers’ Service Hours 1,000 Hours 227,997 246,964 194,878 Metropolitan Area (Seoul, Incheon, Gyeonggi) People 265 531 1,053.5 Volunteer Hours New Recruitment by Region Per-Capita Volunteer Hours Hours 11.5 12 15 Non-Metropolitan Area People 334 528 1,131.5 No. of KORAIL Village Beneficiaries People 2,444 4,202 1,818 Retirement Retirement Rate (%) % 1.8 2.0 2.6 Social Contributions No. of People Experiencing Railway Experiencing & Learning Zones People 29,156 42,591 36,685 No. of Times of KORAIL Orchestra Performances No. of Times 9 11 8 74 75 KORAIL Sustainability Sustainability Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Performance Performance Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 No. of Times of Operations Happy Train No. of Times 109 193 236 Investments in Cases (Newly Established) Cases 4(1) 5 9 Happy Train Waste No. of Beneficiaries People 10,950 11,765 12,547 Environmental Facilities Amount KRW 1 Million 99 180 412 Social Contributions Hope Project for the Participated People 20 40 40 Amount of Purchasing Green Products KRW 1 Million 2,868 2,589 7,126 Homeless Purchasing Green Products Employed People 9 13 11 Rate of Purchasing Green Products % 98.29 93.74 89.15 No. of Persons 1,000 People 7,815 7,375 7,858 Education The Elderly Discounted Amount KRW 100 Million 372 331 361 Internal Education No. of Times (People) 4(107) 3(90) 3(105) No. of Persons 1,000 People 4,172 3,728 3,792 Education Children External Education No. of Times (People) 15(123) 15(78) 17(135) Pubic Discount Discounted Amount KRW 100 Million 536 464 476 Environmental Effect Management Services No. of Persons 1,000 People 4,445 3,927 3,946 The Disabled Diesel for Railway Operation TJ 4,351 4,223 4,207 Discounted Amount KRW 100 Million 364 307 309 Electricity for Railway Operation TJ 22,187 21,908 22,780 No. of Persons 1,000 People 406 341 348 Men of National Merit Electricity for Other Ordinary Purposes TJ 3,796 4,012 4,439 Discounted Amount KRW 100 Million 90 71 70 Energy Usage Cooling and Heating Fuels TJ 284 278 324 Safety Business Vehicles TJ 68 72 73 Safety Management Rate Case/1 Million Km 1.567 1.386 1.215 Safety Management Total TJ 30,686 30,493 31,823 Human Error Rate Case/1 Million Km 0.540 0.388 0.342 Investment Safety Investment KRW 100 Million 6,424 7,291 8,343 From Diesel for Railway Operation tCO2eq 338,353 328,384 327,131 Compulsory Training on Disaster Safety Management People 40 62 47 From Electricity for Railway Operation tCO2eq 1,077,553 1,064,013 1,106,380 Integrated Training on Initial Responses People 40 61 90 Emissions From Electricity for Other Ordinary Purposes tCO2eq 184,363 194,870 215,583 Training on Job Competence CDP Training for Those in Charge of Safety Matters People 51 88 160 From Cooling and Heating Fuels tCO2eq 15,137 14,859 17,197 Greenhouse Training on Safety Jobs People 114 161 198 From Business Vehicles tCO2eq 4,901 5,054 5,164 Gas Emissions Education Individual Psychological Counseling Services People 194 324 176 Total tCO2eq 1,620,307 1,607,180 1,671,455 Mental Health and psychological Counseling Visit-Based Psychological Counseling Services People 174 253 70 Emission Allowances tCO2eq 1,900,962 2,000,571 1,941,126 Services Emission Personality-Finding Family Program People 107 153 143 Emissions tCO2eq 1,620,307 1,607,180 1,671,454 Reduction Aptitude Test on Railway Initial Test People 2,332 2,718 3,565 Rate of Reduction % 14.76 19.66 13.90 Safety Regular Test People 17,469 1,904 1,058 Amount of Waste Water disposal ㎥ 281,911 189,041 232,935 Safety Culture Safety Culture Level Evaluation* Scores 85.1(2015) 79.6 80.4 Handling Waste Water Amount of Waste Water from Passenger Cars ㎥ 79,171 82,058 71,879 Passenger and Non-Passenger Casualty Accidents People 90 66 58 General Waste Tons 1,255 1,496 29,187 Accidents Personal Information Leakage Accidents Cases 0 0 0 Handling Waste Designated Waste Tons 1,487 1,179 1,532 Cyber Infringement Accidents Cases 0 0 0 Day Leq dB(A) 57 56 58 Ground * The evaluation of safety culture level was conducted every second biennially, but it has been now conducted annually since 2018. Night Leq dB(A) 54 54 53 Noise Expected Day Leq dB(A) 59 59 59.5 Maximum Level Night Leq dB(A) 57 57 58.5 Indoor Air Quality Underground ㎍/㎥ 68 69 78 Fine Dust Ground ㎍/㎥ 56 61 69 Environmental Performance Underground ppm 507 523 527 Carbon Dioxide Ground ppm 493 488 571 Railway Stations Underground ㎍/㎥ 11 9 24 Formaldehyde Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Ground ㎍/㎥ 10 12 18 Investment Carbon Underground ppm 1 1 1 Cases (Newly Established) Cases 26(1) 23 23 Monoxide Ground ppm 1 1 1 Water Amount KRW 1 Million 430 278 270 Metropolitan Railways ㎍/㎥ 56 66 77 Cases (Newly Established) Cases 3 7 15 Fine Dust Investments in General Trains ㎍/㎥ 66 55 60 Air Environmental Facilities Amount KRW 1 Million 150 23 114 Metropolitan Crowded ppm 989 1,048 1,241 Cases (Newly Established) Cases 5 7 9 Rolling Stock Land Railways Normal ppm 1,260 1,263 1,394 Amount KRW 1 Million 134 330 966 Carbon Dioxide Crowded ppm 1,243 1,225 1,163 General Trains Normal ppm 1,455 1,351 1,365 76 77 KORAIL Third Party’s Third Party’s Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Verification Statement Verification Statement To the Management of Korea Railroad Corporation •Verification of the Report’s compliance with GRI Standards [Responsiveness] Does the Report provide adequate responses transparently disclose KORAIL’s economic, environmental, and social to stakeholder demands and interests? performances and plans based on internal and external sustainability The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereinafter “Auditor”), as The Auditor conducted written correspondence and in-person The Auditor confirmed that KORAIL operates diverse engagement agendas including social value realization, human rights management, a licensed sustainability assurance provider.Hereby presents the interviews with the staff of KORAIL responsible for the Report in channels appropriate for each key stakeholder and identifies material the UN SDGs, and the Ten Principles of UNGC following statement of assurance, upon the request for auditing the process of assurance measures. The staff reflected the Auditor’s reporting issues through those opinions collected in the process. Recommended in future reports with better quality are the followings: the 2018-19 Sustainability Report (hereinafter “Report”) of Korea modification requests and opinions in an appropriate manner. In particular, the introduced themes of “Let’s KORAIL”, ‘KORAIL Railroad Corporation (hereinafter “KORAIL”). Core Values’, “KORAIL Social Values” were found to be areas of high •Clarity: Explaining calculation basis and methods or used factors ● Assurance Findings stakeholder interest. It has been found in this process that KORAIL with regard to impacts and effects from the outcomes of The Auditor discussed about the Report’s editing with KORAIL though has appropriately responded to stakeholder demands and interests. management activities ● Responsibility & Objective written correspondence and in-person interviews and reviewed •Accuracy: Securing a system to manage basic data including the KORAIL is responsible for sustainability management performances the final draft of the Report to confirm whether our requests and [Impact] Does KORAIL identify and measure economic, social, number of employees which are subject to change due to gathering and all statements contained in this report. The objective of the recommendations for revision were reflected. As a result, the and environmental impacts on stakeholders and disclose the criteria and disclosure condition assurance is to offer professional counsel for improving the quality of Auditor could not find any contents violating the following assurance results through the Report? the report by; checking whether there were any errors or bias stated principles, or any evidence showing major errors or bias in the It is the Auditor’s opinion that KORAIL is appropriately disclosing ● Independence of the Auditor in the Report; by assessing whether the data collection system is in performance information or claims stated within the assurance scope. economic, environmental, and social impacts by presenting the results The Auditor does not have any for-profit or commercial affiliation appropriate working order; and by examining the process of identifying of “brand value assessment,” “evaluation on the level of safety culture,” with KORAIL and did not involve in any of the preparations of the issues of material importance to sustainability management. [Inclusivity] Were KORAIL’s stakeholder engagement plans “analysis of ripple effects on job creation from the localization of parts,” Report, with the exception of this third party assurance statement. and processes appropriate? and “analysis of local economy vitalization effects” through the Report. ● Assurance Type & Level It is the Auditor's view that KORAIL has put in place a process for ● Qualifications of the Auditor The Auditor referred to AA1000AP (2018), ISAE3000, and GRI stakeholder engagement to better reflect stakeholder views in its [GRI “In Accordance” Criteria] Standards for the assurance of the Report. The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies is a “Third Party Assurance actual management activities, in recognition of the importance of The Auditor has recognized that the Report is in accordance with the Provider” engaging in sustainability report assurance for corporations Performances and goals in the aspects of economy, communication and cooperation with stakeholders for pursuing “Core Option” criteria of the GRI Standards (GRI No. 102 in the aspect Assurance Scope environment, and society contained in the Report and public organizations nationwide. The auditing team participating sustainability management. It has been confirmed that KORAIL of Universal Standards). Assurance Type & Level Type II Moderate level in the assurance of this report consists of experts specialized in classifies stakeholders into four groups, listens to their opinions •IPS Assurance Manual™“ to verify the compliance with the disciplines of business administration, accounting, environment, four core principles of AA1000AP (2018) through communication channels customized for each group, and [Reliability of Performance Indicators] Assurance Criteria •“IPS Performance Indicators Assurance Criteria™” to assess and sociology and also with many years of accumulated experience the reliability of performance indicators based on ISAE3000 reflect the results in sustainability management activities. The Auditor The Auditor confirmed that the performance indicators presented in and professional training in the fields of ethical management, social •“Core Option” criteria of the GRI Standards has not found any important stakeholders left out from this process. the Report are free from bias or error that would affect stakeholders’ responsibility management, and sustainability management. judgement of KORAIL. Followings are the key performance indicators [Materiality] Does the Report offer the most important information the Auditor has recognized. ● Assurance Process and Activities in the aspects of economy, environment, and society to stakeholders? August 2019 The Auditor confirmed ① the inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness, The Auditor confirmed that KORAIL identified material issues ● Recommendations Tae Hyun Kim and impact of the reported content; ② the reliability of the reported affecting both stakeholders and management activities of the Chairman performance data; and ③ the GRI Standards’ “In accordance” criteria. The Auditor highly values the Report’s endeavor to ① reflect Corporation and appropriately disclosed the management status The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies core issues in connection with “management value framework,” •Review of KORAIL’s identification process of material issues and of those issues. In particular, and stakeholder interview in the “sustainability management value framework,” and “social value following results process of preparing this report every year and the identification of realization strategy system”; ② appropriately reflect the key interests •Review of the stakeholder engagement process new sustainability issues through the ‘Diagnosis of the ISO26000 of every stakeholder through the stakeholder engagement process; ③ •Review of data samples, excluding financial statements, used as Execution Level” and stakeholder interview and prioritization of the sources for quantitative performances in the aspects of economy, issues through surveys are considered as KORAIL’s standardized environment, and society “materiality assessment process.” No omissions were discovered Category Issue Performance Indicator •Verification of source data used for qualitative performances in by the Auditor in terms of sustainability management information Safe transport service indicators in 2018: 1.215 case (No. of damages to customer/million Km) the aspects of economy, environment, and society important to stakeholders through the process. Safe railroad Customer safety and health Human error rate in 2018: 0.342 (No. of mishandlings/million Km) Safety management rate: 1.215 (No. of damages to customer/million Km) Evaluation of safety culture level: 80.4 points 1) AA1000 – Accountability Principles 2018: One of the sustainability report assurance standard series established by the non-profit organization AccountAbility based in the Convenient railroad Improving customer satisfaction Customer survey on railroad-linked transportation service: Satisfaction (57.1%), moderate level (39.3%) UK, in order to audit corporate social responsibility and sustainability development, thus explaining a set of auditing principles. It was revised with the addition of the “Impact” Future railroad Expanding new growth businesses Operating revenue from asset utilization in 2018: Around KRW 365.1 billion principle to the existing AA1000APS (2008) in 2018 Improvement of contract transparency in 2017 and 2018: 0.34 point 2) International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000: “Assurance Engagement Principle other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” established by Shared growth with suppliers Fair contract and procurement Improvement of contract responsibility in 2017 and 2018: 0.06 point the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Eco-friendly railroad for the Establishment of comprehensive plans for control indoor air quality and formation of a dedicated 3) The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a non-profit organization established in 1997, by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and the United Indoor air quality control next generations organization Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), releasing a sustainability reporting framework in 2000 for multinational enterprises. Following the revised G4 version focused on Ethical management Compliance with ethics and regulations Management of the Transparent Management Committee regulation in 2018 supply chain, governance, ethics & integrity, anti-corruption, GHG emissions & energy disclosures, the GRI released the GRI Standards in 2016, a new guideline with modular structure to ensure more systematic reporting process * 34 qualitative and 13 quantitative performance indicators with regard to 17 material issues were reviewed, but only a few are presented in this assurance report. 78 79 KORAIL GRI & GRI & Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability ISO 26000 Index ISO 26000 Index Universal Standards Topic-specific Standards GRI 102: General Disclosures external Disclosures ISO 26000 page assurance Disclosures ISO 26000 page external assurance Topic GRI200 Economic topics Organizational profile Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Anti-competitive Behavior 6.8.1-6.8.2/6.8.3/6.8.7/6.8.9 74 ● 102-1 Name of the organization 14 ● 103 Management Approach 62-63 62~63 ● Anti-competitive 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 14 ● Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.5/6.6.7 63, 75 ● 102-3 Location of headquarters 14 ● Topic GRI300 Environmental topics 102-4 Location of operations 14 ● 103 Management Approach 56 ● 102-5 Ownership and legal form 14 ● Water 303-3 Water recycled and reused 6.5.4 77 ● 102-6 Markets served 15~17 ● 6.3.10/6.4.1-6.4.2/6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5/ 103 Management Approach 56 ● 102-7 Scale of the organization 14~15 ● 6.8.5/7.8 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 57, 77 ● 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 54, 74~75 ● Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 6.5.5 57, 77 ● 102-9 Supply chain 46~47 ● 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 57, 77 ● 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 46~47 ● 103 Management Approach 56 ● 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 65 ● Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3/6.5.4 77 ● 102-12 External initiatives 82~83 ● 102-13 Membership of associations 84 ● 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 77 ● Strategy Topic GRI400 Social topics 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4.7/6.2/7.4.2 4~5 ● 103 Management Approach 52 ● Ethics and integrity 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 6.4.3 53, 74 ● Employment 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 62~63 ● Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 401-2 6.4.4/6.8.7 54 ● 4.4/6.6.3 part-time employees 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 63 ● 401-3 Parental leave 6.4.4 54, 75 ● Governance 103 Management Approach 52 ● Labor/ 102-18 Governance structure 6.2/7.4.3/7.7.5 60~61 ● Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 6.4.3/6.4.5 55 ● Stakeholder engagement 103 Management Approach 22 ● 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 66~69 ● Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety 403-1 6.4.6 23~26 ● 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 55 ● Occupational Health committees 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 5.3 66~67 ● and Safety Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 403-2 6.4.6/6.8.8 23~26, 76 ● absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 66~67 ● 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4.6 23~26, 55 ● 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 70~71 ● 103 Management Approach 52 ● Reporting practice Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 6.4.7 53~54, 75 ● 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 14~15 ● 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 6.4.7/6.8.5 53~54 ● 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 71 ● 103 Management Approach 52 ● 102-47 List of material topics 71 ● Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 6.2.3/6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4.3 60~61,64 ● 102-48 Restatements of information About This Report ● 102-49 Changes in reporting Related chapter ● 103 Management Approach 48 ● Local Communities Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 102-50 Changes in reporting About This Report ● 413-1 6.3.9/6.5.1-6.5.2/6.5.3/6.8 49~50 ● 7.5.3/7.6.2 development programs 102-51 Date of most recent report About This Report ● 103 Management Approach 22 ● 102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report ● Customer Health 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.4/6.7.5/6.8.8 23~26 ● and Safety 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About This Report ● Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of 4.6/6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.4/6.7.5 416-2 N/A ● 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About This Report ● products and services /6.8.8 103 Management Approach 22 ● 102-55 GRI content index 80~81 ● Customer Privacy Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses 102-56 External assurance 78~79 ● 418-1 6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.7 24 ● of customer data 80 81 KORAIL UN SDGs & UN SDGs & Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability UNGC UNGC Status of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as agendas for comprehensive actions and global cooperation in order to alleviate or eradicate factors that could threaten sustainable Implementing development from 2016 to 2030, are mainly about eradicating economic and social bipolarization, various intensified social inequality and global environment destruction. UN SDGs SDGs are made up of 17 goals and 169 sub-goals to be achieved by the international society by 2030. KORAIL strongly advocates UN SDGs for sustainable development and is working hard to secure sustainability while operating its businesses. Goal 1 Eradicating Poverty Goal 10 Addressing Inequalities Home and Abroad Eradicating Hunger, Achieving Food Security and Strengthening Goal 11 Creating Sustainable Cities and Residences Goal 2 Growing Sustainable Economies and Creating Constructing Restorable Infrastructure and Sustainable Agriculture Goal 12 Promoting Sustainable Consumption and Production Decent Jobs Facilitating Sustainable Industrialization Goal 3 Promoting Health Goal 13 Responding to Climate Changes Guaranteeing Quality Education and Promoting Life-Long Learning Goal 4 Protecting and Sustainably Using Oceanic, Maritime and Marine Creating the Largest No. of Jobs as a Public Corporation Laying the Foundation for a Safe Society through the Corporation-Wide Safety Diagnosis Opportunity Goal 14 Resources In order to overcome the limitation of employment size, we have taken the lead In order to create a sustainable and safe society, we have rechecked unsafe Goal 5 Achieving Gender Equality and Enhancing Capabilities of Women and Girls Preserving Land Ecosystems, Preventing Desertification and Preventing in realizing social values by expanding flexible work systems, improving office factors that could threaten the safety of the people from the beginning. Through Strengthening Accessibility to and Management of Clean Water and Goal 15 Goal 6 the Decrease of Biodiversity hour systems and creating decent jobs. For healthy economic growth, one of the CEO-led on-site talks on safety issues and grand diagnosis on safety matters, we Sanitary Facilities Promoting Peaceful Societies, Securing Accessibility to Justice and most important roles of a company is to constantly create decent jobs. KORAIL have detected and improved 1,863 risk factors that could harm the safety of the Goal 16 Goal 7 Enhancing Accessibility to Sustainable Energy Establishing Institutions has created the largest number of decent jobs as a public corporation by public. At the same time, we are checking railway facilities (621 places) by utilizing Goal 8 Growing Sustainable Economies and Creating Decent Jobs Goal 17 Strengthening Implementation Means and Global Partnerships expanding new projects, discovering jobs subjected to staggered hour systems, drones as part of regular safety-checking activities. And, we have installed and improving rank structures and supporting private companies to create jobs. inspected IoT-based devices to measure rail temperatures (37 places) and sprayed Constructing Restorable Infrastructures and Facilitating Sustainable Goal 9 Industrialization heat-shielding paints on rails (101 places) in order to improve safety management. Creating the Largest Jobs for Recruiting the Largest Number of Detecting Reducing Human Error by 10,552 People 2,185 People 1,863 51% as a Public Corporation Newcomers as Cases of Safety over the Past Five Years (Increased by 252.9%) a Public Corporation KORAIL has been complying with 10 principles in four main areas of UNGC after joining UN -threatening Factors (Standing at 0.342 Cases in 2018) Global Compact in mmyy. UNGC’s 10 principles regarding human rights, labor, environment UN Global Compact and anti-corruption stem from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948), the United Nations Convention against Corruption (2003), and other declarations and treaties. The UN is recommending companies comply with the 10 universal principles. KORAIL Creating Sustainable Cities and Residences Realizing Peace and Justice actively advocates the UNGC’s 10 principles and is systemically managing various issues related with human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Creating Sustainable Local Communities by Strengthening the Public Value of Railways Realizing a Fair and Honest Society KORAIL is working hard to create sustainable local communities by utilizing its We have actively improved relevant institutions to prevent any organizations own railway businesses. In order for the public to comfortably use railways from facing disadvantages and discrimination while running their businesses. In Principles Report Page without financial burdens, we are providing concessionary fares for the elderly, order to establish fair trade with our partners, we have conducted multi-faceted the disabled, men of national merit, and others. And, we have introduced shuttle surveys, and improved unfair institutions by revising regulations and stipulations 1. Companies should advocate and respect internationally declared human rights protection. Human Rights 64 trains and increased the operation of commuter trains for those living in remote that would cause power abuse. For shared growth and win-win growth, we have 2. Companies should do all they can not to be involved with human rights violations areas to easily travel anywhere throughout the nation. At the same time, we have actively upgraded our policies for partners and consignees by paying down introduced the service of connecting railways with public taxies to enhance payments in advance for partners to make their payments in time and expanding 3. Companies should advocate the practical acknowledgment of freedom of association and accessibility to railways. the scope of protecting sub-contractors. collective bargaining rights, Labour Standards 4. should exclude all types of forced labor, 53, 55 Passengers Using Concessionary Revising KRW 17,214 Billion Fares 5. should efficiently root out child labor of Concessionary Fares 175 Cases of Unfair Terms and Provisions 6. and should prohibit discrimination over employment and duties for the Public 126,336people that could Induce Power Abuse Environment 7. Companies should advocate preventive approaches to environmental issues, 8. should take measures to improve environmental responsibilities, 56,57 9. should promote the development and spread of eco-friendly technologies. Operating 7 Lines 3,206 Passengers from Making Down Payments Worth for the Remote 174 Villages Using Public KRW 186.2 Billion for Partners and Consignees AntiRural Areas Tax Services Connected to (Increased by KRW 43.8 Billion) 10. Companies should oppose any types of corrupt acts including illegal gains and bribes. 62, 63 Corruption 31 Stations 82 83 KORAIL Awards and Sustainability Company KORAIL KORAIL Our Approach to APPENDIX Sustainability Report 2018-19 Overview Core Values Social Values Sustainability Memberships Reporting Bodies Status of Awards Year Details Organized by Green Product of the Year (V-Train)_for Seven Consecutive Green Purchasing Network Years Korea Occupational Safety and 2018 Safety & Health UCC Grand Prize CEO Health Agency Presidential Award for the Best Example in the Government’s Ministry of Interior and Safety Contest of Excellent Cases for Innovation 2018 Prize of the Minister of Health and Welfare in the Part of ‘Suicide Prevention & Love Life’ at the Ceremony of 2018 Ministry of Health and Welfare Suicide Prevention Day External Verification Body Gold Medal at 2018 International Business Awards (KORAIL’s International Business Awards The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Internal Newsletter)_for Two Consecutive Years Grand Prize and Special Award at UCC Contest of 2018 Safety Ministry of Employment and & Health Examples Labor, CBS 2018 Best Prize in Facility Safety Part at 2018 Smart Construction Ministry of Land, Infrastructure General Management of Sustainability Technology & Safety Contest and Transport Minister Prize Awarded by the Government to a Company Ministry of Trade, Industry and •General Planning: Office of Public Relations and Cultural Affairs Respected by the Public Energy The Institute for Industrial Policy Award in the Sustainability Part at 2018 ‘CEO Hall of Fame’ Studies Consulting Body Award Certificate from the Ministry of Employment and Labor Ministry of Employment and for ‘Rationalizing Labor-Management Relations as a Public Labor Corporation’ Korea Standards Association Presidential Award Certificate for Supporting 2018 Ministry of Culture, Sports and Pyeongchang Winter Olympics and Paralympics Tourism Appreciation plaque from the Head of Korea Social Enterprise Korea Social Enterprise Sustainable Management Reporting TFT Promotion Agency Promotion Agency Home Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Status of •Korean Standards Association •Korea Railway Electrification Technical Association •Korea Integrated Logistics Association •Strategic System: Planning and Coordination HQs Memberships •UN Global Compact Korea •The Institute of Internal Auditors •Korean Productivity Center •Governance: Planning and Coordination HQs •Ethical Management: •The Korean Society for Railway •Korea Management Association •Railway Industry Committee Office of Future Planning and Innovative Strategy •Safety Management: Safety Administration HQs •Environmental Management: Safety Administration HQs •Passenger Business: Passenger Transport HQs •Customer Satisfaction: Passenger Transport HQs •Energy: Safety Administration HQs •Metropolitan Railway: Metro HQs •Information Protection: •Greenhouse Gas: Safety Administration HQs Abroad •Logistics Business: Logistics HQs Office of Future Planning and Innovative Strategy •Workplace Environment: Safety Administration HQs •OSJD(International Railway Convention) •UNGC(UN Global Compact) •Multi-Sided Business: Business Development HQs •Employees: Office of Human Resources Managemen •Green Purchasing: Safety Administration HQs •EURAIL SPEED(International Conference on High•Financial Performance: Office of Financial Management •Education: Office of Human Resources Managemen •UIC (International Railway Federation) Speed Railway) •Labor-Management Cooperation: Office of Human Resources Managemen •CCTT (Siberia Transit Coordination Council) •Shared Growth: Office of Financial Management •Social Contributions: Office of Future Planning and Innovative Strategy We extend our thanks to all of you for assisting us in the compilation of this Sustainability Report. 84 85
