CORPORATE S CIAL RESPONSIBILITY 企 業 社 會 責 任 報 告 REPORT 2017-18 Sustainable Growth – Our Future 建構可持續發展的未來 Paul Y. Engineering Group Limited (“the Group”/“PYE”) 保華建業集團有限公司（「集團」╱「保華建 recognises good corporate citizenship as the key to sustainable 業」）深明履行良好企業公民責任對企業的 growth. Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) vision adopts 可持續發展至為關鍵。我們的企業社會責 a broad and long-term perspective that permeates the strategic 任願景以宏觀及長遠的角度，落實到業務 decision-making processes of every aspect of our business 營運的各個決策過程中。集團在推動業務 operations. While driving business development, we seek to 發展的同時，致力為業務所在的社區提供 deliver sustainable solutions and lasting value to the communities 可持續發展方案及創造長遠價值。 in which we operate. This year, we once again participated in the CSR Index Scheme 本年度，集團再度參與由香港品質保證局 of the Hong Kong Quality Assurance Agency, which measures 主辦，根據「ISO 26000社會責任指引」評 an organisation’s CSR performance against the ISO 26000 Social 分的「企業社會責任指數」計劃，並於評核 Responsibility Standard. We are proud to have scored 4.9 out of 中 取 得4.9分(總 分 為5分)的 成 績，肯 定 了 the 5-point scheme, acknowledgement that our tireless efforts 集團在實踐企業社會責任目標上的努力不 to fulfill our CSR goals have borne fruit. Further, as a member 懈。此外，作為《聯合國全球契約》一員， of the United Nations Global Compact, we continue to maintain 我 們 堅 守 在「人 權」、「勞 工」、「環 境」及 high international standards in the areas of human rights, labour, 「反貪污」等範疇中的高度國際標準。 environment and anti-corruption. From corporate governance to employee development, 無論在企業管治、員工發展、職業安全和 occupational safety and health, environmental protection and 健康、環境保護以至回饋社會上，集團業 community investment, our business is guided by our CSR 務均以企業社會責任及可持續發展原則為 and sustainability principles, and we take every opportunity to 依歸，更會不斷力求自我提升。我們矢志 innovate on the job. PYE remains committed to creating a better 為持份者創造更好的未來，以及長遠的共 future and lasting common value for our stakeholders. 同價值。 Operational Employee Health and Environmental Community Practices Development Safety Protection Investment 營運常規 員工發展 健康及安全 環境保護 回饋社 會 * This annual CSR Report describes the initiatives of the Group and its progress with regard to CSR issues during the financial year of 2018. * 此年度企業社會責任報告，闡述了集團於二零一八年財政年度期間，企業社會責任方面的進展情況及內容。 1 PAUL Y. ENGINEERING GROUP LIMITED 保華建業集團有限公司 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會 責 任 報 告 Operational Practices 營運常規 INTEGRITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY IN BUSINESS OPERATIONS 我們矢志在營運中 體現誠信及問責 Bedrock of Solid Corporate Governance Sound and effective corporate governance is pivotal to the long-term success of the Group. We remain committed to maintaining a high standard of corporate governance in strict compliance with the business ethics, corporate integrity, and applicable laws, rules and industry standards of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our governance policy is founded on accountability and enhanced transparency to meet the needs and interests of the organisation and its stakeholders. Our approach towards corruption and bribery has always been one of zero tolerance. A sound, independent internal monitoring system is firmly in place to uphold integrity and accountability in our day-to-day business operations, and a whistleblowing mechanism is available for reporting actual or potential violations of the Code of Conduct and other irregularities. 良好穩固的企業管治 完善及高效的企業管治對集團長遠的成功發展至為關 鍵。集團一直致力維持高水平的企業管治，恪守商業道 德、企業誠信及所屬地區的法律、規例及行業標準。集 團的管治政策強調問責精神及增加透明度，以維護集團 及其持份者的需要及利益。集團對於貪污及行賄採取零 We highly value our long-term business partners and have 容忍政策。我們設有良好及獨立的內部監控制度，矢志 established a platform of mutual cooperation for win-win 在日常營運中體現誠信及問責，並設有舉報機制以處理 outcomes. 我們重視長久合作夥伴，並建立以雙贏為基礎的合作平台。 違反行為守則的事宜及懷疑違規的舉報。 2 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 年報 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會責任報告 Comprehensive CSR Governance Structure 全面的企業社會責任管理架構 CSR is at the heart of our governance policy. In February 2010, 企業社會責任是集團管治政策重要的一 we set up the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 環。集團於二零一零年二月成立「企業社 comprising members drawn from the management tier of 會責任委員會」，委員會成員由集團不同 business units across the Group to ensure formulation of effective 部門的管理人員組成，以確保集團制定有 CSR policies that would incorporate sustainability into daily 效的企業社會責任政策，將可持續發展的 operations. In addition, the Group’s Safety, Health, Environment 原則融入日常業務及營運中。此外，由集 and Quality Management Committee, led by top management, 團 高 級 管 理 層 領 導 的「安 全、健 康、環 保 effectively prompts and administers environmental protection 及品質管理委員會」，也有效地督促及監 and health and safety management systems and practices in all 管各部門在日常業務上落實執行環保、健 departments and ensures that all related principles are adopted 康及安全管理系統的各項原則。 across the board. On-time Quality Management 適時的品質管理 The Group’s quality management system incorporating 集團在品質管理方面採用可持續發展的營 sustainable business practices is updated regularly in line with 運方式，管理系統按照國際標準ISO 9001 the ISO 9001 international standard. In keeping with the maxim 建立並持續更新。所謂「未雨綢繆」，每當 “a stitch in time”, our project team conducts a thorough 展開新項目工程時，項目團隊會進行仔細 risk analysis of every new project to identify potential risks in 的風險評估，預先識別潛在風險以制定及 advance and formulate and implement risk-mitigating measures 採取風險緩解措施，貫徹企業社會責任及 that incorporate CSR and sustainability practices. Our quality 可持續發展的原則。我們訂定品質目標， objectives ensure minimal wastage. 務求將浪費減至最低。 Continual Supply Chain Management 持續的供應鏈管理 Suppliers play a vital role in the management of our quality 對於集團在品質管理及可持續發展表現 standards and sustainability practices. As a veteran large 上，供應商擔當著舉足輕重的角色。集團 contractor, the Group highly values our long-term business 作為一間歷史悠久的大型承建商，重視長 partners and has established a platform of mutual cooperation 期合作夥伴，並建立以雙贏為基礎的合作 for win-win outcomes with contracting services of the best 平台，確保承建服務的最佳質素。 quality. To maintain this high standard of service, we have also put in 為維持高質素服務，我們亦對現存合作夥 place a performance evaluation system for our business partners, 伴的表現水平，包括他們在企業社會責任 including continuous evaluation of CSR and other aspects. In 及其他方面進行持續的評核。此外，我們 addition, we identify potential suppliers and sub-contractors 也會積極物色更多有潛質的供應商及分判 to ensure ready availability of quality resources and services to 商，以確保有質素和足夠的資源及服務， support business operations. 支援集團的業務營運。 We celebrated two wins – one for Construction/Engineering and the other for Community Service/Regional Development – at the HKIPM Project Management Achievement Awards 2016. 集團於香港項目管理學會舉辦的「項目管理大獎2016」中，榮獲「建造╱工程組別－大獎」及「社區服務╱區域發展組 別－大獎」。 3 PAUL Y. ENGINEERING GROUP LIMITED 保華建業集團有限公司 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會 責 任 報 告 法國國際學校將軍澳校舍 致力達至質優期準 作為法國國際學校香港第五所分校－將 軍澳校舍的總承建商，為了讓工程項目 French International School Tseung Kwan O Campus 能優質及如期交付，項目團隊主動向客 Ensuring Quality Right on Time 戶建議多項措施，包括： As a main contractor of the Tseung Kwan O campus of the French International School, the school’s fifth campus in – 外 牆 以GRC面 板，取 代 預 製 混 凝 土 Hong Kong, the Group proactively proposed a variety of 組 件，使 裝 嵌 工 序 不 需 在 工 地 進 measures to ensure superior construction quality and on-time 行，省時方便； completion. They included: – 在 部 分 項 目 採 用 逆 向 建 築 法，以 先 – Adopting Glass-fibre Reinforced Concrete (GRC) for panel 完 成 較 高 樓 層 的 工 程，更 靈 活 控 制 construction in lieu of Precast Concrete Component 及節省時間；及 (PCC), enabling assembly and installation procedures to be carried out off-site for time saving and convenience; – 項目中的演講廳具備隔音建築設 計，採 用GRG面 板 取 代 原 本 繁 複 的 – Adopting top-down construction methods for some 工 序。簡 化 工 序 之 餘，更 提 升 了 施 sections of the building so that construction of portions 工的精準度、生產力及施工效率。 of the upper floors could be completed first to enable flexibility, leading to better time control and time saving; 以上種種措施，反映了項目團隊能預先 and 識別或會造成工期延誤的風險，主動為 客戶建議應對措施，大大減低了能源消 – Installing Glass-fibre Reinforced Gypsum (GRG) panels 耗、工序複雜度，以及在安全及環保上 for the acoustic architectural features of the lecture hall 的風險。 replacing more complicated procedures. Thus procedures were streamlined and there was greater construction accuracy, as well as enhanced productivity and efficiency. As seen above, the project team identified well in advance the risks that would have delayed completion, and proposed alternatives that significantly reduced energy consumption, construction complexity, and safety and environmental hazards. 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 年報 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會責任報告 Employee Development 員工發展 BUILDING A MUTUALLY SUPPORTIVE WORKING ENVIRONMENT WITH HEART 我們用心建構互相 支援的工作環境 A Fair and Friendly Workplace 公平友善工作間 The Group takes a caring approach to employee development 集團對員工發展一直採取關顧導向，致力 and strives to create a work environment in which staff will 為他們創造可發揮所長的工作環境。集團 thrive. Our success and achievements are shaped by our people. 今日的成功和成就實有賴員工的深耕細 We carefully recruit high-calibre talent and provide them with a 作。我們認真挑選優秀人才，並提供具支 supportive environment with a variety of opportunities to grow 援的工作環境，讓他們在不同階段盡展所 at every stage. Our human resources policy strictly complies 能。在人力資源政策上，集團不但遵循僱 with employment laws and regulations and we offer competitive 傭法例及法規，並提供具競爭力的薪酬福 remuneration packages and plenty of training and career 利及充足的員工培訓和發展前景。集團為 prospects. The Group operates an equal opportunities workplace 員工提供平等機會的工作間，確保他們不 where discrimination is not tolerated and staff can function 會因年齡、性別、種族或其他原因而受到 without fear of age, sex, race or other biases. 歧視。 Work-life balance is an important part of our agenda. We have 集團提倡工作與生活平衡，並推行一系列 put in place a series of family-friendly policies and practices, 家庭友善僱傭政策及措施，包括補假、結 including compensation leave, marriage leave, paternity leave, 婚休假、侍產假、恩恤假、義工假及節慶 compassionate leave, volunteer leave, and festival leave to 假等以提升員工的生活質素。我們一直致 enhance quality of life. Always striving to create a harmonious 力創造一個和諧的工作環境，並用心建立 working environment, we have created a mutually – supportive 互相支援的企業文化。集團很高興今年再 culture with heart. In the year under review, we were proud to 度獲得由香港提升快樂指數基金頒發的 receive once again the Happy Company Label, presented by the 「開心企業」標誌，以肯定我們在實踐員工 Promoting Happiness Index Foundation for the success of our 福祉措施上的努力。 efforts to ensure staff well-being. 5 PAUL Y. ENGINEERING GROUP LIMITED 保華建業集團有限公司 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會 責 任 報 告 Valuing Talent Development 重視人才發展 The Group devotes considerable resources to staff training and 集團在員工的培訓及發展上一直投放大 development so as to keep talent up-to-date with the best and 量 資 源，好 讓 他 們 在 其 專 屬 範 疇 上 時 刻 latest practices in their areas of expertise. Our Graduate Trainee 與 時 並 進。集 團 推 出 的「畢 業 生 培 訓 計 and Non-Graduate Trainee programmes support professional 劃」及「非 畢 業 生 培 訓 計 劃」，以 學 費 資 development by sponsoring course fees, while further education 助 形 式 促 進 員 工 自 我 增 值，考 取 專 業 認 funding and examination leave encourage employees at all 可。為 了 鼓 勵 員 工 在 其 職 能 範 圍 及 專 業 levels to top up their qualifications and embrace continuing 資 格 持 續 進 修，我 們 也 會 提 供 適 合 的 教 education related to their scope of duties and career aspirations. 育 資 助 及 考 試 假 期。此 外，集 團 的 培 訓 Meanwhile, our training department rolls out seminars and 部 也 會 持 續 舉 辦 各 式 研 討 會 或 工 作 坊， workshops on a variety of subjects, from building techniques 涵 蓋 建 築 技 術、電 腦 科 技、安 全 及 環 to computer technology, safety and environmental protection, 保、中 醫 減 壓、茶 與 健 康 等 內 容，以 擴 stress management with Chinese medicine, and even tea and 闊 員 工 在 不 同 範 疇 的 知 識 及 視 野，既 可 health. These courses are selected to not only educate staff 協 助 員 工 適 應 瞬 息 萬 變 的 商 業 環 境，亦 but also broaden vision and help our people thrive in the ever可 讓 他 們 從 中 發 展 個 人 興 趣，達 至 健 康 changing business context. They also provide opportunities for 的 工 作 與 生 活 平 衡。 staff to explore their interests and achieve a healthy work-life balance. Our Graduate Engineers visited Hong Kong’s First Automated Bottoms-up moment at our Spring Dinner, a precious occasion that Rebar Processing and Assembly Plant. brought staff together to celebrate the Lunar New Year. 「畢業生培訓計劃」學員參觀香港首間自動化鋼筋加工及裝配廠。 集團舉行新春晚宴，上下聚首一堂，共慶佳節。 We continued to participate in recruitment fairs at various We are very proud of the achievements of our football team who tertiary institutions throughout the year to attract new talents. notched up several remarkable wins in industry competitions. 集團今年繼續參與各大專院校的招聘展覽，吸納新力軍。 集團足球隊於業界比賽中，屢獲佳績。 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 年報 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會責任報告 Geographical Distribution of Employees (%) Employment Types (%) 僱員按地區分布 (%) 僱員類別 (%) 3% 1% 10% 10% 86% 6% 84% Monthly Paid Hong Kong 香港 Permanent Staff 月薪長期員工 Macau 澳門 Monthly Paid PRC 中國 Contract Staff 月薪合約員工 Singapore 新加坡 Daily Paid Staff 日薪員工 Gender Distribution of Employees (%) Training Categories (%) 僱員按性別分布 (%) 培訓課程類別 (%) 3% 25% 53% 75% 17% Company Information 公司資訊 Environmental, Health & Safety 環境、健康及安全 Information Technology 資訊科技 Legal Issues 法律議題 Male 男性 Management Skills Female 女性 17% 管理技巧 5% Technical Skills 5% & Experience Sharing 技術及經驗分享 Training Hours of Different Employee Categories 僱員類別及培訓時數 5.7 Average Training Hours 5.14 平均培訓時數 2.66 4,943.5 Total Training Hours 總培訓時數 Note: The graph indicates the total training hours and average training hours (including in-house training 1,539 courses and external training courses arranged by the Training Department) of each employee 117 category. Executive Middle General 附註； 此表顯示各僱員類別的總培訓時數及平均培訓時數 Management Management Staff （包括內部培訓及經培訓部安排之外部培訓項目）。 高級管理人員 中級管理人員 一般員工 7 PAUL Y. ENGINEERING GROUP LIMITED 保華建業集團有限公司 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會 責 任 報 告 Innovation-Driven Project Design 敢於創新 Training to Embrace BIM Era 加強培訓迎接BIM時代 Our business is driven by a combination of experience, 集團一直抱持融合傳統經驗、頂尖科技 advanced technology and sensitivity to market dynamics. 及具市場觸覺的營運理念。 The 2017 Policy Address of the HKSAR Government clearly 根據香港特區政府二零一七年的《施政 positions Building Information Modelling (BIM) as an integral 報告》，二零一八年開始在主要政府基 part of the design and construction of major government 本工程項目中的設計及建造上，將採用 capital works projects starting in 2018. It also promotes BIM 「建築信息模擬技術」 （BIM），並把此技 use in private construction. PYE is a pioneer in the use of BIM 術推廣至私人承建項目上。集團早著先 in construction in Hong Kong. For years, we have incorporated 機，數年前已把BIM技術應用到工程項 BIM in our construction project cycles, increasing the Group’s 目的周期中，以提升集團於業界的優勢 strengths and competitiveness in the industry. BIM resources 及競爭力，更在資源規劃，包括硬件、 are allocated to all processes, from hardware to software, 軟件、技術支援，以至培訓方面作出相 technical support and training. 應安排。 Keeping staff at the forefront of BIM technology’s cutting 為了讓員工緊貼BIM科技一日千里的發 edge is a priority. To this effect, our “BIM for All to Use” 展，集 團 推 行「全 民 皆 用BIM 」計 劃， program invites experts to share their BIM knowledge with 邀請專家為各部門同事提供BIM講座， our senior management and frontline staff from various 與高級管理層以至前線員工分享BIM知 departments. Staff also gain valuable hands-on experience of 識，員工更可親身體驗BIM在承建項目 BIM at different work stages, namely design, construction and 不同階段，包括設計、建造及設施管理 facility management and so they are able to develop expertise 方面的可塑性，從而讓他們掌握BIM技 in effective implementation of BIM to streamline project 術並有效地應用，以助簡化工程項目的 design and planning and increase efficiency as well as shorten 設計及規劃工序，提高效率並縮短總建 construction time. 築時間。 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 年報 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會責任報告 Health and Safety 健康及安全 HIGH STANDARDS OF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH 我們竭力提升 職安健的表現 Safety Management and Education 安全管理與教育 The Group assigns utmost importance to providing a safe and 集團致力為員工提供安全及健康的工作 healthy working environment for our people. Our “Safety, Health, 環 境。集 團 遵 循 相 關 法 例，制 定《安 全、 Environmental and Quality Policy Statement” ensures compliance with 健 康、環 保、品 質 政 策》，指 引 員 工 及 合 all relevant laws and regulations and guides all levels of stakeholders, 作夥伴貫徹執行所有相關的安全及健康措 from employees to management and partners, in the implementation of 施。此 外，由 高 級 管 理 層 組 成 的「安 全、 our safety and health practices. Our “Safety, Health, Environment, and 健康、環保及品質管理委員會」，定期就 Quality Management Committee”, composed of senior management, 職業安全及健康等事宜舉行會議，並持續 oversees these protocols through regular meetings on occupational 跟進、監測及檢討相關議題，從而識別、 safety and health issues. The committee also follows up, monitors 評估及減低風險，以改善施工流程，提升 and reviews concerns to identify, assess and reduce risk. Further, 職業安全及健康的表現。 construction procedures are continuously fine-tuned to enhance occupational safety and health performance. Education for employees to enhance safety awareness remains a 教育員工提高安全意識乃我們的首要任 priority. Regular safety seminars and workshops are held to ensure 務。為 此，集 團 定 期 為 員 工 安 排 安 全 講 that employees gain a thorough understanding of safety procedures 座、工作坊等，以確保他們完全明白安全 and mechanisms. Our Safety and Environmental Department regularly 指引和機制。此外，安全及環保部亦會製 produces vibrant safety videos for staff education. In addition, the 作生動的安全短片及出版《安全及環保通 Safety and Environmental Protection Newsletter listing industry news, 訊》，臚列業界有關職業安全及健康的新 regulations and information on occupational safety and health, was 聞、法 規 及 資 訊，提 醒 員 工 時 刻 嚴 守 法 launched to remind staff of the importance of strict compliance with 規，確保自身安全的重要性。 related laws and regulations. 9 PAUL Y. ENGINEERING GROUP LIMITED 保華建業集團有限公司 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會 責 任 報 告 Safety Measures on Site 工地安全措施 Additional safety measures are introduced in response to 因應不同的工地情況，集團亦推行了一系 different site conditions. For example, safety bulletin boards 列 的 安 全 措 施，例 如 在 工 地 設 置 有 關 高 related to high-risk works lifting, work platforms, chemical goods 危工種、吊運、工作台、化學品、密閉空 and confined spaces, along with personal protective equipment, 間、個人防護用品等不同的安全告示板， are available at construction sites. Equipment to prevent falls as 以及提供防墮裝備及緊急事故應變手冊 well as emergency response manuals are also provided. 等。 The physical and mental health needs of construction workers 集團也關顧到員工工作時的身心健康，在 are acknowledged and addressed. For example, drinking water 工地設置飲水區、有蓋休息區、噴霧風扇 areas, covered seating and mist fans are installed to ease the 等以紓緩員工的辛勞及提升工作環境的舒 pressure of hard labour and improve comfort. Site nurses are also 適度。工地護士亦會駐守工地，以便監測 present to monitor workers’ health. 員工的身體狀況。 Work Injury Statistics 工傷統計數字 Type of Work Injuries Number of Work Injuries 工傷類型 個案數目 Fatal 致命 0 Non-fatal 非致命 75 Number of Days 日數 Average lost days per case due to work injuries 157 每宗工傷個案的平均損失工作日數 Note: The above table sets out the type and number of work injuries, and 附註： 上表載列集團在本地合共52個工程項目的工 average lost days per case due to work injuries recorded at 52 of our local 傷類型及個案數目，以及每宗工傷個案的平 project sites. 均損失工作日數。 Virtual reality simulation is now a part of all our safety training Our internal safety regulations are stricter than the regulatory programmes. A staff member familiarises herself with the actual site standards. environment through 3D simulation. 集團的內部安全守則較監管機構的要求更為嚴格。 集團以虛擬實境技術進行安全培訓，員工藉置身於三維虛擬的工地來熟 習真實的工地環境。 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 年報 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會責任報告 Lamma Power Station Extension Project 南丫發電廠擴建工程 Zero-Heat Stroke Record Wins Bronze Award 奪「最佳預防工作時中暑計劃」銅獎 Working outdoor in Hong Kong’s hot and humid summer 香港的夏季炎熱潮濕，戶外工作容易中 can lead to heat stroke. For our project team undertaking civil 暑。南丫發電廠擴建部分十號發電機組 and building works for Unit L10 of the Lamma Power Station 土 建 及 大 樓 工 程 的 項 目 團 隊 將「預 防 工 Extension, prevention was the solution. The “Program to 作時中暑計劃」引入安全管理系統中，並 Prevent Heat Stroke at Work”, with “Say ‘no’ to Heat Stroke” 以「向中暑Say No」為口號，將預防工人 as a slogan, was an important component of our site safety 工作時中暑視為首要目標。項目由施工 management measures. It proved very successful, with a “zero 至今保持著「零」中暑的紀錄，年度內於 heat stroke” record throughout the duration of construction. 職業安全健康局、勞工處及建造業議會 The initiative also won the “Best Programme to Prevent 舉辦的「建造業安全推廣活動2017」中奪 Heat Stroke at Work” Bronze award of the “Construction 得「最佳預防工作時中暑計劃－銅獎」。 Safety Promotion Campaign 2017” jointly organised by the Occupational Safety and Health Council, Labour Department and the Construction Industry Council. A multi-pronged approach was adopted to achieve the “zero” 為了達到「零」中暑紀錄，項目團隊多管 heat stroke record. In addition to requiring workers to participate 齊 下，除 了 要 求 工 人 入 職 時 參 與「預 防 in the “Prevention of Heat Stroke” induction training at the 中 暑」訓 練，還 提 供 抗 熱 設 備 如 附 設 冷 time of entry, heat-resistant equipment such as portable air氣機的流動式帳篷、飲用水器，並向工 conditioned tents and drinking water equipment were also 人派發安全帽寬邊擋、安全帽風扇、防 made available. In addition, heat-resistant working gear such as UV冰涼手袖、冰爽噴霧及冰涼巾等抗熱 sunshade brims for helmets, helmets with battery fans, anti-UV 用品。 cooling hand sleeves and cooling sprays for shirts as well as ice towels were distributed to the workers. In another precautionary measure, workers aged 60 or above 對高齡工友也關顧周到，凡60歲或以上 underwent compulsory body temperature and blood pressure 的工人，每日施工前必須量度體温及血 checks daily before commencing work on the construction site. 壓，以便因應其身體狀況安排工作。針 As the small excavator cab is generally open and has no air對沒有冷氣系統的小型挖泥機駕駛室， conditioning system, the project team innovated by installing 項目團隊更發揮創意，利用外置的迷你 external mini-generators, air conditioners and a transparent 發電機及冷氣機，加上透明膠幕，有效 plastic screen to improve the cab working environment. The 地為操作員的工作環境降溫，並減低他 resulting cool environment lowered the risk of heat stroke for 們中暑的風險。 the cab operators. 11 PAUL Y. ENGINEERING GROUP LIMITED 保華建業集團有限公司 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會 責 任 報 告 Environmental Protection 環境保護 SHOULDERING RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 我們對環境保護 有所承擔 Fostering Green Construction 促進環保建築 As a responsible corporate citizen, the Group is committed to 作為負責任的企業公民，集團致力建設可 building sustainable communities. The principles of sustainability 持 續 發 展 社 會。集 團 早 已 將 可 持 續 發 展 are incorporated into every aspect of our business operations. 的方針融入業務之中，除了按照國際認可 Our environmental and energy management system is in 的ISO 14001及ISO 50001標準，訂立完善 compliance with international ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 的 環 保 及 能 源 管 理 系 統，集 團 也 敢 於 創 standards. We also embrace innovation and make the best 新，善用科技。我們早已將建築信息模擬 use of technological advancements. Building Information 技術融入工程項目的周期，從設計、施工 Modelling (BIM) technologies are an essential part of the life 至 監 控 方 面，可 以 有 更 精 準 及 全 面 的 模 cycles of our construction projects, improving project accuracy 擬及預覽，從而更有效地管理環境資源、 through comprehensive simulation and pre-viewing of design, 成本、品質及健康和安全風險，促進環保 construction and monitoring processes, which allows for better 建築。年度內，集團於香港房屋委員會主 management of environmental resources, costs, quality, and 辦的「優質公共房屋建造及保養維修大獎 health and safety risks, and fosters green construction. During 2017」，獲 得「建 築 信 息 模 擬 技 術 之 創 新 the year, the Group received “The Innovative Use of BIM 使用（表揚）」殊榮。 Technology (Commendation)” at the “Quality Public Housing Construction & Maintenance Awards 2017” organised by the Hong Kong Housing Authority. In addition to the Safety, Health, Environment and Quality 此外，由集團高級管理層領導的「安全、 Management Committee led by top Management, the Group 健康、環保及品質管理委員會」定期舉行 holds regular meetings to review existing works, monitor 會議，持續檢討現行工作、監察進度、策 progress, and plan and implement new initiatives to improve 劃及推行新措施，以加強節能、減排及減 energy saving and reduce emissions and waste. 污。 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 年報 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會責任報告 Energy Saving 節能 – Devising and issuing the Energy Policy Statement to – 集團訂定及發出《能源政策宣言》，以 ensure that all levels of staff take responsibility for the 確保各級員工切實執行能源管理措施 implementation and effectiveness of our energy-management 及對其成效負責； measures; – Using plant and equipment with high energy efficiency; – 使用高效能的機械及設備； – Purchasing low-energy embodied construction materials, – 採購低耗能建築材料、產品及服務； products and services; – Participating in the “Earth Hour” organised by the World – 參與世界自然基金會對抗氣候變化的 Wide Fund for Nature to combat climate change and raise 「地球一小時」，以提高節能意識；及 awareness of energy saving; and – Signing the “Energy Saving Charter 2017” initiated by the – 簽 署 香 港 特 區 政 府 的《 節 能 約 章 HKSAR Government, and committing together with our staff 2017》，承諾與員工共同實踐約章內的 to implementation of the energy-saving measures stated in 節約能源措施。 the Charter. Water Saving 節水 – Reusing treated waste-water for vehicle and wheel washing at – 工地經處理的廢水會用作清洗卡車和 sites to reduce water wastage; and 車輪，以減少浪費食水；及 – Placing notices to encourage water saving at prominent – 於辦公室及工地當眼處張貼鼓勵節約 locations in offices and sites. 用水的告示。 Gas Emissions Reduction 減排 – Proposing various low-carbon environmental initiatives at the – 集團在工程項目投標階段已擬定不同 beginning of the bidding process of construction projects and 的 低 碳 環 保 措 施，並 在 施 工 時 採 用 系 adopting systematic scientific processes during construction; 統化及科學化的方法執行；及 and – Participating in the “Green Hong Kong • Carbon Audit” – 參加由環境保護署舉辦的「綠色香港• campaign organised by the Environmental Protection 碳 審 計 活 動」，成 為「碳 審 計•綠 色 機 Department to become the “Carbon Audit • Green Partner”, 構」，並簽署《減碳約章》。 and signing the Carbon Reduction Charter. Pollution Reduction 減污 – Using the Quality Powered Mechanical Equipment as labelled – 集團工地使用經環境保護署認證的優 by the Environmental Protection Department; and 質機動設備；及 – Donating desktop computers and LCD monitors to Caritas– – 集團將一批桌上電腦及LCD屏幕贈予香 Hong Kong, to be gifted to the needy, either free or at cost. 港 明 愛，讓 他 們 以 免 費 或 成 本 價 轉 贈 予有需要人士。 Temporary waste storage areas on sites helped to maintain tidiness By recycling water for truck washing on construction sites, we were as well as reduce emissions and pollution. able to save water and reduce pollution. 工地內設臨時廢料存放區，以保持工地整齊，及達減排減污之效。 工地利用循環再用的水清洗貨車，既能節約用水又能減少污染。 13 PAUL Y. ENGINEERING GROUP LIMITED 保華建業集團有限公司 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會 責 任 報 告 University of Chicago, Hong Kong Center 芝加哥大學香港中心 Conserving Heritage and Preserving Nature 保育融入大自然 Along with the growing awareness of conservation in 隨著近年社會保育意識越來越強，歷史 the community, the conservation of historic buildings has 建築的保育傳承備受關注，保育修復及 attracted attention in recent years. Heritage restoration 活化項目在工程建築界此起彼落的出 and revitalisation projects have become common in the 現，歷史建築修復工程近年亦成為集團 engineering and construction industry, and as such the 的業務焦點之一。我們參與了多項保育 restoration of historic buildings is now one of our major 修復工程，當中包括將屬於三級歷史建 business focuses. We have participated in a number of such 築物、位於摩星嶺的前域多利道扣押中 projects, including the former detention centre on Victoria 心，改建為芝加哥大學香港中心。原址 Road, a Grade III historic building which was transformed 被海港及高挺的鳳凰木包圍，為尊重和 into the Hong Kong Center for the University of Chicago. 保留這景觀和建築原貌，新設計的校舍 The site has panoramic views of Hong Kong Harbour and 將如「知識樹屋」融入大自然。 abundant greenery. To respect both the heritage value of the existing building and the site’s natural beauty and location, the new campus was designed as a “treehouse of knowledge”. Healthy trees are precious resources. The project team 健康的樹木為寶貴資源。項目團隊積極 strongly recommended maintenance works for trees located 提出對工地範圍內的樹木進行護養工 in the site areas. Qualified and experienced tree consultants 作。此項目工程聘請了具資歷和經驗豐 were employed to conduct tree risk assessments and a series 富的樹藝顧問進行樹木風險評估，並進 of maintenance works were carried out to protect the trees. 行一連串的護養措施以保護樹木。措施 These measures included insect control and installation of 包括防蟲及設置鐵網圍欄，以確保受保 chain link fences to ensure healthy growth of the protected 護樹木能茁壯生長，實踐集團對環境保 trees, demonstrating PYE’s commitment to environmental 護的承諾。 protection. 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 年報 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會責任報告 Environmental Performance 環保表現 Carbon Emissions Intensity (Tonnes CO2e) (Tonnes per HK$ million project revenue) 碳排放量 Tonnes 密度 （公噸二氧化碳當量） 公噸 （公噸╱每百萬港元項目收入） Scope 1 2,729 0.95 範疇 Scope 2 1,297 0.45 範疇 Scope 3 32 0.01 範疇 Note: The above figures indicate total carbon emissions and their intensities from five local projects with highest revenue for the Group. Scope 1 includes energy direct emissions; Scope 2 includes energy indirect emissions; Scope 3 includes electricity used for fresh water and sewage processing. 附註： 以 上 數 字 顯 示 集 團 本 地 五 個 最 高 收 入 之 工 程 項 目 的 總 碳 排 放 量 及 其 密 度。範 疇 1 包 括 能 源 直 接 排 放；範 疇 2 包 括 能 源 間 接 排 放； 範疇3包括食水處理及污水處理的用電。 Intensity (Kg per Vehicle) Kg 密度 千克 （千克╱每輛車） Sulphur Oxide Emissions 0.36 0.04 from Vehicles 車輛的氧化硫排放量 Intensity (Tonnes per HK$ million project revenue) Tonnes 密度 公噸 （公噸╱每百萬港元項目收入） Non-hazardous Waste 47,023 16.29 無害廢物量 Intensity (kWh per HK$ million project revenue) kWh 密度 千瓦時 （千瓦時╱每百萬港元項目收入） Electricity Consumption 2,543,427 880.91 用電量 Diesel Energy Consumption 10,753,977 3,724.60 柴油耗量 Petrol Energy Consumption 239,174 82.84 汽油耗量 Intensity (m3 per HK$ million project revenue) m3 密度 立方米 （立方米╱每百萬港元項目收入） Water Consumption 75,496 26.15 用水量 Note: The above figures indicate total sulphur oxide emissions (private cars only), total non-hazardous waste, total electricity consumption, total diesel energy consumption, total petrol energy consumption (private cars only), total water consumption and their intensities from five local projects with highest revenue for the Group. 附註： 以上數字顯示集團本地五個最高收入之工程項目的總氧化硫排放量（只包括私家車）、無害廢物總量、總用電量、總柴油耗量及總 汽油耗量（只包括私家車）、總用水量及其密度。 15 PAUL Y. ENGINEERING GROUP LIMITED 保華建業集團有限公司 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會 責 任 報 告 Community Investment 回饋社會 CREATING SOCIAL VALUE ALONGSIDE ECONOMIC VALUE 創造社會價值 與經濟價值並行 Nurturing Young Talents 積極扶掖後進 PYE has been based in Hong Kong for over 70 years. While 保華建業紥根香港超過七十年，在經營業 creating economic value through our business operations, we 務創造經濟價值之餘，一直盡心盡力支持 take every effort to support the local community. The Group is 本地社區。我們深信創造社會價值跟創造 sincere in its belief that creating social value is as important as 商業利潤同樣重要。為此，我們積極透過 generating business profits. To this effect, we actively engage in 教育、慈善公益及義務工作等活動，為社 community support through education, charity and social service 會帶來更多動力和能量。 and strive to be a positive presence in society. Last year, our efforts towards nurturing new talent in 去年，集團連續五年參與由香港中小型企 construction were recognised by the Hong Kong General 業總商會主辦的「友商有良嘉許計劃」，並 Chamber of Small and Medium Businesses. We participated in 榮獲「卓越企業」及「友商有良5+」標誌， the Chamber’s Partner Employer Award for the fifth consecutive 以表揚集團過去五年持續為本地大專院校 year and were honoured with an Outstanding Enterprise Award 畢業生提供實習及就業機會。展望未來， and the Partner Employer Award 5 Years logo, in recognition 我們將繼續竭盡所能為建造業培育更多的 of the opportunities we have made available to local tertiary 生力軍。 graduates in the past five years. We firmly commit to continuing these efforts to nurture new talent in the construction industry in the future. 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 年報 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會責任報告 Caring for the Needy 關心弱勢社群 Every year, the Group joins hands with non-profit organisations 每年，集團都會與不同的非牟利機構攜手 to hold community activities that extend the reach of social 合 辦 各 類 社 區 活 動，以 擴 闊 社 會 服 務 範 service to people with different needs. As in previous years, 圍，接觸更多有需要的人士。一如既往， our volunteer team joined the Neighbourhood Advice-Action 保華義工隊與鄰舍輔導會合作，於去年中 Council last year to visit the elderly in Lam Tei, Tuen Mun before 秋節前夕探訪居住於屯門藍地的長者，並 the Mid-Autumn Festival. Besides, they visited the mentally 於今年二月探訪沙田怡欣山莊的弱能人 challenged at Harmony Manor, Sha Tin in February this year. 士。 The PYE volunteer team underwent an unusual training 此外，去年六月，集團義工委員會更安排 experience when the Volunteer Committee organised a visit to 義工隊隊員於美孚「黑暗中對話」體驗館進 the Dialogue in the Dark exhibition in Mei Foo in June 2017. 行特別的培訓活動，讓他們在全黑的環境 They experienced the day-to-day life of the vision-impaired as 內體驗視障人士的日常生活，並參與點字 they navigated their way through pitch darkness. They also 活動及視障人士的分享會，進一步了解視 attended a braille workshop and an experience-sharing session 障人士的經歷及感受，提升助人技巧。 with visually-impaired individuals to gain a better understanding of the world of those without sight and to broaden their helping skills. Making Generous Donations 慷慨捐贈送暖 Donating goods or funds is a way to give back to the community. 捐贈物資和款項是回饋社會的其中一個途 Last year, the Group donated 700 kilogrammes of rice to the 徑。去 年，集 團 捐 贈700公 斤 白 米 予 聖 雅 People’s Food Bank at St. James’ Settlement. Our volunteers also 各 福 群 會 的「眾 膳 坊」，並 安 排 義 工 隊 協 helped to pack the rice in small packets for easy delivery to those 助把白米分裝入袋，以便派發予有需要人 in need. In addition, surplus construction materials including 士。此外，集團捐贈了一批剩餘的磁磚予 ceramic wall tiles were donated to Longevity Design House, 專為長者提供較低成本的裝修家居服務的 a social enterprise that provides low-cost home renovation 社會企業「長屋設計」，此舉除有助長者翻 services for the elderly. On the one hand, these donations help 新居所外，也充分利用剩餘的建材，減少 to renovate homes for the elderly, and on the other, they reduce 浪費。 wastage by fully utilising surplus construction materials. This year, the Group made charitable and other donations of 本年度，集團用作支持社區福利、環境保 approximately HK$541,000 in support of community welfare, 護及推廣安全資訊等慈善及其他捐款約 environmental protection and safety initiatives. 541,000港元。 A visit to the “Dialogue in the Dark” Exhibition Centre took our Our volunteer team is just five years old and has participated in over 50 volunteers into the world of the visually impaired. voluntary activities of different scales and natures. 集團義工隊參觀「黑暗中對話」體驗館，了解視障人士的世界。 集團義工隊成立至今超過五年，已參與超過50項大大小小的義工活動。 17 PAUL Y. ENGINEERING GROUP LIMITED 保華建業集團有限公司 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會 責 任 報 告 PYE Sponsors Central District Cultural Tour 贊助中區建築文化導賞團 A History Lesson on Building Hong Kong 傳承城市建設歷史 This year, we joined the Conservancy Association Centre for 年 度 內，集 團 特 別 與 保 育 團 體「長 春 社 Heritage (CACHe) in organising the “All About Engineering – 文 化 古 蹟 資 源 中 心」合 作 舉 辦「見 工 立 Constructions in Central District” cultural tour. 業－中區建築工程考」文化導賞團。 About 30 people joined the walk which took in a number of 是次導賞團共有約30名參加者與我們一 PYE landmark constructions in Central, namely The Center, 同走訪集團位於中區承建的多個地標建 Cheung Kong Center, China Construction Bank Tower and 築，包括中環中心、長江集團中心、中 the Central Mid-Levels Escalator and Walkway System. Our 國建設銀行大廈及中環至半山自動扶梯 engineers acted as docents and shared with participants 系統，並請來集團工程師作導賞員分享 their experiences. The group learned a great deal about 他們的經驗，讓公眾了解到建造工程會 construction, including different construction methods 因應不同的地理環境，採取不同建築方 adopted in accordance with the geographic environment 法；工程師又如何利用不同技術，在保 and how engineers use technology for a range of purposes, 護鄰近的歷史建築同時，能夠在繁華鬧 from protecting heritage buildings to constructing pedestrian 市下打通行人隧道、建成高聳入雲的摩 subways, skyscrapers and the Mid-Levels escalator system. 天大廈、以及打通半山行人樞紐的自動 They also learned how BIM technology has been facilitating 扶 手 電 梯 系 統；還 有BIM技 術 如 何 於 近 efficient construction in recent years. 年促進高效承建等。 By tracing the development of Central and sharing stories 透過這次導賞活動，集團希望與參加者 of building construction in Hong Kong, the Group hopes 重溯中環發展及香港建造工程的故事， to educate the general public on the finer details of Hong 讓公眾了解到香港城市建設這一頁歷史 Kong’s urban landscape. 文化，傳承未來。 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 年報 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會責任報告 Quality Management Awards 品質管理獎項 Scheme Award Awardee Organiser 計劃 獎項 得獎單位 主辦單位 Project Management Winner Studio City Hong Kong Institute of Achievement Construction/Engineering Category 新濠影滙 Project Management Awards 2016 大獎 香港項目管理學會 項目管理大獎2016 建造╱工程組別 Winner Community Service/Regional Development Category 大獎 社區服務╱區域發展組別 NEC Awards 2017 Highly Commended Re-provisioning of The United Kingdom’s NEC 2017 年度新工程合約 NEC Contractor of the Year 2017 Kennedy Town Swimming Users’ Group 大獎 高度讚揚獎 Pool (Phase 2) 英國新工程合約用戶組 2017年度新工程合約－承 建 商 堅尼地城游泳池重置工 織 程（第 二 期） Construction Gold Award Re-provisioning of The Chartered Institute of Manager of the New Works and A&A Works Category Kennedy Town Swimming Building (Hong Kong) Year Awards 2016 in 金獎 Pool (Phase 2) 英 國 特 許 建 造 學 會（香 Hong Kong 新建造及改建組別 堅尼地城游泳池重置工 港） 香港傑出建造經理 程（第 二 期） 2016年度選舉 Asia Pacific Project High Commendation Re-provisioning of Asia Pacific Federation of Management Construction/Engineering Category Kennedy Town Swimming Project Management Awards 2017 高度嘉許 Pool (Phase 2) 亞太項目管理聯盟 2017 年 度項目管理 建造╱工程組別 堅尼地城游泳池重置工 大獎 程（第 二 期） Quality Public The Innovative Use of BIM Technology Paul Y. General Hong Kong Housing Housing (Commendation) Contractors Limited Authority Construction & New Works Projects – Outstanding 保華建築營造有限公司 香港房屋委員會 Maintenance Contractors Awards 2017 建築信息模擬技術之創新使 用（表 揚） 優質 公共房屋建造 新工程項目－傑出承建商 及保 養維修大獎 2017 19 PAUL Y. ENGINEERING GROUP LIMITED 保華建業集團有限公司 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會 責 任 報 告 Health and Safety Awards 健康及安全獎項 Scheme Award Awardee Organiser 計劃 獎項 得獎單位 主辦單位 Construction Bronze Award Lamma Power Station Occupational Safety Safety Promotional Best Program to Prevent Heat Stroke at Extension Civil and & Health Council/ Campaign 2017 Work Building Works for Unit L10 Labour Department/ 建造 業安全推廣活 銅獎 南丫發電廠擴建部分十號 Construction Industry 動 2017 最佳預防工作時中暑計劃 發電機組土建及大樓工程 Council 職 業 安 全 健 康 局、勞 工處及建造業議會 23rd Considerate Merit Award West Island Line Contract Development Bureau/ Contractors Site Considerate Contractors Site Award No. 713 – Re-provisioning of Construction Industry Award Scheme Non-Public Works – New Works (Group A) Kennedy Town Swimming Council 第23 屆 公德地盤嘉 優異獎 Pool (Phase 2) 發展局及建造業議會 許計 劃 公德地盤獎 西 港 島 線 合 約 713－堅 尼 地 非工務工程－ 新建工程（A組） 城 游 泳 池 重 置 工 程（第 二 期） Merit Award Outstanding Environmental Management & Performance Award 優異獎 傑出環境管理獎 HKCA Safety Awards HKCA Safe Person-In-Charge Award Excavation and Lateral Hong Kong Construction 2016 安全主管獎 Support and Piled Foundation Association 香港建造商會建造 Works for Happy Valley 香港建造商會 安全大獎2016 Clubhouse Extension HKCA Safe Supervisor Award 跑馬地會所擴建地基工程 安全監工獎 HKCA Safe Person-In-Charge Award Construction of Public Rental 安全主管獎 Housing Development of Choi Fook Estate Phase 3 and Sports Centre, Kwun Tong 觀塘彩福邨第三期公共房 屋及體育館發展項目工程 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 年報 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會責任報告 Health and Safety Awards (Continued) 健康及安全獎項（續） Scheme Award Awardee Organiser 計劃 獎項 得獎單位 主辦單位 HKCA Safety Awards HKCA Safe Supervisor Award Construction of Home Hong Kong Construction 2016 安全監工獎 Ownership Scheme Association 香港建造商會建造 Developments at Mei Mun 香港建造商會 安全大獎2016 Lane Sha Tin Area 4C, Pik Tin St. Sha Tin Area 4D and Hin Tin St. Sha Tin Area 31 沙 田 第 4C區 美 滿 里、沙 田 第 4D區 碧 田 街 以 及 沙 田 第 31 區 顯 田 街 居 屋 發 展 計 劃 建築工程 HKCA Proactive Safety Contractor Award Paul Y. General Contractors 積極推動安全承建商獎 Limited 保華建築營造有限公司 HKCA Proactive Safety Contractor Award Paul Y. Construction & 積極推動安全承建商獎 Engineering Company Limited 保華建築工程有限公司 Construction Good Performance Certificate Main Contract Works for Labour Department/ Industry Safety Safety Team Residential Development at Occupational Safety Award Scheme 良好表現證書 128 Pok Fu Lam Road & Health Council/ 2017/2018 安全隊伍 薄 扶 林 道 128號 住 宅 發 展 項 Development Bureau/ 建造業安全獎勵計 目 Hong Kong Housing 劃 2017/2018 Authority 勞 工 處、職 業 安 全 健 康 局、發 展 局 及 香 港 房屋委員會 Construction Sites The Best Construction Sites Housekeeping Building and Civil Drainage Services Housekeeping Award Maintenance and Minor Department Award Scheme Maintenance Contracts of O & M Branch Works to DSD Plants and 渠務署 (2017) Category Facilities (2016-2020) 工地整潔獎勵計劃 最佳工地整潔獎 渠務署廠房及相關設施之 （2017） 維修合約（操作維修科）組 別 樓宇及土木維修及小型工 程（2016-2020） Green Awards 環保獎項 Scheme Award Awardee Organiser 計劃 獎項 得獎單位 主辦單位 Hong Kong Green Excellence Level West Island Line Contract Environmental Campaign Organisation WasteWi$e Certificate No. 713 – Re-provisioning of Committee Certification 卓越級別 Kennedy Town Swimming 環境運動委員會 香港 綠色機構認證 減廢證書 Pool (Phase 2) 西 港 島 線 合 約 713－堅 尼 地 城 游 泳 池 重 置 工 程（第 二 期） Good Level Construction of Home WasteWi$e Certificate Ownership Scheme 良好級別 Developments at Mei Mun 減廢證書 Lane Sha Tin Area 4C, Pik Tin St. Sha Tin Area 4D and Hin Tin St. Sha Tin Area 31 沙 田 第 4C區 美 滿 里、沙 田 第 4D區 碧 田 街 以 及 沙 田 第 31 區 顯 田 街 居 屋 發 展 計 劃 建築工程 21 PAUL Y. ENGINEERING GROUP LIMITED 保華建業集團有限公司 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會 責 任 報 告 Green Awards (Continued) 環保獎項（續） Scheme Award Awardee Organiser 計劃 獎項 得獎單位 主辦單位 Hong Kong Green Basic Level Construction of Environmental Campaign Organisation WasteWi$e Certificate Public Rental Housing Committee Certification 基礎級別 Development of Choi 環境運動委員會 香港 綠色機構認證 減廢證書 Fook Estate Phase 3 and Sports Centre, Kwun Tong 觀塘彩福邨第三期公共 房屋及體育館發展項目 工程 Basic Level Lamma Power Station WasteWi$e Certificate Extension 基礎級別 Civil and Building Works 減廢證書 for Unit L10 南丫發電廠擴建部分 十號發電機組土建及大 樓工程 Hong Kong Green Basic Level Lamma Power Station Environmental Campaign Organisation EnergyWi$e Certificate Extension Committee Certification 基礎級別 Civil and Building Works 環境運動委員會 香港 綠色機構認證 節能證書 for Unit L10 南丫發電廠擴建部分 十號發電機組土建及大 樓工程 HKCA Hong Kong 2017 Environmental Merit Award Paul Y. General Hong Kong Construction 2017環保優異獎 Contractors Limited Construction Association Environmental 保華建築營造有限公司 香港建造商會 Awards 香 港建造商會香港 Paul Y. Construction & 建 築環保大獎 Engineering Co. Limited 保華建築工程有限公司 Paul Y. Builders Limited 保華建造有限公司 Paul Y. Foundation Limited 保華地基有限公司 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 年報 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 企業社會責任報告 Community Awards 社區服務獎項 Scheme Award Awardee Organiser 計劃 獎項 得獎單位 主辦單位 Happiness-at-Work Happy Company Label Paul Y. Engineering Group Promoting Happiness Index Promotional Scheme 開心企業標誌 Limited Foundation/Hong Kong 2017 保華建業集團有限公司 Productivity Council 「開心工作間」推廣 香港提升快樂指數基金 計 劃2017 及香港生產力促進局 HKQAA CSR Index CSR Advocate Mark Paul Y. Engineering Group Hong Kong Quality HKQAA 企業社會責 企業社會責任先導者標誌 Limited Assurance Agency 任 指數 保華建業集團有限公司 香港品質保證局 Partner Employer Outstanding Enterprise Paul Y. Engineering Group The Hong Kong General Award 2017/18 卓越企業 Limited Chamber of Small and 友商有良嘉許計劃 Partner Employer Award 5 Years Logo 保華建業集團有限公司 Medium Business 2017/18 友商有良5+ 標誌 香港中小型企業總商會 The 8th Hong Outstanding Corporate Citizenship Logo Paul Y. Engineering Group Hong Kong Productivity Kong Corporate Enterprise Category Limited Council Citizenship Award 傑出企業公民嘉許標誌 保華建業集團有限公司 香港生產力促進局 Scheme 企業組別 第八屆香港企業公 民計劃 Caring Company Caring Company Logo Paul Y. Engineering Group The Hong Kong Council of 2017/18 商界展關懷標誌 Limited Social Service 2017/18年度「商界 保華建業集團有限公司 香港社會服務聯會 展關懷」 23
