Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Table of Contents 3 questions to Michel Giannuzzi Verallia Chairman and CEO HOW DOES VERALLIA'S ACTIVITY FIT INTO EMPLOYEES ARE AT THE HEART A CIRCULAR ECONOMY RATIONALE? OF THE COMPANY'S DEVELOPMENT. WHAT COMMITMENTS HAVE YOU Care for customers is our first corporate value. Today, our customers are MADE TO THEM? looking for solutions to minimize the environmental footprint of their products 2 EDITORIAL and meet consumers' aspirations for sustainable development. For everyone, Verallia's plants operate non-stop, all year round. The glass industry requires the choice of glass is that of a material which is inherently circular because permanent commitment and advanced technical expertise. Our teams are 4 it is 100% recyclable, infinitely. However, this virtuous circle only works with our strength and the key to our success. Their safety is our priority. This is a VERALLIA, the commitment of all. AN INTERNATIONAL commitment that we must constantly renew by maintaining and reinventing PLAYER Verallia's contribution? Use as much collected and recycled glass (cullet) as our awareness actions, because a safety culture is built up over time and has possible in its furnaces. Our dual industrial expertise, both in the production to be maintained. Verallia is also committed to supporting its teams in their 6 of glass packaging and in the reprocessing of household glass, is a strength. professional development: this is reflected in our training efforts at all levels VERALLIA, of the organization. A COMMITTED COMPANY We invest in these two stages of the value chain. The more cullet we use, the less raw materials and energy we use and the 10 less CO2 we emit. We are therefore committed to promoting glass recycling A NEW IMPETUS TO OUR COMMITMENT because cullet availability is key in our circular economy approach. As a WHAT ABOUT YOUR NEW 2019 CSR reminder, while the recycling rate in Europe is stagnating at around 74%*, INITIATIVE ? 12 some countries have actually reached 96%*. So it is not a foregone conclusion! VERALLIA AT THE HEART Our priority remains, of course, the reduction of CO2 emissions from our insOF THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY The circular economy is also a lean and efficient way of managing resources: in addition to the use of cullet, we are investing to improve the energy efficientallations, for which we are constantly striving. In addition to our actions in 14 cy of our installations and limit our water consumption. We are also working this direction, we have decided to invest in a carbon offsetting project through on our product range by increasing the amount of eco-designed packaging. agroforestry and reforestation in Latin America. We have partnered with PUR HELP PROTECT Projet, whose mission is to regenerate ecosystems in order to improve the living Our factories are very often located in the heart of the wine-growing regions, conditions of small producers and create local economic value. THE ENVIRONMENT as close as possible to our customers this is another circular strength of 24 our model. As a socially responsible company, we are committed to working alongside the communities near our sites. ACT FOR THE SAFETY AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUR TEAMS 30 CONTRIBUTE TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIES 36 APPENDICES : SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 38 GLOBAL COMPACT CONCORDANCE TABLE 1 * FEVE figures – Press release dated 4/02/19 – www.feve.org 2 VERALLIA, AN INTERNATIONAL PLAYER IN THE GLASS INDUSTRY A world leader, close to its customers. An independent Group, Verallia is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of glass packaging for food and beverages. 2.4 bn n°1* 10,000 sales in Europe employees SALES 32 13 in 2018 PER REGION n°2* glass product IN 2018 in South America manufacturing development facilities centers at the service of n°3 worldwide * 90% Europe 16 5 7 billion Manufacturing technical cullet 10% 10,000 bottles and jars locations in centers processing produced in 2018 11 countries plants customers South America * Verallia management estimation 3 4 VERALLIA, OUR A COMMITTED OUR OUR SUSTAINABLE 3 CSR DEVELOPMENT COMPANY 4 VALUES COMMITMENTS GOALS SDG 12 Ensure sustainable Verallia’s mission consumption and production patterns Every day, Verallia enables people to enjoy beverages and food with SDG 13 attractive, healthy and sustainable Take urgent action glass packaging. to combat climate CARE change and its impacts FOR CUSTOMERS This mission is in line with Verallia’s 4 Values. Consistent with these values, Verallia’s CSR commitments are structured HELP PROTECT SDG 15 THE ENVIRONMENT Protect, restore and promote around three focal areas. As a member of sustainable use of terrestrial United Nations Global Compact, the Group ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, has identified 5 Sustainable Development and halt and reverse land Goals (SDG) to which it particularly degradation and halt biodiversity loss contributes. RESPECT SDG 8 FOR PEOPLE, Promote sustained, LAWS AND inclusive and sustainable THE ENVIRONMENT economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all ACT FOR THE SAFETY AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUR TEAMS IN 2018, VERALLIA OBTAINS ECOVADIS GOLD SDG 17 EMPOWERMENT Strengthen the means CERTIFICATION. AND ACCOUNTABILITY of implementation and In 2018, the Group's sustainable revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development achievements were assessed development on the Ecovadis platform at the Gold Medal level and the score of 63/100. Ecovadis is a platform for rating the social and environmental performance of global supply chains. CONTRIBUTE TO THE DEVELOPMENT TEAMWORK OF COMMUNITIES 5 6 Certifications The Code of Verallia’s 32 glassmaking plants are certified ISO 9001 (quality), ISO 14001 (environment) Conduct and OHSAS 18001 (worker health and safety). The Kamyshin plant in Russia is in the process The Code of Conduct formalizes the values of being certified OHSAS 18001 (certification shared in the company. All employees expected in 2019). undertake in writing to respect and apply 22 glassmaking plants are certified ISO 22000 these values. Suppliers and partners are (food safety). required to comply with equivalent standards. T  he Code of Conduct QUALITY is available on www.verallia.com ISO 9001 e rt c ifie 32 d glass aking pl an ts ENVIRONMENT ISO 14001 m WORKER HEALTH AND SAFETY OHSAS 18001 FOOD SAFETY ISO 22000 Compliance Compliance is one of the pillars of Verallia's CSR Governance strategy. It helps to create value and reduce risk. Verallia's compliance culture is the subject of a program designed to reinforce the value of Respect for Laws and the obligations arising from it, in all Group entities. Together with its shareholders, Apollo Global THIS PROGRAM IS STRUCTURED Management, LLC and Bpifrance, Verallia is AROUND FOUR THEMES: an independent industrial Group entirely dedicated to glass packaging. Under the leadership of its Chairman and Chief COMPLIANCE Executive Officer, the Group integrates the principles of corporate social responsibility WITH COMPETITION LAW at the heart of its governance. The CEO is supported in this mission by his PREVENTION Executive Committee (Comex), composed OF CORRUPTION of the General Counsel (governance and compliance), the Industrial Director (health, IANT safety and environmental protection), the Chief Financial Officer (risk management COMPLIANCE WITH THE RULES COMPL and internal control), the Corporate Secretary ON ECONOMIC SANCTIONS (compliance with the Code of Conduct) AND EMBARGOES and the General Managers of the divisions (implementation of the CSR strategy in all Group entities). Every month, the Comex PROTECTION reviews the health, safety and environment OF PERSONAL DATA results. Once a year the CSR strategy is presented and discussed with the Board of Directors. Developed around guiding principles and common policies, this program is deployed through training, controls and a whistleblowing (professional alert) system. 7 8 A NEW IMPETUS Sharing views TO OUR COMMITMENT Employee health andhealth Employee safety and safety Product Employee quality and Product Industrial engagement Employee social dialogue engagement and and composition quality and composition accidents Industrial accidents Product environmental Product Laëtitia Fabre Denis Michel social dialogue performance environmental Verallia Head of CSR Verallia Corporate Secretary Employee performance attraction Employee Impact Impact onon stakeholders stakeholders andattraction retention and retention Business WHAT PRIORITIES DID YOU IDENTIFY WHEN WAS VERALLIA'S CSR ethics Business WITH THIS FIRST MATERIALITY ANALYSIS? PROCESS INITIATED? ethics Back in 2007, Verallia created its first Research Our production process involves high energy consumption Responsible and CO2 emissions. Our CSR priority is therefore to reduce & Development and Marketing team to focus suppliers Environmental Energy our environmental impact. on topics related to the environment, products Responsible compliance Environmental efficiency and Energy This reduction takes time because it is partly related and sustainable development. suppliers compliance carbon intensity efficiency and to the renewal of the furnaces (life span of about 12 years). In 2012, our ambition was mainly focused carbon intensity Alongside these long-term changes, our R&D and Industrial on developing, with our customers, solutions that teams are working on short-term solutions for energy are both aesthetic and innovative, and on reducing efficiency and overall reduction of our impact. the environmental footprint of our activities. Protection Our first Corporate Social Responsibility report was of personal Protection Integration WERE THE PRIORITIES IDENTIFIED published in 2017. CONSISTENT WITH THE CSR APPROACH In 2019 our CSR strategy is intensifying. Our CSR data of personal of the principles Integration Manager coordinates the actions of the Group's data of the circular principles ALREADY IN PLACE? companies, meets customer expectations, and economy of into the circular The analysis reveals that the environmental quality integrates all the main lines of the approach into Diversity the value into economy chain a global strategy, adapted locally to the needs of our bottles and jars is important for our customers in the organization Diversity the value chain of each country. and end users. They are particularly sensitive to and in inclusion the organization our glass packaging: healthy and 100% recyclable and inclusion indefinitely without alteration. WHAT IMPACT DOES YOUR CSR Our challenge is to find solutions to reduce their APPROACH HAVE ON YOUR BUSINESS? environmental footprint. We are working on this internally (maximum integration of cullet according The first impact is the consideration of all to country and product availability, batch optimization) the components of our activity, combining + and with our customers (lighter bottles and jars, economic profitability with social, societal Impact on operations maximizing the number of items per pallet, recycling and environmental concerns. Impact on operations awareness). Each of these subjects is covered by a risk and opportunity analysis and an action plan Social and societal impact Environmental impact WHAT IS DIFFERENT monitored with relevant indicators. Social and societal impact Environmental impact IN YOUR 2019 ROADMAP? This approach strengthens our customers' trust, Organizations and operations Products and procurement chain sustainably reduces our environmental impacts, Organizations and operations Products and procurement chain Actions to reduce our environmental impact are empowers us towards our stakeholders, unites intensifying, and we will associate a carbon offsetting our teams internally and improves the company's project with PUR Projet* over the long term. attractiveness. We are enthusiastic about this project for its crossMATERIALITY ANALYSIS cutting environmental and societal impacts. Our values are the cornerstone of this approach. In We are making progress every year, and our ambition is order to control their application by all, we have set up Through a materiality analysis, the approach's areas of improvement were validated. The major risks to participate in real environmental change! a whistleblowing system that allows everyone and opportunities identified are aligned with the main CSR actions. The environmental impact is clearly to exercise vigilance and be the guarantor. evident in the analysis, with the themes of energy efficiency, carbon intensity and the integration of the principles of the circular economy. 9 * See PUR Projet interview pages 22-23 10 VERALLIA AT THE HEART OF GLASS, A PERMANENT MATERIAL Glass material, infinitely recyclable, without alteration no matter how many times it is recycled, naturally fits into a THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY circular economy scheme: the bottles and jars collected and recycled become new food containers once again. Today, cullet is Verallia's main raw material and the key link in its circular chain. Extraction Eco-conception Collection and processing and manufacturing and awareness-raising Adeline Farrelly of raw materials of quality glass on sorting and recycling Secretary General of the European (sand, calcium carbonate, packaging Glass Containers Federation (FEVE) sodium carbonate) “ REGARDING OUR GLASS INDUSTRY, WHY IS CIRCULAR ECONOMY NO LONGER AN OPTION TODAY? Over the last three years, the Circular Economy has become a major pillar of the European Union’s vision on sustainability. Political leadership has led to a massive mobilisation of sectors and recycling chains to ensure that products and materials are maintained in productive loops. Of course, this model is nothing new for the glass industry. As a permanent material, glass is endlessly recyclable without loss of its intrinsic properties, and as a packaging it is reusable and effectively recycled in a bottle-to-bottle closed loop. Already in the 1970s, the industry had set up collection and recycling infrastructure that has enabled cullet to become the industry’s most important raw material. However, we need to continue to show leadership on material stewardship. It makes sense from an industrial perspective, as using more cullet brings huge CO2 savings. But it makes even more sense from a market perspective, as brands, retailers end consumers are increasingly concerned about the recyclability and effective recycling of their packaging materials. WHAT ARE THE EMERGING ‘TRENDS’ IN THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY FIELD? It is undeniable that plastic is the hot topic. The plastics crisis has largely diverted attention away from the broader challenges of the circular economy to solving the plastics recycling problem. At the same time, consumer awareness of marine litter has never been greater, driving brands and retailers to look for alternatives to plastics. Beyond the goals on recycling, one of the main political challenges ahead is to guarantee that the circular economy for packaging can operate within a non-toxic Processing of collected Packing and marketing environment. This is particularly true of food packaging. glass into cullet, via the recycling of household glass Verallia contributes to the enhancement of its customers' products and the ” in processing plants (from Verallia well-being of end consumers. or partners). 11 12 Promote the circular economy and improve our environmental footprint Verallia is working to reduce its environmental impact, in particular by increasing the use of cullet household glass waste collected and by improving the performance of its production facilities to reduce CO2 emissions and water consumption. The Group also supports its customers in their responsible approach through its range of eco-designed containers. REDUCE ENERGY OPTIMIZE HELP CONSUMPTION WATER USE AND CO2 EMISSIONS AND REDUCE WASTE WORLD TARGET: IN THE 32 GLASSMAKING PLANTS: PROTECT THE REDUCE CO2 EMISSIONS BY 1% PER YEAR FOR THE 24 GLASSMAKING PLANTS LOCATED IN THE EU: 2015-2020 TARGET: -5 % WATER RESULT ACHIEVED BETWEEN 2015 AND 2018: ENVIRONMENT -3.6 % 1990-2030 TARGET: RESULT ACHIEVED OF WATER BETWEEN 1990 AND 2018: -40 CO EMISSIONS % -28 % CONSUMPTION 2 WASTE FOR THE 8 GLASSMAKING PLANTS LOCATED OUTSIDE THE EU: 2015-2020 TARGET: RESULT ACHIEVED BETWEEN 2015 AND 2018: 2015-2030 TARGET: RESULT ACHIEVED BETWEEN 2015 AND 2018: +5 % OF RECYCLED WASTE -9 % -15 % CO EMISSIONS -1.7% 2 This result is due to the landfilling of significant quantities of waste from building demolitions on some Verallia's sites. BE A DRIVING FORCE IN CULLET USE Verallia's objective is to use all available cullet SDG 12 and to contribute to increasing collection Ensure sustainable while respecting national specificities. consumption and production patterns In 2018, all tons collected and available for the Group were recycled in Verallia's furnaces. In 2016, OBJECTIVES: the recycling rate for household glass was 74%* SDG 13 Take urgent action in the EU-28. to combat climate change and its impacts -1% -1% In order to improve the cullet treatment process and increase recycling, the Group is investing long-term in its 7 treatment centres. The 32 glass factories are also developing various initiatives SDG 15 to integrate all the fractions from cullet Protect, restore and promote Reduce CO2 emissions Offset CO2 emissions processing. sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems by 1% per year. by 1% per year. Verallia has the industrial capacity to integrate larger volumes of cullet. Today, the limit lies in its availability. * FEVE figures – Press release dated 4/02/19 – www.feve.org 14 IMPROVE ENERGY CULLET, THE KEY LINK EFFICIENCY IN THE CIRCULAR CHAIN Improving energy efficiency and reducing CO2 are priorities for Verallia. Cullet is now the key link in the circular chain of the glass industry. It is made of glass from the selective As energy is mainly consumed during glass melting, each new furnace construction is an opportunity collection process. When added to other raw materials (sand, sodium carbonate, calcium carbonate), to improve the Group's performance in these areas. Throughout their life (approximately 12 years), it reduces CO2 emissions at two levels: by reducing the energy required for melting the furnaces are also subject to improvements to reduce their consumption: sealing and thermal and by reducing the use of raw materials whose melting emits CO2. Cullet also reduces insulation, optimization of glass temperature, combustion adjustments, adjustment the consumption of natural materials such as sand, or synthetic materials such as sodium of combustion air volumes. carbonate (action on preserving resources) FURNACE ENERGY INVESTMENTS IN CULLET PROCESSING CENTRES In order to significantly reduce CO2 emissions from powering its furnaces, Verallia decided in 2018 to opt for natural gas Verallia is known for its expertise in the recycling of cullet. The Group owns 7 household glass processing centres instead of oil. Other initiatives inspired by the principles of the circular economy enable, for example, to recover heat from (2 in France, 3 in Italy, 1 in Germany, 1 in Spain), in which the collected glass is processed into cullet, a raw material the furnace walls or smoke for heating buildings (in Verallia or neighbouring towns). used in glass furnaces. VIRGIN VIRGIN CONVERSION OF THE VAUXROT RAW +10 % RAW MATERIALS MATERIALS In Spain, in 2018, Verallia acquired FURNACE FOR BETTER ENERGY CULLET a new cullet processing centre EFFICIENCY (FRANCE) in the Canaries. A €1,8 million investment located around 15km from -5 % Source: FEVE SGG In 2018, the furnace at the Vauxrot plant was completely CULLET CULLET the Vidrieras Canarias glassmaking rebuilt and equipped with the latest generation CO2 EMISSIONS plant, supplying the factory directly. “end-fired” furnace technology. This investment has reduced the site's energy consumption and CO2 emissions by more than 15%. In France, in 2018, Verallia invested €3.8 million at the Everglass site in Châteaubernard (France) to implement innovative technologies for washing, drying and grinding very small raw glass (fraction 0-4 mm), also known as glass sand . ENERGY CONSUMPTION OPTIMIZATION ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE Thanks to this process, up to 15% of the cullet intended IN ALL VERALLIA FURNACES (FRANCE) DEPLOYMENT (WORLDWIDE ) for glass furnaces can be introduced in the form of glass sand. The installation of this technology, developed The composition of natural gas and therefore Verallia has invested in Industry 4.0 by introducing in Italy, is a first in France at Verallia. The site directly its calorific value varies according to its origin artificial intelligence in its factories. Sensors installed supplies the Cognac glass factory, located 3 km away. (the gas can also be produced from a mixture). throughout the production line (furnace-feeder-IS With the installation on the furnace of a real-time machine) contribute to the regulation of production in calorific value regulation system, combustion is real time. This approach makes it possible to stabilize continuously optimized. The furnaces are therefore less production, quality and energy consumption. After the In Italy, investments of around €1.5 million, energy consuming and more environmentally friendly. pilot test in 2018, Verallia is continuing the deployment. improved the processing of household glass This solution has been deployed in all 7 French plants. in the two Ecoglass centres in Lonigo and Dego. It is under study at other sites. At the Lonigo site, the sorting machine has been modernised to optimize the pre-treatment of raw cullet. A third production line has also been added. The quantity of cullet available for the Italian plants has been improved: about 25% more cullet. HYBRID FURNACE IN COLLABORATION WITH OTHER GLASS MANUFACTURERS (EUROPE) The cullet is also of better quality. At the Dego site, the renovation of the shredder has enabled to Verallia teamed up with the other FEVE member glassmakers to develop a new furnace that meets the European Commission's optimize the production of glass sand and improve target for reducing CO2 emissions: 80% between 1990 and 2050. This new furnace would operate on electric energy (between the site's environmental and industrial performance 20 and 80%). (in terms of productivity and cullet quality). Lonigo 15 16 ECO-CONCEPTION RAISING AWARENESS FOR RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS OF RECYCLING In the food and beverage sector, glass packaging is essential: it ensures packaging, quality, safety The glass collected is infinitely recycled into new food packaging, bottles and jars. Raising awareness and conveys product identity. To reduce their carbon footprint, Verallia is working to reduce the weight of recycling among its customers and end users is therefore a priority for Verallia, with a twofold objective: of its bottles and jars, while maintaining a value-added appearance. increase the quantity of glass collected and improve its quality to optimize its integration into production. DEVELOPMENT OF ECOVA: CONTRIBUTION TO INCREASING RAISING AWARENESS ECO FOR ECO-CONCEPTION AND VA FOR VALUE ADDED PRODUCT THE AMOUNT OF GLASS COLLECTED ON THE WASTE SORTING (FRANCE) Lightened and developed to maximize the number of items per pallet, ECOVA brand products have an optimized WORLDWIDE environmental footprint. On average, they reduce CO2 emissions from production and transport by 15%. In 2018, In France, Verallia makes the most of all events Verallia works in partnership with glass associations (trade fairs, inauguration, customer events, design the ECOVA range continued to expand internationally. Since its launch in 2009, nearly 19 billion products have been (FEVE, European Federation of European Glassmakers, students, etc.) to promote the sorting process sold (13% of Verallia's sales in 2018) ABIVIDRO in South America, especially in Brazil), local and recruit new recycling ambassadors. authorities and glass collecting organisations (CITEO in France, ECOVIDRIO in Spain...). In the absence of a In Italy, eco-designed products are In Chile, under the name EGO In Spain, Verallia was recognized collection system, such as in Chile or Argentina, Verallia experiencing very strong growth: (Enhanced Geometric Objects), by its customer Torres for its acts in its own name. + 209% between the launch the models meet a demand for commitment to sustainable in 2009 and 2018. premium eco-designed packaging. development and its investments In Europe, it is mainly through the actions of FEVE that The optical effect of the push-up in improving the energy efficiency the Group carries out its awareness-raising actions (very deep: 61mm) maintains of its glassmaking plants. Verallia with the general public. In 2018, the international the impression of high-end bottle supported this vineyard in its CSR communication campaign Friends of Glass , focused on weight and preciousness, while approach by offering eco-designed protecting the oceans, had more than 5.8 million views the EGO bottles are on average bottles that are 16% lighter on social networks. 20% lighter. on average. On the transport side, production was carried out in the In Italy, several events relayed this campaign throughout factories closest to the vineyards, the summer: sea and beach clean-up operations, which resulted in a gain distribution of 2,000 logotype glass bottles to protect of 136,000km, or the equivalent the seas and oceans. The aim was to encourage of 133 tons of CO2. The customer consumers to change their behaviour and raise their now reports a figure of -15.6% CO2 awareness of environmental protection, in particular per bottle. by opting for glass packaging with zero impact on the marine ecosystem. In Spain, after being adapted, the video totalled more than 6 million views on social networks, and operations RAISING AWARENESS ON THE ROAD ECOVA meets all markets, also increased on the beaches to raise consumer (SPAIN) awareness of a healthier and more environmentallyhere still and sparkling wines Italy friendly lifestyle. In Spain, Verallia bottle and jar transport trucks display messages promoting glass and recycling. EGO range Chile 17 18 OPTIMIZING WATER USE IMPROVEMENT OF THE INDUSTRIAL AND REDUCING WASTE ENVIRONMENT BY REHABILITATING A LAGOON (ARGENTINA) In front of the Argentine factory, in agreement with the municipality of Mendoza, Verallia rehabilitated a lagoon located near the raw materials unloading area. This tree barrier reduces the noise impact of operations on raw materials. By creating a green lung, it also improves air quality WATER WASTE VERALLIA RECOVERS WASTE To cool the cullet or equipment and thus save Verallia glassmaking plants produce little waste. RELATED TO ITS ACTIVITY (FRANCE) water resource, Verallia's water circuits operate Verallia ensures either to limit this as much in a semi-closed loop. as possible, or to treat waste or reintegrate it into Verallia delivers its bottles on pallets, often the internal circuit. packed with PP (cellular polypropylene) sheets. The first item of water consumption is the cooling In 2018, pallets delivered abroad were recovered, of production waste. If part of the production does Waste from production sites results (in descending representing nearly 500,000 PP sheets. The sheets not have the expected level of quality, the glass order): could thus be recycled without any additional considered as waste is cooled to be transported logistical impact. and then recycled in the furnace. The cooling water is cleaned of oil and particle residues and reused • Purification of flue gases (mainly recycled in furnaces), to cool new production waste. Cooling water from equipment (compressors, • Treatment of water recycled in furnaces or sent WASTE REDUCTION AT SOURCE BIODIESEL TRAIN (GERMANY) to landfill, for example) is the second most important item of water consumption. These circuits operate (GERMANY, ITALY) In February 2018, after more than a year in closed loops thanks to air cooling towers. • Reconstruction of refractory furnaces (one-off The cooling of production scrap (internal cullet) of interruption, the supply of raw materials by train waste managed by specialized companies, then to the Bad Wurzach and Neuburg plants resumed partially recycled), produces dirty water. Cullet treatment sludge at the rate of one train per week, i.e. a decrease Other occasional water uses are intended is extracted from the treatment of this water. of 34 trucks/week compared to the previous year. for the reconstruction of furnaces. In Germany, the Neuburg plant has set up • Soiled packaging and cloths, recycled packaging a filtration system for this sludge, which makes it The train runs 100% on biodiesel, which results in a 70% reduction in the carbon footprint compared waste or other mixed industrial waste. possible to extract the liquid part of it. This process Verallia's water standard provides golden rules to a traditional diesel train. applicable in the sites to preserve resources: has two advantages: the possibility of recycling In 2018, a new indicator was created to encourage an additional volume of water (i.e. a water saving of reduction and recycling actions: kg of non-recycled 6,800 m3 per year) and the reduction of the sludge • Preventive and/or corrective actions to comply waste per ton of good glass (tgg). to be eliminated. with locally defined limits in terms of water Following Neuburg, the Essen site automated this volumes and pollutants discharged process. In Italy, Verallia goes further by using residual materials • Storage and transport of safe chemicals from the water treatment process in the furnaces to reduce the risk of pollution: labelled themselves. A large part of this production sludge containers, empty holding tanks, anti-pollution is composed of glass and combustible organic elements, kits in high-risk areas… so this process is industrially relevant. However, it requires an appropriate control of the furnaces. Residue can thus be at the origin of new bottle production. In 2018, the volume of waste was reduced by 10%. For three plants (Gazzo Veroneze, Villa Poma, Lonigo), this recycling is equivalent to reintroducing 450 tons of glass. REDUCTION OF WATER CONSUMPTION FOR THE MONDEGO PLANT (PORTUGAL) Between 2017 and 2018, the Mondego plant reduced its water consumption by 20%. From an industrial point of view, this result is mainly due to the optimization of the water flow in the pipes transporting production waste to the recycling circuit (the basement) and to the improved operation and maintenance of the air cooling towers. 19 20 Carbon Tristan Vincent We have built the program offsetting Lecomte President Rabaron Director France, with Verallia around two distinct lines of action: a climate program and of PUR Projet PUR Projet a program for the environment integration of production sites. In 2019, Verallia has embarked on a voluntary carbon offsetting “ HOW DID PUR PROJET COME INTO BEING AND WHAT IS ITS ACTION? Creating the Alter Eco fair trade brand in supermarkets “ HOW WAS THE PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN PUR PROJET AND VERALLIA SET UP? Verallia contacted us in December 2018, and together initiative. The reduction of CO2 gave me a good knowledge of the production sectors in tropical areas. This experience made me want to we identified 3 issues that illustrate our insetting approach, creating value for all stakeholders: (greenhouse gas) emissions, a Group work directly with producers to help them effectively initiating a climate impact management program, fight climate change affecting them. That's how, in preserving and strengthening CSR positioning with priority, will be accompanied Peru, I began to propose to them to plant trees to employees and customers and sharing the value by a long-term compensation increase the fertility of their land. This is how PUR created by Verallia beyond its own economic sphere. Projet came into being, a social enterprise whose Glass poses a real challenge: it is a healthy material, program. This project contributes aim is to reconcile man and nature through the infinitely recyclable without loss of value, aesthetic, to Verallia's ambition to do more involvement of companies in reforestation projects. but whose manufacture today involves a high carbon footprint. A stimulating and exciting context for us. and more to fight climate change. WHY REFORESTATION? WHAT PROGRAM DID YOU PROPOSE Combating deforestation means combating TO VERALLIA? agricultural practices that degrade natural ecosystems. The tree, a true vacuum cleaner We have built the program with Verallia around of man-made damage, is therefore its best ally: two distinct lines of action: a climate program it fertilizes the soil, contributes to crop diversification and a program for the environmental integration of and animal welfare, stores carbon, promotes production sites. The climate program includes biodiversity and protects against bad weather. the operation of community agroforestry projects More than 10 million trees have been planted (Peru, Honduras, Colombia, Brazil), restoring and today thanks to PUR Projet. preserving valuable ecosystems while creating local economic value, as well as partnership projects HOW CAN COMPANIES CONTRIBUTE between Verallia and its customers. Deployed over TO PRESERVING THE PLANET'S ECOSYSTEM? a first 5-year period, this program will offset 1% of Verallia's CO2 emissions each year and plant more Thanks to insetting. Based on the networks than 100,000 trees per year. of producers with whom we work, mainly in Asia The second program aims to integrate the sites and South America, insetting consists in offering into their environment and territory (reforestation, companies the opportunity to engage in sociomarket gardening, support for producers, support for The tree is man’s best ally economic and environmental projects integrated local initiatives, etc.); an approach with strong local into these sectors and to build shared investment impacts supported by the local teams at each site. opportunities with them. These projects all contribute to the same objective: to rebalance agriculture HOW DID YOU COME UP and nature. Through insetting, companies secure WITH THIS MULTISOLUTION APPROACH? their supply chains, reduce their environmental footprint, conserve their resources, strengthen internal It is first of all a story about people; the co-construction adherence to their values, add value to their products approach very quickly became a reality between and involve their stakeholders. PUR Projet helps them Laëtitia Fabre, Denis Michel and Michel Giannuzzi to meet all these challenges of responsibility towards on the side of Verallia and Aurélie Moy and myself ” the ecosystem on which they depend. at PUR Projet. The idea was to provide each other with mutual support and build these two programs together. Aurélie and I greatly appreciated their willingness to move forward in a coherent and fast way: in January, the program was completed! With, from the outset, a significant budget, ambitious objectives and a long-term vision. We are very excited ” to embark with Verallia on this adventure. 21 22 Ensure employee safety, our priority For the Verallia group, protecting the safety and health of its employees and subcontractors working on the sites is a priority and an essential part of its success. Another objective is to increase the skills of employees: each year, the training courses offered are renewed, completed and adapted to the needs of each individual. STRENGTHENING Clémentine Lannes, OUR SAFETY POLICY ACT FOR Verallia EHS Manager In 2018, the guide for reporting work accidents was revised in order to standardize accounting and reporting in all countries and to take into THE SAFETY account accidents that had not previously been recorded. The Group’s aim is to further strengthen its safety policy AND DEVELOPMENT 2.7 OF OUR TEAMS TF2 2018 (PREVIOUS RECORDING) = ACCIDENTS* TF2 2018 (NEW 4.8 Our safety culture RECORDING) = ACCIDENTS* is part of our civic culture TF2 2015-2020 TARGET: RESULT ACHIEVED -33 % BETWEEN 2015 AND 2018: -22 % “ In conjunction with regional EHS managers, and under the leadership Industrial Director, in 2018 we made our EHS standards more operational. ACCIDENTS* TARGET 2015-2020 RESULT 2018 We have also supported the development of a safety culture by sharing experience and making a film on the need to take action -33% -22% to protect our colleagues. In 2019, we will support the application SDG 8 of the new standards in the field. Promote sustained, inclusive Like the environment, the safety and sustainable economic and health of our employees are growth, full and productive of TF2* versus 2015 fundamental values. A responsible employment and decent work company protects its employees. More for all. than a legal requirement, it is a moral ” obligation. * TF2 = Accidents without lost-time. 24 * Number of accidents per million hours worked HEALTH & SAFETY AN EHS DAY (WORLDWIDE) In October 2018, all Verallia sites organized an EHS day: Respect for people, laws and the environment is one of the Group's 4 values. exchanges, first aid training, quizzes, communication campaigns, cooking classes 0n waste... The film Making safety a constant concern for all its employees, so that they protect themselves Intervening is vital for safety was shown (duty to act and their colleagues, is one of Verallia's priority objectives. for the protection of colleagues and subcontractors). The Group supports each man and woman working on its sites by providing them with all the information and tools necessary for their protection. Brasil AN EHS POLICY AIMED AT ZERO ACCIDENT Updated in 2018, the EHS policy (Environment, Industrial HygieneSECURING A LOADING RAMP 1. UPSTREAM 2. DOWNSTREAM Health, Safety) targets zero accident, based on compliance with (GERMANY) rules, commitment and dialogue. As part of the Group's industrial excellence program, this policy concerns all people working on The analysis The analysis of root Following the fall of a forklift truck on an access ramp the sites (Verallia employees, temporary workers, subcontractors). of health and safety causes and communication for finished goods – due to black ice – in the Essen plant, The health and safety approach is based on two elements: risks on all our sites, with the sites, after each robust barriers with dedicated openings were installed accident, with and without to secure the areas where the forklifts operate and traffic lost-time. flows were redesigned. The risk has been divided by 6. (Calculated according to the risk assessment system.) Each Verallia’s employee is committed to respect CARDINAL RULES TO SAVE LIVES: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH PROGRAMS (ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, FRANCE, GERMANY, INDIA, PORTUGAL) Gymnastic sessions, stretching, yoga, healthy cooking combine moments of exchange and physical improvement (reduction of pain, fatigue and stress). RULE N°1 RULE N°2 RULE N°3 RULE N°4 Verallia’s purchasing office, India Do not disable or render Always wear suitable Apply the LoTo (Log out Do not misuse ineffective the safety PPE (personal protective Tag out) procedure for all equipment or tools devices equipment) interventions, which ensures that equipment is shut down, isolated from any SAFETY RISK AWARENESS energy source, purged and locked before an employee CAMPAIGN (SPAIN) can intervene In Spain, the teams at the Azuqueca plant have devised a Bad Lottery system inspired by the popular lottery in Spain: any risky behaviour gives rise to the award of a lottery ticket illustrating the consequences of the accident it causes. THE 20 STANDARDS EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT The protection of all those present on the sites also Through awareness campaigns and challenges, sites requires the application of the 20 health and safety encourage their employees to ensure their own safety standards, specific Group requirements which were and that of their colleagues by reporting each unsafe updated in 2018 with a view to making them more situation and intervening in the event of a situation operational. For example, work permits, pedestrian or behavior deemed to be hazardous. The number A SAFETY MORNING and vehicle traffic (forklifts) and the increase in unsafe of reported risky situations per employee per month FOR BILLECART-SALMON (FRANCE) situations are governed by these standards. increased from 19% to 28% between 2017 and 2018. Finally, the safety issue is also reflected in the employee At the request of the teams at Champagne Billecartprofit-sharing and variable compensation policy (part Salmon, the EHS department at the Oiry plant organized These new standards also improve the protection of a morning of awareness raising on the EHS approach subcontractors by requiring risk assessment, preventive of which is directly linked to the Group's safety results). and the good practices of the glass plant, which were measures for each of their activities, mandatory controls considered inspiring. and increased awareness of these workers. 25 26 DEVELOPMENT OF OUR TEAMS Along with safety, skills development is another prerequisite for success. Verallia's training offer places employees at the heart of their learning and development path. GROWING TALENTS These training programs can be personalized, individual and collective. An online training platform completes this system. Particular attention is paid to talents to whom a career path The international talent selection and support “This training was a great opportunity to expand program is divided into two parts: Meet Verallia my Verallia network, to better understand the Group's is specifically dedicated. In 2018, Verallia's employees received 300,000 hours of training. designed for new managers and Business Leaders strategy and my contribution to it while developing for more experienced employees. 56 people were my management skills and leadership” commented trained in 2018. one of the participants on the Business Leaders course in 2018. FOCUS ON INDUSTRIAL DIGITAL JOURNEYS EXCELLENCE Univera, Verallia's e-learning Verallia supports the deployment of its platform, provides employees Verallia Industrial Management (VIM) with online training on continuous improvement program, technical and cross-cutting combining training actions (problem topics such as Group values, solving, project management, etc.) compliance, leadership, cash with individualized coaching. management and purchasing. In 2018, the 1,500 registered employees received nearly 2,000 hours of training. OUR VALUES Juan Iriarte HRD Spain and Portugal “In Iberia, we are actively working to engage our employees, relying AS A REFERENCE in particular on training to POINT help us meet the demands and In 2018, Verallia rolled challenges of the future. Following out a program to explain the Corporate guidelines, we are and promote the Group’s 4 values (see p.6 ). Built moving from a traditional training around a digital path and system to a form of collaborative a one-day workshop, this learning (focus on leadership) program promotes the appropriation of values where everyone is responsible for by teams and anchors his/her own development. Some them in the company's good local examples include the culture. different customized Coaching programs introduced on our Iberian sites to meet the teams' needs and context. ” 27 28 Act positively on the ecosystem of our sites One of Verallia's four values is respect for people, laws and the environment . Most of the production sites are located in the heart of the wine-growing regions. Beyond their economic contribution to the local economy, they are involved in various actions that contribute to the development of communities. These actions take various forms: public awareness of the properties of glass and its recycling, donations, solidarity campaigns, factory visits, campaigns to pass on the passion for glass to younger generations. CONTRIBUTE “ In Latin America, the Group is well integrated and appreciated by communities for its responsible Patricia Rocha, commitment and its economic and social impacts SOUTH AMERICA CSR MANAGER in the region. TO THE DEVELOPMENT To support communities, all sites in Argentina, Brazil and in Chile are in constant dialogue with public agencies and NGOs. On the environmental side, the sites rely on social OF COMMUNITIES networks to initiate actions and partnerships to improve their environmental impact and promote the recycling of glass packaging. Glass is a healthy and sustainable material. By promoting glass, our local team members are true ambassadors for a healthier and more responsible lifestyle. On the societal level, Verallia's employees are very committed, both professionally and personally. They make in-kind donations and devote their time to this commitment. They do not hesitate to use Verallia contibutes their skills to help children and families in need. Latin American employees are committed to the daily life and to the Group's values: Respect for people, laws and the environment . We are all proud of this spirit development of mutual support, as well as the many initiatives taken by the Group and its employees. All of them participate in the life and development of communities around ” of the communities that evolve around Verallia. its sites OBJECTIVES SGD 17 Strengthen the means of implementation Continue the commitment Ensure the best integration and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable to communities of sites into the local environment development 30 RAISING AWARENESS OF POPULATIONS In South AND SOLIDARITY America FOOD COLLECTION Since 2009, various subsidiaries of the Verallia group have organized AT COMPO BOM an annual design competition: the Verallia Design Awards In Brazil, in 2018, the Campo (VDA). In 2018, this competition took place in 6 countries: France, Bom plant, in collaboration with the prefecture, conducted a food Germany, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Ukraine. collection campaign that collected more than 85kg of food. Based on a theme, students and young graduates of art and design schools created innovative glass packaging. Verallia's teams accompanied the candidates in their discovery of the material and its industrial requirements. Green goes glass was the theme of the 9th edition of the French VDA, which invited students to imagine a glass packaging that illustrates the ecological virtues of the material, while enhancing its content. VOLUNTEERING The competition brought together 136 schools and more than 370 projects. In Argentina, in 2018, 22 volunteers from Verallia helped the Food Bank of Mendoza to sort and distribute food. Books and educational kits for children were also distributed. ORGANIZING GLASS COLLECTION AROUND ROSARIO SITE In Chile, in the absence of a household glass recovery system, in 2015, Verallia launched its first collection campaign in partnership with cities near the Rosario plant. The volume of cullet collected increased from 477 tons PROGRAM OF GLASS in the first year to 5,589 tons in 2018, COLLECTING through the creation of 70 collection In Argentina, Verallia has set points. In collaboration with local up a household glass recovery authorities, Verallia is working program called Vidrio, una acción to increase these collection points. RAISING AWARENESS AMONG transparente *. Via 35 containers For the past four years, Verallia, THE YOUNGER GENERATIONS spread throughout the Mendoza an active member of the National SOLIDARITY RECYCLING Association of the Recycling Industry In Argentina, every year, the Mendoza metropolitan area, Verallia collects (Asociacion Nacional de la Industria In Argentina, Verallia teams at plant welcomes schoolchildren and high glass packaging from private del Reciclaje), has been supporting Mendoza, launched the Zero Waste school pupils to raise their awareness of individuals and recycles it in its various promotional actions: raising in Our Factory initiative. The paper the properties of glass and the importance furnaces. The amount of glass collected awareness of recycling, consulting used in the factory is collected and of recycling. They learn about both is then donated to the Humberto Notti the authorities at different levels, sold for recycling. The funds collected the quantity and quality of the glass Pediatric Hospital Foundation. In 2018, visits to the Verallia plant. are entirely donated to a scholarshipcollected. Since 2016, 2,500 young glass this program collected 78,000 kg of funding organization (FONBEC) ambassadors have been trained. cullet, representing a donation of 125,000 Argentine pesos. 31 32 * Glass, a transparent action. RAISING AWARENESS OF POPULATIONS AND SOLIDARITY COLLABORATION WITH UNICEF ORGANIZATION OF “GLASS SCHOOLS” INTERVENTIONS In Germany, in 2018, Verallia provided €60,000 for social In Germany, Verallia organizes glass schools every year IN SAVONE’S PRIMARY and charitable programs, education and science projects and for students from three universities (Hochschule der Medien SCHOOLS In Europe support for local associations. €25,000 was donated to UNICEF to finance projects to provide drinking water to the poorest populations. Stuttgart, Beuth University of Applied Sciences Berlin, Geisenheim University). Theoretical and practical courses on glass techniques and design are accompanied by factory visits. In 2018, this program brought together 80 students. In Italy, since 2010, Verallia has raised awareness among more than 3,000 schoolchildren, teachers and parents about the virtues of glass and the importance of recycling it. The 9th edition of this campaign was organised in spring 2018 by the Dego and Carcare plants. The customer Molecola joined in this day and presented its 100% Italian soda bottle, designed by Verallia. RECYCLING OPERATION AT EACH RETURN TO SCHOOL In Portugal, at the beginning of each school year, Verallia organizes an operation to teach children how bottles and jars are made and to make them aware of recycling. Following these interventions, young people are invited to promote these essential actions to their families. 500 educational kits were distributed at the beginning of the 2018 school year. RENOVATION AN AWARD FOR “IL BARACHIN” PROJECT OF INFRASTRUCTURES THE FACTORY OF ZARAGOZA AT THE TERRA MADRE FAIR AND PLANTING OF TREES Audited in 2018, the Zaragoza plant In Italy, “Il Barachin” project refers In Spain, volunteers from received the 2019 RSA+ Award, the highest to the Barachin, the container workers the Zaragoza plant have joined recognition of social responsibility in the from the Piedmont area used to carry forces with the Adecco Foundation Aragon region. The prize rewards the their lunch to work in. At Terra Madre to participate in actions in favour plant's actions in three areas: corporate (salone del gusto), the Barachin has of schools for disabled children: volunteering (the participation of made the journey in reverse: from renovation of infrastructure employees in various projects, such as the event locations to the homes and tree planting. school restoration or tree planting), respect of those unable to participate. 5,000 and defense of the diversity of employees Verallia glass jars filled with good SOLIDARITY HARVEST OLIVE TREES ON MONTBLANC SITE In 2018, the buildings of the Alborada and environmental innovation (the healthy food were given to families IN CATALONIA When the Group acquired the Montblanc plant Special Education College were also partnership between the plant and future in need. Because good, clean, fair In Spain, Verallia is a sponsor in Catalonia, it kept the 200 olive trees on site. renovated by volunteers from Verallia, engineers from the University of Zaragoza and healthy food is a right for all, of the solidarity harvest of the Montblanc Trees create a pleasant working environment. The olives along with disabled high school on projects to improve energy efficiency, and glass is a great way of and Rioja vineyards, which traditionally harvested are transformed into oil and distributed students. Other Spanish teams shared reduce environmental impact and promote promoting it. contribute to the fight against poverty and to the factory's employees. This successful interaction a sports and fun day with the children. recycling). exclusion in Catalonia. Verallia supports them financially between industrial buildings and nature is appreciated and donates more than 3,000 bottles every year. by employees, customers and residents. 33 34 APPENDICES Social indicators Environmental indicators 2018 2017 2016 2015 Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 Unit EMPLOYMENT GENERAL ENVIRONMENT POLICY Total number of employees 9,720 9,880 9,806 9,890 number POLLUTION AND WASTE MANAGEMENT Percentage of managers in the total workforce 9 9 9 9 % SO2 emissions 5,998 5,608 7,315 6,836 tons Percentage of women in management positions 29 28 27 27 % NOx emissions 8,608 7,821 9,523 8,825 tons NO 2eq Age pyramid numbers by age group : Dust emissions 364 332 365 427 tons under 26 years of age (as a % of the total workforce) 6,3 4,6 4 NA % Number of major environmental accidents 2 4 3 1 value 26 to 55 years old (as a % of the total workforce) 77,3 79,9 80 NA % Total water discharges 2,253,081 2,150,502 2,096,955 1,888,983 m3 over 55 years of age (as a % of the total workforce) 16,5 15.5 16 NA % Quantity of waste produced 53,078 66,864 65,525 59,739 tons WORK ORGANIZATION Recycled waste rate 51 69 64 66 % Absenteeism rate 4 3,6 ND ND % SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES HEALTH AND SAFETY Total water extractions 3,316,500 3,241,798 3,394,201 3,397,812 m3 number of Consumption of primary raw materials accidents (other than water, energy, scrap metal, cullet 3,798,065 3,591,137 3,805,205 4,016,297 tons Reported accident frequency rate (TF2) and glass) 2,7 2,8 3,9 3,4 per million employees and temporary workers hours Consumption of raw materials from recycling worked 2,754,737 2,759,441 2,710,583 2,650,924 tons (other than water and energy) Percentage of employees reporting at least Total energy consumption 28 19 18 17 % 10,993,730 11,057,098 11,009,049 11,028,501 MWh one high-risk situation per month TRAINING CLIMATE CHANGE Percentage of payroll devoted to training 1 1 2,0 2,2 % Direct CO2 emissions 2,548,698 2,532,736 2,605,144 2,541,509 tons Total number of hours devoted to training 300,000 280,000 246,179 ND number Indirect GHG emissions 442,322 557,376 553,923 548,211 tons eq CO2 (electricity, steam, hot water purchases) EQUAL TREATMENT Percentage of woman among executive recruitements 35,5 31,4 30 27,2 % PROMOTION AND COMPLIANCE WITH ILO PROVISIONS AND CONVENTIONS Number of incidents concerning union freedom 0 0 0 0 value Number of incidents concerning discrimination 0 0 0 0 value Number of incidents concerning forced labour 0 0 0 0 value Number of incidents concerning child labour 0 0 0 0 value 35 36 GLOBAL COMPACT CONCORDANCE TABLE THE 10 PRINCIPlES of Global Compact United Nations HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights VERALLIA, A COMMITTED COMPANY . . . . pages 6-7 Principle 2 COMPLIANCE AND CODE OF CONDUCT . . . page 9 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour COMPLIANCE AND CODE OF CONDUCT . . . page 9 Verallia would like to thank all company CHAPTER 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . pages 24 to 29 Principle 5 employees who contributed to the production The effective abolition of child labour of this Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 edition as well as its partners and customers Principle 6 for their kind permission to publish. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Publication director: Laëtitia Fabre Editorial staff: Marie-Pierre Contrel, Laëtitia Principle 7 Fabre, Clémentine Lannes, Marie Segondat Businesses should support a precautionary approach Photos: © Verallia, Ph. Franck Dunouau 2017, to environmental challenges 2018 and 2019. All rights reserved. p.13 © Getty Images 79572324 / Cover, p.21,22 Principle 8 VERALLIA, AN INTERNATIONAL PLAYER . . . . page 4 ©Christian Lamontagne, PUR Projet Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility CHAPTER 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . pages 14 to 23 Design, production: Sidièse, Verallia. Principle 9 English version: STONOR EUROPE Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally All rights reserved. Any reproduction prohibited. friendly technologies © Verallia – March 2019 ANTI-CORRUPTION Excessive alcohol consumption can harm Principle 10 VERALLIA, A COMMITTED COMPANY . . . . pages 6-7 your health. Consume in moderation. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Verallia supports its customers’ campaigns including extortion and bribery COMPLIANCE AND CODE OF CONDUCT . . . page 9 to promote sensible drinking. 37 Verallia @verallianews Verallia, Forever Glass VeralliaNews Verallia Packaging Headquarters Tour Carpe Diem Place des Corolles 92400 Courbevoie France Tél. +33 (0)1 71 13 11 00 www.verallia.com
