Improving step by step II How Sivantos takes responsibility as a Global Compact signatory 24.05.2018 23.05.2019 The UN Global Compact’s basic concept The UN Global Compact (UNGC) provides a company with a value system and a principlesbased approach to doing business. This means meeting fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact are derived from The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Our actions are guided by all these principles. Plus, as of February 1, 2019 Sivantos has an updated anti-money laundering policy to prevent all types of money laundering and/or terrorist financing activities. In line with our Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Policy: Styletto Connect. Thank you so very much We wish to thank all those who contributed to this Communication on Progress: Ananda Naude, Andrea Chapple, Toshikazu Shioji, Mark Laben, Christina Diering-Lockhausen, Vijayan Warrior, Adam Mandelbaum, Dave Biddiscombe, Joerg Pahlen, Yaping Xu, Cristina Regalia, Gisele Munhoes Dos Santos, Christiane Timmermann, Lim Summer, Patrick Lau, Ralf Soldner, Oliver Ninkovic, Ragini Chaurasia, Tina Meier, Luisa Schuster, Maria Bertling, Eileen Liu, Alves Cristiane, Ping Zhu, Kiran N, Martin Boldt, Tais Guimaraes, Priya Madan Mohan, Xiang Peng, Kyra Walenga, Marek Wójcik, Dawn Perry, Lise Carlsen. 2 Dear Partners, Customers, and Employees, Lynge, May 2019 I t gives me great pleasure to introduce this Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact report for Sivantos for the first time. And I am already looking forward to writing the introduction for the first report for WS Audiology A/S, which will continue the great work you can read about in this report. As you know, 2019 has been a milestone for I am delighted to present you with the impact us: On March 1st, 2019, Widex and Sivantos we made this past year regarding the Susmerged to become WS Audiology A/S. tainable Development Goals we chose to purTogether, we have created a global hearing sue—3, 4, 12 and, thanks to Widex, 7. aid leader with combined revenues of more than EUR 1.7 billion. The new company We’ve decided to cover some exemplary employs over 10,000 people worldwide, Widex stories in this issue of the Communiwith a presence in more than 125 markets. cation on Progress. However, the table at the end is strictly Sivantos-focused to highlight However, our core principles remain the the progress made in the past 12 months. same. We’ve continued our path to combine innovation and sustainability. We respect Next year will be the start of a new chapter. human rights, labor rights, environmental I look forward to presenting our combined and anti-corruption aspects of our work, and, efforts as WS Audiology A/S. we’re determined to use the new company’s unique knowledge to contribute to the Sincerely yours, Global Compact’s goal of making this world a better place. There is no doubt that the core of our industry is improving people’s quality of life. So, it’s no wonder that you’ll find plenty of local examples where our employees have helped beyond their job, simply because that’s who they are. Just like Sivantos, Widex entities have an impressive record of supporting local communities, another reason why this is a good match. In addition, Widex adds a true environmental focus with one of our WS Audiology headquarters in Lynge, Jørgen Jensen Denmark, home to our very own windmill. President and CEO WS Audiology A/S 3 We Choose Responsibility C An opportunity for orporate Social Responsibility (CSR) means that we recognize the impacts our activities have on our society, and act accordingly. We see this as an us to engage with our opportunity for us to engage with our internal and external stakeholders on a internal and external new level. stakeholders on a In 2015, the United Nations adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set to be new level. implemented by 2030. They characterize the sustainability debate at national and international levels. As a global goals system, the SDGs provide a common language and compass for the challenges of the 21st century. We are happy to support them wherever possible. From raising funds for global health issues and a university sponsorship program in Singapore, to utilizing clean and renewable energy sources in Denmark, the level of engagement has been driven by employees. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we are currently focusing on four SDGs: • SDG 3 – Good Health and Well-Being • SDG 4 – Quality Education • SDG 7 – Affordable and Clean Energy • SDG 12 – Responsible Consumption and Production Our journey is presented here. 4 Outlook into 2019/20: SDG 7 – Affordable and Clean Energy Heat from the Earth and Power from the Wind T he UN insists that energy is central to nearly every major challenge and opportunity the world faces today. Be it related to jobs, security, climate change, food production or increasing incomes, access to energy for all is essential. Our new headquarters in Lynge is leading the way in contributing to this goal. Take a look! opened in 2010 CO2 -neutral solution 100 -meter wind turbine saving 70% 3.4 in CO2 emissions million kWh per year* groundwater-based 20,000 cooling & heating system solar cells distributed daylight-driven building’s lighting 14 charging stations for electric cars *on average 5 Long-Term Engagement, Example 1: Europe Sivantos France: Providing Hearing Aids and Financial Support S ince 2011, Sivantos France has been Director Solange Gonçalves care deeply one of Audition Solidarité’s benefacabout Audition Solidarité; Gonçalves even tors. For years, Sivantos has managed takes part in the missions herself if needed. to help and support them in their actions. Audition Solidarité is a humanitarian In 2018, Audition Solidarité went to Ait Melassociation which operates in three specific loul, Morocco, where 195 children needed areas internationally: audiological help, and to Madagascar where 162 children were also in need. Their mis• Hearing aids for disadvantaged adults and sion was to appropriately equip the new puchildren in France and all over the world pils, adjust the hearing aids that were given throughout previous visits, and strengthen • Recycling of hearing aids in a unique teachers’ knowledge and skills to ensure the workshop in France schools’ autonomy. • Hearing loss prevention for musicians Audition Solidarité is also engaged in two humanitarian missions in Paris and two in Sivantos France gives financial support to the Marseille for disadvantaged people with association every year so they can continue hearing loss, helping over 245 patients in their work in schools for the deaf and hard of total. These types of missions are typically hearing in Morocco, Tunisia, Guinea, Vietnam, staffed with a medical team of audiologists Madagascar, Cameroon and Burkina and hearing aid manufacturers, lasting for Faso. CEO Pascal Boulud and Marketing two or three days at a specific location. Sivantos employee Solange Gonçalves (l.) and the co-founder of Audition Solidarité. 6 Helping in Agadir 2018. Audition Solidarité provides audiological support for children in need. Sivantos France gave unused hearing aids to Last, but not least and already since 2008, Audition Solidarité which also owns a unique Audition Solidarité has brought awareness to recycling workshop. With 2 technicians help50,000 musicians about taking care of their ing out, more than 3,000 hearing aids are reears to avoid early hearing problems. cycled per year. Microphones, loudspeakers, electronic chips, and all components are tested to ensure that these hearing aids can be fitted to patients. The workshop operates independently thanks to its eco-friendly re“Sivantos France is cycling system. This year, two new audiologist-benefactors were integrated. They suppleased to support port the two technicians already working there to adjust the hearing aids and dispense Audition Solidarité.” them all over the world. Marketing Director Solange Gonçalves 7 Our Contribution to SDG 3 – Good Health and Well-Being Helping around the World Australia 28° 57’ 36” S 224° 28’ 22” W China 29° 57’ 18” N 249° 26’ 1” W The MS Brissie to the Bay is an anOn World Hearing Day, Sivantos nual cycling event to raise monChina donated around 7,500 USD ey for Multiple Sclerosis research, to the “Love Ears” concert put on treatment and awareness. This year, by the China Symphony Orchestra. Sivantos Australia participated Children with hearing loss also perwith a team of five. formed songs and poems to an audience of around 2,000 in celebration of the beauty of hearing. The annual event is organized by the China Rehabilitation Research Center for Hearing and Speech Impairment. See more about China’s engagement on page 12/13. Mission accomplished! Brazil 14° 49’ 2” S 47° 6’ 34” W Sivantos Brazil employees supported women undergoing cancer Celebrating the beauty of hearing. treatment by wearing pink and donating scarves to the ChemotherGermany 51° 2’ 29” N 350° 19’ 55” W apy and Beauty Institute 2018 Collection Campaign. Signia started to support the German Lions “Help for Little Ears” project, providing those in need Canada 53° 24’ 34” N 74° 0’ 14” W with 650 hearing aids in the first year. They are distributed to chariOur Sivantos Canada colleagues table aid organizations for suitable participated in the annual Enbridge projects with the hard of hearing. Ride to Conquer Cancer, a two-day On-site specialists fit the devices to cycling journey through the Canaeach patient individually. Support dian Rockies. Thousands of peofor this project is long term. ple ride over 200km (120mi) across Canada and Australia for the event. The riders from Sivantos contributed almost 3,700 USD and raised 12,600 USD for the charity. “Help for Little Ears” in Cambodia! Audio Service and Sivantos donated hearing aids to the noble Ready to ride! initiative “Hören ohne Grenzen” 8 (“Hearing without Borders”). The Japan 34° 56’ 24” N 224° 7’ 16” W program consists of a group of German audiologists who, in their free This year, Sivantos Japan kept up time, travel to different locations in its tradition of sponsoring hearUkraine, delivering and fitting hearing aids for the UN Refugee Agency ing aids to those in need. in Azerbaijan. In total, ten hearing aids and 120 batteries were donated through the Fuji Vision Aid MisIndia 21° 5’ 4” N 281° 25’ 33” W sion. The hearing aids, altogether valued at around 4,700 USD, were Nishad, a 31-year old from Kochi, intended for refugees, internally who has been deaf and unable to displaced persons and other vulnerspeak since birth, is well known for able people. his impersonations, especially those of famous Indian cricketers. He appeared on TV to perform a rouPoland 52° 18’ 30” N 341° 43’ 7” W tine when audiologists from Widex Dhwani Hearing Aid Center surWidex Poland employees participrised him with an on-air fitting of pated in two runs for charity—the hearing aids, and Nishad was able Wrocław Business Run and Bieg Firto hear the voices of his family for mowy. Reaching the finish line was the first time. Dhwani is also providespecially rewarding, as particiing Nishad with free servicing and pants achieved their personal goals free batteries for life and is helping and supported charities simultahim with speech therapy. neously. Italy 43° 9’ 54” N 347° 52’ 16” W Sivantos Italy participated in the 18th Milan Marathon. Guido, Simone, Angelo, and Davide ran record times to support the charity organiOff to the races! zation “Make a Wish”. It helps terminally ill children to make their Noble Gift is one of the largest, biggest wish come true. Their domost effective and well-known nations from the marathon (5,220 social programs in Poland. It imUSD) have supported e.g. 10-yearplements and develops a system old Valentina to meet her favorite of smart, personalized aid that is characters at Disneyland Paris. unique, providing goods and emotional support to people and families in need. This year, Widex employees provided aid in the form of Christmas gifts, including food, clothes, and household necessities to Mrs. Helena from Świebodzice. Italy making dreams come true. 9 Singapore 1° 17’ 47” N 256° 6’ 48” W Sivantos employee Priya Madan Mohan initiated the gifts-for-miThe Lunghi Run has become syngrant-workers drive. More than 100 onymous with Ali Akbar, a wellcolleagues in Singapore donated known colleague in the Sivantos 450 gifts, while the finance team Singapore office who passed away worked extra hours coordinating in August. Ali was a passionate runthe collection. ner who developed the idea of an event in which runners wear a lunghi, a traditional Indian garment, to help build a bridge between local Singaporeans and Indian migrant workers. Workers in Singapore receiving gifts. In April 2019, Sivantos Singapore is participating in Soles4Souls shoe drive. The initiative seeks to bring new and used shoes to people around the world who find it difficult to afford basic footwear. Bridging cultures through running. In November, over 100 Sivantos The Women4Women@Work employees and their family memprogram at Sivantos Singapore was bers completed a Walkathon to launched in March 2019. It’s about raise money for charity along Sinproviding a platform for women to gapore’s famous shopping belt. develop skills, get equal opportuThe annual event is held by the lonities, be empowered, and build cal Children Charities Association. self-confidence through mentoSivantos is the main sponsor of the ring, networking events, forums, event, contributing around 15,500 and more. USD to the cause. Walking to support charities for children. Inspired by “Itsrainingcoats”, a voluntary organization in Singapore, Empowering women at work! 10 South Africa 31° 35’ 50” S 338° 59’ 39” W According to the American Red Cross, someone in the USA needs Sivantos South Africa showed the blood every two seconds. Sivantos importance of employees’ hearUSA and Widex USA hosted sepaing health and awareness by ofrate blood drives in July 2018 and fering free screenings for all staff January 2019. Altogether, 28 peomembers. The screenings were alple participated in Sivantos’ event so a way to improve their overall carried out in a specially-equipped understanding of the specific field New York Blood Center truck. through firsthand experience. Meanwhile, Widex’s blood drive received a total of 38 donors. Each blood drive collected around 40 pints of blood, saving dozens of lives! As part of its ongoing commitment to help people communicate and connect, Widex USA has pledged to donate at least 20,000 A South Africa employee gets screened. USD to the Helen Keller National Center for Deaf-Blind Youth and Sivantos South Africa colleagues Adults (HKNC). For every pair of are tackling the cost of hearing aids WIDEX EVOKE hearing aids purby setting up a donation system so chased through January 31, 2019, that a person who needs a hearing Widex USA donated a portion of aid but cannot afford one can be the proceeds. HKNC provides comrecommended to an affiliated audiprehensive vocational and indepenologist. If all works out, this person dent living training to youths and receives a hearing aid and the coradults who are deaf-blind. responding follow-up services free of charge. In total, employees donated 66 hearing aids in 2018. UK 52° 59’ 18” N 1° 45’ 28” W Sivantos UK has been matching its USA 37° 5‘ 25“ N 95° 42‘ 46“ W employees’ charity donations since 2014. Together, they have raised Breast Cancer Awareness Month over 22,000 USD. In May 2018, two is marked in countries across the team members, Andrew and Lynworld every October and helps to da Feldmanis, took part in the half increase attention and support, marathon “Run Gatwick” to supearly detection, treatment and port St. Catherine’s Hospice. Both palliative care. Widex USA raised achieved personal best times and 5,000 USD with an event that inraised 250 USD which was matched cluded a raffle and bake sale. The by Sivantos UK to achieve a total of company doubled the amount 500 USD. raised to 10,000 USD that went to the Breast Cancer Research Foundation. 11 Long-Term Engagement, Example 2: Asia Sivantos China: Supporting Adults and Children with Hearing Loss C orporate Social Responsibility has With the newly developed brand Signia, been a pillar of Sivantos China since Sivantos China started a CSR initiative called its foundation in 1995. Just two years the “Signia Colorful Sound Program” in 2017. later, Sivantos started a close First, by distributing hearing aids donated by cooperation with the China Foundation for Sivantos China to adults with hearing loss livDisabled Persons (CFDP). The foundation ing in rural areas who are unable to afford carries out hundreds of charity programs per such devices. With the help of local partner year. So far, up to 2 million people with audiologists, about 733 units have been fitdisabilities have benefitted. ted free of charge. The program’s second area of focus strengthens language rehabilitation The second important organization that Sivand education for children with hearing loss antos China supports is the China Rehabilin different regions of China through itation Research Center for Deaf Children donations. From 2017 2018, Sivantos China (CRRCDC). In 2001, Sivantos China signed a donated 295,000 USD to help over 200 chil5-yearagreement with the CRRCDC for yeardren who come from families unable to afford ly donations of hearing aids to children with the costs of professional hearing and speech hearing loss in poor areas. As part of this rehabilitation training. plan, hearing care professionals from Sivantos travelled to remote areas of China to help local hard-of-hearing children on International Ear Care Day. Plenty of activities followed. The oldest recipient who benefited was over 100 years in age; the youngest, only 3. 12 The Signia Colorful Sound Program 2018 supported more than 200 children. “We strongly hope that more warm-hearted organizations and people will raise their hands to help the next 100 children enter the ‘Signia Colorful Sound’ classroom.” Vivian Zhu, Sivantos China Marketing Manager. 13 Our Contribution to SDG 4 – Quality Education Educating by Raising Awareness, Training Audiologists and Supporting Students Brazil 14° 49’ 2” S 47° 6’ 34” W In September, the Department of Speech and Hearing Therapy at the University of São Paolo organized the Walk of Silence, an annual event that aims to raise awareness on deafness and hearing loss. Sivantos Brazil helped advertise the event. One employee participated Participants at the Erlanger Colloquium along with two from Comunicare and ten audiologist partners. India 21° 5’ 4” N 281° 25’ 33” W Germany 51° 2’ 29” N 350° 19’ 55” W Millions of children in India are eager to attend school but are unable Audiologists can playfully gain to do so due to poverty and hunknowledge, regardless of time and ger. The Akshaya Patra foundation place, thanks to the first knowledge provides free lunches to schoolchilacquisition app for acousticians. dren all over India. In 2018, The app was launched by Sivantos India supported this projSivantos Germany as an effective ect by matching its previous year’s and fun way to convey information. donation of 15,500 USD, helping It provides real added value for usto feed more than 1,100 children in ers, since, with completed exams, need in the Bellary area. one can earn training points from the Federal Guild of Audiologists (biha). The Erlanger Colloquium for Audiological Research and Development takes place every year in February in Erlangen. It’s a high-caliber and inspiring science conference hosted by Sivantos that provides key opinion leaders as well as students with a unique opportunity to share knowledge, strengthen networks, and be inspired by the latest research. Enabling free meals for schoolchildren. 14 Poland 52° 18’ 30” N 341° 43’ 7” W During International Week of the Deaf, Widex Poland had the pleasure of hosting 20 schoolchildren to learn about hearing difficulties and hearing aids. Staff members demonstrated how deaf people communicate using sign language. They also observed the processes of manufacturing hearing aids using 3D Singing together on World Hearing Day. printers. USA 37° 5‘ 25“ N 95° 42‘ 46“ W Singapore 1° 17’ 47” N 256° 6’ 48” W The average person waits nearly Since October 2017, Sivantos Singaseven years from the onset of hearpore has outsourced assembly work ing loss until they seek help. To help to two trainees with intellectual distackle this problem, Sivantos US abilities from Hearts@Work, a projlaunched the new video series “It’s ect initiated by the Catholic Welfare Your Choice” that follows three inService in Singapore. Sivantos plans dividuals with hearing loss on their to hire the two as future employpath to better hearing. The series’ ees. Additionally, Suleiman is an emgoal is to encourage people to seek ployee with a physical disability who help and be proactive with their has worked in manufacturing for 30 hearing health. years at Sivantos and whose story was widely broadcasted on television in April. South Africa 31° 35’ 50” S 338° 59’ 39” W On World Hearing Day, employees at Sivantos South Africa met students at St. Vincent School for the Deaf in Johannesburg, to whom they donated hearing aids as part of the “Hear We Are Foundation” sponsorship project. Some students gave a signed performance of the song “You’ve got a friend in me.” 15 Our Contribution to SDG 12 – Responsible Consumption and Production Sustainability First Global On the product side as well, Sivantos and Widex have a long “Environment, Health and Safety” tradition of developing energy-ef(EH&S), in simple terms, is what orficient hearing aids, many of which ganizations do to make sure that are among the industry’s lowest no one is harmed by their activities. battery consumption rates. Users Efforts and policies to be responsave time and money when changsible with our global consumption ing fewer batteries, while also reand production are included in our ducing their environmental footcode of conduct and are constantly print. under review. This applies not only to environmental decisions for new Sivantos production sites have an buildings or those in production, ISO14001 certification, one of the but also to our recycling schemes most difficult international certifand alignment with new policies, icates for environmentally friendsuch as the European Union’s WEEE ly manufacturing to attain. In adDirective. dition, to make sure that medical devices are safe in every aspect, the In November 2017, Sivantos Group US Food and Drug Administration started a comprehensive improve(FDA) regularly inspects manufacment program. Thanks to this turers. Sivantos sites in Germany, “smart lean program”, our Europethe USA and Singapore all successan and Asian manufacturing cenfully passed the FDA audit inspecters go beyond the traditional mantion in 2018. ufacturing methods that were long common in the hearing aid industry. Along with greater efficiency and safety, environmental concerns are an integral part of our manufacturing concept, and we strive to make a positive impact on the environment. Successful FDA inspections in Singapore, Germany and the USA. So far, we achieved significant improvement, including: The Sivantos Environmental Management System team passed • 1.5 days reduction of the external audits for a certified manufacturing turnaround time EH&S system for our locations in • 6% increase of first pass yield Singapore, Suzhou, and, in 2018 for the first time, in Poland. The au• 12% increase in completion of dit resulted in an outstanding zesame-day orders ro non-conformities, the best result • 86% work-in-progress inventory one can get. reduction. We are very proud of this outcome Changes that have brought about as we had to set up a new lean enenergy savings and reduced waste. vironmental management system 16 that is compliant with the releMenschen mit Behinderung (“Work vant ISO norms and regulatory refor People with Disabilities”). This quirements – all within only eight organization provides people with months. Not to forget that at the disabilities jobs such as refurbishsame time, we developed our own ing, selling, or disposing of used EH&S policy, conducted all the equipment. The donations help training, and implemented the new support such jobs, and significantly processes and documents. reduce waste from the IT department. Asia Philippines 1° 17’ 46” N 256° 6’ 48” W Earth Hour was created to raise awareness, celebrate sustainabiliSivantos is fully committed to ty and to show support for climate ensuring that all generated waste change initiatives that will help mitfrom the Global Service Center igate the problem of global warmrepair production line is disposed of ing. Sivantos locations in Singain a legally compliant and sustainpore, Poland, and China, observed able manner with proper records the event by switching off all exterand verifiable data. In 2018, nal and non-essential office lightSivantos began a new program ing for one hour on March 30 from with the goal of 100% recycling 8:30pm-9:30pm. or reutilization of all materials. We aim to recycle all plastics while batteries undergo a recovery proGermany 51° 2’ 29” N 350° 19’ 55” W cess including the lithium component in the case of Li-ion batteries, Since January 2019, our Sivantos as well as components from all othCustomer Service team in Germaer electronic waste. ny has managed to digitize all internal order entry processes, saving around 250,000 pieces of paper South Korea 36° 46’ 11” N 232° 20’ 19” W per year. We are proud to continue to take steps to combat climate Our success continued in South change and reduce our carbon Korea, where Sivantos obtained footprint. the best possible results in the Korean Goods Manufacturing Practice audit. The inspector even said that Sivantos has “one of the top QMS in the medical device industry in South Korea.” Saving 250,000 pieces of paper per year. Every year, Sivantos Germany donates unused IT equipment to the non-profit group “Arbeit für Excellent audit results in South Korea! 17 Long-Term Engagement, Example 3: Americas Sivantos US: Supporting Local Communities with Multiple CSR Initiatives C orporate social responsibility has In addition, Sivantos employees helped to become a major priority at the address the issue of food insecurity, particSivantos USA headquarters in ularly for children who receive free meals at Piscataway, N.J. Throughout the year, school but don’t get adequate nutrition on employees partake in many initiatives to the weekends. Working with the Food Bank support the larger community and assist Network of Somerset County, employees prethose in need. pared 150 backpacks full of nutritional food to supply local children with supplemental One of the most successful initiatives in the nourishment. USA has been a series of blood drives to support the New York Blood Center. Since blood Sivantos USA has also partnered with Vasesupplies in the area continue to remain at ful, a flower shop located in Edison, N.J. that emergency levels, Sivantos employees have employs adults with disabilities from the area. pitched in to donate their blood. This year, These employees learn a wide range of skills, employees donated around 40 pints of blood from taking orders and assembling floral arthat were sent to local hospitals for life-savrangements to helping with money manageing blood transfusions. ment, shipping and distribution, and delivery. The organization supplied beautiful floral arrangements that served as centerpieces for Signia’s summer national sales meeting. Preparing nutritional food is fun. 18 Sivantos USA employees at last year’s blood drive. It’s not just people who benefit from Sivantos’ CSR efforts. The company has donated to “Such CSR initiatives the St. Hubert’s Animal Welfare Center and its mission to support the humane treatment are embedded in the of animals. During the holiday season, Sivantos held a drive to collect canned and dry culture of Sivantos USA, food for dogs and cats, as well as treats, blankets, towels, and toys. Through this initiative, and many of these Sivantos employees donated several bags full of pet supplies that will help St. Hubert’s take events have been sugcare of the animals in its shelters. gested by employees So, employees are being empowered to share their ideas while benefiting the local commuthemselves, rather than nity at the same time. directed from the top.” Nancy Werner, Vice President, HR 19 Where Do We Stand Today? The table below lists key performance indicators for activities relevant to Sivantos CSR. Additional details can be found throughout this report. 2019 Category KPI 2016 2017 2018 (planned) Workplace OHSAS18001 Health and Safety 3 (China, certification for our 2 (China, 2 (China, 3 (China, Poland, Management Poland, main manufacturing Singapore) Singapore) Singapore) standards Singapore) sites Number of work Reduce Health and Safety 28 24 3 accidents accidents Gender Diversity Percentage of Continuous stronger-represented Gender balance 59% 56% 54.7% harmonizagender in the tion company Women in VP Gender diversity positions or above as Continuous 17% 14% 18.5% at senior level percentage of total VP improvement and above employees Social Impact 209,000 USD 228,770 USD Corporate-wide cash Australia, Australia, contributions, Canada, China, Canada, China, Donations excluding the annual India, Italy, Continue Germany, donations to the NUS, Poland, India, Italy, s. further down Singapore, UK, Singapore, UK USA 1060+ Hearing 330+ Hearing Aids Aids Corporate-wide Australia Brazil, Social investment Brazil, China, 1100+ in-kind contributions China, France, Japan, Poland, Japan, South Africa South Africa 20 2019 Category KPI 2016 2017 2018 (planned) Social Impact 1000+ h 900+ h Brazil, Germany, Australia, Brazil, Numbers of hours Japan, Singapore, Employee China, Germany, volunteered by USA (significant Improve volunteering Italy, Japan, employees amount of hours Singapore, South in response to Africa, UK, USA hurricane crisis) Sivantos 1,321,452 donations to the 1,321,452 USD 1,321,452 USD 1,321,452 USD Sivantos setting up a USD to be National donated to the donated to the donated to the MSc Audiology donated to University of NUS NUS NUS the NUS Singapore 12 13 Brazil, Canada, Australia, Brazil, Number of countries Social and China, Germany, Canada, China, Support will where Sivantos economic India, Italy, Japan, Germany, India, be currently invests or investment Poland, Singapore, Italy, Japan, Poland, continued manages programs South Africa, UK, Singapore, South USA Africa, UK, USA 27 in Australia, 19 in Australia, Brazil (2) Canada, Brazil (2), Canada Significant China (2), (2), China (2), Support will collaborations with Germany, India, Partnerships Germany, India, be NGOs and other Japan, (3), Poland Japan, Poland (3), continued partners (5), Singapore (4), Singapore (3), UK, South Africa, USA (3) UK (4), USA (2) Children who received a free lunch as a result Support will Support for of the cooperation 1158* 1158* be children between Sivantos and continued the Akshaya Patra foundation 52,000+ 60,000+ Visitors at awareness Brazil, Germany, Brazil, Germany, Hearing Loss campaigns (minimum Italy, Japan, Italy, Japan, Increase Awareness range) Poland, Singapore, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, USA South Africa, USA Environmental Standards Number of global manufacturing 3 (China, 2 (China, 2 (China, 3 (China, Poland, Sites with ISO Poland, Singapore) Singapore) Singapore) 14001 EMS Singapore) certification Employee base covered with ISO 1,848 1,861 2,271 Increase 14001 EMS certification 21 2019 Category KPI 2016 2017 2018 (planned) Environmental Standards Total gross 8,447 tn Reduce GHG Greenhouse Gas Scale 1 and scale 2 9,587 tn 9,473 tn including SG, emissions (GHG) emissions combined CN & PL by 1.7% (absolute) Total gross GHG 4,849 tn 4,816 tn 3,518 tn emissions 3,453,342 3,481,274 4,238,821 Manufacturing sites Reduce GHG (scope 1 in products products products in China, Singapore; emissions relation to our produced produced produced Poland since 2018 by 3.3% products = 1,40 g per = 1,38 g per = 0,83 g per produced) product product product Total gross GHG emissions Global business flights 4,738 tn 4,657 tn 4.929 tn No increase (scope 2) Energy and Electricity Usage Baseline phase Electricity usage after office 9,810 9,721 5,995 (GWh) renovations/ relocations Water Consumption Considering water 17,338.3 Total water usage at major (Poland Reduce usage 16,178 tn 13,725 tn consumption (m3) manufacturing included first by 3.3% locations time) Product Safety Safety related Per year 0 0 0 0 products recalls * number of children who receive a free meal every day at school as a result of Sivantos’ donation Please note that • All data in this table refers to Sivantos, as the • Our data on social activities, campaigns, merger was effectuated on March 1, 2019, only donations and other projects refer to the period weeks before our COP deadline. We aim to have of the COP report, published on 23.05.2018, up to an integrated COP in 2020. 15.04.2019 • Our data on energy consumption, water • Due to further development of our data consumption, GHG emissions and gender collection methodology in 2018 and the merger diversity refer to the fiscal year 2017/2018 in 2019, the employee satisfaction results are no (Sept. to Oct.) longer comparable. We will restart reporting from 2019 data onwards. 22 Imprint Some quick facts Corporate Headquarters: Editorial: Sivantos Pte. Ltd. Andrew Arnold, 18 Tai Seng Street, #08-08 Sabine Hauck, Thomas Hies, 2017 Singapore 539775 Hauke Waszkewitz signatory to the UN Global Compact Design & Lithography: Georg Stiegler Design & Consulting 17 Sivantos entities participating 1.3 m USD donations yearly for an Audiology Master Program in SG Thank you for your precious time! Order No: 03948-99C1-7600 Printed in Germany © 05.2019 Sivantos Pte. Ltd. Please visit: sivantos.com wsaudiology.com
