Enabling susta nability UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Goodpoint 2019 INTRODUCTION About Goodpoint Goodpoint is an advisory consultancy firm for sustainable As managing director of Goodpoint AB I am pleased to growth and development. Our mission is to share our confirm our continuous commitment to the UN Global knowledge to enable sustainable change at our client Compact and its ten principles, as well as our commitment organizations. Our consulting business include a broad to continually encourage and support our clients to do so span of sustainability issues. For example, services on how as well. Goodpoint integrates the Global Compact prin­ to phase out toxins and chemicals in products, tools on ciples into our code of conduct, our organizational culture how to integrate sustainability into businesses through and business strategy. The following report describes strategies and management systems, sustainability our direct and indirect impact on human rights, labour, reporting to be transparent about progress, and models environment and anti-corruption during the reporting year to drive responsible sourcing. Goodpoint has been a signa­ June 2018–May 2019. tory, and advocate, of Global Compact since May 2012. Stockholm, 3 September 2019 Magnus Boman CEO and owner Goodpoint AB 2 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2019 INTRODUCTION Goals and principles Goodpoint supports and respects the ten principles of the Development Goals (SDGs) are useful tools in setting the Global Compact. We actively integrate respect for human business sustainability agenda. Through our work at client rights, labour and the environment into our business ope­ organizations, Goodpoint contributes to all 17 Sustainable rations and take an absolute stand against corruption and Development Goals. However, our core knowledge and unethical business conduct. It is through our work with our our greatest impact is within Goal 8 – Decent work and clients that we have the greatest impact on the ten prin­ economic growth; Goal 10 – Reduced inequalities; Goal 12 ciples. Together with our clients, and by using the princip­ – Responsible consumption and production; Goal 13 – les as a solid foundation, we work to pursue an agenda of Climate action; and Goal 15 – Life on land. We support sustainability that stretches beyond the ten principles. The clients in their work to align their organization with Agenda Global Compact principles together with the Sustainable 2030 and in communicating progress towards the goals. The sustainable development goals We help clients with training, mapping and integrating the SDGs into the companies’ strategies. During the reporting period Goodpoint has performed: 2400 35 100 4 60–70 14 92 Environmental Business-adapted Cosmetic Open Safety data Sustainability Audits (on-site assessments of trainings in products safety trainings in sheets. reports (entire or and desktop). building the area of reports. the field of parts of). products. sustainability. sustainability with 34 participants. 3 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2019 MANAGEMENT APPROACH Our vision: Goodpoint shares knowledge for a Core values Our mission: better world Goodpoint supports clients to act sustainably Goodpoint is a values-driven company where our values organizational values balance the personal values of the as individuals are fundamental in delivering value to our employees. The project resulted in an update of the com­ clients. In 2017 a project was initiated to make sure that the pany’s values, which were launched in August of 2018. We share knowledge We make a difference We are committed to sharing knowledge with our clients By contributing to our clients becoming more sustaina­ to enable real change within their organizations. By ble, facilitating and streamlining their sustainability ef­ sharing our broad and deep knowledge, we ensure that forts and utilizing organizations’ potential we can achieve our clients can stand on their own two feet. Developing the greatest difference and create value. Through our our own knowledge and expertise is essential for our clients, we contribute to a sustainable society and a bet­ business. By educating ourselves, we can better aid our ter world, and we always consider sustainability aspects clients in their ventures. in our choices. Creativity Commitment By combining our experiences, knowledge and new fin­ We are interested and curious about the clients’ busi­ dings we seek solutions to our clients’ needs in a creative ness and want each client to develop. Our goal is for the and innovative manner. We are flexible and solution-orien­ customer to share our commitment to sustainability and ted. We continuously develop and try new methods in our become curious about the possibilities and make sustai­ work with clients and within our own organization. nable choices. The heart is always present. Strong governance through our management system ISO:9001 and ISO:14001 standards released in 2015. enables us to deliver on our commitments and help our Our first management system was implemented in 1998. clients to manage their business in a more sustainable way. Goodpoint is managed by a managing director/owner who Our management system includes inter alia, policy docu­ reports to the board. Employees have the opportunity to ment, actions to address risk and opportunities as well as raise issues or concerns regarding their work situation in procedures for non-conformity reporting and follow-up. weekly group meetings, in monthly meetings with all staff All employees have access to, and know how to use, the and the managing director and in yearly meetings with the system. Internal and external audits are conducted on an local trade union. Goodpoint’s code of conduct provides annual basis and followed up through bi-annual manage­ support on internal human rights related issues and labour ment reviews. Goodpoint was one of the first companies in law, including discrimination and the right to privacy. Sweden to be certified according to the new version of the Employees Client projects Clients Revenue (2018) 256 149 23,6 Above 200k SEK: 22 Above 200k SEK: 21 Millions (SEK) Women Men Below 200k SEK: 234 Below 200k SEK: 128 4 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2019 HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS Protecting human and labour rights Management approach Human rights are the fundamental rights and freedoms that belong to all humans, regardless of where you are from, what you believe in or how you choose to live PRINCIPLE 1 your life. We often take our human rights for granted, and risk to overlook abuses or Businesses should support and risks of abuses within, or associated with, our businesses. Goodpoint takes a strong respect the protection of interna­ stand for the universal human rights, work to respect those rights as well as mitiga­ tionally proclaimed human rights. ting abuses within our organization and throughout our clients’ value chains. Goodpoint complies with Swedish law and respects labour standards set by the International Labour Organization (ILO). Our Code of Conduct provides support in the field of labour rights. Goodpoint has procedures for dialogue on labour related issues between management and the local independent trade union representa­ tives. Our Code of Conduct provides a foundation for our work together with our PRINCIPLE 2 organizational values. Goodpoint strives for equality and diversity in the workplace Make sure that they are not and we do not accept any forms of discrimination, harassment or other types of complicit in human right abuses. abuse. All employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement under Swedish law. Our Impact Goodpoint’s most contribution to the implementation of the human rights and labour rights principles is through helping our clients implement work methods PRINCIPLE 3 within their own organizations, which in turns contributes to a more efficient mana­ Business should uphold the gement of sustainability. During the reporting period we have advised and assisted freedom of association and the our clients on; effective recognition of the right • Responsible sourcing practices; guidance in authoring Code of Conducts to collective bargaining. and supplier Code of Conducts. • How to conduct supplier audits with audit criteria on human, social and labour rights (follow-ups on site and desktop audits). • Sustainability trainings and organising workshops and events in order to share knowledge in the field of sustainability. • How to conduct risk assessments and identify gaps in handling such risks related to human, social and workers’ rights. • Communicating their work in sustainability reports. • Adhering to the new Annual accounts act regarding non-financial reporting (Nya Årsredovisningslagen in Swedish), which includes human and labour rights. 5 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2019 HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS Our operations Goodpoint welcomes an open dialogue within its own organization. Regular individual performance reviews take place with all employees, which provide an opportunity to PRINCIPLE 4 bring forward opinions and encourage discussion. Employees are given the opportunity The elimination of all forms of to influence their work situation through anonymous employee surveys that are conduc­ forced and compulsory labour. ted at least once a year. In these anonymous surveys, employees can openly comment on their job satisfaction and work environment. Salary negotiations are held annually between management and labour union representatives. Employees are also invited to an individual salary negotiation with management. During the last reporting period a new remuneration policy and a competence scorecard was developed. During the fall of 2019, the new policies have been introduced and implemented into the organization. In the summer of 2018, an organizational change occurred. This organizational change PRINCIPLE 5 was temporary, and a major change was developed during the autumn and then started The effective abolition to apply in January 2019. With the new organization, the Consultant Manager has of child labour. personnel responsibility for all consultants except those who are part of the manage­ ment team and administration. The local trade union has taken part in the process with the ­organizational changes and the chairman of the local trade union took part in the appointment of the role of Consultant Manager. All permanent employees are covered by a health insurance and a pension plan. PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Materiality analysis opinions are taken into consi­ and occupation. Materiality analysis is an effective instrument for an deration and that the result will organization’s sustainability work. It can aid in identi­ paint an accurate and just represen­ fying and prioritizing the most essential sustainability tation of the organization’s most material sustainability questions and topics that the organization in question questions. After a completed materiality analysis, the or­ ought to develop structured governance for. Goodpoint ganization is given a set number of sustainability ques­ conducts materiality analysis as a separate service and tions that have been identified, prioritized and validated in connection with other sustainability services, e.g. as the most material. By utilizing these questions, the strategy efforts and sustainability reports. When condu­ organization can subsequently manage their sustainabi­ cting materiality analysis, Goodpoint utilizes the Global lity efforts more efficiently – e.g. by developing sustaina­ Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) model that operates in four bility strategies and goals that will reduce their negative stages; (1) identification, (2) stakeholder dialogue, (3) environmental impact while strengthening their positive prioritization and (4) validation. By using this model, the impact. During the reporting period, Goodpoint have materiality analysis ensures that internal and external conducted 13 materiality analysis. Social audits • Environment Social audits are a fundamental tool to control compli­ • Anti-corruption ance with social responsibility guidelines, like the ILO • Freedom of association core conventions and working conditions in production • Supply chain management of goods and services. The audits are often performed by a third-party auditor with a Code of Conduct or social Audits are performed in various contexts, e.g. factories, requirements as audit criteria. The auditor collects farms, wholesalers and construction projects. The audit observations by interviewing management and workers, results in an audit report, and a corrective action plan to reviewing documents and inspecting production set actions and time frames for improvements. It is im­ facilities to evaluate the performance of a company. portant to identify the root causes of non-compliances Important features are to check time reports, wage to find long-term solutions. Often, companies coopera­ payments and to interview workers to understand the te to share audit results and methodology, in initiatives implementation of social standards. The scope of the like the amfori BSCI, RBA or FWF. Results from audits audit may comprise of: are also a means of identifying common challenges and • Legal compliance cooperate long-term in capacity building, worker em­ • Health and safety powerment and awareness. During the reporting period • Working conditions and renumeration Goodpoint have performed 36 social audits (on-site) for • Child and forced labour various clients, both from the public and private sector. • Discrimination 6 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2019 ENVIRONMENT Reducing environmental impact Management approach A lion share of our work specializes in environment, chemicals and climate. We ­contribute to the Swedish Environmental Objectives, the overarching generation goal as well as PRINCIPLE 7 specific goals through our main competence areas and our vision. Goodpoint contributes Business should support to objective 1 and 15, Reduced Climate Impact and A Good Built Environment, through a precautionary approach to our advisory and environmental management teams, and objective 4, A Non-Toxic environmental challenges. ­Environment, through our expert team of chemists and toxicologists. Our impact Our greatest environmental impact is indirect through helping our clients reduce their environmental footprint. The majority of Goodpoint´s work covers environmental aspects. Some examples of projects we helped our clients with during the reporting period are: PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to Climate calculations and climate emission screenings promote greater environWe have assisted several clients to calculate how much climate emissions their mental responsibility. operations generate. The total climate emissions that we calculate then become the basis for how they compensate for the climate. Thus, we have contributed to clients working to reduce and compensate for their climate emissions (within all three scopes of the GHG protocol). Environmental management systems During the period we have helped several clients in setting up new as well as developing existing environmental systems in accordance with ISO 14001:2015. An environmental management system enables an organization to set up, implement, follow up and improve the work on reducing negative environmental impact. Environmental Impact Assessments We continuously conduct environmental impact assessments (EIA) for our clients. During the period we have, among others, performed an EIA on behalf of a large international institute. 7 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2019 ENVIRONMENT Other areas we have advised and assisted our clients in are: • Assessment of products from a life-cycle perspective. PRINCIPLE 9 • Investigation on hazardous substances in product groups for private Encourage the development actors and public authorities. and diffusion of environmen­ • Toxicological calculations on medicine. tally friendly technologies. • Safety assessment reports on cosmetic products. • Advisory services regarding chemical legislation and requirements for clients’ products. • Assist clients to set up systems for legislative compliance. • REACH-registrations for clients. • Biocide-registrations for clients. • Assist several clients apply, analyse and follow up environmental requirements on suppliers. • Assist suppliers to analyse and adhere to imposed environmental requirements from customers. • Climate analysis and calculations for sustainability reporting and materiality analysis. • Sustainability strategies and policies for companies to reduce environmental impact. • Several environmental trainings, ISO 14001-training and how to apply environmental requirements in public procurement. • Help clients implement and use chemical management systems. • Audits on environmental adherence and compliance with ISO 14001. Our operations Goodpoint is committed to conducting our business responsibly, including our own environmental work. During the past year we reduced our CO² emissions from travels (air and rail) by 43 %, from 4,7 to 2,7 tonnes CO², and we have almost halved our emissions per employee during the same period. Besides actively reducing our carbon footprint, we compensate for all emissions from our travels, as well as applying environmental requirements on procured goods and services. 2017 261 kg CO ² / employee 4,7 t 2018 142 kg CO ² / employee Total CO emissions (t), and emissions 2,7 t ² per average employee (kg), from travels by airplane and train. 8 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2019 ANTI-CORRUPTION Working against corruption Management approach Goodpoint follows and respects the Global Compact’s principles on anti-corruption and complies with Swedish law, including anti-corruption and competition laws. Goodpoint’s PRINCIPLE 10 code of conduct covers these areas and stipulates that we have zero-tolerance for all Business should work against forms of corruption and bribes. Goodpoint has also developed guidelines on the giving corruption in all its forms, and receiving of gifts and other benefits. The guidelines are meant to help Goodpoint’s including extortion and bribery. employees to act ethically and avoid doubtful situations. Goodpoint has procedures for reporting any cases of corruption or bribery directly to the Managing director. Any law violations will be reported to the appropriate authorities. Our impact Goodpoint has robust expertise in anti-corruption work. We help our clients to increase their knowledge about anti-corruption legislation and manage corruption related risks through qualified advice, risk analyses, training sessions, workshops and development of policy documents on corruption and bribes. Goodpoint has assisted clients in deve­ loping e-learning modules on anti-corruption and business ethics and organized several anti-corruption trainings and workshops. Our operations Goodpoint’s code of conduct and internal guidelines are communicated with all new employees and is available through our management system. No cases of violation of the principles, suspected corruption or bribery has occurred or been suspected within Goodpoint’s operations during the reporting period. 9 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2019 Thank you! Our vision is to enable sustainable change at our client organizations. The realization of our vision requires continuous work to both minimize negative, unsustainable impacts as well as to maximize the positive development and contributions to a sustainable society. Our mission is therefore to help companies understand and manage the impacts and opportunities, and to adapt and innovate for their own sustainable development. If you’re interested in finding out more about our work, please contact us: Stockholm: Goodpoint AB, Norrtullsgatan 6, 113 29 Stockholm Lund: Goodpoint AB, Karl XI gata 19, 222 20 Lund Nässjö: Goodpoint AB, Storgatan 27, 571 31 Nässjö info@goodpoint.se 0046 8 789 04 00 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2019
