Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 2 Table of contents About the Corporate Responsibility Report 3 Environment51 Strategic management using the Environmental CEO Statement 4 Management System 52 Higher resource efficiency and falling carbon emissions 54 Portrait of Munich Re 5 Corporate governance 6 Society57 Shared-value approach defines our commitment 58 Creating value with global responsibility 7 Commitment to people and the environment 59 High compliance standards maintain integrity 12 Core business 19 Key figures 63 Corporate responsibility in insurance business 20 GRI Content Index 69 Corporate responsibility in investment 26 Solution-oriented responses to climate change 30 SRI ratings & indices 72 Using digitalisation responsibly 36 Increasing risk awareness in society 40 Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 73 Employees44 Independent auditor’s limited assurance report 74 Target-oriented management of HR topics 45 Attractive programmes for employees 46 Contact and imprint 76 Promoting diversity and equal opportunities 48 Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 3 About the Further reporting Our voluntary commitments ­Corporate ResponsiMunich Re’s annual report provides our investors The voluntary commitments such as our acceptance of with detailed information on our corporate governance, the UN Global Compact, the Principles for Sustainable management and financial matters. Insurance (PSI) and the Principles for Responsible bility Report ­Investment (PRI) – form the framework of our corporate In addition, our combined non-financial statement responsibility strategy. in accordance with Sections 289b(3) and 315b(3) > GRI 102-45; 102-50; 102-52; 102-53; 102-54 of the German Commercial Code (HGB) meets the GRI Standarts and Global Compact standards of the European Union’s Corporate Social ­“Communication on Progress” Report Responsibility (CSR) Directive. Ultimately, our CR Our business model is based on responsible corporate ­Report serves as a link to the standard financial reportThis report has been prepared in accordance with GRI governance that reconciles economic, environmental ing without itself containing any financial aspects. standards (“core” option). The GRI indicators have and social requirements. To this end, we rely on transbeen compiled in a separate GRI disclosure. In addition, parency and dialogue with our stakeholders. We also Selected topics – Qualitative and quantitative the Corporate Responsibility Report and the GRI establish global partnerships for sustainable developreporting disclosure also constitute our annual Communication ment. In our Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report, on Progress Report for the UN Global Compact. we ­describe the ways in which we embrace corporate To ensure that the corporate responsibility report gives responsibility in our day-to-day operations. a comprehensive picture of our performance, the ­topics and content have been chosen according to Our annual Corporate Responsibility Report also their significance to our business operations and ­provides a review of our business fields of primary the interests of our stakeholders as well as their impact ­insurance and reinsurance as well as asset manageon efficiency, economic and social factors. ment with respect to the objectives we have defined, the measures we realised in the past year and the Verified indicators successes we have achieved. The carbon footprint from our business operations The measures and activities presented focus mainly on is the key indicator for measuring and assessing our the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 March 2019; the ­environmental performance. We calculate carbon key figures relate to the 2018 financial year (ending emissions on a yearly basis from our consumption of 31 December 2018). Our Corporate Responsibility energy, paper and water, our business travel and Report has been available online in English and German ­generation of waste. This calculation takes a standardsince 24 May 2019. ised form and is of a high quality. Since 2015, an ­external audit company confirmed that the entire Munich Re (Group) has met its objectives for selected quantitative environmental data (see audit report 2018 and audit reports of the recent years 2015 to 2017). Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 4 Ladies ing work on our part: after being the first company to launch photovoltaic insurance in 2009, Munich Re and Gentlemen, ­recently achieved another global first by introducing an insurance to cover battery performance. > GRI 102-14 Furthermore, Munich Re does not invest in either shares or bonds of companies that generate more than 30% For us, acting responsibly means creating added value – of their revenue from coal – the fossil fuel responsible both for our Group and for society as a whole. This for the bulk of CO2 emissions. In single-risk business, principle is strongly reflected in our shared-value apwhere we know all the risks we insure, we no longer proach, which forms the basis for our corporate responsicover any new coal-fired power stations or coal mines bility strategy. Part of this involves systematically intein industrialised countries. There may be few excepgrating sustainability criteria – environmental, social tions in developing countries. to develop and expand the digital expertise of our employand governance (ESG) aspects – when creating value ees. Consequently, all staff in reinsurance are able to take in our core business. We have also adopted a GroupMunich Re is also driving forward CO2 reductions in advantage of our Digital School qualification programme wide Code of Conduct for responsible and sustainable its business operations, and has consequently been and its ever-growing range of training opportunities. decision-making in line with the ten principles of the carbon-neutral since 2015. Overall, since 2009, we have We are also investigating the possible applications of United Nations Global Compact. been able to reduce our Group-wide carbon footprint artificial intelligence. Munich Re attaches great imporby 44% per employee. tance to the responsible use of this technology, for exThanks to our comprehensive risk expertise, we are ample through the development of standards for evalable to work continuously on solutions that reduce We want to identify emerging risks at an early stage uating algorithms. In order to promote the training and people’s risk and alleviate losses when they do occur. and assess them from every possible perspective. This networking of data scientists in Germany, Munich Re In the dialogue with our stakeholders we aim for transenables the creation, often in cooperation with suprawas also involved in setting up the German Data Science parency, primarily focusing on the action areas of climate national organisations and development banks, of Society. change, raising risk awareness, and digitalisation. ­innovative risk transfer solutions that strengthen resilience and benefit society in the countries concerned. All these examples show that Munich Re is ready and Climate change is undoubtedly one of the biggest chalOne example of this is the Pandemic Emergency able to meet its responsibilities. We do so both at lenges facing mankind today and requires decisive ­Financing Facility (PEF), which can quickly channel Group level and at individual employee level, with over action as a matter of great urgency. We are committed first-relief surge funding to developing countries facing 41,000 staff assuming a wide variety of different roles. to the target agreed at the Paris Climate Conference a major disease outbreak with pandemic potential. In our Corporate Responsibility Report, we outline of limiting global warming to less than 2°C and have In 2018, the PEF made its first-ever payment to help how we live up to our responsibilities and detail the undertaken to make our own, independent contribution bridge a funding gap for Ebola countermeasures in projects we have driven forward in the last year to to climate protection. In so doing, we believe the greatthe Democratic Republic of the Congo. help achieve this. est potential in tackling the effects of climate change can be gained by driving forward new technologies to The third action area, digitalisation, opens up a whole I hope you find the information in this report both achieve a low-carbon economy – in power generation, range of business opportunities: thanks to digitalisation, ­interesting and informative. Best regards, transportation, energy storage and industrial production. we are able to deepen our knowledge, strengthen our We offer insurance solutions that enable us to shoulder existing business and – frequently in cooperation with part of the burden of these frequently technology-­ partners – create new opportunities, for example regardspecific risks. This also involves a good deal of pioneering the internet of things. A key component in all of this is Joachim Wenning Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 5 Portrait Reinsurance offers innovative ­solutions for complex risks of Munich Re With premium income of €31.3bn from reinsurance > GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 102-9 alone, Munich Re is one of the world’s leading reinsurers. We offer a full range of products, from traditional re­ insurance to innovative solutions for risk assumption. Risk management is our strength Especially when clients require solutions for complex risks, Munich Re is a much sought-after business Munich Reinsurance Company (or ­Munich Re) is partner. The unique global and local knowledge of our a stock corporation with its registered office in 12,000 or so staff in reinsurance is one of our most ­Munich, Germany. Our business model is based on important resources for ensuring the success of the the combination of primary insurance and reinsurance Group. Our client service regularly receives top ratings. €2,275m Munich Re (Group) profit 2018 Primary insurance under the ERGO brand MEAG manages global assets Munich Re bundles most of its primary insurance under one roof. We take on risks worldwide of every ­activities in the ERGO Group, and also in the services The Group’s worldwide assets of €216.9bn are managed type and complexity. Munich Re stands for exceptional offered by DAS, DKV, ERGO Direkt and ERV. Worldwide, by MEAG. The quality of our asset management solution-based expertise, consistent risk management the ERGO Group is represented in over 30 countries proved its worth during the global financial crisis, which and financial stability. We attach great importance and concentrates on Europe and Asia. ERGO offers a Munich Re weathered with continued financial to maintaining close and trusting relations with our comprehensive range of insurance and pension prostrength. clients. In the 2018 financial year, the Group achieved vision products and services. ERGO Versicherung AG €216.9bn a profit of € 2,275 m on premium income of € 49.1bn. is one of Germany’s largest providers of property and It operates in all lines of insurance and, with more than legal protection insurance. As a specialist in capital 41,400 employees, is represented on every continent market-oriented insurance, ERGO Vorsorge Lebensand in over 100 countries. versicherung AG is shaping change in the area of private provision and biometric risk products. Some assets managed by MEAG for Munich Re (Group) 40,000 people work for the Group, either as salaried employees or as full-time self-employed sales repreMEAG also offers its expertise to private and institusentatives. In 2018, ERGO posted premium income tional clients. The volume of assets managed for third of € 17.8bn. parties amounts to €15.5bn. 01_Corporate governance Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 7 Corporate and abilities and sharing knowledge with our stakeholders. Our risk expertise thus allows us to develop Through our risk expertise, our sustainable solutions and our actions as a responsible employer, we are ­governance new perspectives and sustainable solutions. contributing in particular to the achievement of the following seven UN Sustainable Development The strategic focus is on four fields of action: Goals (SDGs): – We proactively consider environmental, social and Creating value responsible corporate governance (ESG) aspects along the entire value chain in our core business with global responsibility activities. > GRI 103; 102-11; 102-16 – As an employer, we attach the greatest importance Munich Re adopts a forward-looking, prudent and to treating our staff in a responsible and respectful ­responsible approach to handling risks. For over way. We create attractive framework conditions to 135 years, Munich Re has created long-term value promote their personal and professional development. by assuming a diverse range of risks around the world. We are convinced that this business concept will – We practise active environmental management at The UN Sustainable continue to be successful in the future through susour sites, and are carbon-neutral Group-wide. Development Goals consist tainable action. Responsible corporate governance of 17 interrelated goals aiming to that reconciles economic, environmental and social – From a sense of social responsibility, we support a achieve a more sustainable requirements forms the basis to this approach. In large number of initiatives and projects that are close future by 2030. this context, we rely on dialogue with our stakeholders to our core business and promote social cohesion. and the establishment of global partnerships for sustainable development. Voluntary commitments, such as the UN Global Compact (UNGC), the Principles for Responsible InThe following are the cornerstones of vestment (PRI) and the Principles for Sustainable our corporate responsibility (CR) strategy: ­Insurance (PSI) of the UNEP FI represent a key element – adopting a shared value approach of our CR strategy. By recognising these guidelines – focusing on four fields of action and through our membership in the initiatives, we are – meeting voluntary commitments documenting our understanding of corporate re– achieving our sustainability targets sponsibility. At the beginning of our report you can – engaging in dialogue with our stakeholders find an overview of Munich Re's voluntary commitments. Our shared value approach aims to achieve added value for society as well as for our Group. We address social challenges, making the best use of our strengths Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 8 Targets and measures anchored in roadmap Topic Target and measure Progress in 2018 Core business Sustainability in insurance and investment: – New underwriting guideline on carbon We work continuously to refine and implement our corporate responsibilities. The focus of our corporate ­responsibility is on the assumption Refinement of Munich Re’s Group-wide climate strategy risks: No insurance cover for new coalfired power plants or new coal mines; Thus, we have set ourselves the following targets, which we wish to achieve within and diversification of risks in Divestment of stock and corporate bonds ­primary insurance and reinsurance, (where more than 30% of turnover is a clearly defined time frame with the help of specific measures. and also in investment. from coal mining or coal-based power With regard to sustainability, our generation) activities focus on the identified Topic Target and measure Progress in 2018 material topics Sustainability in insurance and investment: – Climate change Target for 2019: Review of the current Sustainable corporate Continuous review of our corporate gov– Implementation of the requirements of – Digitalisation ­governance structure with the aim of ­governance ernance on the basis of legal compliance, the General Data Protection Regulation – Risk awareness ­refining the management of ESG risks Prerequisite for sustainable developments, best practices (GDPR) ­business practice is to ensure a – In 2018, no material data protection event Sustainability in insurance: – Continuous, ongoing process: In 2018 fair and trusting relationship as defined in the Solvency II Group Advising and supporting underwriters on 50% of the cases submitted to the RRC with our stakeholders. By meeting Compliance Policy occurred anywhere the integration of ESG criteria were accepted, conditions were attached high ethical and social standards, in our Group worldwide, nor were – Assistance with binding decisions within for approx. 35% and accepted, and 15% we avoid conflict situations any material proceedings instituted for 48 hours on accepting or rejecting of applications were declined and protect the reputation of the breaches of data protection rules risks referred to the Reputational Risk – The newly revised Group-wide Code Company and the Group. Committee because they involve a of Conduct includes the integration of Performance of a materiality analysis – Review of sustainability topics of ­potential reputational risk. ESG aspects into our activities in 2018 ­importance for the Company with regard Focus on material topics for our to their materiality to stakeholder Sustainability in insurance: – Participation in PSI’s ESG standards sustainability activities and business relevance and materiality PSI project: Development of industry ­project for Munich Re standards to integrate ESG aspects in – Presentation of the standards in – Assessment of economic, ecological core business in line with the Principles February 2019 and social impacts of Munich Re with for Sustainable Insurance ­regard to these issues Target for 2019: Participation in the public consultation process, ongoing Provide a framework for action for staff: – Revised Munich Re Group-wide Code of implementation of the results Revision of the Munich Re (Group) Code Conduct adopted and implemented of Conduct in 2018 and implementation – Introduction of new, mandatory learning Sustainability in investment: – Development of the investment process in the Group programmes on the Code of Conduct Advancing the systematic integration of for equity and bonds: consistent for all staff in our reinsurance business ESG criteria into asset management ESG i­ntegration, i.e. assessment of the ESG performance alongside the Meeting our voluntary commitments with – Compliance with UNGC criteria financial analysis the design of the sustainable procurement was a ­ nchored in approx. 80% of our – Integration of MSCI ESG research in process framework agreements in reinsurance the investment process for liquid assets; Target for 2019: Further integration into business Revision of our Responsible Investment the procurement process of human rights Guideline (RIG) considerations in the supply chain – In 2018, our sustainability ratio for all forms of investment was >80%; In the most recent PRI assessment in 2018, Munich Re achieved the top rating of “A+” in the Strategy and Governance category. The median rating was “A” among the ­relevant peer group of asset owners Sustainability in investment: – Purchase of a wind farm in Sweden Expansion of climate-friendly investment with an overall output of 79 megawatts in infrastructure projects such as solar producing 230 gigawatt hours parks and wind farms –P  urchase of a solar park in southern Spain Long-term objective: Expansion to € 2.8 bn with an overall output of 175 megawatts producing 300 gigawatt hours – At the end of 2018, the invested capital in renewables amounted to some € 1.6 bn Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 9 Topic Target and measure Progress in 2018 Topic Target and measure Progress in 2018 Digitalisation: – Under the guiding principle of “Responsible Environmental and climate Implementation of the environmental and – Carbon savings target of 35% exceeded; Development of a strategy on the ethical Artificial Intelligence”, Munich Re is ­protection at our locations climate protection strategy 44% reduction in carbon emissions aspects of Artificial Intelligence (AI) currently devising a strategy based on the As a large organisation with more 2020 with the following targets: (2017 minus 39%) five “ethics guidelines for trustworthy AI” than 41,000 employees, we have a – 35% reduction in carbon emissions by – Group-wide approx. 86% of required drawn up by an expert group at the responsibility for environmental 2020 (base year 2009) ­electricity procured from renewable EU Commission protection and have involved our– Maintain carbon neutrality across the ­energy sources selves in areas that we can influence Group – Since 2015, all the business activities in tangible and positive ways. – Group-wide verification of environmental of Munich Re (Group) have been Staff Promotion of diversity as a strategic suc– Proportion of women in management data, certification of selected units’ carbon-neutral; Highly qualified and top-performing cess factor for Munich Re (Group): Increase ­positions at Munich Re (Group) in Germany ­environmental and energy management – Annual Group-wide external verification managers and staff are the cornerin the proportion of women in management increased to 25.8% (from 23.6% in 2017); systems, and of environmental data; 38% of staff stones of our business success. positions in Germany to at least 25% by Proportion worldwide increased to 35.7% – 100% renewable energy for the Group employed at ISO 14001-certified 2020 (from 33.5% in 2017) by 2020 locations (2018) Target for 2019: Focus on measures to Gradual expansion of continuous learning Training programme expanded further: sensitise our staff to environmentally programmes – Range of courses: professional training, friendly behaviour courses on method competencies and ­social skills, management topics, compliance regulations, health and safety Society Continuation of Munich Re and ERGO’s Cooperation with Climate-KIC: training and language courses As a responsible business, we are Group-wide project “Tackling climate – in 2018, 7 start-ups were accepted for – Courses in various learning formats: committed to public welfare and change together” – in collaboration with the programme and funded for between Classroom training, e-learning, cohesion within our society. We Climate-KIC and SOLARKIOSK (2017–2019) 6 and 12 months webinars, individual courses for groups promote projects that allow us to – Continuation of the partnership with and individuals both contribute and expand on SOLARKIOSK our risk expertise. In this way, we can increase the effectiveness of Review and implementation of a Group– Successful introduction of the Targeted, needs-based training for all staff, – Launch of the “Digital School”, offering individual initiatives and motivate wide guideline on donations, sponsorships, Group-wide guideline particularly on the subject of digitalisation digital training options in the fields of agile our employees to take part. memberships and partnerships, with the methods, data analytics, design thinking, digital leadership and technologies, and aim of streamlining processes and focusing working in the digital age. increasingly on measures of relevance for – Special training programme established our social involvement in the reinsurance division for specialists in the field of cyber security (Cyber Development of a concept for social – Concept development complete, trial Expert Pool). 11 cyber experts trained as impact measurement and implementation ­implementation for individual projects underwriters. (2018–2019) Identification and development of staff with – Development programmes “Group leadership potential ­Management Platform” for top management in the Group, “Hydrogen” in the ­reinsurance group, and “MEAG Young Managers” at MEAG – At ERGO, development of a new global talent programme (digital transformation). In the reinsurance group at the Munich location, we were able to fill approximately 90% of management positions in 2018 from our own ranks Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 10 Important impulses from stakeholder dialogue Shareholders, analysts and investors: Politics, NGOs, interest groups: > GRI 102-40; 102-42; 102-43 Professional communication with players in the financial At both national and international level, we are markets features regular dialogue and proactive proin close contact with interest groups, NGOs, UN Munich Re has always valued an open and ongoing vision of information by Munich Re. Through frequent ­institutions and public authorities. We are also dialogue with its stakeholders. This has allowed us to personal investor calls and at (SRI) roadshows – in an active member of many insurance industry identify at an early stage the topics that are material addition to scheduled investor and analyst events – we initiatives and associations. for us now and in the future from our partners’ perspecprovide key detailed information on the general opportive. At regular intervals, we analyse the outcomes tunities and risks attached to our business. We also Society and science: from the stakeholder dialogue, and incorporate them specifically inform these groups about our sustainaOur experts are engaged in ongoing dialogue with into our CR strategy. bility activities and industry trends. scientists, associations and organisations around the world, and are involved in a large number of national Clients: and international research and development projects We want to serve our clients in all fields of business as such as Global Earthquake Model (GEM), GeoHazards a reliable and solution-oriented business partner. We International (GHI), the Global Climate Forum (GCF) regularly evaluate their satisfaction with our services and the Munich Climate Insurance Initiative (MCII). in the form of analyses and surveys – tailored to the different client structure in insurance and reinsurance. Further information about the topic of client satisfaction can be found in the section Customer statisfaction. Clients Our client managers in reinsurance also engage in regular exchange with clients on potential needs, Society and science trends and challenges, at trade fairs, events and client training seminars. We maintain contact with insurance customers via the ERGO Customer Workshop. Employees: Employees We conduct an ongoing exchange with our employees worldwide. We encourage a culture of feedback and transparent communication across a wide range of platforms, such as our intranet, Yammer and other ­dialogue forums. Events such as town hall meetings, strategy talks with members of the Board of Management and management conferences promote exchange Politics, NGOs, across all levels of management. and interest groups Shareholders, analysts and investors Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 11 Key topics updated > GRI 102-44; 102-46; 102-47; 102-49 MATERIALITY MATRIX For the Munich Re CR strategy, we select topics that are most material. high We assess the topics in terms of three different Climate change ­dimensions: Digital transformation – the business perspective; – the stakeholder perspective; Corporate governance – the impact of our business activities on the Energy transformation three sustainability dimensions of environment, society and economy. Customer satisfaction Human rights Diversity In 2018, we reviewed and reassessed these topics ESG criteria in business Risk awareness Stakeholder relevance Data protection/Cyber in terms of their materiality for Munich Re. In this Corruption ­instance, a shortlist was drawn up. It included topics Societal engagement Healthcare from the previous materiality analysis, from voluntary medium Training/Talent management commitments, the outcomes from the stakeholder Environmental Resilient cities ­dialogue, external standards such as SDGs, GRI, PRI, management PSI, and industry trends. In a second step, we held Sustainable investments Food security ­interviews with internal experts from all the relevant divisions and corporate functions. The results were Sustainable products/services Global partnerships then validated by the Sustainability unit and summafor sustainable development rised in a final assessment. Sustainable procurement The materiality matrix on the right shows the topics that are material for us: low medium high Business relevance Importance of economic, environmental and social impacts: low medium high Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 12 Climate change, risk awareness and prevention, along and Public Affairs (ESP), which reports directly to the High compliance standards maintain with data protection and cyber security remain high-­ Chairman of the Board of Management. Fundamental integrity priority topics. The topics of digital transformation and strategic decisions on CR topics are taken by the Board > GRI 103 energy transition were added to the category with of Management, or in one of its committees (Strategy the highest level of materiality. The five top topics are Committee, Group Committee for Investment, Group closely related to our core business. An additional Committee for Risk). Code of Conduct: Commitment to compliant strategic focus is put on the topics of healthcare, client conduct focus and satisfaction, sustainable investment, Once a year, Munich Re’s Group Investment Committee > GRI 102-16 training and talent development. and Group Risk Committee inform the Supervisory Board about material sustainability topics on the basis Responsible corporate governance is only possible on Group-wide management of CR topics of the combined non-financial statement. the basis of impeccable ethical and legal conduct. > GRI 103; 102-18 We therefore combat any kind of corruption, respect The Group Corporate Responsibility Committee human rights, and ensure that our strict compliance Munich Re has clearly regulated organisational ac(GCRC) is responsible for managing business-sensitive standards are met along the entire value chain. To encountability for corporate responsibility aspects. For topics. The committee comprises representatives sure compliant conduct, we have created Group-wide example, guideline-setting competence for developing from the insurance and reinsurance fields of business, guidelines and minimum compliance requirements. and implementing the Group-wide CR strategy lies the Sustainability unit and other relevant Group Their implementation is checked and ensured with the with the Central Division Economics, Sustainability functions. help of appropriate information and documentation systems. Our Code of Conduct, which was revised in 2018, forms the basis for our responsible conduct, along CEO with additional commitments, and sets out our underMunich Re standing of the relevant values. The rules it contains are binding for all subsidiaries and staff of Munich Re (Group) and, together with other policies, guidelines and work instructions, set the limits of our activities. All staff are obliged to familiarise themselves with the contents of the Code of Conduct. At regular intervals, employees must demonstrate their knowledge of the Group Strategy Economics, Group Group Group Code of Conduct by undertaking a mandatory self-test. and Merger & Group Audit Sustainability & Executive Human Communications A new learning programme for this was drawn up Acquisitions Public Affairs Affairs Resources in 2018. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 13 The Code of Conduct obliges staff to act in a manner Respecting human rights at all times in that is responsible, transparent and trustworthy. all places They must disclose any conflicts of interest to allow > GRI 102-12; 412-2 these to be professionally and fairly resolved. Staff may not accept or offer financial incentives. The comWe regard the protection of human rights as a particupliance culture, with which we protect the reputation lar obligation. For this reason, the Munich Re Board of Munich Re and follow our business objectives, is of of Management has formulated its own position on the special importance. Our managers bear a particular subject of human rights. Munich Re (Group) is responsibility for ensuring compliance with our legal committed to respecting human rights in line with standards, embodying our core values, and thereby internationally accepted human rights principles* and creating a recognisable compliance culture. the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We strive to prevent or mitigate any The Code of Conduct also covers money laundering possible adverse human rights impacts that could aspects. The companies affected by the German Money arise from our business activities. In order to identify Laundering Act have taken appropriate organisational such impacts in a systematic way, we have defined precautions and appointed money laundering officers the following four dimensions: employees, procurement, and deputies. The ERGO money laundering guideline insurance and reinsurance business, and asset also regulates fundamental requirements to prevent management. For each of these dimensions, we have money laundering and the financing of terrorism. introduced a set of policies, governance instruments and internal position papers to guide our decision-­ In 2013, ERGO was one of the first companies to sign making and ensure responsible business conduct. the Code of Conduct for the sale of insurance products, issued by the German Insurance Association (GDV). We illustrate at regular intervals how Munich Re (Group) The code requires measures to prohibit corruption and meets its responsibilities for human rights. In this the offering or acceptance of bribes. External auditors context, we use our CR Report, which simultaneously have regularly confirmed, most recently in 2017, serves as an annual progress report for the UN Global that such measures have been implemented effectively Compact, as well as the statement on compliance at ERGO. In addition, ERGO has adopted its own with the UK Modern Slavery Act and the reports on the Code of Conduct for its independent sales force. Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). You can find further information in the Annex. Our aim is to continuously improve human rights-­ related processes. To this end, we are extending our risk screening and we inform our staff and business partners at regular intervals about this topic area. The * Including the International Bill of Human Rights (incl. the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International dialogue with our stakeholders provides us with imCovenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights) and the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. portant, additional impetus. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 14 The following list provides an overview of the most benchmark in our procurement decisions is best total relevant commitments and instruments we have in value in terms of the criteria quality, time and cost. place to ensure our compliance with human rights Environmental and social aspects and good managedue-diligence requirements: ment practices also play a crucial role. Commitments Munich Re has set out the applicable regulations and − UN Global Compact (UNGC) operational principles in its procurement principles, − Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) which are authoritative for all purchasing processes. − Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) They include various award criteria, supplier require− Diversity Charter ments, principles relating to human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption, as well Codes and policies as the objectives for partnerships. More detailed in− Code of Conduct formation on the procurement principles, which are − Group-wide Procurement Principles applicable Group-wide, can be found on our website. − Responsible Investment Guideline − Diversity Policy We obligate our suppliers to recognise the UN Global Compact. In 2018, compliance with UNGC criteria Governance instruments was anchored in approximately 78% of our framework − Group Corporate Responsibility Committee agreements. − Reputational Risk Committee − Whistleblowing portal Good corporate governance creates trust > GRI 102-11; 102-16; 102-18 For us, good corporate governance means the Board of All staff receive mandatory training on the Code of Management and Supervisory Board working efficiently Conduct and associated human rights aspects. You can Responsible and sustainable management at Munich Re together, a spirit of trusting cooperation existing befind further information on the observance of human is ensured by means of corporate governance, complitween the two bodies and with the staff, and an effecrights by Munich Re in our Human Rights Factsheet. ance systems, anti-fraud management and sustainable tive organisational structure. These help to secure risk management. As a global organisation, we are the confidence of investors, clients, employees and Sustainable focus for procurement subject to a large number of national and international the general public in our corporate activities. > GRI 412-3 legal systems, standards and corporate ­governance regulations. Within Munich Re, our Code of Conduct Pursuant to Munich Reinsurance Company’s Articles Our responsible corporate governance extends far beobligates the management and staff to ­behave in of Association, the Supervisory Board has 20 members. yond our core business, and also influences all of our a way that is ethically and legally beyond reproach. Half of these comprise representatives of the stake~ 78% procurement activities. holders, and half selected representatives of Group As a global organisation, At the same time, corporate and Board of Manage­employees within the European Economic Area. The Munich Re procures ment objectives that are aligned with sustainability Supervisory Board is of the opinion that all 20 of its many different goods and financial considerations ensure that business members may be regarded as independent within the of our framework agreements and services through­decisions are always made on the basis of long-term meaning of Section 5.4.2 of the German Corporate include UNGC criteria out the world. The meaningfulness and value preservation. Governance Code. The Supervisory Board’s Nomination Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 15 Committee selects candidates for the shareholder It comprises seven elements, which are summarised promptly report to the Board of Management. Staff representatives based on a defined set of criteria. One in the graphic below. These form the basis for commembers can report infringements and violations of the functions of the Supervisory Board is to ensure bating corruption at Munich Re, which takes a riskto Group Compliance, their direct supervisor, or to diversity in the selection of candidates. At the end of based approach. All processes and structures are Group Audit. In addition, all staff and external whistlethe reporting year 2018, 45% of the Supervisory aimed at fully clarifying any violations, and at sancblowers can contact an external, independent ombudsBoard seats were held by women. This surpassed the tioning and putting an end to breaches of rules. All man, or make use of the whistleblowing portal. Supervisory Board’s target (30% ratio of women). additional information on the CMS can be found Violations can also be reported anonymously. on our website. There are detailed regulations on the handling of share transactions and shareholdings of members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. Training and advice on compliance topics Purchases and sales must be notified immediately if Compliance > GRI 205-2 they reach or exceed €5,000 in the space of a calendar Documentation culture and year. Further information on the structure and duties strategy We offer a wide range of advice, communication of corporate governance of Munich Re can be and training for staff in connection with the topic found on our website. of compliance, all tailored to each particular target group. These are intended to enhance sensitivity Compliance Compliance ensures integrity in all actions Compliance to compliance topics, strengthen the compliance Monitoring risk ­Management culture within Munich Re (Group) and create management Compliance with applicable laws and internal rules System greater security in the handling of risks. There are and principles is binding for all Munich Re (Group) (CMS) regular anti-corruption training courses for staff staff. To ensure compliant conduct, we have created who have direct contact with clients and business Group-wide guidelines, minimum compliance requireCompliance Organisation partners. Our governance training events for diments and suitable information and documentation reporting and procedures rectors and officers improves their understanding systems as measures for prevention and monitoring. of compliance, and strengthens cooperation with We have assigned responsibility for this to the Group Consulting, the governance functions in the Group. Compliance and Legal unit. communication and training Training on the following topic areas is Munich Re has established a Group-wide Compliance ­compulsory in the reinsurance group: Management System (CMS). Its task is to ensure – Anti-corruption measures compliant conduct at all levels of the Munich Re – Data protection (GDPR) (Group) organisation, as well as compliance with – Insider trading law standards. The CMS is also the methodical frameMunich Re (Group) has a Group-wide system for – Code of Conduct work for the structured implementation of early warn­reporting violations of rules and regulations. This sysing, risk control, consulting and supervision functions. tem enables the Group Chief Compliance Officer to Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 16 Zero tolerance of corruption or white-collar Meeting data-protection and information crime ­security requirements > GRI 103 Bribery and white-collar crime can cause significant financial losses and damage to a company’s reputation. Due to the nature of its business, Munich Re handles a Munich Re is resolutely countering this risk with an large volume of data. Protecting this data is important, effective system for combating white-collar crime and especially given the fact that increasing digitalisation corruption. Our Code of Conduct, which is binding means that many business processes include personal Group-wide, sets minimum standards that all Group information. Munich Re’s reputation, and the trust of companies must comply with. The measures include our business partners, are based on our compliance explicit specifications for employee conduct when with data protection rules. For this reason, Munich Re handling transactions. Clearly defined processes and has implemented data-protection management systems responsibilities, effective controls and target-group-­ in each of its fields of business. Each system takes oriented training also enhance staff awareness of their into account the particularities of the respective field, responsibilities to combat economic wrongdoing. If and includes rules, processes and measures to sysemployees notice something untoward, or their sustematically monitor and control how personal data is picion is aroused, they can contact their line managers, handled. The goal is to ensure a high standard of Group Compliance or Group Audit. data protection across the Group, and to avoid fines. Specially trained staff members conduct appropriate The main rules for Munich Re are contained in the investigations if there is a concrete suspicion of Code of Conduct and in various data protection and fraudulent activity. Depending on the individual case, information security norms, which are specific to each if a violation is proven, action is taken based on field of business and mandatory for all staff. The norms ­labour, criminal and/or civil law. are based mainly on the EU General Data Protection A key task in the reporting year 2018 was implementRegulation (GDPR) for Group companies domiciled in ing the provisions of the GDPR, which became directly Through our approach, we ensure that Munich Re also the EU/EEA. The Group-wide guideline on information applicable in all EU member states in May 2018. meets legal regulations in other countries that the security and business continuity management – the Among other initiatives, the respective fields of business Group is obliged to comply with as a result of its ISM & BCM Policy sets binding targets, minimum began launching projects in 2017 aimed at adapting international activities. These include, for example, requirements, responsibilities, processes and reporting their IT applications to the new standards. In addition, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) in the USA, procedures for the protection of information and for Munich Reinsurance Company, ERGO and MEAG and the Bribery Act in the United Kingdom. ensuring business continuity. Binding corporate rules each adopted their own data protection policies for at all locations worldwide are intended to ensure an activities in the EU/EEA. The goal for each field of appropriate level of data protection for our intra-Group business is to adopt binding rules that ensure a unicommunications with companies in the reinsurance form level of data protection across all organisagroup that are domiciled outside the EU/EEA. tional areas. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 17 Since 2018, Munich Reinsurance Company’s Data processes that entail a high risk to a person’s rights or In the field of taxation, the Group Tax department Protection Officer has also been acting as Group Data freedoms. The tool is currently already being used by has overall responsibility for Munich Reinsurance Protection Officer for the companies in the reinsurance Munich Reinsurance Company and is to be introduced Company, MEAG and other German subsidiaries in field of business within the EU/EEA. The only exception at ERGO in the course of 2019. It is planned to the reinsurance group. This responsibility extends to is our UK subsidiaries, which, in light of Brexit, have ­introduce Compliance Web throughout the Group in Group-wide guidelines on tax strategy, tax calculation already appointed a data protection officer of their own. due course. and transfer prices. The CFO in the relevant location Among other tasks, the Group Data Protection Officer is responsible for local tax matters at foreign sub­ aims to ensure uniform compliance with the guideIn 2018, all staff at Munich Reinsurance Company and sidiaries or branch offices. lines across the EU/EEA, monitors the legality of ERGO were trained using an e-learning course to IT-supported data processing, advises the respective ­ensure that they handled personal data carefully and Our staff must comply with the applicable rules to meet companies on their duties under the applicable rules, in compliance with the provisions of the GDPR. In our tax obligations. It is their duty to develop problem answers staff questions about data protection, and acts ­addition, mandatory classroom seminars have been awareness for tax risks, and to familiarise themselves as a first point of contact in communications with introduced, with content targeted at the respective with tax subjects in their respective work areas. the supervisory authorities. He or she reports at least divisions. All staff at MEAG are required to undergo once a year to Munich Reinsurance Company’s Board classroom training on data protection and information In Munich, Munich Reinsurance Company has a certiof Management about material data protection issues security once a year. And from 2019, MEAG will also fied tax compliance management system in place. and improvements to the data protection management be offering an e-learning course. This builds on a credible tax compliance culture, sets system. MEAG and ERGO have each appointed their targets and establishes programmes as part of a own Data Protection Officers, who have corresponding In 2018, no material data protection event as defined ­continuous improvement process. The key elements responsibilities and obligations. in the Solvency II Group Compliance Policy occurred of the Group-wide tax compliance policy can be found anywhere in our Group worldwide, nor were any on our website under Tax Transparency Report. In light of its accountability, Munich Re developed ­material proceedings instituted for breaches of data Our tax expenditure by region can be found in the an in-house IT tool in 2017/2018 to ensure compliance protection rules. Additional information can be section on financial indicators. with data protection rules: the Compliance Web is found with our Privacy Statement. designed to use a defined process to automatically submit every IT-supported processing of personal Transparency and legal conformity in data directly to IT Security and the Data Protection all tax matters Officer, among others. This allows every new or amended processing task to be documented, checked Munich Re endeavours to be a law-abiding and transfor compliance with the legal norms, and regularly parent taxpayer at national and international level. monitored. The tool also allows us to identify and track, As such, we enjoy the trust of authorities and the public with the help of a privacy impact assessment (PIA), with regard to our tax reliability and credibility. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 18 Responsible approach to lobbying Sustainable finance: Political involvement > GRI 103; 102-13 We are engaged in the design of the EU action plan > GRI 415-1 for sustainable finance by participating in consultaIn the interests of our clients, employees and sharetions on legislative procedures and in surveys by the Munich Re (Group) supports the democratic political holders, we participate in the political decision-making supervisory authorities. process and, to this end, donates to the following process. We actively participate in a number of inGerman political parties: Bündnis90/Die Grünen, dustry organisations, including the German Insurance Climate change: CDU, CSU, FDP and SPD. These parties each receive Association (GDV), the Geneva Association, the EuroWe support the resolutions of the Paris climate proan identical donation with no conditions attached. pean Insurance Chief Finance Officers (CFO) Forum, tection agreement. We factor into our business proMunich Re and ERGO each pay for one half of the exthe Chief Risk Officers (CRO) Forum, the Reinsurance cesses climate effects at risk measurement, business penditure. The donations are transferred exclusively Advisory Board (RAB) of Insurance Europe, and development and asset management levels. We also to the parties’ federal headquarters. In addition to the Pan-European Insurance Forum (PEIF). The Public participate in public and private initiatives to develop the above donations, membership fees are paid to Affairs department (ESP1.3) in the Central Division and market innovative insurance solutions for ­organisations closely affiliated with the parties. Further Economics, Sustainability and Public Affairs is respon­climate risks. information can be found in the key figures section. sible for lobbying governments, national and supranational authorities, associations and other organisaRegulation of system risks: tions on behalf of Munich Re (Group). Munich Re has been identified as not being a global systemically important insurer (G-SII). However, ­ In 2018, our main areas of focus were the following we are following the discussions on the methodical topics and activities: development towards an activity-based approach, and are participating in consultations on this topic. Digitalisation: Copyright © We support the digital agenda of the German Federal Munich Re places particular importance on transGovernment and the European Commission. Our parency in all lobbying activities. As well as the inforThomas Trutschel/ photothek.net) ­focus is on the creation of standardised framework mation in the CR Report, we provide details to the conditions and legal security in Europe. A further transparency register of the European Parliament ­objective is to facilitate the development of innovative and the European Commission on focal points, products and services and exploit the benefits of memberships and the cost of our lobbying activities. ­digitalisation. Further information can be found in the Further information can be found key figures section. chapter on digitalisation. Independent journalism Global Insurance Capital Standard (ICS): Munich Re respects the principle of journalistic indeThe creation of a global capital standard for insurance pendence and favours a strict separation between companies poses a major challenge for companies journalism and public relations work. We therefore and supervisory authorities. We are therefore particicomply with the guideline on dealing with journalists pating in discussions on the development of the issued by the German Public Relations Association ICS and assisting with quantitative tests. (DPRG) and the statutes of the German Council for Public Relations (DRPR). More detailed information is available on our website. Achtung, Transparenz kann je nach 02_Core 04_Umwelt business Hintergrundmotiv variieren Qui blaut qui aut quas dolore nobitati cum exere pliqui dolutate lacimodi oditas eium, qui beatin et et as ullaboritis etur sequidenis ut hillenecus et facerue nobitati cum exere pliqui dolutae nobitati cum exere pliqui dolutaptaque prem debit estium qui. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 20 Sustainable services and sustainable investment. Further key topics in our core business include climate change, Excerpt from our Code of Conduct ­approach to core digitalisation and risk awareness, something that is found in all our activities as a cross-cutting issue. As a Group, we aim to … … make a positive contribution to the environbusiness For our core business, we have set ourselves a series ment and society with our conduct; of targets focusing on sustainability. Our aim is the … observe ESG principles on sustainable consistent integration of ESG criteria into all processes ­economic development; at Munich Re in the fields of both insurance and in… fund projects and work with partners worldThe focus of our corporate responsibility is on our vestment. A further focus is on refining our climate wide to support solutions to social challenges. core business – the assumption and diversification of strategy and on anchoring ethical standards that are risks in primary insurance and reinsurance, and also essential to ensuring we handle artificial intelligence As a member of staff, this means that ... in investment. We know that can we only achieve long-­ in a responsible manner. Further information on our … I consider ESG aspects in my work; term economic success through responsible action. objectives and the progress achieved in 2018 can be … I consult the respective bodies when our That is why the objective of sustainable economic value found in the target table in the Corporate governance ­reputation is at risk; creation is anchored in the core principles of our section and in the individual topic areas in this section. … my decisions at work actively support our corporate strategy. In our core business, we achieve the ­environmental and climate goals. greatest possible impact for our Group and for society by taking into account environmental, social and Corporate responsibility in insurance governance aspects (ESG). business ESG criteria integrated into processes and > GRI 103; 203-1; 203-2 We have highlighted our commitment to responsible products action by signing the Principles for Sustainable ­Insurance (PSI) and the Principles for Responsible Our business is the assumption and diversification of We systematically take ESG aspects into account Investment (PRI). These two voluntary commitrisks in primary insurance and reinsurance. We possess in our insurance business. This applies both to our ments go well beyond what is required by law or by strong leverage for sustainable action by linking ecointernal underwriting processes and our products supervisory regulations. nomic success with added value for society. In insurand services. ance business, we principally achieve this through a Our actions are guided by the key topics we have strong client focus, the integration of ESG aspects, and Many industries and projects can have a major impact identified for the primary insurance and reinsurance by offering responsible products and services. on the environment and local communities. If adequate fields of business, and also for investment, as part of consideration is not given to such consequences, the the 2018 materiality analysis. As well as client focus underwriting risk may increase. The systematic and the integration of ESG aspects into our business, ­integration of ESG aspects enables us to identify these we attach special importance to responsible products, risks and to minimise them in cooperation with our Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 21 clients. We also make use of collaboration with Risk-based management established Further information on the ­approach of the RRC can ­other partners, institutions and non-governmental Group-wide be found in the combined non-financial statement organisations (NGOs). for Munich Re (Group). Strategic decisions on the implementation of ESG This approach is relevant for our business in three ­aspects are generally made in the Board of Management Our aim for 2019 is to review the current governance different ways: committees. The Group Corporate Responsibility structure with the purpose of refining the management Committee (GCRC), directed by the Sustainability unit, of ESG risks. 1. We can identify ESG-related risks faster, thereby was established in 2012 in order to identify sensitive adding an additional dimension to our risk managebusiness topics. In 2012, we incorporated the Munich Re (Group) ment. This also helps us avoid any reputational ­commitment to the Principles for Sustainable Insurance risks for the Group. Transactions involving reputational risks are submitted (PSI) into the preamble to our internal Group-wide to the Reputational Risk Committee (RRC) for each risk management manual. This is the reference for the 2. We enhance our business partners’ risk awareness field of business. These committees analyse and assess corresponding manuals for the different business on sustainability issues. specific reputational issues and ESG risks relating fields, and is generally a mandatory reference for all to individual transactions, and make recommendations underwriting guidelines in the Group. We report 3.  By uncovering ESG risks, we develop new business on accepting or rejecting a particular risk. An assessannually on our progress with the integration of the opportunities and coverage concepts, which we ment by the Sustainability unit is mandatory. In 2018, PSI principles. then translate into sustainable solutions. 50% of the cases submitted to the RRC were approved with no conditions attached. Roughly 35% of enquiries In addition, we have identified twelve generally The integration of ESG aspects into core business was were approved with conditions ­attached, and 15% were valid ESG aspects that are taken into account in our first included in the three-year targets for members declined. In the Internal Risk Report, we regularly detail insurance business and investment transactions. of the Board of Management in 2012. Since 2018, ESG any significant reputational risks for Munich Re. criteria have been factored into a newly designed remuneration system, into both, the annual and medium-­ term bonuses for members of the Board of Management. More detailed information can be found in our ESG aspects for corporate responsibility in (re)insurance and investment Remuneration report. Environment Society Governance – Natural resources and – Political environment and public – Responsible and careful ­biodiversity perception ­planning and assessment – Pollution – Human rights – Compliance – Greenhouse gas emissions – Working conditions – Consultation and transparency – Cultural heritage – Resettlement of people – Health and safety of the ­community Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 22 In addition we have identified seven sensitive topics topics were integrated into an ESG tool, which helps Regarding the coal sector, Munich Re decided in 2018 or sectors. Binding guidelines or best practice recomour underwriters systematically take ESG aspects ­into to stop insuring as individual risks new constructions mendations were drawn up for these topics, which account when performing risk assessments. Members of coal-fired power plants or coal mines in industrialare applicable for reinsurance, primary insurance and of staff who underwrite business worldwide can also ised countries, and in the bulk of emerging markets as investment. Questionnaires specially tailored to the refer to an ESG country rating that gives them a quick well. There may be a small number of exceptions in overview of key indicators countries where a substantial portion of the population (more than 10%) has no access to electricity. These The following exclusions apply for our insurance are reviewed on a case-by-case basis. You can find more Sensitive issues: business: detailed information on this in the Climate Change Munich Re positions and measures There is a Group-wide policy applicable for banned section. weapons, stipulating that Munich Re does not insure or invest in companies that manufacture cluster bombs Furthermore, at ERGO, ESG aspects have been taken Banned weapons: Policy on cluster munition and or land mines, or in companies that trade in them or into account since 2014 as standard components in land mines transport them. This applies where such transactions the product development process for private clients. or operations are known. Coal: Policy on coal business underwriting and investments Arctic drilling: Guidelines, risks to be referred to Arctic Drilling Panel Oil sand: Position paper including specific questions on ESG aspects Fracking: Position paper including specific questions on ESG aspects Mining: Position paper including specific questions on ESG aspects Investments in farmland: Mandatory ESG check for investments Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 23 Commitment to the PSI initiative In the field of reinsurance, we have also developed a An example from India shows how inclusive insurance network of coordinators in the business units. Staff solutions work in practice: Around 80% of crop losses Munich Re actively assisted in designing a PSI initiative members function as multipliers, actively sharing their in the country are weather-related, but less than a which, in February 2019, presented for the first time knowledge of ESG integration within their own quarter of farmers have insurance against this risk. In a compilation of best practice examples to assess ­department, for risk assessment, in client discussions 2010, on behalf of the Indian government, HDFC sustainability risks in non-life insurance. The proposed and in exchanges with other divisions. ERGO General Insurance Company was the first private ESG standards are the result of several years of collaboinsurance company to introduce weather insurance ration with leading insurers and key stakeholders at Developing marketable solutions from for crop losses. In 2018, gross premiums equivalent to global level. This highlights a systematic approach that ESG risks €270m were written and 3.7 million farmers insured. insurers can take for ESG risks. Our aim is to continually refine the assessment of ESG risks, while at the Our core business constantly faces new kinds of risks > 3.7 million same time incorporating the standards developed and global challenges. We develop innovative solution by the PSI initiative. concepts for ESG risks, while opening up new business opportunities. In keeping with our shared-value people Training courses and networks secure approach, we generate benefits for our Group and for ­competency transfer society as a whole. In our latest materiality analysis, we have identified climate change, digitalisation and The individual business units at Munich Re each have risk awareness as focus topics. Here we present a responsibility for the risks they write, with regard to selection of solutions and activities in connection with covered by inclusive insurance products both underwriting and ESG aspects. We offer targeted additional topics. training programmes to qualify our staff and develop their competence in relation to ESG aspects. These are Inclusive insurance protects livelihoods DKV Seguros offers further examples of simplified tailored to the individual business activities and access to insurance solutions. For example, even people ­regions, include training on the practical implementation Munich Re and the Munich Re Foundation, along over the age of 69 can have access to its insurance of our underwriting guidelines, and provide information with primary insurers and other institutions and interproducts. Also the private health insurance Famedic on current sustainability topics. national NGOs, are supporting the development of offered by DKV Seguros does not consider factors ­inclusive insurance solutions. These must be adapted such as the age and health of its customer groups when The training course are intended for managers, under­ to the needs of low-income social groups in emerging pricing premiums, and also offers large discounts writers, client managers, business analysts and trainees and developing countries. Only then can they protect for families. in the divisional units. The training formats are also people from losing their livelihood. open to all other interested staff members and have become an integral part of our client seminars. More than 600 staff members worldwide have already been sensitised to ESG aspects in this way. Our aim is to continually improve our training formats, for example through the establishment of e-learning programmes. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 24 Insurance against crop losses It is not just in developing countries that small farmers and their crops face the threat of destruction from weather-related events. In the future, climate change will bring greater fluctuation in crop yields in general. At the same time, global demand for agricultural commodities will continue to rise. Besides financial reinsurance and traditional reinsurance, an increasing number of alternative risk-transfer products are ­establishing themselves in the agricultural sector as efficient risk management tools. Our main focus here is to cover peak risks from natural disasters. As part of a public-private partnership, Munich Re also offers crop-failure insurance solutions for the agricultural sector, crop insurers and the public ­sector. Further information on these solutions can be found on the Munich Re website. Reducing the financial risks from infectious diseases Munich Re has joined forces with the World Bank, the World Health Organization and other financial sector companies to create the first insurance solution to fight developing into a pandemic. The insurance component Innovative risk transfer solutions dangerous epidemics and pandemics in developing of the PEF will provide maximum coverage of US$ 425m countries. The Pandemic Emergency F ­ inancing for an initial period of three years. In the event of an The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), Facility (PEF) creates a mechanism to quickly channel epidemic or pandemic, it allows funds to be promptly with substantial assistance from Capital Partners, first-relief surge funding to developing countries used to combat and contain an outbreak and the a Munich Re division specialising in alternative risk facing a major disease outbreak with the potential of ­associated financial risks. In 2018, the PEF made its transfer solutions, has developed the first Humanitarian first-ever financial commitment, approving a grant of Impact Bond (HIB). Munich Re also invested in this US$ 12 m US$ 12m to bridge the funding gap for Ebola counterinitiative. With the help of the HIB, the ICRC can fund measures in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. the operation of rehabilitation centres in Central Africa. Munich Re is pushing for an extension of the mechanism Depending on how successfully these centres operate, to cover the period after 2020. the governments that subsidise the humanitarian in 2018 for Ebola countermeasures activities there reimburse the investor for what they have paid in, along with an additional return. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 25 Provide companies with effective protection Client satisfaction in 2018 was at a high level. We against environmental damage managed to improve the Net Promoter Score by 13% in comparison with the previous year’s result. Clients European environmental law increasingly holds also rate Munich Re’s service quality higher than the ­polluters responsible for causing damage to flora, fauna, best-in-class competitor. bodies of water and soil. In the event of a loss, immense clean-up costs can threaten the very survival In order to maintain our lead over the competition, and of a company. Since 2009 ERGO’s Eco insurance to allow us to respond proactively to suggested imhas been a component of our public liability insurance. provements from our clients, we offer a comprehensive Comprehensive expert consultancy and appropriate training programme for all staff members who have prevention measures also help to prevent losses. direct client contact. The aim is to develop an understanding of the clients’ strategies and requirements, so Customer satisfaction is key to success that we can work out solutions together. > GRI 103; 417-1 We additionally promote direct exchange with our Maintaining a close and trusting relationship with our ­clients through the ADVANCE programme for high-­ clients is of crucial importance for the success of our potential leadership talents from selected clients. In »Advance’s new orientation will insurance business. For that reason, we want to under2018, Munich Re gave this – its top-talent programme – stand our clients’ needs and develop the best solutions a new strategic focus, centred on finding solutions to help us to identify clients’ needs for them in a process of dialogue. future challenges in the insurance industry, and on the joint development of forward-looking business ideas. directly. By working together In reinsurance, we manage this dialogue and service on the basis of clients’ needs and clients’ income potential. In the field of primary insurance, ERGO demonstrates with them on solutions to future The process includes an analysis of the markets and major players, and the implementation of individual its strong client focus with clear communication, high-­ quality consulting, transparent and easily accessible challenges, we will strengthen reinsurance solutions for our clients. The client managers products, and numerous opportunities to give feedback. trust and bind clients even more are supported by a central sales unit, which ensures transparency in relation to the Group-wide product and ERGO also offers different dialogue formats in order closely to Munich Re.« service landscape. to obtain personal feedback and new client input. As participants in the ERGO client workshop or as a _Torsten Jeworrek, CEO of reinsurance operations for Munich Re Munich Re conducts regular global surveys of all of its member of the ERGO client advisory council clients reinsurance clients. The response rate is around 30%. can help ERGO with criticisms and suggestions, and The survey looks at the Net Promoter Score (NPS) and contribute to the design of its range of services. client satisfaction in connection with various aspects of the business relationship. To supplement the centrally managed survey, the operational units obtain regular feedback from the clients. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 26 To make access to products and services as easy as Corporate responsibility in investment possible for clients, ERGO is continually expanding > GRI 103; 201-2; 203-1; 203-2 its digital offerings, for example through its digital subsidiary nexible, or with a range of products that can be purchased simply via voice dialogue. Because our business model as an insurer has a longterm focus, sustainability criteria in investment play a Particular emphasis is placed on easy-to-understand key, strategic role. Since as an insurance company, we products in order to offer clients a high level of transmust invest our clients’ money sensibly and profitably, parency on the services ERGO offers. To this end, with we are subject to strict security and return requirethe help of external experts, ERGO has developed its ments. For our investments, just as with our insurance own comprehensibility standards, and fully revised its business, we consider it essential to consider ESG contract documents and product information. aspects and to offer responsible products and services. Management of our investments is based on three pillars: 1. Systematic integration of ESG criteria 2. Investment focus topics (for example renewable energies) and 3. Defined exclusion criteria Apart from financial perspectives, we also give systematic consideration to ESG criteria in our investments. This helps us identify further risks and opportunities by going beyond the standard financial analysis. We are convinced that the integration of ESG criteria leads Strategic decisions for sustainable investments to better investment decisions in the long term. are made in the Board of Management’s Strategy Committee or the Group Investment Committee The Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) pro(GIC). Since March 2019, the new Chief Investment vide a framework for sustainable action in the field Officer (CIO) is responsible for the whole Asset of ­investment. In order to ensure that we adhere to Management of Munich Re (Group). our sustainable investment approach, we established a binding Group-wide Responsible Investment While the Asset Liability Management (ALM) unit Guideline (RIG), which covers all requirements regardmanages the investments of the reinsurance group, ing PRI and ESG that concern Munich Re (Group) asERGO’s Strategic Asset Allocation (SAA) performs set management, especially on the subject of excluthis function for ERGO investments. Munich Re’s insion criteria for investments. vestments are largely bundled under the umbrella Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 27 of MEAG, our internal asset management arm. This At Group level, a team consisting of members from the Sustainability criteria firmly anchored in the allows the Group’s investments to be managed in units Sustainability, ALM, ERGO SAA and MEAG investment process conformity with uniform policies and principles. MEAG strategically refines the approach to socially responsible currently manages a global portfolio worth more than investment (SRI) in line with PRI requirements. You Our aim is to invest the bulk of our assets sustainably. €250bn (incl. third party business and participations can find further information on PRI and their impleThe target achievement is measured on the basis of of the Group). mentation by Munich Re in the Annex. internal sustainability reporting (sustainability ratio). In 2018, the required sustainability quota was fulfilled in accordance to the RIG. The systematic integration of ESG criteria is an elementary component of our investResponsible Investment Guideline (RIG): [4] Investments in equities or bonds of companies ment strategy. Individually defined ESG criteria are that derive more than 30% of their revenues incorporated ­into the selection process for all classes The RIG is applicable to Munich Re, including its from the mining of coal or the generation of of assets. In 2018, new processes were introduced for reinsurance and primary insurance branches worldelectricity from coal are not permitted. the areas of equity, bonds (credit and government) and wide. It applies to the complete investment portprivate equity. Our portfolio managers and credit analysts folio, whether managed by MEAG, any other third [5] T  he Group Corporate Responsibility Committee at all MEAG locations have received comprehensive party or the Company itself. The RIG includes (GCRC) evaluates and prioritises sensitive training on ESG criteria. An overview of the individual the following regulations: ­issues for Munich Re (Group). There are position investment segments and their focus on sustainability papers in place for the following sensitive issues: is provided below. The infographic further illustrates [1] At least 80% of the investments of each oil sands, fracking and mining. All these position the MEAG investment process for shares and ­business field in shares, corporate, government papers include specific questionnaires regard­corporate bonds. or covered bonds, real estate and alternative ing ESG aspects. For Arctic drilling there is a investments should be placed in assets included position paper and guideline in place. […] MEAG asset classes (31. 12. 2018) in one of the established sustainability indices or which meet other accepted sustainability [6] T  he position paper and guideline on investment 10% 31% criteria. […] in farmland are to be taken into account as part Participations Corporate bonds, covered bonds and of the due diligence on investment decisions [2] Munich Re does not invest in companies that in relation to farmland. This applies both to in8% other loans Illiquid assets produce, trade in or transport banned weapons vestments in funds and to direct investments if such production, trade or transport is material for the purpose of leasing and/or farming. 5% for the respective company. […] Cash [7] Investments in government bonds and bonds [3] Trading and holding investments in food-­ of government-related institutions of countries € 254 bn related commodities (e.g. grains and oilseeds, assessed in a certain category according to 5% Shares livestock, dairy, etc.) and related derivatives the MSCI ESG rating are not permitted. is not allowed. […] 41% Government bonds Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 28 Liquid assets: MEAG’S SUSTAINABLE Shares, corporate bonds and covered bonds: 5. INVESTMENT PROCESS New process since 2018: Our portfolio managers –  olio creation for share now make systematic use of MSCI ESG analyses, p or t f s an is and dc s orp in addition to financial data, in order to evaluate the a n aly or at G eb return/risk profile of various investments. ES on d Reporting: 2. a 2. b s regular reporting about our Government bonds: ESG integration progress and activities – New process since 2018: Our portfolio managers now also use country ratings from MSCI for their analysis. In cases where countries fail to satisfy MSCI MEAG our criteria, MEAG refrains from investing in their MSCI: MEAG: ­government bonds or the bonds of quasi-governMEAG portfolio managers and MEAG portfolio managers and credit analysts have access to credit analysts create MEAG‘s mental organisations. ESG analyses and ESG ratings own ESG analysis using MSCI of ~7,000 companies ESG information Illiquid assets: Real estate: 3. – We consider sustainability aspects for the purchase, 4. construction as well as for the renovation of real 1. ­estate. We observe our ESG criteria when performing due diligence for new investments. These steps Portfolio creation: portfolio managers create a portEngagement: range from examining the geographic properties of folio based on information from conventional financial secudiscussion of ESG risks and opporthe site, the construction materials and the technical rities analyses and ESG tunities with companies and check of ESG aspects before voting facilities used, through to considering social aspects Strategic asset allocation: analyses at annual general allocation of capital among defiof investment projects. With work on existing properned asset classes (e.g. equities, meetings bonds, real estate, renewable ties, requirements for energy efficiency and the energy) choice of suitable construction materials, partners and proven technologies apply. MEAG encourages its tenants to use its buildings in a sustainable way and has produced an information brochure on the subject. for this investment category, which form part of due Agriculture and forestry: diligence. In addition we examine meteorological –A  s well as the financial aspects, the investment Infrastructure and renewable energies: and climate-related factors (such as solar irradiation ­process considers important factors in the due – In view of the extremely long investment period, we with solar installations, or wind force with onshore ­diligence phase that are needed to meet the aims carefully examine all risks associated with these wind farms), as well as political parameters such as of the investment. These include ESG criteria. ­investments. We have defined specific ESG criteria the relevant national energy policy. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 29 Private equity: who act sustainably. Issuers are selected on the basis – Since 2018, we have considered under due diligence of their environmentally friendly and socially responfor private equity investments whether ESG criteria sible track record, as well as good corporate governance or an appropriate Responsible Investment Guideline and financial performance. Companies from contenshould apply for the target fund. tious business fields are not considered. The fund MEAG EM Rent Nachhaltigkeit chiefly invests in Cash: bonds from governments and companies in emerging – New process since 2018: Our portfolio managers and developing countries with stable growth and are now using MSCI ESG analyses in addition to ­sustainable policies. Once again, companies from ­finance data to evaluate the return/risk profile contentious business fields are not considered. The for different investments. volume of these products is approximately €1bn. Participations (subsidiaries): The new MEAG Infrastructure Debt Fund also offers –  Corporate Governance principles are implementinstitutional investors targeted investments in infraed Group-wide. structure projects, for example in renewable energies, overall output of 175 megawatts at the end of 2018 transport, or social infrastructure. The first round of In addition to the selection process, our portfolio manwill significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions financing raised over €200m. The overall target is a agers incorporate ESG issues into our shareholder polover the next few years (by the equivalent of roughly volume of €500m. The first specific debt project was icies and practices. This is reflected, for example, in 87,000 t CO2), and also supply an additional 93,000 already implemented in January 2019. the MEAG voting policy. households with clean electricity. Our investments: Focus on renewable energies In total, Munich Re has invested around 1% of its assets under management (€2.5bn) in renewable energies Through our investments, we want to promote the use and green bonds. We continue to rely heavily on reof future technologies to avoid greenhouse gas emisgional and segment-specific diversification of these sions. Therefore MEAG invests, on behalf of Munich Re, investments in order to spread the technical and in infrastructure projects around the world such as ­political risks within the portfolio. solar power plants and wind farms. Invested capital (equity and debt) in renewable energies was approx. Sustainable focus for MEAG investment fund €1.6bn (2017: €1bn) and should be steadily increased over the next few years to €2.8bn. MEAG offers its private and institutional clients sustainable investment products. The equity fund MEAG These investments help to mitigate climate change. For ­Nachhaltigkeit invests throughout the world, primarily example, in 2018 our installations generated approxiin companies with responsible management practices. mately 2.3 million megawatt hours of green electricity, Producers of tobacco and alcoholic beverages, and supplying power to around 590,000 households, thereby arms manufacturers are excluded, as are companies avoiding some 800,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalents. in the gambling industry. MEAG FairReturn invests The purchase of a solar park in Southern Spain with an mainly in bonds and shares from European issuers Columbia Square, Washington, LEED gold certificate Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 30 However, the latest scientific knowledge indicates that single loss events cannot be attributed to climate change alone. Instead, an analysis of the long-term trends in meteorological data is needed, along with a precise analysis of any potential changes in risk characteristics. The consequences of climate change directly affect the insurance industry. Extreme weather events result ­ in substantial damage to buildings and infrastructure, as well as causing significant crop losses in agriculture. People are killed and injured, particularly in regions where risk prevention is still in its infancy. Climate change is undoubtedly one of the biggest challenges facing mankind. Already today, decisive action is an absolute necessity to limit global warming to less than 2°C. Munich Re is also committed to achieving this goal set by the Conference of the Parties (COP) on Climate Change in Paris, and undertakes to make its own, independent contribution to combating climate change. As well as risk-reducing insurance solutions geared towards loss prevention and adaptation to climate change, we perceive our greatest leverage lies in helpSolution-oriented responses to Science is providing ever clearer evidence that climate ing new climate-friendly technologies to break through. change is influencing weather-related natural disasters, We assume this role as an enabler in the fields of ­climate change although to differing degrees according to the region electricity generation, transport, energy storage and > GRI 103; 201-2; 203-1; 203-2 and type of hazard. industrial production. We see significant promise in the conversion of energy from renewable sources, Anthropogenic climate change is already a reality today, Researchers believe that it is highly likely that climate ­energy sources such as hydrogen or methane, in fuel this is an established fact. In global terms, 2018 was change is influencing severe thunderstorms with hail cell technology, and in offshore wind farms. one of the four warmest years ever. The mean temperin North America and Europe, and that it is also related ature of land and sea surfaces was almost 1°C above to the increase in storms with extreme precipitation. the level for the pre-industrial period. Nine of the ten Also in the case of wildfires in California and heatwaves warmest years have occurred since 2005. in general, climate change due to anthropogenic ­influences is seen as the most plausible explanation. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 31 Our own climate strategy determines our action issues relating to it are handled at Board of ManageRisk evaluation creates transparency ment level. At Munich Re, Dr. Torsten Jeworrek, As (re)insurers, we analyse all aspects of climate ­Reinsurance CEO, is responsible for all insurance-­ For us, recording and assessing the impact of climate change, from the physical and regulatory consequences specific matters relating to climate change. He is change on the frequency and intensity of natural to the associated changes in technology. We are best ­assisted by expert teams from the following units: ­disasters is of key strategic importance. We can only possible equipped to meet these and other future Climate & Public Sector Business Development, develop and implement viable risk transfer solutions challenges thanks to our long-established expertise in ­Corporate Underwriting and Green Tech Solutions. for our clients if we have a good understanding of the the assessment of climate risks. associated effects on our business. Natural disasters Our strategic approach covers both business-related are among the loss scenarios with the biggest loss The management of the risks and opportunities arising activities and corporate responsibility measures. It is potential. They are also among the strongest drivers from climate change is an integral component of made up of the following five modules: for risk capital allocation. Accordingly, we need to know ­Munich Re’s strategy, and all material and strategic Climate strategy Munich Re (Group) Business-related activities Risk evaluation Risk-transfer solution Asset management Recording and evaluation of Realisation of business growth areas Supporting the expansion the impact of climate change on as a leading provider of risk-transfer of renewable energies and the frequency and intensity of solutions for renewable energies and infrastructure projects by natural hazards. other products aimed at adapting to pursuing a sustainable and mitigating climate change. investment strategy. Corporate responsibility Carbon neutrality strategy Involvement in climate initiatives »Here at Munich Re, we want to Munich: 2009 e.g. Munich Climate help establish new climate-friendly technologies.« Reinsurance worldwide: 2012 Insurance Initiative (MCII), Munich Re (Group): 2015 InsuResilience _Joachim Wenning, CEO Munich Re Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 32 precisely where and why risks are changing, and experience, in conjunction with this network, has proalso expedite the holistic integration of risks and what preventive and adaptation measures are needed duced new tools for digital analysis and solutions ­opportunities from climate change and the low-emisto protect people and property. that improve the insurability of natural hazards. The sion economy into the corporate value chain. At the findings from these analyses are consolidated on an same time, they represent a strategic approach to ongoing basis and translated into key recommendations highlighting climate risks and developing new business for action for Munich Re. opportunities. As part of the United Nations Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), Munich Re is participating with We also adopt a particular approach to research. We 17 leading insurance companies in a pilot project to collect loss data ourselves and participate in research implement the TCFD recommendations. The objective projects that are needed for a comprehensive risk is the development of modern risk assessment tools analysis. On this basis, for example, simulation models and industry-wide standards. The tools and indicators are built that allow our underwriters to carry out to be developed use the latest generation of scenario risk assessments for complex, very large risks. We analyses to assess climate-related risks for tangible use both in-house developments and recognised assets and investment. third-party models for these. Risk transfer solutions offer concrete assisIn addition, we analyse publications on climate change tance and promote innovative technologies and regularly participate in research projects with ­scientific institutes. By way of example, we are currently Adaptation to climate change taking part in an investigation into severe thunderAs a (re)insurer, Munich Re assumes a portion of the storms in Europe that includes analyses of past changes financial burden of those affected by natural disasters, in the risk from hail and tornadoes throughout Europe, allowing them to return to their daily lives more quickly and maps future changes in these risks using various after a loss event. Particularly in emerging and develclimate models. oping countries, a higher insurance density allows the economic shocks that follow disasters to be cushioned Munich Re is also supporting another research project more effectively, while at the same time supporting which uses models to investigate the extent to which sustainable economic growth. Many of these countries specific severe weather events have become a more are strongly affected both by natural disasters and likely phenomenon since pre-industrial times as a result the consequences of climate change. In the financial services and insurance sector, Munich Re of climate change. The aim of this research is to enable is a pioneer in analysing the consequences of climate preventive and adaptation measures to be applied in a Generally speaking, there is an urgent need for greater change. In the 1970s, we already began to investigate more targeted manner to protect people and property. protection and adaptation to the consequences of the causes behind increasingly costly losses from natural disasters due to climate change in order to weather-related natural catastrophes. Today, we are As part of the risk assessment, we examine the mitigate the humanitarian and financial impact. We part of a comprehensive scientific network that gives ­recommendations of the international Task Force on aim to play a preventive role and to improve adaptation us access to the latest findings on natural disasters and Climate-­related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). measures for the consequences of climate change climate change. Among other things, our many years’ These go far beyond simply climate reporting. They that are already unavoidable today. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 33 Wildfires in California: Extreme billion-dollar losses such as those in 2017 and 2018 will remain events that do not occur every year. Yet overall, the hazard level and the risk of losses have increased significantly. Measures that are needed to build resiliency and avoid losses include development concepts that avoid fire-­ hazard areas, improving fire resistance of buildings, and the removal of dry, combustible brushwood. Risks from floods can be reduced by installing flood protection on rivers, or through stricter building standards. For example in Germany, since the Elbe flooding in 2002, investment in dams and flood compensation schemes has prevented higher losses from floods. Additional effective preventive measures include avoiding development in hazardous areas, and taking precautions such as designing especially storm-­ resistant buildings and waterproof cellars. We want to make the benefits of insurance more evident for all stakeholders, for example for governments, supranational organisations such as development banks, and primary insurers. To this end, we are ­involved in the Insurance Development Forum. We are a member of the IDF Steering Committee at Board of Management level, and participate in working groups developing pilot projects to protect against proven in detail. This mechanism is particularly suited the island state was hit by Hurricane Matthew in 2016, natural disasters in several emerging and developing to financing emergency assistance, or for ensuring the CCRIF paid out US$ 23.4m to the Haitian governcountries, for example as part of public-private partthe fiscal stability of the countries affected. These risk ment within just a few days. Despite this covered only nerships. These could be a solution to help spread transfer solutions are usually developed in the form a small portion of the damage, the payment allowed ­insurance covers more widely in individual countries of a public-private partnership – offered in conjunction emergency measures to be taken promptly, while or transnationally in the form of regional risk pools. with supranational development banks or governinternational aid campaigns were still in the preparation ments – and implemented in cooperation with private phase. There are also similar programmes in place Covers with parametric triggers are one example of an insurance companies. for Africa, Pacific island states, and in 25 provinces innovative risk transfer solution. In this instance, followof the Philippines. ing a natural disaster of a specific strength – measured The Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility in terms of wind speed or volume of rain – payment (CCRIF), of which Haiti is a member, illustrates how an is made immediately without damage needing to be insurance pool of this kind operates in practice. When Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 34 Active climate protection by promoting Munich Re has specialist technical expertise in this Also in the field of renewable energies, our Wind Energy ­climate-friendly technologies area and many years’ experience in renewable energies Yield Cover solution insures the availability and We need a new approach worldwide to limit global and energy efficiency. ­performance of turbines, as well as the wind output. warming, whether in terms of power generation based on renewable energies, in transport, energy storage, We frequently play a pioneering role in the market, At global level, we are also the first insurer to offer a or industrial production. Munich Re seeks to aid the for example, by offering new types of insurance cover. performance cover for battery storage, thus enabreakthrough of these climate-friendly and sustainable One example of this is a performance guarantee for bling battery manufacturers to offer their customers technologies. Insurance solutions protecting against 25 years for manufacturers of photovoltaic modules. long-term performance guarantees. The product covspecific risks, thereby enhancing the appeal of the This gives our clients added security for the quality of ers the repair costs and replacement value of battery technologies for investors and strengthening their their products, and relieves the module manufacturer modules that exceed a specific cost threshold. Our ­financing viability, are one component in this context. of the need to make provision for any warranty claims. additional offerings include performance guarantee covers for fuel cells, LED lighting technology and bioenergy plants. Our Green Tech Solutions team, which was specially established to develop innovative solutions, operates as a business enabler, offering investors, project developers, plant manufacturers and start-ups a wide range of ways to succeed on the market. Further information on Green Tech Solutions can be found on our website. In a further innovative approach, we have developed a solution to promote investment in renewable energies in Africa. As part of the UN initiative, Sustainable Energy for All (SE4ALL), which targets the sub-Saharan region, Munich Re developed the risk transfer solution African Energy Guarantee Facility (AEGF) in collaboration with the European Investment Bank (EIB) and two primary insurers. This offers protection against political risks in order to facilitate private investment in the use of renewable energies. As a sustainable (re)insurance pool, the AEGF has a structure involving risk transfer tranches, which can be assumed by ­insurers and private financial institutions. AEGF offers insurance capacity of US$ 1.4bn for political risks for a total of 25 African countries. You can find further information on the AEGF website. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 35 We underpin the approach of promoting new techClimate neutrality in Munich Re (Group) The Munich Climate Insurance Initiative (MCII) was nologies and, wherever possible, replacing climate-­ business operations founded back in 2005, following an initiative by damaging technologies, with our Group-wide position Munich Re and representatives from the World Bank, on coal as an energy source. We have anchored this We exploit the potential of our own business processes NGOs and academia. Since then, MCII has participated position in our Responsible Investment Guideline as to ensure climate-friendly action. As part of our Group-­ in the global climate negotiations (COPs), providing well as in our underwriting guidelines. It stipulates wide environmental and climate protection strategy, we suggestions on risk management. MCII has also prothat, in single risk business, Munich Re will no longer have set binding targets for reducing CO2 emissions vided technical support in the discussions on dealing insure new coal-fired power plants or new coal by 35% by 2020 (basis year 2009). Business operations with losses from climate change under the UNFCCC mines in industrialised countries, or in the majority throughout our Group have been carbon-neutral since Loss and Damage programme and the Warsaw Interof emerging markets. There may be a small number 2015. There is more detailed information on our environnational Mechanism. of exceptions in countries where a substantial portion mental management system and further activities in of the population (more than 10%) has no access to the section on Environment. As the focus of the project Tackling Climate Change electricity. In such countries, cases are analysed on the Together by Munich Re and ERGO we subsidise basis of clear criteria. These include a country’s deOur commitment to protection against the work of cleantech pioneers. Our involvement here pendency on coal, the natural endowment of renewable ­climate risks mainly relates to two projects: a start-up accelerator energy sources, the climate strategy of the company programme in partnership with Climate-KIC, and or country in question, and the technical standards For many years, Munich Re has played an active role in ­cooperation with the company SOLARKIOSK. Further applied. Since September 2018, Munich Re does not a range of national and international climate protection information on this cooperation can be found in invest in either shares or bonds of companies that organisations, such as the United Nations Environmental the section Society. generate more than 30% of their revenue from coal. Programme and the Global Climate Forum. We wish to contribute our expertise as a valuable partner for politiTogether with our partner, Climate-KIC, the largest Asset management makes the most of climate cal decision-makers, organisations and other enterprises. public-private climate initiative in the EU, we are proprotection potential moting climate-friendly technologies at a very early Particularly in emerging and developing countries, it stage. The accelerator programme is aimed at cleanWe manage our investments on the basis of three pillars: is essential to promote adaptation to climate change tech start-ups whose technologies and business models systematic integration of ESG criteria, defined exclusion in the form of insurance-related risk management offer responses to climate change. Munich Re and criteria, and particular investment focus areas, for exmechanisms. Munich Re supports the InsuResilience ERGO select start-ups, which will be supported for six €1.6bn ample on renewable energies initiative. Founded in 2015 by the G7 countries, this to eighteen months. The promotion takes the form and green bonds. In particular, initiative aims to enable an additional 400 million people of financing, but also involves consulting from experts, expanding investments in rein developing and emerging countries to access inwho support the companies as mentors. Depending newable energy and infrastrucsurance products covering weather and climate risks on the level of development of the start-up, sponsorture projects contributes to by 2020. The initiative is primarily financed by indusship can last from the initial idea through to market investment in renewable ­climate change adaptation and trialised countries. However, at the same time, as part maturity and beyond. Further information on this is energies by 2018 mitigation. The volume of capital of the InsuResilience Global Partnership, it relies on available on the project website. invested in renewable energies the active involvement of the G20 and V20 countries, such as solar parks and wind farms totalled €1.6bn at as well as close cooperation with civil society, insurers the end of 2018. Our long-term target is to increase and the scientific community. this figure to €2.8bn. Further information on this topic can be found in the CR in Investment section. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 36 mation, we have defined data protection and cyber security, along with responsible implementation of AI, as key aspects of corporate responsibility. High priority given to data protection and cyber security For us, it is crucially important to protect the personal data of our employees and clients, the information of our business and sales partners, and our own company secrets. We want to be seen as a competent and trustworthy business partner. We have also anchored this principle in our Code of Conduct. Detailed information on this topic can be found in the section Corporate governance. Responsible handling of artificial intelligence and big data Artificial intelligence and big data will play a central role in the insurance industry in future, whether in product design, underwriting, claims management, or in internal accounting processes. Liability issues are changing through the use of AI in insured products and services, for example with autonomous driving or in the field of medicine. The use of AI instruments in Industry 4.0 and cyber technologies also allows us to implement holistic risk management solutions for our clients. Using digitalisation responsibly more exact, safer and more cost-effective overall. Many Ethical principles are essential when using new data-­ > GRI 103; 203-1; 203-2 i­nnovations have therefore become possible now. based algorithms in order to protect the rights of our clients. Munich Re is conscious of its responsibilities For the insurance industry too, digitalisation is key to a with the use of AI-based systems and processes, and Digitalisation is entering many aspects of our lives both successful future. In order to meet the changing needs is responding accordingly. Under the guiding principle in business and in private. Computerisation and netof its client base, the insurance industry has to invest in of “Responsible Artificial Intelligence”, Munich Re is working continue to expand in the fields of production, hardware and technology, such as the IoT, data analytics currently devising a strategy based on the four “ethics transport, science, administration and the home and artificial intelligence (AI). For that reason, digitaliguidelines for trustworthy AI” drawn up by an EU ­environment. This is creating extensive opportunities: sation is already an integral part of the Munich Re Commission expert group, which we helped develop. processes are becoming infinitely reproducible, business strategy. In the context of the digital transforMunich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 37 Principles of “ethics guidelines for trustworthy AI” Prevention of unacceptable effects – Respect for human autonomy We monitor the impact of the decisions made by AI – Prevention of harm algorithms to prevent undesirable effects being created – Fairness or aggravated. By way of example: AI algorithms could – Explicability be used in healthcare, which might have repercussions for treatment and insurance cover. In our view, it is unFrom these principles, Munich Re has derived a acceptable if a higher risk for a serious illness results ­definition of the requirements for responsible use of for the person concerned due to decisions made by an AI in its own activities. The focus is on: AI algorithm. Needs-oriented solutions Data governance We only want to use AI in the sectors that promise us The persons affected must have full control of their added value for our clients or our employees. data, and be in a position to decide independently on their use. Consumers should always have the choice In this context, we rely on targeted applications with on whether or not to provide personal data for a service a clear connection to insurance, such as: or a third party. – a risk assessment that is shorter and simpler for the applicant; We implement these requirements in the following – prompt claim review and payment; concepts: – insurability of new kinds of risk. AI governance When developing AI applications, we consider social A central component is compliance with the applicable and economic aspects. At the same time, we continue laws and internal Group rules and principles, irrespective to be guided by the legal, social and cultural standards of the technology used. In conformity with existing rules in all the countries we operate in. on human decision-making, there must be an appropriate balance between the degree of autonomy and In this context, malfunctions include unforeseen events Non-discrimination regulation of AI systems on the one hand, and the asand manipulative attacks that interfere with the AI When developing algorithms, we pay close attention sociated risks on the other. Our AI governance also system from outside. to preventing any form of discrimination. We attach provides for clear responsibilities when dealing with great importance to ensuring that our algorithms do artificial intelligence. Transparency not adopt or amplify existing forms of discrimination We attach great importance to ensuring the greatest that are frequently found in historical data. We also Technical robustness possible transparency of our algorithms. Cooperation check that our data base, to the best possible extent, We ensure technical robustness when developing our with scientific and research institutes give us access covers all relevant groups of persons, for example in systems. In this way, we ensure that AI operates within to the latest processes that make the behaviour of AI terms of age, gender, nationality and ethnicity. secure boundaries even in the event of malfunctions. systems comprehensible. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 38 the relevant standards, and that our employees are are members of several bodies, such as the Microsoft in a position to use such systems in a responsible way. expert committee on AI, where they exchange inforIn addition to this, together with other partners from mation with other companies and draw up guidelines the fields of business and science, Munich Re has for dealing responsibly with the technology. Munich Re founded a non-profit association to promote data has become a shareholder in the German Research science in Germany, the German Data Science Centre for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI). This move will Society (GDS e.V.). The common objective is the trainstrengthen cooperation between the world’s leading ing, networking and fostering of data scientists in representatives from the fields of industry, science and ­Germany as a business and research location. politics. Not only will the partnership help us develop the best processes for our clients, it will also make the In the course of digitalisation, the volume of available latest level of knowledge available to our employees data has increased significantly. This has paved the and further advance research in this field. way for innovative business models and numerous new fields of application, such as AI-based loss identi­ Many social problems can be solved with AI, for exfication and the analysis of sensor data. At the same ample in the fields of medicine and mobility. We want time, the field of application for data analysis is becomto take on the role of enabler for these AI technologies ing increasingly complex, requiring ongoing training by assuming the residual risks from AI decisions. Howof experts, along with a cross-sector transfer of knowlever, an important precondition for insurability is that edge. This is the only way to compete successfully specific standards are met in terms of quality, stability, against global competitors in one of the key fields of non-discrimination, transparency and comprehensiapplication for digitalisation. bility. For that reason, together with partners such as the DFKI and appliedAI, we wish to define standards In 2018, a comprehensive digital training programme for the evaluation of the various AI algorithms. was developed for all employees in the form of the “Digital School” in the reinsurance business field. Digitalisation for the good of society The objective is to ensure that each employee has at least a basic knowledge of the digital technologies In line with our shared-value approach, we want to Training of our developers and employees and trends that affect us. use digitalisation and artificial intelligence for the good of society. We demonstrated how this could Digital technology is transforming the workplace – Social impact of AI – promote exchange, work through our involvement in the Social Impact especially at companies that are highly dataand ­protect against risks ­Datathon 2018, which was held to support the fight knowledge-driven, such as Munich Re. We believe this against global hunger. The aim was to use AI to makes it all the more important for us to provide AI will have multiple repercussions on society that are identify and effectively manage malnutrition risks. The target-group-specific basic and further training for impossible to predict today. For that reason, ethical event format was jointly organised by Munich Re, our developers, users and managers. In this way, we guidelines for dealing with AI can only be achieved in World Food Programme, Microsoft, and our subsidiary want to ensure that our AI-based systems always meet dialogue with politicians and scientists. Our AI experts Social Impact Partners (SIP). Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 39 The focus was the work on the Child Growth Monitor succeed. Munich Re is supporting the Child Growth of digitalisation were discussed by representatives app, which is based on intelligent algorithms and data Monitor with data expertise, its many years of experience from science, business and the media. The aim of management systems. The Monitor is just one of the with risk transfer schemes, and with innovative financthe s ­ eries of events was to sensitise both members mobile apps developed by World Food Programme. It ing models. Further information, including a film, are of staff and the public to the topic. allows body measurements to be carried out quickly available at Social Impact Data­Thon 2018. and precisely on children in famine regions. Statistics such as size and weight can be calculated by converting The Munich Re Foundation is also active in the field image data into 3D point clouds. This allows conclusions of digitalisation and organised a series of lectures in to be drawn about the supply situation in famine 2018 on the subject “Digital. Innovative. Fair? – The ­areas, and can determine whether or not aid projects future is already here”. Social changes in the context Why responsible AI? needed for insurability, for example with regard Responsible AI is important to ensure we retain to quality and transparency. We will work with our the trust and acceptance of employees, clients and partners on standards for evaluating the different society. It can also ensure competitive advantages algorithms. Our ultimate objective is to achieve for us over market participants who do not comply opinion leadership for responsible AI. with specific standards. AI without standards in connection with processes can result in additional What are the biggest challenges? risks due to misjudgements. As a leading global While many AI processes can improve the quality reinsurer, however, it is precisely our responsibility of predictions, the reasons for a particular prediction to assess risks, to reduce them as much as possiare not always immediately apparent. Munich Re ble, and to make the residual risk insurable. and the research institutes involved are making every effort to render decisions transparent. At the same What do we want to achieve? time, the development of algorithms for artificial “Responsible AI” – Interview We want to facilitate the breakthrough of AI techintelligence is moving at an incredible pace. Therewith Dr. Andreas Nawroth, nologies and help manage social challenges. The fore it will be crucial to continuously adapt and Head of AI, Munich Re question is who will bear the residual risks associenhance standards as well as guidelines whilst inated with an AI-based decision – and this is where cluding contributions of internal and external insurance enters the frame. Specific standards are stakeholders. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 40 in mitigating the impact of humanitarian disasters and facilitating sustainable economic growth. Below, we give some examples of the ways in which we endeavour to enhance risk awareness in these fields of action: – Mitigating the risks from natural disasters – Collaboration with partners to strengthen resilience Global commitment to risk prevention in ­relation to natural disasters Mitigating the consequences of natural disasters is one of the major challenges for the insurance industry. The rise in weather extremes is increasing the risk of being affected by a disaster in many regions around the world. In emerging and developing regions, this frequently results in costs that the countries concerned are barely able to finance. But in highly developed markets, natural disasters frequently cause devastation. Our special expertise in assessing natural perils helps enhance risk awareness in the affected regions. We help to create a better understanding of the positive effects of loss prevention and insurance. To this end, we develop sustainable risk transfer solutions with partners from science, business and politics. Increasing risk awareness in society both the private and public sector. This is a key cross-­ > GRI 103; 203-1; 203-2 cutting issue for us, and one that affects every aspect of our core business. By making risks insurable, we empower people to cope with existing and future challenges. We want to The insurance industry can help to make societies more identify emerging risks at an early stage and assess resilient in the face of disasters. Particularly in the them from every possible perspective. In this way, we world’s regions that are at risk of poverty, improving can enhance the risk awareness of our partners in risk management and resilience is a critical element Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 41 Munich Re is also involved in a wide range of prevention c ­ yclones and bushfires. The ABR was founded to proIn the USA, Munich Reinsurance America Inc. and the and adaptation measures aimed at protecting people mote the development of a sustainable and nationally American Modern Insurance Group support the ­ in exposed regions. For example, we are active as a coordinated approach to managing natural disasters. Institute for Business and Home Safety (IBHS). This founding member and participant in the Australian Most of the members of the initiative are leading compainstitute researches the influence of storms on resi­ Business Roundtable for Disaster Resilience and nies or aid organisations. The Munich Re website dential and commercial buildings with a view to reducing Safer Communities (ABR). Australia is highly prone contains further information on our involvement in losses for millions of people, and investigates effecto natural disasters, including devastating floods, the ABR. tive measures to reduce the impact of natural disasters and other causes of loss. An important element in the partnership is an online application for construction in accordance with IBHS standards. In this way, by adopting simple measures, owners can better protect their homes and commercial buildings against storm damage. To enhance risk awareness of landslides after monsoon rainfall in India, and to develop suitable prevention measures, we are supporting a project initiated by Geo­ Hazards International (GHI). Further information on this subject can be found in the section on Society. Risk assessment tools publicly accessible Munich Re’s NATHAN (Natural Hazards Assessment Network) Risk Suite helps our clients and partners assess the risks from natural hazards around the world, from location-based individual risks through to entire risk portfolios. Since April 2017, NATHAN has been equipped with additional functions and risk assessment innovations. The platform connects geospatial mapping and big data analytics, and allows complex analyses to be carried out in almost real time. This enables users to analyse extensive volumes of data. For example, entire treaty portfolios with hundreds of thousands of risk locations can be assessed with exceptionally high granularity. The demo version NATHAN Light can be used without obligation and free of charge. Flooding in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 42 Additional transparency comes from the Global Earthquake Model (GEM) and the publication of the first digital global earthquake-risk map. The aim is not just to map earthquake hazards worldwide. A risk model can also be drawn up for each country, incorporating data on the economy and the exposed building stock. This allows estimates to be made of loss potentials and the benefits of mitigation measures. The GEM emerged in 2007 from an initiative between researchers and the OECD, with Munich Re as the only company and founding sponsor. It operates on an open-source basis, so that user models, for example those of governments, public authorities, organisations, researchers and insurers, can be specifically modified. Strengthening the resilience of cities More than 50% of the world’s population today lives in urban centres. By 2050, the figure is expected to rise to 80%. Many cities are situated in exposed regions, and losses here are often exceptionally high, especially after natural disasters. It is therefore particularly important to increase the resilience of major cities. This has been a key issue for Munich Re for many years. We assist cities with a range of solutions that improve risk management with the help of innovative financing concepts. One such example is the Urban Air Other Munich Re information services include Nat­Cat­ and analysed every year. The information is used to ­Pollution Impact Bond, which Munich Re offers to assist SERVICE, which, with approximately 40,000 data document the scale and intensity of individual natural city authorities with air-improvement measures and sets, is the world’s most extensive database of natural catastrophes around the world and is then incorporated environmental protection. This solution protects against disasters. Approximately 1,000 events are recorded into the analysis of risks and trends. Since 2017, this both the financial risks and the performance risks information has been available for download from the of these measures. We work with our partner, Hawa ~ 40,000 Munich Re website. In addition, clients and interested Dawa, which provides extensive, reliable data on air parties have the option of using the NatCatSERVICE quality. Using this data, the environmental impact of online tool to carry out data analysis to meet their specific measures can be evaluated. This data-based individual needs. Further information on NatCatsolution has already been implemented in various data sets in our NatCatSERVICE SERVICE is available online. European cities, and meets the relevant legal standards. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 43 Munich Re has committed itself to additional initiatives lines. The intention is to develop a multi-dimensional to strengthen the resilience of cities. For example, we concept to increase resilience to risks by 2020, and support the Resilient Cities annual conference, which ultimately to provide greater resources to fight AIDS, is organised by the global city network, ICLEI – Local tuberculosis and malaria. You can find more information Governments for Sustainability. At this event, we proon the Social Impact Partners website. vide information based on current projects about the close connection between the world of insurance and resilient, sustainable cities. At the ICLEI World Congress 2018 in Montreal, a round table was organised with representatives from the insurance industry and the mayors of various cities and communities. The agenda included the presentation of the Insurance Development Goals for Cities, which were developed in line with the eleventh Sustainable Development Goal, “Sustainable cities and communities”, with a large measure of support from Munich Re. Strengthening resilience against epidemics Munich Re and its subsidiary Social Impact Partners have supported the organisation The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM) since 2014, developing a comprehensive risk assessment and providing recommendations on ways to reduce risk. In 2018, it was agreed that this cooperation would continue for a further three years. Munich Re provides risk management and insurance expertise to help GFATM identify and effectively manage risks through The Urban Air Pollution Impact Bond provides financial appropriate solutions. compensation if air quality targets are not achieved, despite the implementation of previously defined The current phase of the project is focusing on enhancmeasures. This gives cities greater financial planning ing the effectiveness of the fight against epidemics. security, allowing them to focus more closely on new The operational risks of the GFATM are also to be anmeasures to improve air quality. With the Urban Air alysed with the aim of ensuring prompt responses to Pollution Impact Bond, ­investors can also participate disasters or losses. Social Impact Partners will support in efficient ways to ­enhance resilience. the GFATM, for example by developing insurance guide03_Employees Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate Governance Core Business Employees Environment Society Key Figures Indices Annex 45 Responsible Respect and esteem in our Code of Conduct: Target-oriented management of HR topics employer “We expect all members of staff to observe every individual’s personal dignity, privacy and person­ > GRI 103 > GRI 103 ality rights. We do not tolerate discrimination (on A Group-wide framework of overarching grounds of disability, age, gender, ethnic origin, ­regulations ensures a coordinated approach at Highly qualified, efficient managers and employees are nationality, sexual identity, political opinion, race, Group level to the following topics: the foundation of our corporate success. As a global religion, beliefs or similar), sexual or other personal – Support for senior management financial services provider, we depend on their expertise, harassment, or insulting behaviour. We also do – Management development dedication and commitment to innovation. Continuous not tolerate socially inappropriate behaviour, in– Diversity and equal opportunities training and talent development play a key role in this timidation or violence, or the threat of such. – Executive staff remuneration context. The recruitment, development and retention of experts and managers is one of the two core objectives Responsible leadership The strategic responsibility for HR policies and Group-­ of our ­human resources policy. At the same time, we Our managers’ culture of leadership and their wide methods and standards lies with the Board of promote diversity and equal opportunities as strategic duty as role models are an essential part of our Management and the Group Human Resources Departfactors for the success of Munich Re (Group). compliance culture. We expect our managers ment (Group HR). Responsibility for implementation to take responsibility for their staff members lies with the HR managers and the Board members For our more than 41,000 employees, we create attracand reaching our business goals with integrity. responsible for human resources in their respective tive working conditions that offer personal development Their own conduct should reflect what they business fields. Strategic and organisational matters opportunities, strengthen independence and reward ­expect from their staff. are coordinated by the Group HR Committee. individual performance. We attach particular importance to a corporate culture based on responsible and respectAs a Group, we aim to … Our targets in the Employees area of action: ful interaction with each other. Promoting the well-­ … promote diversity in our Group, and conduct being of the employees and a healthy balance between ourselves accordingly, both within the Group – Specific needs-based further training of all family and work is a substantial component of all and in public; ­employees, in particular in the area of digitalisation; our activities as an employer. … have our managers act as role models for their colleagues and employees. – The identification and development of leadership potential – where possible from within the Group itself; As a member of staff, this means that …  … s upport a culture in which ethically irreproacha– An increase of women in managerial positions in ble conduct is recognised, valued and embodGermany to at least 25% by the end of 2020; ied by all; … treat my colleagues and business partners with – The promotion of diversity as a strategic Munich Re fairness and respect.” (Group) success factor; – The gradual expansion of health promotion ­programmes. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 46 EXPLORE: Trainee programme for young MEAG. In addition to on-the-job training, courses ­management professionals and seminars on management topics, the focus is on personal development measures and work on With its global reinsurance trainee programme strategic projects. The first programme conducted and the International Group Trainee Programme from 2016 to 2018 had ten participants from five EXPLORE, which has been running since 2016, nations: six of whom were women and four were Munich Re systematically promotes its young high men. All the trainees found positions at Munich Re potentials and opens up a wide range of career (Group) immediately after the programme ended. entry opportunities for university graduates. The In October 2018, ten new EXPLORE participants target group is highly talented young academics from seven different countries began the prowith excellent Master’s or PhD degrees from top gramme: this time five women and five men. international universities in the subjects of economics, law, maths and engineering. In the course In the global reinsurance trainee programme of the two-year programme, each trainee is that ended on 31 December 2018, we trained ­employed at eight different stations in the Group, 23 graduate career entrants in different locations, two of them abroad. The participants work in all each with a key focus on a particular business the Group’s business fields during their training function, such as in the core area of underwriting. phases at Munich Re (reinsurance), ERGO and Attractive programmes for employees with a leading business school. The programme f­ ocuses on innovation and leadership in the digital Training and development for experts and world and on ensuring the employees are qualified managers for the future. > GRI 404-2 In 2018, we were able to fill approximately 90% of the Management management positions in reinsurance at the Munich We prepare our high potentials for management headquarters with internal candidates. This shows that ­positions at home and abroad. Our development proour HR development programmes are effective. In The following sections provide information on the many grammes “Group Management Platform” for the combination with long-term succession planning for different measures we use to meet our own specificaGroup’s senior management staff, “Hydrogen” for current senior management, we ensure that the tions. You can find additional information and examples reinsurance and “MEAG Young Manager” in our investquality of our managers remains high. At the same for primary insurance, reinsurance and MEAG in the ment arm are designed for this purpose. At ERGO, a time, we strengthen the technical and intercultural respective career portals of Munich Re, ERGO and new global talent programme was developed in 2018 competences of our employees by means of staff MEAG. with the aim of driving digitalisation in cooperation rotation within the Group. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 47 Staff training The introduction of the “Digital School” in September Our employees can take advantage of a wide range of 2018 in the reinsurance field of business offers target-group-oriented training measures. This includes comprehensive digital training to all employees. Our technical training, methodology and social competence goal is to provide every employee with at least basic courses, management topics, IT competences, knowledge of the digital technologies and trends that compliance regulations, occupational health and safety are affecting us. The school offers digital-literacy trainings as well as language training, such as in the fields of agile methods, data 3.1 courses. The courses take place in analytics, design thinking, digital leadership and a variety of formats: on-site classes, technologies and working in the digital age. The eme-learning, webinars, group and­ ployees demonstrate a keen interest in the courses. ­individual training. In addition, In the first four months, this programme was already training days change processes within Munich Re accessed more than 5,000 times. per employee in 2018 are monitored and supported com(2017: 3.0) prehensively and professionally. In the primary insurance field of business, ERGO has set up the transformation@ergo programme. Three Regular employee interviews play a particularly imaction fields (Competence Management, Change portant role for the success of training and development Management and Training) were identified, with the measures. All employees discuss their personal training goal of preserving and reinforcing the employability of requirements once a year with their supervisor. Thus the workforce. The programme offers training in the »With the Digital School, we 100% of the employees of Munich Re (Group) receive key competences of digital transformation (social, a regular assessment of their work performance and, agile, innovation, technology, analytical, resilience) that want to make our ­employees consequently, renewed motivation for their career development. addresses such topics as management styles in times of digital change, the consequences and opportunities fit for the future. In this way, Staff training priority topic – of digital change, or the skills and qualifications required for the digital work environment. we are creating new impulses Digitalisation Digitalisation is of high-level strategic relevance for Furthermore, the Cyber Expert Pool launched in 2018 for work and leadership in Munich Re. Our innovation strategy sets down clearly in the reinsurance field of business established a the digital era.« defined key topics for digital transformation. This special training programme for cyber security experts. ­includes such things as the use of large and new data The programme is aimed at qualifying candidates _Doris Höpke, Member of the Board of Management volumes, as well as the application of new analytic with suitable professional experience in cyber security methods. It is particularly important that our employees to work in cyber underwriting. In 2018, eleven cyber are in command of the tools and work methods reexperts were already successfully trained as underquired for our professional tasks and areas of operation. writers in different locations. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 48 The training days availed of by our employees and our expenses for the training measures are listed in the Key figures section. You can find more information on our Website. Recruiting young professionals Demographic change is a challenge, also for Munich Re. In addition to the programmes for the development of technical experts and managers, Munich Re ­cooperates with several universities in Germany and abroad. This is aimed at establishing contact with students and graduates at an early stage to facilitate recruitment. The presence of Munich Re on social media and trade fairs with insurance focus is a further component of the strategy to provide a first-hand ­impression of Munich Re as an employer and recruit young academics with high potential. Promoting diversity and equal ­opportunities > GRI 405-1 The different mindsets, cultures and values of our Our Group-wide Diversity Policy sets down the – Formation of women’s networks (Munich Re “EFEU”; staff are key to the success of Munich Re and the most important principles in this action field and Munich Re of America “Employee Resource Groups”; achievement of our strategic corporate goals. For this forms the basis for overarching and comprehensive MEAG “WIN@MEAG”) reason, we want to continue promoting diversity diversity management. The criteria of gender, age and equal opportunities in the Group. and internationality are decisive for our activities. – Identification of high-potential female employees through the performance management process, The Group HR Department manages the subject of We are working determinedly to increase the ­t alent discussion with gender sensitisation ­diversity and equal opportunities at Group level by ­proportion of women in management positions. means of key data. The divisions take their own The measures we are taking to achieve this – Strong commitment to the promotion of women measures in accordance with the respective chalgoal include the following: through a special internal company agreement lenges they face. (Munich Re Munich): Right to workplace reintegration – (Cross-)mentoring programmes for women in the same position with part-time hours following parental or home care leave of up to 12 months – Training courses for female management staff, when returning to at least a 21-hour contract (or 80% ­advisory services of full-time hours for staff members in key functions and senior executives) Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 49 The proportion of women in management positions Improving work-life balance Further information on family-friendly offers can be in Germany rose to 25.8% in 2018 (from 23.6% in found on the respective websites of Munich Re, 2017), while the proportion of women worldwide inWork-life balance is of particular significance for many ERGO and MEAG. creased to 35.7% (2017: 33.5%). employees in certain situations in their lives. For this reason, we have set up internal company agreements Transparent regulation of remuneration and 35.7% for individual locations and divisions allowing a better pension schemes balance between private and professional life. In > GRI 102-41 addition, Munich Re also provides concrete assistance to families. Among other things, in Germany the Group Performance-related salaries and additional attractive proportion of women in ­management offers services such as childcare in affiliated nursery benefits are important components of a fair and motivatfacilities, an allowance in the case of privately organised ing corporate culture at Munich Re. As in other areas ­positions at Munich Re (Group) childcare, parent-­child office spaces, family services, of our HR policy, the topic of remuneration is regulated holiday care services and support in caring for family in such frameworks as the Group-wide Munich Re For the diversity criterion “Age”, the focus is on our members. remuneration policy. In addition to a basic salary, health promotion and lifelong learning provision, employees also receive performance-based remunerwhich is accompanied by a flexible working-hours Munich Re (Group) offers its employees a wide range ation. This is supplemented by bonuses and extra paymodel and an employee assistance programme. of models for flexibility in terms of time and location in ments such as the annual Company result bonus, their jobs. Our Flexible Working concept is exemplary which is granted once a year to all staff members from We aim to achieve “internationality” with well-balanced in the German reinsurance sector. Bonuses, for example, the Board of Management to pay-scale employees teams and assignments to key functions. At the same can be converted into leave time in the form of short on the basis of the same key figure if the corresponding time, we promote the development of international sabbaticals to allow employees to benefit from longer Group objectives are achieved. expertise by transferring employees to temporary periods away from work. Longer sabbaticals are also ­positions all around the world, and through developpossible. In consultation with their line managers, the Munich Re offers numerous additional voluntary bene­ ment programmes. As a result, 76% of the particispecific working days and working hours per week can fits on top of the basic salary. Our company pension pants in the 2018 “Hydrogen” reinsurance talent probe flexibly defined. These models are digitally supported, scheme, in particular, plays a major role. It comprises gramme hailed from international backgrounds. In thus making it possible to work en route or at home. a company pension, additional pension commitments November 2018, ERGO hosted the “Synergiewerkstatt A dedicated committee has assumed the task of for non-pay-scale employees and managerial staff, and International Diversity” (International Diversity discussing the further development of the Flexible the offer to convert salary components into pension ­Synergy Workshop), aimed at setting new accents Working concept and making recommendations benefits. for the further development of diversity and equal for its improvement. opportunities. Munich Re (reinsurance group) and ERGO are also For us it is very important to retain our employees after members of the German insurance employers’ Furthermore, since 2012, Munich Re has also been a parental leave. With training courses, ERGO’s parenting ­association and consequently bound to the respective signatory of the “Charta der Vielfalt” (diversity charnetwork, and flexible working hours models for parents, collective bargaining agreements. 96% of our staff ter) employer initiative. Further information on other we aim to make it easier to return to work following a is subject to collective bargaining agreements. measures, successes and participation in various break from professional life. For its family-oriented HR initiatives can be found on the respective websites policy at its German locations, ERGO has been awarded Munich Re complies with all the statutory requirements of Munich Re, ERGO and MEAG. the “audit berufundfamilie®” certificate four times for employee co-determination. already since 2002. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 50 Healthcare promotion for our employees Munich Re (Group) support for employee healthcare by far exceeds the statutory requirements. At its Munich site, for example, not only are medical care, preventative measures, sports and relaxation programmes offered, but also individual measures for the reintegration of employees following a longer illness-related break from work, and healthcare counselling services. At ERGO Deutschland, five company doctors and a social worker help in acute cases, and are also available to the employees for consultation in all issues regarding health. This includes prophylactic examinations, vaccinations, first-aid care and advice on addiction and dealing with stress. “ERGO sports” is one of the most comprehensive company sports programmes in Germany. To promote the mental well-being of our employees, we also offer expert counselling at several locations in Germany to help employee deal with difficulties at The voluntary re­cognition of the principles set down savings of around € 200 m in the reinsurance field of work or at home. In addition, the reinsurance group in in the UN Global Compact and their enshrinement business by 2020. The voluntary programme enabled Munich cooperates with the Fürstenberg Institute in our Code of Conduct underscore our commitment us to reduce our workforce by around 350 full-time to offer an Employee Assistance Programme (EAP). to practising a corporate culture characterised by jobs at our Munich site. Staff were offered a very respect and ­mutual appreciation. attractive severance package and advice from an Munich Re attaches particular importance to the external consulting agency on career options and the ­improvement of the working conditions for disabled Responsible employer while reducing financial implications of the package on their income, persons. The most important measures include short ­complexity tax and pensions. The programme was implemented distances from the garage to the workplace, special-­ in complete agreement between management and staff. needs-friendly and requirement-based workplace design Just how seriously we take our role as responsible and equipment, not to mention safe and comfortable employers was in evidence last year with the implemenlifts. DKV Seguros and ERGO Hestia specifically tation of our voluntary redundancy programme in ­focus on recruiting disabled employees for suitable reinsurance. Alongside measures to promote digitalipositions to promote their long-term integration sation, the programme was part of a drive to reduce All employee key data can be found in the table starting ­into the labour market. complexity in our Group and achieve operating cost on page 67. 04_Environment Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 52 Environmental and meets the requirements of the international standard DIN ISO 14001. The EMS is based on the Group’s required and organisational responsi­bilities. In 2018, 83% of Group employees were working ­at sites climate protection ­environmental guidelines and on selected key perforthat have been integrated into the EMS. In addition, mance indicators (KPIs) that we use to assess 38% of Group employees work at companies that our carbon footprint. It also defines the processes are externally certified to DIN ISO 14001. at our sites > GRI 103 Environmental guidelines Munich Re (Group) performance. We calculate carbon emissions on an annual basis in a high-quality standardised The environmental impact of our activities is limited, Taking responsibility format. Our aim is to steadily reduce emissions since Munich Re does not have an energyand resource­­ from energy consumption, as well as from business intensive business model. However, as a large organiNeedless to say, we comply with national and intertravel, paper, water and waste. We also take sation with more than 41,000 employees, we have renational environmental regulations and other ­account of environmental criteria when procuring sponsibilities for environmental protection and have binding obligations, and meet our voluntary comproducts and services, and meet UN Global involved ourselves in areas that we can influence in mitments to environmental protection. We are Compact criteria when selecting and engaging practical and positive ways. We have identified the committed to the Principles of the United Nations our service providers. topics of corporate environmental protection and carbon Global Compact, the voluntary commitments of neutrality from the current materiality analysis. In the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and Promoting staff environmental awareness determining our goals and activities, we are focusing the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). on reducing energy consumption and the associated We also take account of environmental and climate We promote environmental awareness and responcarbon emissions, ensuring that business travel is as protection in intra-Group commitments (Code sibility among all our staff and motivate them to environmentally friendly as possible, and achieving of Conduct, procurement guidelines, company engage in active environmental protection and a higher level of material and resource efficiency for car guidelines). continually improve our environmental performance. our processes by generating less waste and using We create transparency and support staff initiasustainable materials. In parallel with these activities, Regular assessment and continuous improvetives and measures. we are sensitising our staff to behaving in an environment of our environmental performance mentally compatible way. Communicating with stakeholders Our environmental management ensures the control and further development of our environmental We communicate openly and regularly inform our Strategic management using the measures with the aim of continually improving stakeholders about our environmental activities environmental protection as well as our environand environmental performance. We seek dialogue, ­Environmental Management System mental performance, and preventing or reducing raise awareness and share our knowledge of > GRI 103 environmental impacts. ­environmental and climate protection, thereby promoting a general culture of environmental Munich Re (Group) has been coordinating activities The effects of our business activities are a key inprotection. at all sites since 2012 using a standardised, mandatory dicator for the assessment of our environmental environmental management system (EMS) that Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 53 –44% The full Board of Management, represented by the ­data. Local environmental They are also the direct contacts for employees for Chairman, Joachim Wenning, is responsible for the managers at the individual all corporate environmental issues, and also act as Group-wide strategy for environmental and climate sites are responsible for advisers to local management. They promote an active protection, and for all measures in the field of environmeeting the environmental exchange of information within the EMS network mental protection. CO2 per employee targets and realising the on best practices, and manage communication on ensince 2009 programmes associated vironment and climate protection topics. At present, The function of Group Environmental Manager is with them. Their areas local environmental managers at twelve sites within ­embedded in the central division Economics, Sustainaof responsibility ­specifically include preparing and the Reinsurance Division, 22 sites in the ERGO Group, bility & Public Affairs. The Group Environmental implementing carbon reduction plans at the sites, and at one MEAG site all report to the Group EnviManager controls implementation of the strategy and collecting the relevant environmental data. ronmental Manager. and the EMS, and coordinates the collection of In 2018, the environmental managers met for an ­exchange of information as part of the Green Week at the Munich Re of America site in Princeton. The ­focus here was on initiatives to reduce carbon emissions, a review of strategy and goal achievement, and the planning of joint activities, such as the Earth Day event. 86% We adopted the carbon footprint from our business activities as the key indicator for assessing our environmental Green electricity record. We calculate carbon Group-wide in 2018 emissions on a yearly basis from our consumption of energy, paper and water, business travel, and generation of waste. This is done in a standardised form in conformity with internationally recognised methods and conversion factors, such as the GHG Protocol. An ­external auditing company confirmed that we met the standards for the environmental indicators throughout the Group in 2018. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 54 We want to be measured against the implementation emissions). In 2018, a 44% carbon reduction was of our environmental and climate protection achieved. In the year under review, we procured ­strategy, and orientate ourselves towards the approx. 86% of our electricity requirements Groupfollowing objectives formulated in 2015, which wide from renewable energy sources. A key factor we want to achieve by 2020: for environ-mental improvements was the use of eco-friendly vehicles, since in accordance with the – A  reduction in carbon emissions of 35% compared standards, this has a direct and positive impact on a to the base year of 2009 (measured in kg of carbon particular site’s carbon footprint. emissions per employee) – Permanent  carbon neutrality, taking into account Higher resource efficiency and falling compensation projects carbon emissions > GRI 103 – Full  conversion of electricity procurement to ­renewable energy sources Group-wide For the purpose of reducing our carbon emissions, – An  increase in the percentage of environmentally we have focused on measures that offer maximum friendly consumables procured (e.g. paper, catering) leverage. These include increasing energy efficiency and the procurement of environmentally friendly in the operation of our buildings, substituting fossil vehicles energy sources with renewable energy, and using environmentally friendly consumables. – Enhancement  of employee motivation to behave in an environmentally friendly way Energy-related modernisation of building technology – Regular  certification of environmental and energy management systems at selected sites Munich Projects implemented included the modernisation of – Annual,  Group-wide verification of environmental data cooling technology systems at the Munich site, which allowed significant savings in terms of energy With the help of our Environmental Management consumption and carbon emissions. The energy System and the commitment of our employees, we are ­efficiency of the cooling unit was almost doubled. This well on course to achieving our objectives: we manallows an annual saving of approx. 160 tonnes of aged to improve on vircarbon per year. Through this project, Munich Re has Hamburg 103,000 t tually all the indicators. also made an active contribution to its commitments In terms of energy efficiency, the Hamburg site’s focus We already achieved ­under the Klima­pakt Münchner Wirtschaft (Munich was on the comprehensive introduction of LED techour carbon reduction business climate pact). Under this initiative, companies nology. More than 12,000 lights were replaced over an target of 35% in 2017 like Munich Re voluntarily committed themselves to area of 29,000 square metres, allowing approximately CO2 offseted for 2018 (39% less carbon jointly reducing carbon emissions by at least 40,000 1,200,000 kWh in electricity savings per year. tonnes. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 55 Düsseldorf ERGO wanted to turn back this tide and, for employee The Düsseldorf site has its own cogeneration plants. catering at the Düsseldorf site, has been imposing a Particularly for the operation of the two computer surcharge of 20 cents for each of these disposable cups centres, this technology makes both economic and since March 2018. Its target was to halve the number environmental sense. The heat produced as a by-product of cups used by the end of the year. The campaign was of the electricity generation is used for heating in a great success: from April to June 2018, just 28,954 winter, and in summer to cool the premises using a disposable coffee cups were sold – around 80% less specialised absorption technology. The plants meet than in the same period in 2017. Through their inthree quarters of the electricity requirements and volvement, employees have avoided 2,735 kg of carbon 90% of ERGO’s heating requirements in Düsseldorf. emissions and reduced the amount of waste at the same time. A decisive factor was offering ERGO-­ Cologne branded reusable cups, more than 2,000 of which At ERGO in Cologne, the sanitary, heating, ventilation, have already been sold. cooling and re-cooling systems have been completely replaced over the last few years, including the installaAt the Munich site, as part of Earth Week in September tion of fully updated measuring and control equipment. 2018, menus with a focus on climate-friendly ingreAs in Düsseldorf, the Cologne site has its own cogeneradients were offered in the dining rooms operated by tion plant. Since the start of the modernisaton, carbon our service provider. emissions have been reduced by around 70% and energy consumption by some 40%. Sustainability is also a consideration with the snacks offered in conference rooms. For example, plastic We would like to give our employees an understanddrinking straws were replaced with paper ones in 2018. ing of environmental and climate protection issues, In many cafes, vending machines, kitchenettes and and are counting on engaging in direct communication meeting points, we have also substituted the paper and providing on-site information to do so. A perfect cups used until now with glassware and cups made example is the building-services tours given by ERGO, from ceramic materials. where employees are given unusual insights into the inner workings of building equipment systems and key Environmental and social standards with modernisation projects. In Hamburg, participants ­carbon compensation were given a tour of the building services and control centre, which houses nine impressive large air-­ Preference for sustainable consumables Since 2015, Munich Re (Group) has been committed conditioning systems. In Düsseldorf, employees were (in catering) to maintaining carbon neutrality in our business able to visit the cogeneration plants. operations. We compensate unavoidable carbon emisDisposable coffee cups have a negatice impact on our sions by purchasing carbon certificates. We follow environment. Production of the cups used in Germany strict requirements when selecting offseting projects. ­produces around 110,000 tonnes of carbon emissions For example, at least one of the project must meet each year, and requires some 22,000 tonnes of the Gold Standard and be implemented in one of ­petroleum, as well as paper from 43,000 trees. the world’s least developed countries. In addition to Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 56 avoiding carbon emissions, we also place a special emphasis on maintaining social standards. We primarily Munich Re is a partner in the Alliance for in reducing their emissions wherever possible and support projects that promote health, facilitate edu­Development and Climate to compensate for the remainder by supporting cation, develop local infrastructure, avoid deforestation effective climate protection projects in emerging and maintain biodiversity. To achieve carbon neutrality In the run-up to the international climate conferand developing countries. These focus, for examfor the 2018 financial year, we obtained carbon certifi­ ence in Katowice, the German Federal Ministry ple, on developing renewable energy systems and cates from the following projects: for Economic Cooperation and Development on afforestation and forest protection. launched the Alliance for Development and Climate. –  Wind farms in the Shandong region in China The initiative’s aim is to promote voluntary inMunich Re is part of a group of around 200 partners volvement in climate protection activities. It is inmade up of companies, public authorities and – Efficient cooking stoves in Uganda tended to assist companies and organisations civil society organisations. You can find all the key indicators for our environmental performance in the table from page 64 onwards. 05_Society Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 58 Societal significant contribution through corporate volunteering projects – something that we, as a business, actively ­responsibility promote. Our societal commitment is regulated by a Group-wide > GRI 103 guideline on donations, sponsoring, memberships and social cooperation. The guideline sets out the criteria for donations to organisations, remits for making As a responsible business, we are committed to public decisions, and the authorisation process. It was extenwelfare and cohesion within our society. We promote sively revised in 2018 and implemented at Group projects that allow us to both contribute and expand on level. Our Code of Conduct also makes reference to our risk expertise. In this way, we can increase the these criteria. Each site select its own projects and effectiveness of individual initiatives and motivate our allocate its own resources. A standardised, Group-wide employees to take part. reporting system for corporate responsibility expenditure was established back in 2009. This system When it comes to our social commitment, we focus on ensures transparency for our stakeholders and docuthree significant global challenges: combating climate ments how the guideline is implemented. To accompany change and its consequences, improved access to this, in 2018 a concept for measuring the impact of healthcare, and increasing risk awareness. our societal commitment was developed. Our goals and measures for 2019 Shared-value approach defines – Continuation of Munich Re and ERGO’s Groupour commitment wide project “Tackling Climate Change Together” > GRI 103 (TCCT) Our corporate responsibility strategy forms the basis – Group-wide roll-out of the concept for measuring of our societal commitment, which we have geared to the impact of our societal commitment the shared-value approach. This lets us create added value, both for society and for our business. Our – Continuation of new collaborations in social impact ­action fields are based on the issues for which we can projects, in line with the criteria set out in the provide our expertise and risk competencies, allowing guideline us to have the biggest societal impact possible. Furthermore, we promote social and cultural projects at our sites and provide support for aid and reconstruction following disaster situations. Our employees make a Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 59 Commitment to people and women and girls, who are often disadvantaged when it comes to the distribution of income, yet prefer to invest the environment in the future of their families. > GRI 103 The aim of the savings groups is to improve the purOur activities focus on three action areas: climate chasing power of their members, and to enable access change, health, and risk awareness. In this context, our to goods and services. The savings groups are also sites have a significant amount of freedom when it intended to motivate the members of the community comes to choosing projects. The projects presented to tackle crucial societal issues, such as gender equal­ below are examples of our Group-wide commitment ity and improved child protection. In addition, the to tackling these three action areas. members of the savings groups are trained in the use of renewable energy and solar products. In particular, this training highlights the social, economic and health-­ Responding to climate change related benefits that this technology brings. As the ­solar-powered E-HUBBs also provide electric light after Our engagement to climate protection is concentrated night falls, they can also be used as a protected in the Tackling Climate Change Together (TCCT) space for night-time gatherings. initiative. Promoting solar energy in Africa households. One E-HUBB can create up to five jobs and attracts small businesses wishing to establish Generating solar energy locally: We are working tothemselves near the kiosk, as they can also be supplied gether with our partner, SOLARKIOSK, to allow people with electricity. Approximately 15,000 to 20,000 local to use renewable energy in places where they would people live in the area surrounding a single E-HUBB. In not otherwise have direct access to electricity. the first year alone, the five E-HUBBs in Kenya generE-HUBBs – kiosks that are fitted with photovoltaic ated approximately 11,000 kWh of green energy. modules – generate environmentally friendly power in remote regions that do not have reliable access to 80 savings groups with Plan International in electricity. Munich Re and ERGO are funding the Migori County, Kenya setting up and operation of five E-HUBBs in Kenya. The solar energy generated, allows residents to charge Alongside the installation of E-HUBBs, Munich Re their mobile phones and use the internet. The E-HUBBs and ERGO also support the work of the NGO Plan Incan also store electricity, meaning that electric lightternational in Kenya. The focus of this activity is to ing is still available after the sunset. Alongside local help people in rural areas gain access to better sustainconsumer products, the E-HUBBs sell solar-powered able livelihoods. Throughout 2018, a total of 80 savequipment such as lamps, chargers and solar home ings groups received financing at five kiosk locations systems to meet the basic energy needs of private in Migori County, Kenya. Particular attention is given to Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 60 Promoting start-ups and cleantech solutions Increasing risk awareness development coupled with socio-economic factors create complex risks for the people who live there. among the population and promoting Climate-KIC (Knowledge & Innovation Community) is Save the Children is working in collaboration with eduthe European Union’s largest public-private climate risk prevention cation authorities on comprehensive plans to ensure initiative. It includes a successful accelerator for cleansafety in schools. The aim is to strengthen emergency tech start-ups. The initiative supports young busiProtecting against weather-related landslides preparedness and to avert the dangers associated nesses that are developing climate protection solutions. with natural disasters, climate change and everyday A total of seven start-ups were supported by A high level of risk awareness can prevent damage occurrences. This will enable to improve the resilience ­Munich Re in 2018, both financially and through menand minimise danger for the population. For this reason, of 80 school communities. The project also focuses toring by our own experts. Munich Re supports the non-profit organisation Geoon the children’s personal and home environments. Hazards International (GHI) in drawing up geologiAdditional security measures are being implemented Climathon in Vienna cal safety recommendations. This means that popuand training sessions held in 25 Delhi slums in order lations in exposed locations, such as in India, are to protect children from dangers outside of school. The aim of the Climathon, which took place in Vienna protected against dangerous landslides thanks to The project reaches approximately 32,000 schoolin October 2018, was to develop climate protection infor­mation and training that is provided to them. children and 500 teachers in 80 schools, as well as solutions for cities. Under the name “Climathon”, Every year in India, monsoon rains trigger thousands 125,000 community members in the slums. Climate-KIC organises climate protection hackathons of such incidents. In August 2018, the Munnar region worldwide. At events such as these, participants are in the state of Kerala was particularly affected. GHI is given a deadline by which they must develop protoworking together with local government agencies on types for solving certain challenges. Munich Re and a range of different measures. An example is identifying ERGO support the campaign by providing expertise both quick and long-term ways to protect people from and by serving as sponsors. In Vienna, some 70 parlandslides. Additionally improvement of the common ticipants formed small teams to take part in the methods of construction in hilly areas and change of 24-hour Climathon, focusing on a range of challenges underlying policies can protect people from further on topics including renewable energy and mobility landslides. Along with other sources, the basis for this that were set for them by Munich Re and ERGO, work is the Landslide Safety Action Plan that GHI among others. developed together with Munich Re from 2012 to 2016 in Aizawl. It was held up as an example by the Indian 24 hours, National Disaster Management Authority for other regions to follow. 70 participants, Resilient infrastructure Munich Re also supports the organisation Save the Children in its risk prevention project for schoolchildren one goal and their families in the slums of Delhi, India. Delhi is severely affected by natural disasters and the risks that these bring. Particularly in the slums, urban Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Society Key figures Environment Indices Annex 61 Better access to healthcare Rapid disaster relief for people in need The Global Fund is supporting the global fight against For many years, Munich Re has provided financial AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. Since 2016, Munich Re support for emergency aid measures and reconstruction has funded a four-year project that works to fight tuberprojects following natural disasters. Again, we work culosis in Indonesia. The objective is to reduce the closely with the aid organisation Save the Children mortality rate and break the chain of infection. Quick to provide this support. Munich Re gave its first tests that can detect bacterial resistance play a key donation to Save the Children’s aid measures in 2018, role here, as does strengthening healthcare systems. following catastrophic flooding in Laos and India and the tsunami in Indonesia. Munich Re will continue Munich Reinsurance America, Inc., is a partner of the working with Save the Children in 2019, now as not-for-profit organisation Eden Autism Services which part of a formal partnership. carries out important research in the field of autism and provides support for autistic children and adults. As a main sponsor, the company promotes the annual Eden Autism 5k and Fun Run/Walk, an event in which many of our employees participate. Copyright © Save the Children DKV Seguros demonstrates its commitment to ­corporate responsibility as a founding member of the During the 2018 reporting year, Munich Re Cuidam programme, which provides healthcare ­supported among other the following projects in for needy children worldwide. Children from Africa, connection with disaster relief: South America, Asia and Eastern Europe who previously had no access to medical care can receive treatment – Aid measures by Save the Children following the there. Since 2004, this programme improved the catastrophic flooding in Laos. Around 1,160 people, health of more than 280 children in a sustainable way. including 530 children, were given hygiene products The average cost per case is around €15,000. and baby food, for example. – Aid  for survivors of the tsunami in Indonesia. 800 children with school supplies and 500 homes With our support, the Save the Children teams with household provisions. were able to provide 800 children with school supplies, 800 women with hygiene products and – Aid  for those affected by monsoons in Bangladesh. 400 homes with household provisions. With our support, around 5,000 people in the Cox’s Bazar displacement camp were supplied with – Support  for the population affected by flooding hygiene and household provisions by the German in India. Save the Children was able to provide Red Cross. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 62 A wide range of activities at our sites Foundations take on responsibility worldwide 60 countries discuss how insurance solutions can We show our commitment to numerous social, cultural succeed for impoverished people in developing and ecological projects at our different sites also by The corporate responsibility of the Munich Re countries and emerging nations. An additional corporate volunteering. Many of the initiatives are (Group) is supplemented and complemented effecpoint of focus is disaster prevention. The Munich Re the result of ideas from our employees and are driven tively by the work of five different foundations: Foundation promotes the implementation and by them. use of warning systems that are tailored to the The Munich Re Foundation – From Knowledge needs of the people at risk, and also sponsors ERGO’s corporate volunteering programme, for into Action ­water generation projects in arid regions or when stance, offers employees the opportunity to work on disasters occur. It is also the Foundation’s mission various projects for a day. In 2018, ERGO volunteers Munich Re (Group) concerns itself with facing the to share its expertise on climate change, sustain>9,000 tended organic city gardens or great challenges of the world today: population ability, justice, ecological changes, social vulneraprovided support to an organigrowth, globalisation, diminishing resources, enbility and the resilience with schoolchildren and sation for disabled people by vironmental pollution and climate change. The young students. working in an accessible ­garden. Munich Re Foundation aims to identify risks, work For several years, ERGO emto counteract them and help overcome them. hours’ volunteer work ployees in Latvia have had a ­Potential has been unlocked for sustained developThe Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Foundation in 2018 tradition of planting pine ment in global change. As critical thinkers and is dedicated to promoting volunteering work trees with their families. Since this initiative began, reliable partners, the Foundation can stake a claim ­carried out by Munich Re employees, particularly 27,000 trees have been planted. to finding long-term solutions. The objective is to as part of the “Social Days” scheme. prepare people for risk and to improve their living Munich Re Munich supports its employees’ voluntary conditions. The ERGO Youth & Future Foundation work on behalf of the Schinzler Foundation, meaning it helps disadvantaged young people to successfully also contributes to the time given to the Foundation by By holding regular forums on societal challenges, shape their own future careers. its employees. As a result, when employees use their the Foundation aims to address issues that are curown annual leave for volunteering, they can receive up rently being faced. The topic for 2018 was “Digital. The DKV Seguros “Integralia” Foundation to two extra days of holiday per year. More information Innovative. Fair?” and looked at the impact of digipromotes the social and professional integration can be found on the Schinzler Foundation website. talisation and globalisation. In 2019, the guiding of people with physical disabilities in Spain. theme is “Poor rich world”, with a focus on the global distribution of wealth. For 14 years, together with The ERGO Hestia “Integralia” Foundation the Microinsurance Network (MIN), the Munich Re makes it easier for people with disabilities in Foundation has organised the world’s largest ­Poland to take their first step onto the career ladder conference related to inclusive insurance (“Microand aims to encourage other employers to do the All key data in the Society section can be found in the insurance”). Over 400 experts from around same. table beginning on page 64. 06_Key figures, Indices, Annex Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 64 Financial indicators To calculate the Group-wide carbon savings targets, emissions from paper, water and waste, as well as the from 2009 to 2015 (–10%, kg of CO2 per employee), we “company vehicles, taxis, hire cars, train journeys” Our financial key figures (IFRS) can be found on our used the conversion factors of the Greenhouse Gas components of the “business trips” element. Business Corporate website. Protocol (GHGP) and the Association for Environmental trips with company cars are calculated with individual Management and Sustainability in Financial Institufactors for the fleet in question, assuming they are Taxes on income by region tions (VfU) – from 2011 in each case. Green electricity available. was not included in the accounting, thereby ensuring Region Unit Taxes on income 2018 that the quantitative values remained comparable over Sources of CO2 emissions: Germany €m 213 the target period. In 2015, a new environmental and United Kingdom €m 53 climate protection strategy was approved by the Board – Scope  1: Direct emissions from primary energy Europe (rest) €m 122 of Management and the CO2 savings target was ex­consumption (natural gas, heating oil, emergency panded – from 2009 to 2020 we want to achieve Group-­ diesel power, fuel for company cars); USA €m 114 wide CO2 savings (kg per employee) of 35%. The Canada €m 47 figures from 2016 to 2018 are only comparable to a – Scope 2: Indirect emissions from procured energy Asia €m 20 limited extent with the 2015 figures. This is because (electricity, district heating and district cooling); Other €m 7 different conversion factors were used for the calculaTotal €m 576 tion of carbon emissions, and due to differences in – Scope 3: Other indirect emissions (business trips, the calculation of carbon emissions from renewable consumption of paper, water and waste). energy. From 2016, the Group’s carbon emissions will be calculated using the latest conversion factors Environmental indicators from the GHG Protocol and the VfU. The GHG Protocol will be used for the conversion of Scope 1 emissions A key component of our Group-wide environmental (direct energy), for electricity falling under Scope 2 and climate protection strategy is the continuous emissions (indirect energy), and for the “shortand ­reduction of our consumption of resources and the long-­haul flights” components of the “business trips” resulting CO2 emissions. element of Scope 3 emissions. The Group-wide share of electricity from regenerative sources of 86%** in In our reporting on our consumption of resources and 2018 (2017: 78%) is calculated with 0 emissions. A market-­ CO2 emissions, we focus on the main direct impacts based approach is used to calculate the Scope 2 of our business operations on the environment and emissions resulting from electricity consumption, taking climate. These are the consumption of paper, energy into account the fact that a share of 86%** was deand water, the waste we produce and the number of rived from regenerative energy sources and calculated business trips made. The resulting CO2 emissions as emission-free. For the remaining electricity consumpare measured and externally quality assured. The tion, country-specific conversion factors were used continuous reduction in these emissions is the main that were derived from the average local power mix for indicator of success for our environmental performance the conversion to carbon emissions. The VfU conversion and is targeted throughout the Group. factors are taken as the basis for calculating the ** Selected quantitative environmental indicators are verified Group-wide by an ­external Scope 2 emissions “district heating” and the Scope 3 ­auditing company. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 65 General information Unit 2018 2017 2016 2009 Energy Unit 2018 2017 2016 2009 (base year) (base year) Munich Re (Group) employees Number of 41,410 42,410 43,428 47,249 Total energy consumption MWh 383,101** 408,334 408,940 543,365 as at 31.12.2018 employees MWh/employee 9.25** 9.63 9.42 11.50 Proportion of employees captured % employee 83** 83 83 84 Total consumption of direct energy MWh 165,385** 170,440 164,575 195,291 by the data collection (e.g. oil, gas, diesel, petrol) MWh/employee 3.99** 4.02 3.79 4.13 Proportion of employees who % employee 100** 100 100 no data were verified by a third party Consumption of indirect energy MWh 217,714** 237,893 244,365 348,885 (electricity, district heating, MWh/employee 5.26** 5.61 5.63 7.38 Proportion of employees captured % employee 38** 38 38(*) no data district cooling) by an environmental system certified to ISO 14001 Percentage of total electricity Share in % 86** 78 70 28 consumption from green electricity Gross premiums written Munich Re €bn 49.1 49.1 48.9 41.4 (Group) Carbon emissions from energy1 Metric tonnes (t) 1.87** 2.07 2.19 3.88 (Scope 1 and Scope 2) per employee CO2 savings per employee since 2009 % per employee 44 39 40 (kg CO2) Energy intensity MWh/€m gross 7.80 8.32 8.36 13.14 premiums written CO2 intensity Metric tonnes (t) 2.10 2.31 2.5 5.25 CO2/€m gross 1 Green electricity is considered for the first time in 2016. premiums written – Munich Re (Group) Paper Unit 2018 2017 2016 2009 (*) The indicator “Proportion of employees captured by an environmental system certified to ISO 14001” from the reporting year 2016 was adjusted slightly in this period. This is primarily due to improved data quality. (base year) Paper consumption Metric tonnes (t) 1,200** 1,214 1,344 2,366 Metric tonnes (t) 0.03** 0.03 0.03 0.05 Carbon emissions Unit 2018** 2017 2016 2009 per employee (base year) Recycled paper Share in % 20 35 38 17 Total CO2 emissions1 Metric tonnes (t) 103,024 113,278 122,147 217,315 Metric tonnes (t) 2.49 2.67 2.81 4.4 CO2 emissions from paper Metric tonnes (t) 1,415** 1,433 1,586 2,839 per employee Metric tonnes (t) 0.03** 0.03 0.04 0.06 per employee Direct CO2 emissions – Metric tonnes (t) 45,730 47,880 47,761 65,932 Scope 1 Metric tonnes (t) 1.10 1.13 1.1 1.4 Paper intensity Metric tonnes 0.02 0.02 0.03 0.06 per employee (t)/€m gross premiums written Indirect CO2 emissions Metric tonnes (t) 31,713 39,834 47,362 117,476 market-based – Water Unit 2018 2017 2016 2009 Metric tonnes (t) 0.77 0.94 1.09 2.49 Scope 21 (base year) per employee Water consumption Cubic metres (m3) 658,217** 676,510 737,865 859,181 Indirect CO2 emissions Metric tonnes (t) 68,237 79,426 83,390 location-based – Cubic metre (m3) 16** 16 17 18.2 Metric tonnes (t) 1.65 1.87 1.92 Scope 2 per employee per employee CO2 emissions from water Metric tonnes (t) 460** 473 516 639 Other indirect CO2 emissions Metric tonnes (t) 25,581 25,563 27,023 33,352 (water, waste, paper, travel) – Metric tonnes (t) 0.011** 0.011 0.012 0.014 Metric tonnes (t) 0.62 0.60 0.62 0.71 Scope 3 per employee per employee Water intensity Cubic metres 13.4 13.8 15.1 20.7 (m3)/€m gross premiums written Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 66 Waste Unit 2018 2017 2016 2009 Regional distribution of energy Unit 2018 2017 2016 2009 (base year) consumption, Germany (base year) Waste Metric tonnes (t) 15,064** 11,592 12,972 14,054 Direct CO2 emissions – Scope 1 Metric tonnes (t) 25,908 27,059 27,167 42,889 Metric tonnes (t) 0.36** 0.27 0.30 0.30 per employee Indirect CO2 emissions – Scope 21 Metric tonnes (t) 3,696 7,328 7,806 59,011 Waste for incineration (hazardous) Metric tonnes (t) 5 21 36 26.1 Other indirect CO2 emissions – Scope 3 Metric tonnes (t) 10,166 10,318 10,894 14,668 Waste for incineration (non-hazardous) Metric tonnes (t) 2,065 2,601 2,755 2,472 Regional distribution of energy Unit 2018 2017 2016 2009 consumption, rest of the world (base year) Recycled waste (hazardous) Metric tonnes (t) 55 81 95 24.8 (excluding Germany) Recycled waste (non-hazardous) Metric tonnes (t) 10,351 6,299 7,337 8,796 Direct CO2 emissions – Scope 1 Metric tonnes (t) 19,822 20,822 20,595 23,043 Organic waste Metric tonnes (t) 11,526 7,530 8,677 9,852 Indirect CO2 emissions – Scope 21 Metric tonnes (t) 28,017 32,506 39,556 58,465 Waste to landfill (hazardous) Metric tonnes (t) 0 0 0 13.4 Other indirect CO2 emissions – Scope 3 Metric tonnes (t) 15,415 15,245 16,129 18,684 Waste to landfill (non-hazardous) Metric tonnes (t) 803 1,071 1,001 1,176 Energy consumption by type Unit 2018 2017 2016 2009 (base year) CO2 emissions from waste Metric tonnes (t) 2,783** 2,771 3,152 2,895 Metric tonnes (t) 0.07** 0.07 0.07 0.06 Liquid fuel MWh 742 956 890 573 per employee Gas MWh 164,644 169,484 163,685 194,718 Waste intensity Metric tonnes 0.31 0.24 0.27 0.34 (t)/€m gross Thereof natural gas for cogeneration MWh 138,300 140,332 132,857 65,715 premiums written On-site energy generation MWh 111,055 114,369 132,416 0 Business trips Unit 2018 2017 2016 2009 (base year) Total electricity consumption MWh 133,518 142,372 149,967 236,939 Business trips Kilometres (km) 291,670,161** 296,208,905 311,075,398 350,167,683 Kilometres (km) 7,043** 6,984 7,163 7,411 Electricity consumption from MWh 114,825 115,730 105,569 66,343 per employee renewable sources Air travel Kilometres (km) 177,945,204** 175,985,436 182,146,431 189,257,132 District cooling MWh 9,481 10,888 11,417 12,998 Road or rail travel2 Kilometres (km) 113,724,957** 120,223,469 128,928,967 160,910,551 District heating MWh 74,448 84,633 82,982 98,136 1 Green electricity is considered for the first time in 2016. CO2 emissions from business travel Metric tonnes (t) 33,111** 34,186 36,144 53,195 2 The figures for the years 2017 and 2016 were adjusted because of an internal change to the sub-categories for business trips. Metric tonnes (t) 0.8** 0.81 0.83 1.13 per employee Business travel intensity Kilometres (km)/€m 5,940 6,033 6,361 8,453 gross premiums written Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 67 Staff indicators 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Staff (abs.) 41,410 42,410 43,428 Salaried employees Full-time (abs.) – female 15,016 15,280 15,558 Part-time (abs.) – female 6,355 6,679 7,007 Employees by field of business Reinsurance 29.8% 28.6% 27.9% Total (abs.) – female 21,371 21,959 22,565 Primary insurance 70.2% 71.4% 66.2% Full-time (abs.) – male 17,721 18,031 18,767 Asset management —3 —3 —3 Part-time (abs.) – male 1,190 1,179 1,190 Munich Health —8 —8 5.9% Total (abs.) – male 18,911 19,210 19,957 Group staff by region Germany 46.3% 47.1% 48.5% Full-time (abs.) 32,737 33,311 34,325 Rest of Europe 37.7% 37.5% 35.9% Part-time (abs.) 7,545 7,858 8,197 North America 12.4% 12.1% 12.1% Total (abs.) 40,282 41,169 42,522 Asia and Australasia 2.5% 2.4% 2.5% Sick leave4 4.8% 4.7% 4.2% Africa and Middle East 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% Latin America 0.4% 0.4% 0.4% Staff turnover Turnover rate 11.7% 15.1 % 11.9% Voluntary fluctuation 5.1% 5.7% 4.3% Percentage of female employees Female employees 53.9% 54.5% 54.0% Lay-offs (abs.) 453 744 591 Women in management 35.7% 33.5% 32.6% Open positions filled 32.6%4 17.1%6 30.0%4 Group staff by age 20 or younger 0.3% 0.3% 0.2% by internal candidates 21–25 3.9% 3.5% 3.5% Length of service Years (Ø) 13.3 13.0 13.1 26–30 8.8% 9.2% 9.7% 31–35 13.3% 13.7% 13.5% Further training Further training costs 9306 9446 9175 per employee (€) 36–40 14.1% 14.0% 14.1% No. of days’ training 3.14 3.05 3.04 41–45 14.0% 14.0% 14.7% per staff member (Ø) 46–50 16.0% 16.7% 16.9% Employees receiving 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 51–55 15.4% 15.1% 14.4% regular performance and career development reviews 56–60 10.1% 9.5% 9.1% over 60 4.1% 4.0% 3.9% Employees covered by 96%7 96%7 96%7 collective bargaining agreements No. of staff by type of employment Permanent employment 94.6% 93.4% 95.8% contract Pay ratio9 24 23 Temporary employment4 5.4% 6.6% 4.2% 3 Since 2014, the figure for asset management has been distributed across the business fields. 4 Coverage Munich Re (Group): ≥ 95% 5 Coverage Munich Re (Group): ≥ 70%. 6 Coverage Munich Re (Group): ≥ 50%. 7 Coverage: Munich Re (Group) Germany ~ 50% of Munich Re (Group). 8 Munich Health integration in early 2017: Allocation of the business units to the field of business reinsurance and to the field of business primary insurance 9 Pay ratios from Annual Report 2018. In 2018, the ratio of the target overall direct remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of Management to the average target overall direct remuneration of all Company employees (excluding the Board of Management) was 38. The ratio of the average target overall direct remuneration of all members of the Board of Management to the average target overall direct remuneration of all employees (excluding the Board of Management) was 24. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 68 Social impact (SI) indicators Expenses for lobbying in euro – not part of social impact expenses 2018 2017 2016 2015 Coverage for reporting 99.3% 99.8% 99.6% 95.3% As part of its lobbying activities, Munich Re (Group) engages in a continuous exchange with a wide range of organisations of which it is a member. The Total SI expenses 8,397,389 € 8,771,058 € 7,738,945 € 10,390,192 € ­following table shows a selection of the institutions of greatest Group-wide Share of pre-tax profit 0.23% 0.7% 0.23% 0.29% strategic importance that are active across sectors and/or (also) international in scope. Details of social impact expenses in 2018 in euro Association/Organisation 2018 2017 2018 2017 Association of German Insurers (GDV) 3,000,000 3,000,000 Activities at our locations10 2,094,066 2,118,201 Geneva Association 160,000 140,000 Social impact projects contributing to the three global challenges10 3,043,696 3,077,110 1. Combating the effects of climate change The European Insurance CFO Forum ­ 40,000 90,000 2. Improving access to healthcare (CFO Forum) 3. Enhancing risk awareness Chief Risk Officer Forum 30,000 30,000 Disaster relief10 147,250 98,509 The Insurance Europe Reinsurance Advisory 15,000 15,000 Donations in kind, sponsorships in kind 71,021 24,761 Board (RAB) Political donations 173,100 170,500 Corporate volunteering 796,701 862,997 ERGO foundations 506,562 683,977 Munich Re foundations 1,564,992 1,735,002 Regional classification10 2018 2017 Germany 2,006,873 1,931,773 Europe (excluding Germany) 971,576 1,122,154 North America 2,055,554 1,935,514 Latin America 8,083 6,125 Australia/New Zealand 168,971 228,941 Africa 54,177 67,646 Asia 19,779 1,694 10 T  his amount comprises donations (not including donations in kind or political donations), social sponsorships (not including sponsorships in kind) and corporate responsibility memberships. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 69 GRI content index GRI standard Reference Comments/Omission UNGC principle > GRI 102-55 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 10 GRI standard Reference Comments/Omission UNGC principle 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p. 11 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated p. 3 ­financial statements 102-1 Name of the organisation p. 5 102-46 Defining report content and p. 11 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services p. 5 topic ­boundaries 102-3 Location of headquarters p. 5 102-47 List of material topics p. 11 102-4 Location of operations p. 5 102-48 Restatements of information Where previously published information needed to be updated, this has been indicated in the 102-5 Ownership and legal form p. 5 relevant places. 102-6 Markets served p. 5 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 11 102-7 Scale of the organisation p. 5 102-50 Reporting period p. 3 102-8 Information on employees and p. 67 102-51 Date of most recent report 16 May 2018 other workers 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 3 102-9 Supply chain p .5 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding p. 3, p. 76 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation No significant changes in the year the report and its supply chain under review. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with p. 3 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach p. 7, p. 14 the GRI standards 102-12 External initiatives p. 13 102-55 GRI content index p. 69 102-13 Membership of associations p. 18 102-56 External assurance p. 74 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p. 4 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 102-16 Values, principles, standards, p. 7, p. 12, p. 14 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 26, p. 30 and norms of behaviour 201-1 Direct economic value generated and corporate website 102-18 Governance structure p. 12, p. 14 ­distributed p. 69 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 10 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and p. 26, p. 30 opportunities due to climate change 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements p. 49, p. 67 201-4 Financial assistance received To the best of our knowledge, 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 10 from government Munich Re received no financial support from the state. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 70 GRI standard Reference Comments/Omission UNGC GRI standard Reference Comments/Omission UNGC principle principle GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 20, p. 26, p. 30, 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 52, p. 54 p. 36, p. 40 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 64 GC 7, 8 203-1 Infrastructure investments and p. 20, p. 26, p. 30, services supported p. 36, p. 40 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p. 64 GC 7, 8 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts p. 20, p. 26, p. 30, 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions p. 64 GC 7, 8 p. 36, p. 40 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 64 GC 8 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions p. 64 GC 8, 9 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 12 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 205-2 C  ommunication and training about p. 15 GC 10 ­anti-corruption policies and procedures 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 52, p. 54 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and In the period under review, no GC 10 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 64 GC 8 ­actions taken ­confirmed incidents of corruption were identified which were material from a Group perspective. GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws No instances of non-compliance GC 8 and regulations were identified in the 2018 financial year. 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 12 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, No fines were imposed upon anti-trust, and monopoly practices Munich Re (Group) in the period under review. 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 12 GRI 302: Energy 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 100% GC 8 environmental criteria 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 52, p. 54 GRI 401: Employment 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the p. 64 GC 7, 8 ­organisation 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 45 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the p. 64 GC 8 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p. 67 ­organisation GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 302-3 Energy intensity p. 64 GC 8 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 45 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption p. 64 GC 8, 9 404-1 Average hours of training per year p. 67 GC 6 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements p. 64 GC 8, 9 per employee of products and services 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills p. 46 and transition assistance programmes 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving p. 67 GC 6 regular performance and career development reviews Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 71 GRI standard Reference Comments/Omission UNGC GRI standard Reference Comments/Omission UNGC principle principle GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 412: Human Rights Assesment 2016 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 45 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 12 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and p. 67, p. 48 GC 6 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies p. 13 GC 1 employees or procedures GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 412-3 Significant investment agreements p. 14 GC 2 and contracts that include human rights 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 45 clauses or that underwent human rights screening 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and Eight discrimination incidents were GC 6 corrective actions taken investigated at Home Office in the GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 2018 financial year. Of these, three could not be confirmed, two were 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 12 partially confirmed and one was confirmed. Appropriate measures 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 100% GC 2 were taken on a case-by-case basis. ­social criteria In addition, the training course on the German General Equal Treatment GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 Act (AGG – Allgemeines Gleich­ behandlungsgesetz) is being 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 18 up­dated on the topic of #metoo to help foster awareness. 415-1 Political contributions p. 68, p. 18 GC 10 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 2016 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 12 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 25 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right To the best of our knowledge, no GC 3 417-1 Requirements for product and service p. 25 to freedom of association and collective operating sites or suppliers were information and labelling bargaining may be at risk identified in the period under review at which the right to freedom 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning No incidents relevant to the Group of association and collective marketing communications of non-compliance with regulations bargaining could be at risk. or voluntary codes of conduct concerning marketing and GRI 408: Child labour 2016 communications – or of fines, sanctions or warnings – were identi103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 12 fied in the period under review. 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk To the best of our knowledge, in the GC 5 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 for incidents of child labour period under review no operating sites or suppliers were identified as 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 16 being at significant risk of incidents of child labour. 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning In 2018, no material data-protection ­breaches of customer privacy and losses event defined in the Solvency II Group GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labour 2016 of customer data Compliance Policy occurred anywhere in our Group worldwide, nor were 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 12 any material proceedings for breach of data-protection rules initiated. 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant To the best of our knowledge, in the GC 4 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory period under review no operating GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 labour sites or suppliers were identified as being at significant risk of incidents 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations No instances of substantial fines of forced or compulsory labour. in the social and economic area or non-monetary sanctions being imposed on Munich Re by state agencies were identified in the period under review. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 72 SRI ratings & indices Open and transparent dialogue with our stakeholders in Germany and abroad on our commitment to corporate responsibility and socially responsible investment (SRI) is an essential part of our corporate culture. The inclusion of Munich Re (Group) in numerous sustainability indices and our good to very good performance in many different SRI ratings are proof that we are on the right track: – Listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (Europe and World) since 2001 – Listed in the FTSE4Good Index since 2001 – Listed in the following indices: Euronext Vigeo World 120, Euronext Vigeo Europe 120 and Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120 – Listed in the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe and the ESI Excellence Global – Listed in the following indices: ECPI Global Ethical, ECPI World ESG Equity and ECPI Global Climate Change Equity – Listed in the STOXX Global ESG Leaders index – MSCI ESG Rating of “AA” – Prime status per ISS-oekom rating – Industry leader in Sustainalytics’ industry rating Updated 31 December 2018 Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 73 Principles for Responsible Investment – No. Principle Examples of measures Investing responsibly 2 “We will be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into our Before taking part in an Annual General Meeting, MEAG checks the following topic areas to ensure its investors’ interests are represented as ownership policies and practices.” objectively and comprehensively as possible: Active investor – Board of Management and Supervisory Board. – Appointment of the external auditor At Munich Re, responsible management has uppermost priority, not least with a – Capital measures view to operating profitably. Our asset management therefore follows the United – Appropriation of profits: – Mergers and acquisitions Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). We helped to draw up these – Corporate Governance Code and best practice principles and were the first German company to sign them. MEAG supports the companies with measures that have a long-term, ­positive effect on business development or a business model, and will vote against measures that would have a negative impact on the Group. This A holistic investment strategy aligned with ESG (environmental, social, govern­extends to social, ethical and environment-related targets/aspects of corpoance) criteria also has a long-term beneficial effect on risk and return. That is rate governance. why, on 27 April 2006, we were one of the first signatories to the United Nations If it is not possible to participate in person, the fund management either Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which we played a prominent role nominates a proxy or casts an electronic vote itself using a proxy voting ­platform. In every case in drafting. Behind these principles is the view that investment decisions often take insufficient account of the need for sustainable development and thus the 3 “We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the entities in which We communicate our investment criteria openly and address these in ­dialogue with the companies we work with. needs of future generations. we invest.” Sustainability disclosure Our aim here is to motivate companies to improve their ESG rating or achieve a positive ESG rating for the first time. Munich Re is thereby Principles and recommendations for action for investment decisions ­contributing to companies keeping a closer eye on ESG criteria. 4 “We will promote acceptance and We communicate and highlight our principles through publications in the Six principles are described more closely in a list of 35 recommendations for ­implementation of the principles within media and by participating in presentations and conferences on sustainability. the investment industry.” action. These enable institutional investors to take account of ecological and Patron of PRI With individual funds and activities; we show how responsible management can be put into practice: social aspects, together with topics related to good corporate governance, in – Investments in infrastructure with a focus on renewable energies their investment decisions. Munich Re is committed to fulfilling the PRI in an – MEAG Nachhaltigkeit – MEAG EM Rent Nachhaltigkeit: appropriate and forward-looking manner. – MEAG FairReturn 5 “We will work together to enhance our Through its PRI membership, Munich Re contributes to the continued ­effectiveness in implementing the ­development and propagation of the principles. The following examples show how Munich Re is putting the six principles.” Cooperation to realise the PRI We are driving forward the exchange of experience with other PRI members UN principles into practice: in Germany and around the world. 6 “We will each report on our activities We participate in UNEP’s annual PRI Reporting and Assessment Survey. In No. Principle Examples of measures and progress in implementing the the Strategy and Governance module of the current Principles for Responsible principles.” Investment (PRI) assessment, Munich Re was awarded the highest rating of 1 “We will incorporate ESG issues We are pursuing the ESG integration approach in the investment process. Reporting activities and progress A+ for 2017. Munich Re and MEAG also answered questions on the “bonds” into investment analysis and This means that we use ESG factors as an additional source of information. ­relevant to PRI asset class. A good “B” rating was awarded in all four individual modules decision-making processes.” This holistic approach leads to better investment decisions and improves pertaining to this asset class. Sustainable investment process the portfolio’s risk/return profile. We report on the PRI and our activities relating to it (such as reports and ESG analyst discussions). Munich Re takes part in ESG ratings and factors the appraisals into ­corporate decision-making. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 74 Independent Management’s responsibility schaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer] as well as the IDW Standard on Quality Control 1: Requirements ­Auditor’s Limited The legal representatives of Münchener Rückverfor Quality Control in audit firms [IDW Qualitätssiche­ sicherungs-Gesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft in München rungsstandard 1: Anforderungen an die Qualitätsare responsible for the preparation of the report in sicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis (IDW QS 1)]. Assurance Report ­accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (hereafter “GRI-­ Auditor’s Responsibility criteria”) and for the selection of the information to be > GRI 102-56 assessed. Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the information marked with the The assurance engagement performed by Ernst & Young This responsibility includes the selection and applicasymbol ** in the report based on the assurance engage(EY) relates exclusively to the German version of the tion of appropriate methods to prepare the report as ment we have performed. Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/2019 of Münchener well as making assumptions and estimates for individual Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft i­n sustainability disclosures, which are reasonable under We conducted our limited assurance engagement in München. The following text is a translation of the the circumstances. Furthermore, the legal representaaccordance with the International Standard on Assuroriginal German Independent Assurance Report. tives are responsible for such internal controls that they ance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance have considered necessary to enable the preparation Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical To Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft of a report that is free from material misstatements, Financial Information” published by the IAASB. This Aktiengesellschaft in München, Munich whether due to fraud or error. standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain a limited assurance about We have performed a limited assurance engagement Auditor’s Statement regarding Independence whether the information marked with the symbol ** in on the disclosures marked with the symbol ** in the and Quality the report for the reporting period from 1 January 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report of Münchener Rück­ to 31 December 2018 has been prepared, in all material ver­sicherungs-Gesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft in We are independent from the Company in compliance respects, in accordance with the relevant GRI criteria. München for the reporting period from 1 January 2018 with the German statutory and professional requireWe do not, however, issue a separate conclusion for to 31 December 2018 (hereafter the report). ments, and have fulfilled our other professional responsieach sustainability disclosure which is marked with the bilities in accordance with these requirements. symbol **. In a limited assurance engagement the Our engagement exclusively relates to the information assurance procedures are less in extent than for a marked with the symbol ** in the German PDF verOur audit firm applies the national statutory regulations reasonable assurance engagement and therefore a sion of the report. Our engagement did not include and professional pronouncements for quality control, substantially lower level of assurance is obtained. The any disclosures for prior years. in particular the by-laws regulating the rights and duties assurance procedures selected depend on the auditor’s of Wirtschaftsprüfer and vereidigte Buchprüfer in the professional judgment. exercise of their profession [Berufssatzung für Wirt­ Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 75 Within the scope of our assurance engagement, which Conclusion unless we have concluded a written agreement to the has been conducted between March and May 2019, Based on our assurance procedures performed and contrary with the respective third party or liability we performed amongst others the following assurance assurance evidence obtained, nothing has come to our cannot effectively be precluded. and other procedures: attention that causes us to believe that the disclosures marked with the symbol ** in the Corporate ResponsiWe make express reference to the fact that we do bility Report of Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesell­ not update the assurance report to reflect events or – Inquiries of employees regarding the sustainability schaft Aktiengesellschaft in München for the reportcircumstances arising after it was issued unless restrategy, sustainability principles and sustainability ing period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 quired to do so by law. It is the sole responsibility of management of Münchener Rückversicherungs-­ have not been prepared, in all material respects, in anyone taking note of the result of our assurance Gesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft in München, accordance with the relevant GRI criteria. ­engagement summarized in this assurance report to – Inquiries of employees responsible for data capture decide whether and in what way this result is useful and consolidation of the disclosures marked with the Intended Use of the Report or suitable for their purposes and to supplement, verify symbol ** as well as the preparation of, to evaluate or update it by means of their own review procedures. the sustainability reporting processes, the data capWe issue this report on the basis of the engagement ture and compilation methods as well as internal agreement with Münchener Rückversicherungs-­ controls to the extent relevant for the limited assurGesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft in München. The ance of the information marked with the symbol **, assurance engagement has been performed for the Munich, 24 May 2019 – Identification of likely risks of material misstatement purposes of the Company and the report is solely inin the report, inspection of the relevant documentended to inform the Company as to the results of tation of the systems and processes for compiling, the assurance engagement and must not be used for analyzing and aggregating sustainability data in the purposes other than those intended. The report is Ernst & Young GmbH reporting period and testing such documentation not intended to provide third parties with support in Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft on a sample basis, making (financial) decisions. – Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis relating to the collection and reporting of Engagement Terms and Liability ­sustainability data and disclosures at the head­ quarters of Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesell­schaft The “General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer Nicole Richter Annette Johne Aktiengesellschaft in München and during two site and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften [German Public Wirtschaftsprüferin Wirtschaftsprüferin visits at HSB Engineering Insurance, Hartford, Auditors and Public Audit Firms]” dated 1 January 2017 (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) USA, and at ERGO, Hamburg, are applicable to this engagement and also govern – Analytical measures at Group level and on the level our relations with third parties in the context of this of selected sites regarding the quality of the reported engagement (www.de.ey.com/general-engagement-­ data, terms). In addition, please refer to the liability provisions – Critical review of the draft report to assess plausicontained in no. 9 and to the exclusion of liability bility and consistency with the information marked towards third parties. We assume no responsibility, with the symbol **. liability or other obligations towards third parties Munich Re _ CR-Report 2018 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 76 Munich Re CR Report 2018 – Contact and imprint > GRI 102-53 Contact Imprint Please do not hesitate to contact our Sustainability © 2019 team if you have any questions regarding corporate Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft responsibility at Munich Re. Aktiengesellschaft in München Königinstr. 107 Anja Hirsch, Consultant Sustainability, 80802 München oversees our Corporate Responsibility Report. Please send your questions and comments to Date of publication: responsibility@munichre.com May 2019 Anja Hirsch Text, Design, Layout: Consultant Sustainability Scholz & Friends Reputation Email: responsibility@munichre.com Renate Bleich Photo credits Head of Department Sustainability Email: responsibility@munichre.com AdobeStock, Page: 24, 33, 41, 42, 46, 53, 57 Ergo Versicherungsgruppe, Page: 54 GettyImages, Page: 1, 13, 14, 19, 26, 30, 32, 34, 43, 50, 53, 58, 63 GettyImages/Blend Images, Page: 38, 40 Hero Image, Page 48 istockphoto.com, Page 16 Mauritius Image, Page: 6, 26, 36, 51 Photothek.net, Page 18 Save the Children, Page 61 Shutterstock, Page 37
