COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Mr. António Guterres Secretary – General United Nations New York, NY10017 USA. Dear Mr. Secretary General, STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER I am pleased to reaffirm our commitment to United Nation Global compacts standards; on Human rights, Labour, Environment and Anticorruption and our continua support in the achievement of the 2030 sustainable Developments Goals. The necessary measure are continuously implemented towards ensuring stakeholder compliance and adherence to identified policies and goals across the company of operation. We shall therefore report annually on progress made on the adopted sustainable development goals and the ten (10) principles. Yours sincerely, Stuffman Ayo Managing Director/CEO COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 ABOUT US! VAS2Nets Technologies Limited is a leading developer of consumer and enterprise mobile value added service. An ICT firm in and outside Nigeria with extensive experience in the development and delivery of mobile value added service, voice service and broad cast service. The company is focused on providing total product or service solutions to our reputable client base of mobile operator, consumer brands and content provider. VAS2Nets has over 10 mobile operators customer in different Africa countries (Nigeria, Ghana, Cameroon etc.) Our Vision: To create an ecosystem in mobile technology. Our Mission: To help people all over the world realize their creative desires and provide service beyond their expectations. Our business has three key vertical: Mobile Communities, Financial Mobility and Mobile Service Aggregation. VAS2Nets Focus on the Sustainable Development Goals. Achievement on the SDG o Provision of employment with gender equality o Provision of fair and competitive wage for employment. o Prompt payments of salary to mitigate against hunger and enhance good health. o Provision of financial support to aid school bills payments to aid education. o Provision of health insurance to employee and their families to facilitate good health. o Provision of micro finance assistance and other form of financial facilities to all staff through our partnering banks. o The company had trained 13 people till date within our community on Airtime and Data bundle vending to eradicate poverty and hunger. o Enhance creativity in the company through creating agreement with employees in submission of innovative idea to the company to enhance their innovative prowess and get reward on good idea suggested for implementation. o Increase in the number of female staff from 23% to 38% to promote gender balance. o Involving of female in leadership of the company. o Deployment of mobile solutions that ease efficiency of business o Partner with Entrepreneur Organization through our corporate social responsibility towards motivating undergraduates to becoming innovative and entrepreneur in their various skills. o One of the company directors through knowledge and vision of UNGC principles has been involved in speech delivering at conferences advocating for the education of girl child. o Do due diligence with our vendors in ensuring they cater for their employees and their reward are promptly paid to mitigate against hunger and poverty in order to enhance good health. United Nation Global Compact Principles HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human right. Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human right abuse. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Human rights within the company is coherently exercised by all stakeholder to the company. VAS2Nets is one of the great aggregator and mobile solution service provider in the IT sector in Nigeria, Adopting United Nation goals has been of help in structuring our operations towards standing out in providing fair and equitable business dealing in and outside Nigeria. Our Human rights practices encompasses the social, legal and moral principle of fair justice to all stakeholders. The company through the identified principle allow employee’s exercise their right and enjoy the essence of individual value and perception without intimidation, VAS2Nets ensure exercising of such right are done within the confines of the law without inter alia effect on the company and/or its brand and goodwill. The company pride itself in terms of respect for human right in all forms; right to life, no slavery, prompt compensation and benefits payments, no discrimination, no torture, right to fair hearing, right to marriage and family, freedom of thought, freedom of expression, right to public assembly, right to democracy, social security, right to work, right to religion, no forced labour, right to health insurance etc. The company has also encourage its employees through its awareness and sensitization in promoting community belief and value system, contribute in building and promoting peaceful environment that aid individual realization of their rights. The company understand the effect human right abuse can have on its operations and productivity and has put a well-defined structure in place to ensure flow of activities in order to mitigate against any unfair abuse to its stakeholder rights; employees, clients and business partners. There has been prompt communication, impact assessment and stakeholder engagement in order to ensure sustenance of value, high level adoption and buy-in to the united nation principle by the company management team. The employer and employee right are made known and stated, process and procedure flow identified to build a well defined culture of common interest without infringe on anyone’s right. IMPLEMENTATION • Policy are created and provided to required stakeholder for their acknowledgement. • Vendor service level agreement created and shared with all vendors • Provision of social security and job security • Provision of competitive wage to increase the standard of living of employees. • Provision of job which align with employee skills, competence and qualification. • Employment of highly skilled professional, as internal auditor and control to monitor human right. • Outsource of employee performance management system for effective and quality assessment of employee competence and their development. MEASUREMENT • Increase in level of adoption by stakeholder. • No record of human right violation, litigation, and report of harassment by employees and other stakeholder • No record of causality in the work environment • Employment of internal auditor to ensure compliance with process, procedure and identify risk and potential breech of right in the company. • Compliance with available guiding policy. LABOUR PRINCIPLE Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to bargain. Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Effective abolition of child Labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS The company is committed in providing conducive business environment for all stakeholder and their satisfaction, and ensure stakeholder realization of proposed value from all business relationship, which is reflected in our core value; WE Embrace Warm Relationship and Understand the Value of Reputation. WE Embrace Warm Relationship • Ability to develop and maintain effective relationships with both clients and colleagues • Leverages existing/new relationships to gain repeat business and referrals. Understand the Value of Reputation; • Builds and protects the reputation of staff and VAS2Nets’ • Maintains and promotes social, ethical and company values in the course of business activities. • Trust worthy and able to maintain confidentiality The above stated core value shows our alignment with the united nation principle for Business to uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to bargain. The company operate an open and fair system, as such there has been no form of discrimination in respect to occupation. Our staff structure is diversified across ethnic group, gender and religion; The number of female employees has increased in some major unit especially among software developers and business team, number of Muslim has also increased which is a reflection of commitment to united nation principles. Also, the Muslim employee are permitted to exercise their Islamic rites during work hour by giving them the opportunity to observe their prayer at all times while at work without discrimination or intimidation. Our tolerance of one another belief and background has made the company to grow and co-exist as one body. Management staff and employees see themselves as family, which made everyone to strife for a common goal and interest. The primary objectives of UNGC principle in this case which is not limited to equality during employment, have been strengthened within the company. Our recruitment and performance management system has been outsourced to KPMG for better practices; effective and efficient recruitment process, employment of skilled applicant, monitoring and evaluation of employee performances for our process not to be compromised. Our employment standard is being outstanding within the industry without violation of human and labour right. The human resources department does not seek any form of inducement from applicant to get employed neither were they subject to making financial deposit to the company for employment purpose. Our human resources policy is free and fair to all and not discriminatory. Anyone employed is provided with competitive wage that can meet their needs at each level of their career. Our service level agreement has been structured to inculcate vendor’s commitment towards desisting from child and forced labour. The company has tremendously increased its budget for training and corporate social responsibility to ensure development of its workforce in the company to enhance skills and competency and give back to the community. The company drivers were not discriminated in this regards, as they were beneficiary from the training budget, they were sent on 3 months course with the Nigeria Police College in order to be ethical and professional while delivery their service. The management team embraces open door policy for any aggrieved staff to work in and lodge complaint if not satisfied with identified procedure for complaint to ensure staff satisfaction. IMPLEMENTATION • Recruitment and selection is based on merit system • Providing safe and conducive working condition • Providing access to affordable facilities that can facilitates employee education, welfare and other exigent needs. • Recruitment and Performance management system outsourced to KPMG • Fair and equitable reward system in compliance with statutory standard to all staff • Service level Agreement to strengthen good working standard with vendors • Friday (TGIF) which foster relationship among employees in the company • Implement suggesting of innovative idea to company by employee and best idea being rewarded on monthly basis to increase employee sense of belonging in the company and foster unification of purpose. MEASUREMENT • Every employee gets fair and equitable remuneration commensurate with their role, input and qualification. • Incessant sickness has reduced among employees as a result of welfare scheme put in place which has help to improve health status. • Compliance with labour code in our country of operations • No record of child labour in our employment • There has not been litigation against the company on forced or compulsory labour ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLE Principle 7: Business should support precautionary approach to the environmental challenge Principle 8: Undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technology ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS The company has deployed technical solutions that are environmental and user friendly towards mitigating against observed challenge encountered by business and individuals. Most of the services deployed has been via mobile solutions in Agriculture, Health, Financial and IT sector. All these were achievable through mobile solutions, Application development and IT infrastructure. The focus of the company is currently shifting towards the Banking and entertainment industry in providing technological services to ease their mode of operation and realization of seamless values that abound within the tech space. these has led in championing a great innovation that would ease international transfer of fund to Nigeria and other African Countries in order to curb challenges faced in doing international transfer and to the entertainment industry a platform to sell their content to user which will help to curb seamless piracy issue paramount within the industry. The platform is called “Lodios” www.lodios.com which has been fine tuned to serve more purpose which is not limited to sponsored channel, on demand content, streaming video and audio content platform that presents end users with a whole new dimension of media experience. IMPLEMENTATION • Development of mobile solutions and apps to mitigate environmental challenge. • Corporate social responsibility by the company to deceased ex-staff children payment of school bills and welfare. • Corporate social responsibility on Global Student Entrepreneurs Award. The company has been supporting GSEA organization through its mother body Entrepreneurs Organization towards helping undergraduate who are entrepreneurs to realize their desires. The company had aid this through its financial contribution and enlighten program. • Development of economic and social sustainable target and indicators. • Ensure transparency in business dealing with all stakeholder • MEASUREMENT • The user rate of all deployed services are encouraging • Deployed solutions are not causing any harm to anyone rather aid businesses operations • Comply with partner’s code of conducts in ensuring • More business referrals from present clients and partners • Ensure deployed service are of quality and industry standard and meets consumer needs • Janitor proper maintenance of our environment and sewages. • More business referral from deployed innovative services. ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Principle 10: Business should work against corruption and bribery in all its form ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS. The company has succeeded in eradicating cash transaction by 95% and implement policy which have faced out mediums by which corrupt practices can arise or staff being lured into. We have achieved a lot in this regards through vendor management in mitigating against bribery, kick back and other form of corrupt practices. This measure has aid operational excellence and level of trust among the employees involved in all transactions. IMPLEMENTATION • All cash transaction for operations have been faced out by 95%, it’s a great relief to the business as we also notice electronic transaction also aid cash control by seeking ways for best alternative in course of the company operational services. • Strict enforcement and compliance for registration of the company vendors. • The company now enhance strict compliance to processes in all request; financial and non-financial • Measures in place towards ensuring those that represent the company in all business meeting do not put in personal interest. • Expenses submitted by employees related to work are documented with attached evidence of payments • There are checks and balances to ensure employees are anticorruption committed. • Employment of internal auditor to look out for leakages in our operations and ensure compliance with stated principle. • Mandating of employees to report any form of gift received in the course of work relationship MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME • Engage in business dealing with reputable organization who frowns at corrupt practices. • Non solicitation of financial or non-financial assistance by employees from client, vendors & Partners. • External auditor frequently checks our book of account to ensure every transaction has been done properly. • Staff has really comply with gift disclosure base on the number on the register. • There has been no such incident of reported cases of bribery, corruption and extortion. We are leveraging on current practices to ensure there is continuous success in this aspect. • All receipt on transaction done is submitted to Admin and Finance department for assessment. • No clients have ever reported our employees for extortion or any other forms of corrupt practices
