Hexaware Technologies Communication on Progress 2018 For the United Nations Global Compact July 2019 © 2019 Hexaware Technologies limited. All rights reserved. www.hexaware.com Table of Contents 1.STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER .................................................................. 3 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS ............................................................................................................................................ 4 Human Rights Principles ............................................................................................................................................... 4 Labour Principles ........................................................................................................................................................... 5 Environment Principles ................................................................................................................................................. 6 Anti-corruption Principles ............................................................................................................................................. 8 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ................................................................................................................................. 11 © 2019 Hexaware Technologies limited. All rights reserved. 2 www.hexaware.com 1.STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 4th July 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Hexaware Technologies reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Supporting public accountability and transparency and committing to report on progress is a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact therefore we submit Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our Company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. Sincerely yours, R Srikrishna Chief Executive Officer © 2019 Hexaware Technologies limited. All rights reserved. 3 www.hexaware.com 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses are not complicit in human rights abuses Policy, Goals and Assessment As an International Employer Hexaware has 33 global offices, which has a direct impact on the lives of 16,205 employees. Hexaware lays emphasis on the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. It pledges to recognize and respect the rights of all its stakeholders, such as: employees, customers, and society. This is emphasized by implementing policies and procedures in place, such as: Code of Conduct Policy, the Whistle-blower Policy, Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. To protect the human rights of all its employees according to global human rights proclamation and standards it has a welldefined Code of Conduct Policy including the right to safe and healthy working conditions. Hexaware is an equal employer and does not discriminate based on caste, class, race, religion or gender. The Company as an organization is committed to provide a healthy environment to all the employees and thus does not tolerate any discrimination and/or harassment in any form. The Company has in place a Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) policy in line applicable to all the locations in India, complying with the requirements of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. The new joinees during induction are sensitized on POSH through an awareness program. The Company has setup an Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) both at the registered office and at every location where it operates in India in accordance with the Act and has representation of men and women and is chaired by senior lady member and has an external women representation. Hexaware is committed to impart awareness on human rights and uphold the universal values within its ambit. The Whistle-blower Policy provides a forum for employees to report any violations of human rights or any other policies of Hexaware. Implementation The policies of Hexaware form one of the fundamental parts during the trainings and inductions. Some of the critical policies are Code of Conduct Policy, Whistle-blower Policy, Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) Policy, Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. The StationH portal on the Company’s intranet contains all the information regarding processes and policies which can be accessed by the employees. © 2019 Hexaware Technologies limited. All rights reserved. 4 www.hexaware.com The HR Business Partners (HR BPs) have a well-defined employee engagement mechanism. HR BPs work closely with employees on Human Resources related topics and the employees can directly report their grievance to them. Regular skip level meetings, one-on-one meetings and open houses are conducted for the employees by the HR BPs, as forums where any concern may be raised, or feedback can be provided. A Cordial Working Environment Policy has been institutionalized, which ensures creating an encouraging workplace for its employees. Hexaware engages closely with the customer to seek feedback, provides a channel to report any concerns and any violation of the Policy may be reported. The modes of engagement are visit to customer sites and feedback forms. The audit procedures for its suppliers also touches upon human rights aspects. Measure of Outcomes The record of the complaints received for Human Rights violation is properly maintained at Hexaware. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principles Policy, Goals and Assessment Hexaware is committed for responsible business practices and stands in agreement with the ideologies and recommendations put forth by the International Program on the Elimination of Child Labour (IPEC) and Indo-US Child Labour Project (INDUS). Hexaware wholly complies with the Indian Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act of 1986. Hexaware doesn’t support any and all forms of child labour, forced and compulsory labour. Hexaware provides all its employees with the right to freedom of association. Also, it does not employ any child labour or forced labour, rather employs individuals solely based on their merit and will. Hexaware is committed to provide a safe working place and eliminate all form of discrimination or harassment based on race, colour, religion, national origin, sex, age, sexual orientation, marital status, citizenship status, or disability. © 2019 Hexaware Technologies limited. All rights reserved. 5 www.hexaware.com Hexaware is fair employer and does not discriminate amongst its employees. It provides a positive work environment to encourage its employees to contribute efficient and effectively towards the business benefit. Hexaware is committed to extend this positive culture across its suppliers, business partners and customers. Employees attend the regular HR pulse and skip meetings which help in ironing out their concerns and providing the required clarifications. Implementation Hexaware has constituted committees comprising of employees to oversee operations such as canteen, employee engagement etc. Hexaware organizes open houses, where employees can participate and interact with the Senior Management. Employees attend the regular HR pulse and skip meetings which help in resolving their concerns and provides them with the required clarification. At the time joining Hexaware, develops a repository of the employee records which provide information on date of birth, academics scores, training/certifications etc. With the help of these measures Hexaware ensures not to employ any child labour for its regular employment, contractual employment or apprentice. Measure of Outcomes Hexaware received no complaints related to the labour principles in 2018. Environment Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Policy, Goals and Assessment Hexaware is entirely a service Company and thus essentially, a non-energy intensive organization. In spite of that considering the Global challenges, the Company has continued its efforts on environmental safety, consumption and wastage of energy in form of energy – friendly apparatus as well as minimal usages policies, highly efficient design, deep green retrofits and renewable energy, which have helped to conserve resources. Hexaware strives to responsibly consume the natural resources. Its endeavor is to make future investments confirm to highest energy saving and reduced carbon emission devices. Hexaware © 2019 Hexaware Technologies limited. All rights reserved. 6 www.hexaware.com utilizes the resources in a responsible manner and tries to minimize its waste. The Company is constantly on a lookout for opportunities towards minimizing its environmental footprint. ‘Clean and Safe Neighbourhood’ initiative has been successfully run for the third year. This is an effort to ensure the community in and around Hexaware’s campus are clean, hygienic and use environmentally friendly technology to reduce the strain on non-renewable energy sources. It is one of the self-implemented programs related to environment. As the part of the program, following activities were undertaken such as: • Steel Dustbins in Millennium Business Park (MBP) • Changed open drainage to closed ones around Siruseri Campus • Laid over HT cable, which was a possible threat to public safety as an underground line • Installed 50 solar powered streetlamps in the MBP • Beautification the landscape with plants and trees around the Siruseri campus. • Beautification of the external area of the new Pune office with stone pitching, barbed fence and landscape with plants and trees and constructed a bus shelter in Siruseri. • Installed 50 solar powered streetlamps and beautified canals with granite pitching in Chennai SIPCOT. Implementation Hexaware motivates its employees for responsible resource consumption. It encourages its employees to be sensitive and minimize the consumption of valuable resources such as electricity, water, paper. Awareness sessions are organized for employees and initiatives are implemented to encourage responsible practices such as switching the lights off when not in use, judicious use of paper, regulating air conditioners temperature and updating fixtures to energy efficient fittings. The implementation of the below mentioned mitigation measures is to avoid wastage and misuse • All campuses are equipped with energy efficient saving devices such as lightings, computers, servers, printers and faxes • About 450000 Sq.ft greenery developed around the building-Siruseri campus • Indoor and Ambient Air quality monitoring is done on a monthly basis. CO2 level is monitored inside the offices to ensure a pollution free environment • Conventional light fittings at Chennai campus is replaced with Energy efficient LED light fixtures by which 390335 Units are saved • Modular UPS units are installed at Chennai campus in place of Conventional UPS units and 180,534 Units is saved. • Conventional Light Fixtures and UPS units at Mumbai MBP locations is replaced with Energy efficient LED light and saved 295,735 Units • Variable Frequency Drive is installed in Comfort Air-conditioning at Food Court Guest / Common dining and few Hexavarsity training rooms. • Chennai campus is Zero-water discharge campus, Rainwater harvesting system is installed along the periphery. • E-waste and Hazardous waste were disposed through authorized agencies as per government norms © 2019 Hexaware Technologies limited. All rights reserved. 7 www.hexaware.com • There is a state-of-art 220 KLD Sewage Treatment Plant (membrane bio-reactor technology) installed. The Treated water generated from STP is used for gardening purpose. In year 2018, Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) treated water of about 50,000KL at Chennai and 11,000KL at Pune is recycled and reused. • Paper waste generated were recycled through authorized agencies • Organic waste converter has been installed to process the food waste generated from food count into manure. The manure generated is used for landscaping in the campus • Gensets are pollution free as certified by Government Pollution Control agencies and the stack are fixed at the prescribed height and location • The Company has installed 421KW Roof Top solar system in its Siruseri campus and 114KW at Mumbai MBP. Power generated in 2018 from these systems is about 308310 and 40470 Units respectively. This results in avoiding of Green House Gas emission of about 279 tons of CO2 (Carbon Dioxide). • Wind energy to the tune of about 80 lakh units is availed in year 2018 as Captive Power Consumer through 3rd party Private power agency. • 85% of energy consumed at Chennai campus is fed from Green Power. Hexaware institutes key performance indicators for each of the thrust areas of environmental sustainability. The Steering Committee, a committee that sets and drives the CSR agenda of Hexaware, sets goals and monitor against each of these indicators on an annual basis or as it deems suitable. Hexaware disposes the hazardous and electronic waste responsibly and through authorized recyclers/ resellers. Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Policy, Goals and Assessment Hexaware has a zero-tolerance approach to corruption in all forms and it is committed to always conduct business in an honest and ethical manner. Hexaware upholds all applicable laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption of the land where it operated. In addition, the Company is bound by the UK Bribery Act, 2010. Hexaware is committed to the prevention, deterrence and detection of fraud, bribery and all other corrupt business practices. It is Hexaware’s policy to conduct its business activities with honesty, integrity and the highest possible ethical standards, wherever it operates throughout the world and does not engage in bribery or corruption. The Company has well-defined Code of Conduct for all employees, Senior Management and Directors of the Company that covers issues, related to ethics, honesty, misconduct etc. The Company also has separate Anti-Bribery Policy. The code of conduct of Employees is available on intra website of the Company and easily accessible to all the employees, the code of Conduct of © 2019 Hexaware Technologies limited. All rights reserved. 8 www.hexaware.com Senior Management and Directors is available on the website of the Company www.hexaware.com. The code of conduct of the employees and Senior Management applies to all the employees and Senior Management of Company respectively, including its subsidiaries. It covers dealings with vendors, customers and other business partners. All employees must abide by its Code of Conduct Policy which outlines the ethical and professional conduct of the employees. A bribe may be anything of value and not just money gifts, inside information, sexual or other favors, corporate hospitality or entertainment, offering employment to a relative, payment or reimbursement of travel expenses, charitable donation or social contribution, abuse of function -and can pass directly or through a third party. Corruption includes wrongdoing on the part of an authority or those in power through means that are illegitimate, immoral or incompatible with ethical standards. Corruption often results from patronage and is associated with bribery. Hexaware does not endorse the payment or receipt of gifts or bribes for business or financial gain. The employees and representatives of Hexaware are expected not to do anything that could give an impression that Hexaware could be influenced in any manner. Hexaware does not welcome or encourage facilitation payments. Such payments may be made only when they are legal, small, customary in the circumstances, and are used to secure an outcome to which Hexaware is legally entitled. Any act of commission or omission which is detrimental to the business of Hexaware i.e., bribery, fraud, pilferage, theft, etc., is termed as misconduct Implementation Employees at Hexaware are encouraged to raise any questions or concerns about any bribery issue or suspicion of noncompliance with the Company’s Anti-Bribery policy, with the Company’s Human Resources or Legal Department. If the Employee is unsure whether an act constitutes bribery or corruption, he or she should contact his or her Manager or the Company’s Human Resources or Legal Department as soon as possible. Hexaware has strict policies and implementation mechanisms to uphold ethical behavior amongst the employees. Employees are expected to report gifts and hospitality amounting to more than 100 USD to their line manager and seek their guidance in case of any doubts. For unavoidable facilitation payments, Hexaware expects its employees to openly record the amount and seek reimbursement under the normal approval procedures or to consult local management and receive advance payment. Any fraudulent behavior of the employees is investigated, and the concerned employees faces disciplinary action including dismissal from the services of Hexaware. Employees can also report violations through the Whistle-blower mechanism. A person or entity making a disclosure of any unethical activity or improper practices or alleged wrongful conduct that they have observed. Whistle Blowers could be employees of the Company as well as subsidiary companies, contractors, contractor’s employees, clients, vendors, internal or external auditors, regulatory agencies or other third parties. Ex-employees of the Company are also included within the definition of Whistle Blower. Employees can report violations through the Whistleblower mechanism. The grievances reported through this mechanism are investigated by the Whistle Blower Committee. The Committee © 2019 Hexaware Technologies limited. All rights reserved. 9 www.hexaware.com comprises of a team of senior management personnel of the Company who independently assess the concerns raised by the Whistle Blower custodian. The Custodian is a person usually a fulltime senior employee, well respected for his/her integrity, independence and fairness. He/she is authorized, appointed, consulted or approached by the Whistle Blower committee for receiving all complaints under this policy and ensuring appropriate action. An unethical activity can be reported by the Whistle Blower through email complaint/written complaint as soon as possible but in no event later than 30 days of becoming aware of the same and the disclosure can be made to the Whistle Blower custodian/any of the Whistle Blower committee member. If the complaint is against any member of the Whistle Blower committee, the same would be reported to the Global CEO, who has the right to decide on the issue on his own or through an investigation Measure of Outcomes In 2018, there were four complaints received by the Whistle Blower Committee and they were all resolved within the stipulated timeframe. © 2019 Hexaware Technologies limited. All rights reserved. 10 www.hexaware.com 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 3.1 Care for the Community ‘True measure of growth lies beyond the balance sheet’, it is the underlying ideology of Hexaware that drives its CSR Programs and contribute towards the betterment of local communities and society at large. Hexaware’s CSR philosophy is to use business to serve the society, built on a strong belief that ‘common good’ is more important than ‘individual gain’. The Company acknowledges that there is interdependence between business and communities and strongly believes that serving communities through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is an indispensable part of their business. Hexaware’s CSR vison is guided by the overall goal of empowering the communities. The CSR programs are designed with the singular focus of generating opportunities for individuals to enable a better future. The Company also encourages its employees to be a part of their CSR journey and to bring about a change in the society and the environment they thrive in. Hexaware has a longstanding commitment to CSR that is built on a strong edifice of value creation for everyone. Hexaware’s CSR activities are classified into four broad categories namely: a) Flagship Programs b) Programs Aligned with National Themes c) Sustainability Employee Engagement Programs: d) Stakeholder Management Program The following activities were undertaken as a part of its contribution to the community: a) Flagship Programs I. Smile Twin e-Learning Program was started with the aim to impart employability skills to the youth from marginalized communities and improve their standard of living. Hexaware has partnered with Smile Foundation to work towards sustainable development and economic upliftment of underprivileged youth. Currently, Hexaware supports three centers in Mumbai, Pune, and Chennai and targets about 300 individuals who are being trained on basic management and employable skills. II. V-Excel’s Vocational Training Program was launched with the objective to set up a Vocational Training Centre for people with disabilities at Mylapore. This program provides professional training and job opportunities to people with disabilities and encourages them to become entrepreneurs. The project provides training on paper cutting, binding, shredding and lamination machines. The trainees are equipped with the requisite skills and they are regularly examined by external agencies III. Early intervention program aims to assist disabled individuals by providing vocational training. It is different from other programs since it is for the parents and the caregivers to understand the child’s special development needs and incorporate them in the educational © 2019 Hexaware Technologies limited. All rights reserved. 11 www.hexaware.com and therapeutic strategies into daily routines. Hexaware aims to support more people by setting up bigger facilities and engaging larger teams. IV. SOS Children’s Village -Under this program Hexaware aspires to support vulnerable children from deprived families living below the poverty line. This program uses duel approach enables children via education, nutrition, health and empowers their families by enhancing their income via varied livelihood activities. This program impacted 860 beneficiaries across four locations in Chennai, Bangalore, Alibaug and Pune. The program focuses upon implementation activities such as providing tuition support for school children and financial support for school bags, uniforms, books, organising career guidance workshops; vocational training programs for older children; conduct adult literacy programs, organising training programs for entrepreneurial development of caregivers to name a few. V. Rainbow Homes-Social transformation starts with good education. On that same thought, Hexaware has provided financial support to Rainbow Homes to work with 150 girl children who are homeless. Rainbow homes are a fully residential complete care program which enables mainstream schooling and takes care of nutritional needs of these underprivileged children. Highlights of the program: • Organised Inter School Sports competitions • Organised Sciece workshops • Started Abacus Classes • ExtraCurricular activitiess such as puppet shows and karate classes VI. Apne Aap Women’s Collective (AAWC)-Hexaware is strongly committed for working towards empowering the women. It has been working towards empowering women through its different programs “Udaan” and “Umeed”, its flagship programs which are implemented by Apne Aap Women's Collective (AAWC). Udaan: This program works with the girls in the red-light area and prevents them from falling prey to the inter-generational cycle of prostitution. Under this initiative, Hexaware is financially supporting 103 girls from the age of 5 to 18. Many extra-curricular sessions such as theatre classes, computer classes, English speaking sessions, and music classes were organized for Udaan girls. In addition to this, health camps and night shelters were also organised for the girls. Umeed is another program of Hexaware that works with sex workers/ trafficked women to support their physical, mental and economic well-being. Umeed women beneficiaries receive first aid, quarterly medical camps regular health workshops, subsidized medication and medical referrals to government hospitals. Women living with HIV/ AIDS or tuberculosis receive daily mini meal and nutritional supplements. The program directly benefits 750 women. VII. Pankh‘Vocation Training for People with Disability’Hexaware is providing vocation training for people with disability by supporting Pankh (Trust for Retailers and Retail Associates of India -Train Trust) for the vocational training of people with disabilities. The aim © 2019 Hexaware Technologies limited. All rights reserved. 12 www.hexaware.com is to create sustainable livelihoods for people with disability (PWD). Through this program, 475 people with disability (PWD) got benefitted and 70% of the beneficiaries enrolled are provided placement opportunities, across 4 centers in Navi Mumbai, Thane, Chennai and Pune. Through this program 272 individuals were trained and 119 (44%) were placed. VIII. Space Kidz India-Hexaware is also associated with Space Kidz India, aimed for searching young talent in the field of Science and Technology especially in Aerospace, Robotics besides the conventional steam of Engineering and Medicine. Hexaware is associated with supporting the Innovative Ideas to provide a platform to the winners of the competitions conducted by Space Kidz India and Setting up a Space Kidz India multi-disciplinary lab for STEAM Education (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics). IX. Computer for All (CFA)-Program is another education initiative of Hexaware where refurbished computers are being used to improving digital literacy among government school students. It works with the government schools and target senior school students. Computer training is provided to students from 6th to 9th. X. Cuddles Foundation-Hexaware supports Cuddles foundation which works with Government run cancer hospital to provide, food and nutritional supplements, counselling, customized diet plans to children based on their grade of malnourishment and medical condition. XI. Katalyst Indiaaims to elevate and transform young women from low income communities to lead change in their professional and personal life, Hexaware plays a huge part in implementing this project by providing complete financial support to female students. The project focuses upon providing skill development training on topics such as social skills, managerial skills and technical skills, one on one mentoring sessions, financial support based on scorecard which is determined by the academic performance, training attendance, mentor interactions, leadership and volunteering initiatives, health insurance for the Katalyst girl and the mothers and industrial visit / corporate workshop and assistance with Internship for all Katalyst girls b) Programs aligned with the National theme XII. Antar Bharti Balgram Yojana-This program aims to gives an opportunity to orphaned and destitute children to develop into a responsible citizen by focusing on their holistic development. This program provides quality education, nutrition and inculcates moral values in children. XIII. Digital and Financial Education Program-Hexaware supports Digital and Financial Education Program in 12 government schools in Chennai and 10 municipal schools in Mumbai. This program is focused towards empowering teachers and creating a good learning environment in schools. © 2019 Hexaware Technologies limited. All rights reserved. 13 www.hexaware.com XIV. Yuva – Evolution-This program was started in 2016 and it aims to improve the infrastructure facilities of school in Vapi, Gujarat. This year the program was expanded to the schools in Mumbai. The program aims at improving existing infrastructure of the school, a separate dish washing area and a drinking water facility for each school and creating a proper and hygienic sanitation facility for all students c) Employee Engagement Programs Hexaware believes in the importance of involving its employees in CSR activities and thereby has Sustainability Employee Engagement programs such as Mumbai Marathon, Fulfill a Kid’s Wish, Payroll giving program, summer volunteering, Hexarun, school kit drive, blood donation drive, tree plantation drive. d) Stakeholder Management Programs XV. Clean and Safe Neighbourhood is one of the CSR initiative of Hexaware. Hexaware takes the responsibility to maintain clean and hygienic environment around its office locations. It has launched various initiatives such as installation of Steel Dustbins in Millennium Business Park (MBP), changed open drainage to closed ones around Siruseri Campus, laid over HT cable, which was a possible threat to public safety as an underground line, installed 50 solar powered street lamps in the MBP and beautified the landscape with plants and trees around the Siruseri campus. In addition to this, beautification of the external area of new Pune office with stone pitching, barbed fence and landscape with plants and trees and constructed a bus shelter in Siruseri as well. Installation of 50 solar powered streetlamps and beautified one canal with granite pitching in Chennai SIPCOT. XVI. Hexaware–Scholarship for School and College studentsHexaware provides Scholarships for meritorious school and college students to support their higher education. A total of 182 students have benefited from these scholarship programs. XVII. Olympic Gold Quest: Hexaware is also dedicated to support Olympic Gold Quest, an organization working towards complimenting the efforts of the Indian Government and various Sports Federations in identifying and funding the most deserving athletes and medal prospects for the Olympic Games. Hexaware has partnered with this NGO and financially supports 2 athletes to cover their coaching, medical expenses and support participation in international competitions. 3.2 Care for the Environment Some of the projects at Hexaware which are directed by the philosophy of environmental sustainability are: LEED projects Of Hexaware: • Chennai Phase 2: LEED gold certified (IGBC) • Pune Campus has been awarded Platinum Rating under LEED rating systems © 2019 Hexaware Technologies limited. All rights reserved. 14 www.hexaware.com About Hexaware Hexaware is the fastest growing next-generation provider of IT, BPO and consulting services. Our focus lies on taking a leadership position in helping our clients attain customer intimacy as their competitive advantage. Our digital offerings have helped our clients achieve operational excellence and customer delight. We are now on a journey of metamorphosing the experiences of our customer’s customers by leveraging our industry-leading delivery and execution model, built around the strategy— ‘Automate Everything, Cloudify Everything, Transform Customer Experiences.’ We serve customers in Banking, Financial Services, Capital Markets, Healthcare, Insurance, Manufacturing, Retail, Education, Telecom, Travel, Transportation and Logistics. We deliver highly evolved services in Rapid Application prototyping, development and deployment; Build, Migrate and Run cloud solutions; Automationbased Application support; Enterprise Solutions for digitizing the back-office; Customer Experience Transformation; Business Intelligence & Analytics; Digital Assurance (Testing); Infrastructure Management Services; and Business Process Services. Hexaware services customers in over two dozen languages, from every major time zone and every major regulatory zone. Our goal is to be the first IT services company in the world to have a 50% digital workforce. NA Headquarters India Headquarters EU Headquarters APAC Headquarters Metro 101, Su ite 600,101 Wood 152, Sector – 3 Level 19, 40 Ban k Street, 180 Cecil Street, Avenu e Sou th, Iselin, Millenn ium Bus iness Pa rk Canary Wharf, #11-02, Bang kok Ban k New Jersey 08830 ‘A’ Block, TTC Indus tria l Area Lond on E14 5NR Build ing, Tel: +001 -609-409-6950 Mahap e, Na vi Mumba i 400 7 10 Tel: +44 -020-77154100 Singapore 069546 Fax: +001 -609-409-6910 Tel: +91 -22-67919595 Fax: +44 -020-77154101 Tel: +65 -63253020 Fax: +91 -22-67919500 Fax: +65 -6222728 © 2019 Hexaware Technologies limited. All rights reserved. 15 www.hexaware.com
