2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 04 A WORD FROM OUR PRESIDENT & CEO 06 INTRODUCTION TO THE MSC GROUP 10 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT AND GOVERNANCE 16 SOCIAL INCLUSION 46 ENVIRONMENT 79 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY 97 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS 120 ABOUT THIS REPORT A WORD FROM OUR PRESIDENT & CEO Throughout 2018, MSC further increased its efforts to Our activities and operations all over the world require promote sustainable and ethical business practices engagement with a wide range of stakeholders from within all entities of the Group, in line with its strategic most sectors and from both the public and private approach to sustainability and the Ten Principles of the spheres. Therefore, in our 2018 Sustainability Report, we United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human describe sustainability considerations from a variety of rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. perspectives, including those of the asset management and investor community, by underlining the interrelaIn addition to responding to the evolving and stricttion among all our strategic Sustainability Pillars and Diego Aponte Group President & CEO, Capt. Gianluigi Aponte Group Chairman, Alexa Aponte Vago Group Chief Financial Officer er complex maritime regulatory framework we must our continuous focus on Environmental, Social, and comply with as an international shipping company, Governance (ESG) factors. We also report on the way we continued adding layers to our existing internal in which we continue to address our sector’s trends MSC is also investing heavily in low-carbon ­technologies While promoting dialogue and partnerships with our methodologies and monitoring mechanisms in terms and global development challenges along with cross-­ and extensive new-build and retrofit programmes to industry peers and other stakeholders, we believe of governance, compliance, and risk management. cutting human rights principles and considerations in boost performance and ensure its fleet is modern, fuel that global progress on the SDGs should not follow a Given the nature of our business activities and the our investment models to ensure long-term benefits in efficient, safe (for crew, environment, and cargo), and purely sector-specific approach. Indeed, nowadays, a growth of our diversified value and supply chains, we local communities and to minimise our impact on the is prepared for the future. New vessels on order feature majority of consumers expect an engagement from all are making additional investments to ensure the effecenvironment. Furthermore, we demonstrate how we state-of-the-art engineering and design innovations to companies regardless of the industry, for a responsible, tive implementation of our processes on a global scale. implement fundamental responsibilities in the area of ensure optimal efficiency. We are also committed to socially, and environmentally friendly offer of products These include the establishment of new functions, the protection of human rights in line with i­nternationally full ­compliance with new environmental regulations and services. Evolving trade scenarios, new geopolitical optimisation of our supplier relationship management, recognised human rights and labour principles and such as IMO Sulphur 2020, which has very significant dynamics and challenging market environments require and the reinforcement of a number of strategic teams standards, in addition to domestic laws, requirements, ­operational and financial implications for our sector. changes in c­ ollaboration patterns among all actors of ­responsible for supporting the broader transformation and regulations of the countries in which we operate. MSC has taken a proactive approach in this regard, global supply chains and the public sector. This is essenof MSC’s value chain. leading the way on the installation of the best available tial to enable the business ­community to have an equal In terms of environmental performance, MSC ­embraces and most flexible hybrid exhaust gas cleaning systems. level playing field where competitive a ­ dvantages can be Our ongoing organisation-wide coordination process precautionary actions to mitigate or adapt to broad This represents an investment of more than one billion maximised and enjoyed by all stakeholders. Ensuring led by headquarters and underpinned by our core MSC climate change global challenges and has ­substantially US dollars. We see the regulation as a way that the business ­activities are truly sustainable and able to Group Values, includes an increase in our investments reduced CO2 emissions per ton of cargo moved. Our whole sector can contribute to tackling air pollution and address current and future market imperatives, while in personal development and training opportunities for Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator (EEOI) analysis therefore support, among other initiatives, the progresmaintaining strong ­financial performance that can effecall our employees. Additionally, we continue enhancing for 2018 indicates an improvement of 13% since 2015. In sive realisation of the UN Sustainable Development tively support inclusive development in the long term, cross-departmental cooperation to ensure further improveaddition to this, MSC has obtained an EEOI ­certification Goals (SDGs). is a responsibility that we all share. ments in embedding all dimensions of sustainability in by a globally recognised third-party auditing company. our current practices, promoting a culture of integrity and This attests to the accuracy and usability of the m ­ onthly encouraging a participatory approach in the decision-makEEOI figures calculated by the MSC Energy Efficiency Diego Aponte ing processes at all levels within the business. team. President and CEO 4 A WORD FROM OUR PRESIDENT & CEO MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 5 A FAMILY COMPANY INTRODUCTION TO THE MSC GROUP Headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, and privately owned, MSC is a recognised world leader in the international shipping sector, serving millions of customers around the globe, with a much respected 365 day a year operation. MSC Group has significantly expanded and diversified its business since it was founded as a shipping line in 1970. Today, the Company is comprised of the Cargo Division and the Passenger Division and employs over 70,000 people around the world. This report specifically serves to detail efforts and accomplishments for the Cargo Division. 6 INTRODUCTION TO THE MSC GROUP MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 7 CARGO DIVISION PASSENGER DIVISION A global leader in shipping and logistics The world’s largest privately owned cruise company 520 vessels No 1 cruise line in Europe, South America, 200 trade routes South Africa, and the Gulf 500 ports of call 17 modern and technologically advanced ships (2019) 21 million TEU carried annually (2019) 3,845 port calls 493 offices 211 itineraries 155 countries 2.4 million guests (2018) 81 countries One of the largest terminals investors and operators A leading shipping company operating in the fields of coastal navigation, cargo, and 62 terminals (TiL and MSC) passenger transport in the Mediterranean Sea. 7 of the world’s 25 busiest ports by volume + 34 million container moves per year 15 ships (MSC and TiL) 18 major routes 2 greenfield terminals 15 prime destinations 1.7 million passengers (2018) Global transport and logistics services provider A shipping company operating ferry services, which is a leader in the Mediterranean Sea. 70 countries 150 operating yards 25 fast ferries (6 million sqm, 1 million TEU stacking capacity) 1 cruise ferry 3.5 million TEU transported by road, rail, or barge 17 routes 17 ports of call 80 connections/day (summer) 4.2 million passengers (2018) 8 INTRODUCTION TO THE MSC GROUP MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 9 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT AND GOVERNANCE METHODOLOGY INTEGRATING THE SDGs IN OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH: OUR PROCESS The MSC 2018 Sustainability Report highlights our In our sustainability approach, economic, social, and MSC has conducted a global assessment to better developed and leveraged whenever relevant to active participation in the broad development process, environmental performance as well as the l­inkages analyse its contribution to sustainable ­development as meet our ­stakeholders’ expectations and/or to reflect in the context of the United Nations Agenda 2030 between development goals and targets (e.g. inclusive well as the direct and/or indirect linkage of its o ­ perations ­improvements in our internal processes and procedures. for Sustainable Development and Climate Change growth, social equity, and environmental protection) to each SDGs. This resulted in the ­development of an All our Sustainability Pillars are equally important, inter­regulatory initiatives and measures. It also shows how and key business goals (revenue growth, resource organisation-wide shared vision promoting common related, and contribute to translating our core values and we are ­continuously improving our existing business ­p roductivity, and risk management) are crucial. areas of focus in existing practices and activities of vision into concrete actions and initiatives designed to models and strategies to find innovative, systemic, and Furthermore, we mainstream UN Global Compact values each entity of the Cargo Division within the Group. In mitigate our impacts and bring long-term benefits to sustainable solutions with explicit measurable social and principles into our analysis of socio-­economic trends our sustainability approach, MSC’s four Sustainability local communities w ­ herever we operate. and ­environmental impacts on the long term, alongand related considerations. This allows us to address all Pillars are considered as our most salient m ­ aterial side financial returns. In line with MSC’s commitment dimensions of sustainability, including p ­ eacebuilding topics. Specific issues under each pillar are further to transparency, our reports follow the Global Reporting and security matters, and to relate our impacts to Initiative (GRI)1, the “Business Reporting on the SDGs: cross-cutting and/ or ­associated SDGs targets. an anlysis of the Goals and Targets”, the UN Guiding In line with the above, in our Sustainability Reports, Principles Reporting Framework along with a number we strive to demonstrate how we have enhanced of similar relevant tools developed by a number of our multi-stakeholders’ holistic approach to foster stakeholders, including the International Organization ­ d evelopment and how our long-term financial for Standardization as well as the asset management ­investment decisions and/or financing flows are in and investors’ community. These tools have helped line with our sustainability strategy. In our decision-­ us formulate and develop our broader ­sustainability making process and analytical framework, we take into ­initiatives related to our four priority Sustainability account both new and emerging challenges as well as Pillars: Social Inclusion, Occupational Health and Safety, global issues and evolving trends, including climate CROSS-DEPARTMENTAL Environment, Business Ethics and Protection of Human change challenges and geopolitical and m ­ acroeconomic COOPERATION Rights. ­incertitude and instability. MATERIAL TOPICS Awareness raising GAP ANALYSIS (internal & external & INTERNAL communications) ASSESSMENT Steps to further operationalise SUSTAINABILITY the ­integration of APPROACH Internal and external the SDGs and broader stakeholders’ expectations Identification of ­sustainability consider(value and supply chains) strategic SDGs in ations in core business SOCIAL INCLUSION ENVIRONMENT OCCUPATIONAL BUSINESS ETHICS line with existing Industry challenges, activities in line with MSC’s HEALTH AND & PROTECTION OF MSC’s practices and mega-trends, global issues, sustainability pillars and SAFETY HUMAN RIGHTS Global Assessment activities sustainability drivers strategic focus areas 1 The GRI Standards are the first global standards for sustainability reporting. https://www.globalreporting.org/standards/ 10 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT AND GOVERNANCE MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 11 SUSTAINABILITY DECISION-MAKING DRIVERS MSC SUPPORTS THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs). We believe our approach to the business and our values will help us contribute to a more sustainable supply chain. MSC Global Inclusive Increasing sustainability issues and business consumers’ strategy challenges models sustainable purchasing behaviour OPERATIONALISING SDGs As a forward-thinking family company with an innate passion for the sea, SDGs 14 and 15, focused on Life Rise of human In our report, we explain how we assess the potential below Water and Life on Land respectively, are key Social, rights national Innovative & impacts of our activities and ensure effective business considerations for sustainability action at MSC. This economic & legislation & sustainable MSC Group geopolitical environmental products continuity management plans to minimise, prevent, encompasses initiatives aimed at conserving marine values mega trends regulations and services and avoid negative externalities, disruption of operalife, such as responsible ballast water management, tions as well as unnecessary risk to human health. oil pollution prevention and waste management, As an illustration, we are continuously adapting our slow steaming, programmes which reflect the many corporate practices, investments, activities, and operasignificant linkages between business and the natural tions around the globe to a changing and unpredictable environment and the associated connections to market while considering socio-economic changes and communities, livelihoods, and well-being. shifts that are influencing the shipping industries and transforming supply chains. Risk assessment and management, a safe working Our offer of new trade routes results in opportunities environment, and employee training are also considfor serving new emerging markets, including more ered as cross-cutting issues related to how we promote MSC’s LONG-TERM IMPACTS underserved markets located in emerging/developing respect for human rights and ethical business p ­ ractices. countries. New services and transportation models We deliver on this by focusing on SDG 3 (Health and • Improving business operations and revenue generation: promote international trade; continuous improvement of developed ensure not only the effective delivery of Well-being), SDG 4 (Quality Education) and SDG 8 operational and environmental efficiency; promotion of investments in new markets, such as emerging markets and products to distribution channels, but also have an (Decent Work and Economic Growth) and by taking developing economies (EMDEs); securing delivery of supplies; contribute to the well-being of future generations by impact on how ports, terminal operators, and truck into account our sector’s complex regulatory framesupporting countries to achieve long-term sustainable economic and social growth, employment opportunities, stability. operators are managed. Additionally, by investing work. This includes the implementation of strict safety • Strengthening the enabling environment & active participation in key national policy developments to amplify the impact on land infrastructure, such as depots, in strategic policies and procedures, the availability of protective of sustainability activities; address development gaps whenever possible in collaboration with local stakeholders; locations and being a freight rail operator, we actively and security equipment on board, and the provision of sharing of best practices and know-how. support sustainable freight transport connectivity and comprehensive computer-based, onshore and onboard • Increase of partnerships with a wide range of stakeholders both at the international and national levels to foster the improvement of the whole logistics supply chain. training and professional development programmes. sustainable development. Regulations, and particularly IMO Sulphur 2020, are In addition to our internal measures, we also support • Ensure sustainable and long-term impacts on populations: implementation of social and environmental risks and impacts an impetus for MSC’s major investment in advanced activities and development projects carried out by a assessments; leapfrogging of new technologies; and inclusive capacity building efforts; supporting the diversification of technologies for reducing air pollution, which is in line variety of stakeholders, well beyond compliance. economies by investing in logistics and shipping-related services. with the objectives of SDG 13, Climate Action. 12 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT AND GOVERNANCE MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 13 STAKEHOLDERS SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE A CROSS-DEPARTMENTAL HUMAN RIGHTS FUNCTION As a global company with interests all over the world MSC has a Group Executive Sustainability Steering and given the nature of our business activities, MSC Committee led by the leadership and executives from In line with its commitment to continuously improve the MSC Code of Business Conduct, were incorporated regularly interacts with a wide range of stakeholders the Headquarters in Geneva. The Committee is responinternal processes, MSC introduced a cross-­departmental into the regular i­ nternal auditing practices. The “Social from the public sector, financial institutions as well as sible for providing strategic guidance and directions human rights function to support key HQ Departments by Virtual Audit” was launched online in 2018 for MSC partners and players belonging to almost all sectors. on MSC Sustainability strategy and broader economic, further bringing a human rights lens to their ­respective Agencies with the aim of having a preliminary human Therefore, MSC’s 2018 Sustainability Report was social, and environmental matters. existing activities and practices. To illustrate, relevant rights risk assessment. prepared with a view to address diverse stakeholders’ Key departments such as the MSC Corporate Legal human rights issues, including those related to modern expectations and involved the participation of a multiDepartment, the Corporate Audit Department, the Global slavery, in accordance with the ­standards contained in disciplinary team with expertise in each Sustainability Human Resources Department, and the Corporate Pillar. The drafting process included several months Social Responsibility (CSR) Department, are actively of internal consultations involving professionals at all engaged in strengthening the ongoing harmonisation levels based at the Headquarters, in the MSC Agencies, aimed at further promoting ethical and good governin MSC Shipmanagement offices and in each of the ance practices throughout MSC value and supply chains. entities of the MSC Group of Companies. This particiThese include employees as well as third parties, local patory approach helped to identify and address the most and international business partners, and other relevant relevant material issues and prioritise key challenges stakeholders. and progress made since 2017. Subject matter experts within each relevant department are responsible for advising, providing training, and Chief Sustainability Officer INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL supporting the integration of ethical and ­sustainability and/or Sustainability Leaders/ COMMUNICATION matters into the daily work of the value and supply HQ Senior Management MSC Group chain. They also track operational, environmental, social, Executive As part of our strategic approach to sustainability and and economic performance and report on progress and/ Sustainability to better raise awareness on our sector’s ­sustainability or advise about improvements whenever necessary in Steering matters and related considerations, throughout 2018 their respective areas of expertise. Sustainability Supporting Committee MSC has further strengthened the collaboration between The MSC CSR Department, based at MSC Headquarters, HQ Teams the Sustainability Teams and the Marketing Department. complements efforts carried out by other key MSC Our approach was summarised in a variety of i­nternal Departments by continuously improving existing communications to management and employees responsible environmental and social organisational Environment Human Rights to appeal to a wider internal audience. The topics processes and practices in collaboration with relevant mentioned in this report also feature in MSC’s ­internal functions and MSC Agencies worldwide. These include company magazine, along with explanations of the the involvement of relevant MSC subject matter Health Business Ethics UN Global Compact and UN Sustainable Development experts in auditing processes and/or other evaluation & Safety & Compliance Goals. mechanisms carried out under the standards of the Additional corporate communications channels, such International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and as our global Intranet, website, and social media by other third parties on issues related to ­sustainability, accounts were also regularly updated by a ­dedicated human rights, and labour standards. team of experts. To further raise the profile of MSC’s Sustainability efforts as an integral part of the Company’s external relations, flag speaking appearances by company experts and executives at international conferences on sustainability-related topics were organised ­throughout the year. 14 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT AND GOVERNANCE MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 15 CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE SOCIAL INCLUSION 16 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 17 FREIGHT TRANSPORT AS ENABLER OF OTHER SECTORS’ ACHIEVEMENTS As stated by the United Nations Conference on Trade work, transport is the ultimate enabler. By serving other and Development (UNCTAD) “the 2030 Agenda does not sectors of a nation’s economy, it puts development goals include a dedicated goal on transport, yet the strategic within reach. We know, for instance, that an estimated 75 importance of the sector as a cross-cutting factor that can percent of maternal deaths could be prevented through enable the realization of various Goals is widely recogtimely access to childbirth-related care, facilitated by nized.”2 It is also widely recognised that maritime and transport. We know that girls’ enrolment in education intermodal freight transport is an enabler of other sectors’ can more than triple after completion of a rural road. And, achievements as over 90% of goods3 are transported by we know that lowering transport costs along a modernsea and approximately 180 million4 containers are moved ized international corridor can unlock growth potential, around the world every year. create jobs, and bring wealth to local communities.”5 The transport of goods between the continents, w ­ herever Indeed, during the last century, shipping companies have there is a need for it, is a prerequisite for growth and significantly contributed to increase global wealth, other development, including for ensuring the enjoyment of sectors’ sustainable growth and world trade by offerbasic needs for the world’s population. According to the ing transportation solutions to millions of customers at World Bank “around the world, in much of development competitive costs with reliable and reduced transit times. MSC reefer truck services CONTRIBUTING TO SUSTAINABLE A FULLY INTEGRATED SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AROUND THE WORLD Country A Global trade lane Country B Delivery of goods Producer/Exporter Consumer/Importer LINKING SUPPLY CHAINS affordable prices and continue to stimulate the growth of local industries as well as to bring long-term develInland Logistics Container Over the past fifty years MSC has been carrying opment across continents. Container Port Container Port Inland Logistics Operator Operator Shipping Line products, commodities, food, and people all over the To allow producers and business partners to deliver world becoming one of the key leaders in the internatheir products to consumers in a safe, fast, efficient, tional shipping sector. Globally, our business activities and sustainable manner we invest and rely on a fully have supported the development of international trade, integrated system with strong mutual dependencies. Producers: need container shipping lines to transport goods. dramatically contributing to foster inclusive social and This improves resource management and efficiency Container shipping lines: require suitable ports to dock at. economic growth. Today, our operations and logistics as well as reducing operational costs while enhancing Container terminals: have to undertake the physical movement of containers services provide consumers based around the globe collaboration with all actors across our complex value between one mode of transport and another. with just-in-time delivery of all kind of products at and supply chain. Inland logistic providers: have to move the containers between final origins and destinations and the container terminals. Consumers: receive the goods at affordable prices, fast delivery, safely. 2 Source: https://unctad.org/meetings/en/SessionalDocuments/cimem7d17_en.pdf 3 http://www.ics-shipping.org/shipping-facts/shipping-and-world-trade 4 Projection based on internal market outlook research undertaken by MSC’s dedicated teams. 5 http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTTRANSPORT/Resources/336291-1211381200616/Transport_Business_Strategy_web.pdf 18 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 19 ADDRESSING PRESSING GLOBAL in technology, and trends towards environmental Our continuous evolution, fast decision-making to remain competitive and to strive to bring long-term DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES deterioration. Being a truly global company, ­political, ­processes and responsible business practices still drive sustainable freight transport solutions and s ­ ervices economic, social and ­technological megatrends as our way to effectively respond to our sector’s challenges wherever we operate. We have also enhanced our According to the United Nations Department of well as evolving trade patterns have always been and broader global issues. We also ­continue to ensure partnerships with local and ­international ­stakeholders Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA)6 over the past at the centre of our decision-­making process and the ­integration of social, economic, and environmental at all levels to drive changes, meet consumers’ e ­ volving years, the global challenges to sustainable develop­continue to be taken into account when developing dimensions in all our business activities and investexpectations, demands, and needs all around the world ment have been driven by a broad set of ‘megatrends’, our business strategies. Since 1970, when our first one-­ ments around the globe. Nevertheless, we have adapted as well as to face challenging and unstable market such as c ­ hanging demographic profiles, changvessel operation started, MSC’s long-term vision, our business models and investment strategies and conditions. ing economic and social dynamics, advancements passion, and approach to shipping have not diminished. have continuously increased our portfolio of activities SHIPPING SECTOR’S GLOBAL ISSUES AND CHALLENGES* MEGATRENDS: AN OVERVIEW* ECONOMICAL • Shift in trade patters EVOLVING TRADE • Growth in global GDP • Unstable market conditions SCENARIO • Trade liberalisation • Trade policy developments & risks • Growth of intra-regional trade • Increasing of protectionism • Access to/growth of new markets, such as emerging markets and developing economies (EMDEs) • Costs related to the enforcement of new and expected environmental regulations • Increase of partnerships with the public sector • IMO Sulphur 2020 (e.g. Governments, Multilateral Development Banks) • Volatile fuel prices • Services targeting all segment of the population • Overcapacity • Changes in consumers and recipients of services • Digitalisation (e.g. middle class, people at the Base of the Pyramid) SOCIAL • Growing demand for goods and food scarcity ENVIRONMENT • Decarbonisation • Poverty • Increased exposure and vulnerability to climate-related extreme events (adaptation to climate change) • Inequality • Transition to less dependence on fossil fuel • Energy and natural resources scarcity • Increase in Research & Development • Skills shortage & increase in c­ apacity-building efforts to adapt to ­changing and challenging market needs TECHNOLOGICAL • Big data • Climate change and natural disasters affecting population & business operations ADVANCES & • E-commerce • Population growth & unemployment rates especially in developing countries INCREASE OF • Blockchain • Evolving skill needs TRANSPARENCY • Interoperability IN OPERATIONAL • Digitalisation of internal process GOVERNANCE • Geopolitical uncertainty & threats (terrorism, conflicts, etc.) PROCESSES • Real-time tracking • Corruption • Increasing importance of use of mobile cell phones and IoT (Internet of things) • Governance gaps • Technological threats & costs related to cybersecurity RISE OF SOCIAL • Rise of cross-industry cooperation to address global challenges • Operational costs related to sanctions and diplomatic crisis CONCERNS AND • Enhancement of private sector’s engagement with regulatory authorities GOVERNANCE • Social media presence and importance, fast and real time news sharing GAPS • Developments in human rights national legislation impacting the private sector • Inclusive business models • Innovative and sustainable products and services • Push for a greater company disclosure on sustainability performance * This list is not exhaustive, it refers to ongoing major global issues and challenges related to the material issues reported in this document. 6 https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/content/documents/2843WESS2013.pdf * This list is not exhaustive, it refers to ongoing major megatrends. 20 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 21 MAXIMISING OPPORTUNITIES our services and operations to local needs, customers THROUGH OUR GLOBAL NETWORK and other stakeholders’ expectations, and enhancing long-term partnerships with governments, financial, We keep increasing physical connectivity between institutions and business partners. populations and countries by continuously expanding MSC Agencies are responsible for commercial and and adapting our trade routes and liner services. As operational activities in each of the countries where an illustration, throughout 2018, MSC has focused its global shipping and transportation services are p ­ rovided. efforts on enhancing its Intra-Asia network, ­connecting They are directly supervised and regularly managed countries in South Asia with key hubs in China and from the Headquarters by the Agencies Department. developing new business opportunities for shippers. In 2019, we also plan to offer new services in Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam. Through our global network of MSC Agencies, we ensure that local specificities are taken into account in our business activities. This allows us to further tailor MSC’S KEY SOCIAL IMPACTS AND SDGs WE ARE CONTRIBUTING TO • Trade facilitation & adaptation to customers’ needs (continuous offers of new routes and services) • Connecting people and continents through the MSC global network • Facilitating access to global shipping markets including for Small Islands Developing States (SIDS), Landlocked Developing Countries (LLDCs) (that have no access to the sea) • Reliability providing just-in-time delivery with competitive transit times • Increasing inland regional and inter-island connectivity through logistics, multimodal, and intermodal services (including for remote areas, SIDS, emerging and developing countries, and Least Developing Countries (LDCs)) • Supporting small players through ad hoc transportation solutions & tailor-made services for small cargo volumes, with competitive freight rates • Continuous investments in efficient and sustainable freight transportation systems as well as inland logistics centres to minimise and reduce negative externalities • Contribution to develop shipping-related industries and services in emerging, developing countries, LDCs and SIDS • Reefers expertise and investment on reefer technologies (agribusiness, fisheries, food loss, help small farmers to enter the global economy, fostering responsible consumption and food safety) • Job creation (local long-term employment opportunities) • Increase capacity-building through vocational training and sharing of know-how • Short sea connectivity 22 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 23 BRINGING VALUE TO LOCAL COMMUNITIES­ “Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, including regional and trans-­border TIL’S KEY IMPACTS ­infrastructure, to support economic ­development and human well-being, with a focus on affordable • Modernisation of existing infrastructure and/or greenfield terminals, some in collaboration with and equitable access for all.” the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a branch of the World Bank and individual Governments (PPPs) • Massive investment in resilient infrastructures and in adaptation to climate change (Infrastructures are designed and built in specific landscapes to address climate change challenges) • Leapfrogging of state-of the art technologies & equipment • Ensuring Health and Safety best practices and management systems • Minimise environmental impacts • Promotion of efficient natural resource management • Addressing growing coastal urbanisation/terminal congestion through operational efficiency • Creation of local direct and indirect jobs OUR IMPACT TO SDG 9: INDUSTRY, infrastructure creates more business opportunities • Vocational training INNOVATION, AND INFRASTRUCTURE and boosts private entrepreneurship. Investment in • Disaster risk management: strategic supporting sites for national emergencies or natural disasters regional transport systems and communications is also MSC invests heavily in filling infrastructure gaps in crucial for the facilitation of economic integration, the both developed and developing countries through its ­development of markets, and the promotion of intrarsubsidiaries, TiL and MEDLOG. In particular, we strive egional trade.”7 to contribute to the modernisation and development of To maximise our contribution to sustainable develterminals as well as national, regional, and ­international opment and governmental efforts in this respect, our freight corridors. This contributes to increase energy and investments are based on extensive assessments operational efficiency, enhance countries’ competitiveof market outlooks, social needs, and geographical ness at a regional and global level as well as to enable landscapes. Our private-public partnerships (PPPs)8­ our customers, local stakeholders, and business partners are in line with international standards and n ­ ational to effectively benefit from our global network. development plans. By doing so we support countries As stated by the United Nations, Conference on Trade to meet their respective strategic development p ­ riorities and Development (UNCTAD) “better infrastructure and achieve mutually beneficial outcomes in the long reduces transaction costs, makes capital goods more term. durable and facilitates trade and investment. Solid 7 https://stats.unctad.org/Dgff2016/prosperity/goal9/target_9_a.html 8 https://ppp.worldbank.org/public-private-partnership/sector/transportation/ports: “With the majority of global trade carried by sea, developing strong, well-functioning maritime transport infrastructure is a key element of economic growth for many developing and emerging countries. Public-private partnerships (PPPs) in ports have become a means to manage port operations more effectively, traditionally an exclusively government function. Different port management structures are used worldwide but in the majority of large and medium sized ports the landlord port model is used. In this model management responsibilities are delegated to the private sector, while the title in the land and assets remains with the government.” 24 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 25 CASE STUDY IMPLEMENTING RESPONSIBLE SOCIAL AND FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ECONOMIC BENEFITS ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS BRASIL TERMINAL PORTUÁRIO (BTP) USD USD $800 million $204 million BTP was jointly financed by Turnover capacity of up to the International Finance Corporation (IFC), 2.5 million TEU per year. a sister organisation of the World Bank and member of the World Bank Group, the largest From the start-up until 2018, BTP paid global development institution focused USD 100 million in taxes and another exclusively on the private sector USD 104 million in port duties. in developing countries.9 SOCIAL BENEFITS © Brasil Terminal Portuario 600 DIRECT and 2,200 indirect employees during the construction phases EMPLOYEES Brasil Terminal Portuário (BTP) is the leading port operalargest environmental liabilities of the State of São tor in Brazil and the largest container terminal in South Paulo, and the largest port area in the country. 1,300 DIRECT crane drivers, stevedores, America that is managed and operated under a joint Formerly known as the “Antigo Lixão da Alemoa” EMPLOYEES longshoremen, checkers, planners, dispatchers, venture agreement by Terminal Investment Limited (Alemoa’s Former Dumpsite), the land lot was a CURRENTLY mechanics, electrician, (TiL), MSC’s subsidiary, and APM Terminals, both world mangrove that received all kinds of waste products for engineers, programmers, leaders in the container handling market. A privileged five decades, as well as debris from the activities develtechnicians, administrative staff 1,066 INDIRECT location and routes serving all regions of the world oped in the Organized Port of Santos. EMPLOYEES are some of the main characteristics of the terminal. In October 2009, BTP started environmental remediaBTP strives to position itself as a reference in the port tion of the land, which was completed in March 2012. and terminal sectors not only by boosting the inclusive Approximately 1.14 million tons of contaminated soil economic growth of the region through its economic were removed from the site and 17,500 truck trips • Continuous investments in training and professional qualification programmes. performance but also by promoting responsible social were needed to transfer the soil to an industrial yard • BTP is one of the few terminals in the country with its own operational training centre with one of and environmental management systems in compliance approved by the Environmental Agency of the State of the most modern simulators in a port area in the world. with international standards. São Paulo (CETESB) to eliminate all contaminants and restore the area to its original purpose. The terminal was • Promotion of city-port relationship: BTP has opened the doors to the community to further strengthen relations with citizens and explain how a modern and innovative terminal is vital for the economic LAND RECOVERY: officially opened in November 2013 and in June 2015, development of the region. PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS BTP received the official certification from the relevant • BTP para Todos (BTP for all): BTP launched the annual course “The work in the port sector” which focus on BTP is a container handling terminal strategically locatenvironmental authority attesting the full recovery of creating employment opportunities to people with disabilities. So far 27 people have been hired by BTP. ed on the right bank of the Port of Santos, in a p ­ rojected the area. area of 490 thousand sqm. For over five decades, the place where the terminal is located was among the 9 https://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/corp_ext_content/ifc_external_corporate_site/home 26 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 27 PROMOTING CITY-PORT RELATIONSHIP © Brasil Terminal Portuário Biodiversity programmes Biodiversity offsetting • A non-contaminated area is still preserved by • Environmental Compensation Programme BTP to ensure conservation and sustainable use in compliance with Federal Law 9.985/2000 of mangrove ecosystems. The mangrove plays • Forestry Compensation Programme a significant role in coastal stabilisation and • Rescue of fauna and wildlife animals found in promoting land accretion, fixation of mud banks, the terminal area that are rehabilitated and sent to dissipation of winds, tidal and wave energy. environmental body to be released in their habitat • The mangrove area contains thirty thousand square metres of native vegetation. • 546 seedlings of three regional mangrove species © Brasil Terminal Portuário were replanted. 28 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 29 DUE DILIGENCE PROCESS The construction phases were conducted by taking into with the Equator Principles (EPs), “a risk management IFC Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) account the International Finance Corporation (IFC) framework, ­adopted by financial institutions, for deterteam of experts, who also ­regularly conducts on-site A number of social and environmental assessments Performance Standards on Environmental and Social mining, assessing and managing environmental and visits and inspections. The due diligence and risk impact were carried out in three phases for five years. These Sustainability, which “have become globally recogsocial risk in project finance. It is primarily intended ­assessments take place every couple of years. BTP demanded close consultations and collaboration with nized good practice in dealing with environmental to provide a minimum ­standard for due diligence to expects to conclude repayments of the IFC loan by 2020. local stakeholders, including local communities, environand social risk management”. Additionally, the entire support responsible risk decision-­making.” An Annual mental public entities, and the scientific ­community. project was designed and ­implemented in compliance Monitoring Report c ­ ontinues to be submitted to the BTP SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL RISK IMPACT ASSESSMENTS AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: AN OVERVIEW BTP SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL RISK IMPACT ASSESSMENTS AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: AN OVERVIEW Environmental risks/ Mitigation procedures & strategies to avoid potential Labour Rights potential risks and impacts Mitigation procedures & strategies to avoid potential potential impacts identified risks identified risks Policy development (contracts, Code of Conduct, Land, air, water resources, and Environmental Risks assessment in collaboration Use of contracts not understood internal policies and procedures) ground pollution with local authorities by workers Whistle-blower hotline Negative impacts on the community’s health Centralised Environmental Management Plan Bribery & Corruption Due diligence questionnaire for suppliers Harassment Exposure to hazardous waste and substances Solid Waste & Hazardous Waste Management Programme Stakeholders engagement Discrimination Contamination of water and soil degradation Wastewater Management Programme Emergency Response Business Continuity Plan Disruption of operations/operational and reputational risks Plans (PAE & PEI) Weekly Operation Environmental Control Permanent Ethics Committee Regulatory risks based on the complexity of Biodiversity risks/potential impacts Mitigation procedures & strategies to avoid the regulation of the port sector in Brazil Consistent and transparent communication plan and potential identified risks compliance channels Labour liability Negative effects on human health Monitoring Subprogramme of Aquatic Biotic Contingency plan for the terminal Disruption of local wildlife Terrestrial Fauna Monitoring Subprogramme & Awareness-raising programme for vessel’s crew Active involvement in associations of the sector Biodiversity loss about ballast water Note: “migrant workers” and “modern slavery” are not mapped as a potential risk as domestic labour legislation contains ‘protective Occupational Health and Safety potential risks and Mitigation procedures & strategies to avoid mechanisms’, including obligation for labour contracts with clear impacts potential identified risks clauses of employee’s rights and obligations as well as strong Trade Occupational illness Hazard Identification & Risk Assessment Unions regulations. Risks related to exposure to physical, chemical, HSSE Objectives & Improvement Plans Community involvement & Community Health, Mitigation procedures & strategies to avoid potential biological, and ergonomic hazards Safety and Security potential risks and impacts identified risks Damage to people, assets, communities, and Social Communication Lack of appropriate welfare facilities for workers HSSE Training: Health surveillance programme the environment Programme Negative externalities Emergency preparedness and response programme Congestion Deceleration bands to enter the internal area of the BTP. Internal areas for parking and accommodation. Truck Excessive or irregulated traffic near the facility scheduling system for the terminal. Adoption of collective transportation of employees. Refurbishment of the avenue Source: Simplified table based on the IFC ESMS Implementation Handbook. in front of the terminal (~1km of extension) 30 SOCIAL INCLUSION INCLUSIVE APPROACH MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 31 CASE STUDY COMPLYING WITH IFC PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND THE EQUATOR PRINCIPLES PORTONAVE TERMINAL Located in the city of Navegantes, Santa Catarina State, Strongly committed to excellence and the promotion Over the year, the State was affected by political Portonave started its operations in October 2007, as of sustainable development, since 2013 Portonave has and economic instability and the business environBrazil’s first private port container terminal. The Company been an active member of the Movimento Nacional ODS ment demanded assertive strategies to ensure distributes the production of the South, Southeast, and Santa Catarina, which is officially endorsed by the United financial performance. Portonave’s Consolidated Gross Midwest regions of Brazil and other South American Nations and the United Nations Development Programme Operating Revenue grew by 6.7%. This strengthening countries and receives cargo from all over the world. (UNDP) and includes more than 320 entities from Santa of the business led to an external recognition: in 2018, Internationally recognised for its quality services and Catarina State. The movement seeks to develop actions Portonave remained the leader in container handling high productivity, the Company has become one of the that encourage the Santa Catarina community to achieve in Santa Catarina, with a 49% market share, reaching main local employers generating more than 1,000 direct the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Portonave’s 7 million TEU handled since the beginning of its operajobs and contributing 45% of tax from services income Sustainability reports are prepared in line with GRI tions. At the same time, the Company was ranked among by the city. Standards and the UN Global Compact’s ­reporting the 20 largest ports in Latin America, in the ranking of framework. the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), and as the 24th company among the 100 largest in Santa Catarina, according to the ranking prepared by Amanhã magazine in partnership with MACROECONOMIC & INDUSTRY SCENARIO IN 2018* PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). BRAZIL Portonave Terminal For more information, please visit: www.portonave.com.br/en/sustainability/sustainability-report/ 1.1% INFLATION TRADE BALANCE CURRENCY GDP 3.75% 16.9% (IPCA) EXCHANGE IN USD PORTONAVE'S PERFOMANCE IN 2018 EXPORTS SURPLUS IMPORTS 58.3 BILLION Competitive Advantages Infrastructure • USD 723,000 invested in social projects • Area of 400,000 sqm 9.3% 13% 19.7% • USD 154.2 million in gross operating revenue • 3 docking berths • 975 direct professionals (95% locally recruited) • 900 m linear wharf SANTA CATARINA PORT INDUSTRY • 1.256 suppliers and service providers • 30,000 TEU of static storage capacity • Responsible of 45% of ISS collected in the city • 6 portainers of Navegantes • 18 transtainers INDUSTRIAL INFLATION 10 MILLION PRODUCTION (IPCA) TEU HANDLED 7.22% • 3,390 clients • 40 terminal tractors • 49% market share in Santa Catarina • 5 reach stackers 4% 8.5% EXPORTS 28.9% of this total was handled • Average 81.51 hours of training per professional • 4 forklifts for empties Top exported goods: by private terminals, poultry and pork, soy and wood. such as portonave • Approx. USD 215,000 invested in scholarships • 2,100 reefers outlets IMPORTS for professionals • 1 automated cold room (50,000 sqm storage area) 22.9% Top imported goods: polymers of ethylene and yarn of textile, • 1 scanner HCVM T to inspect containers and up to artificial or synthetic fibers. 150 trucks per hour to increase safety to the port operation * The indicators are compared to the 2017 indicators issued by the official entities. Sources: Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statics (IBGE – Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística), Ministry of Economy, National Agency of Waterway Transportation (Antaq – Agência Nacional de Transportes Aquaviários.) 32 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 33 STRUCTURAL WORKS TO LEVERAGE PLANS AND PROGRAMMES TO GENERATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF VALUE SANTA CATARINA’S ECONOMY AND MITIGATE RISKS FOR THE COMMUNITY, STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT WORKERS, AND THE ENVIRONMENT In 2018, Portonave’s Added Value Revenue reached around USD 165.3 million. The chart below shows the ­distribution of the added value. • New Turning Basin of the Itajaí-Açu River Port Complex, • An environmental study for the insertion of Distributed Economic Value key to the future of the industry in the region. the new roadway (EAS). • In 2010 Portonave invested over 6 million US dollars to • The Action Plan for Indemnity and Resettlement (PAIR), connect the terminal with the road BR 470 (currently in which was designed to address the population and Payments to Salaries and Payments to Operational costs: the process of duplication) a strategic highway for the economic activities affected by the highway. Capital Providers: benefits for the Government: USD 40.8 million production outflow and to reduce traffic related impacts • Establishment of on-call social support and ­settlement of USD 56.7 million employees: USD 45.2 million (24.8%) on the Navegantes, community. The work on building cases as part of its grievance mechanisms and ­stakeholder (34.2%) USD 22,6 million (27.3%) this important connection which is now called “Avenida engagement process. This is to ensure a ­transparent (13.7%) Portuária” and is the main access road to the Terminal, consultative process which is culturally appropriate and (Port Avenue) complied with the Equator Principles (EPs). accessible to all. The Social Plan’s scope includes all families involved with the Construction of the Access Road Economic Outlook 30% increase from the last official survey in 2010. The to the Port of Navegantes and aims to raise ­awareness The boost to the economy can be seen in the populaHuman Development Index (HDI) has been following on the terminal processes among the population and tion increase; according to the latest estimate by the the evolution of the city, rising from 0.528 in 1991 to addressing potential concerns and questions. Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE – 0.736 in 2010 – a high level compared to the Brazilian In addition, a psychologist made weekly visits to Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística), the local average, placing Navegantes at 876th among the 5,56 the families involved whenever necessary. population reached close to 80,000 people in 2018, a cities in the country. Navegantes’ Human Development Index (IDHM) 1991 0.528 2000 0.606 Income Longevity Education 2010 0.736 Source: Atlas of Human Development in Brazil (UNDP) RISK MONITORING & COMPLIANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS Greenfield construction: promoting carried out during the implementation of the terminal a participatory approach project, promoting engagement and a participatory Since the initial phases and throughout the entire project approach with relevant local stakeholders, including management life cycle, Portonave has established national authorities and the community. The greenand maintained a systematic process for identifying, field construction was completed in 2007 in compliance monitoring, and effectively managing the most signifwith the Equator Principles (EPs) and applicable IFC icant environmental and social potential risks in order Performance Standards. Please see table below for to prevent possible impacts to ecosystems and local additional information on our social and e ­ nvironmental Terminal, Navegantes, Brazil community. The following are some of the actions, impact risk assessment. 34 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 35 RELEVANT IFC MAIN ACTIONS RELEVANT IFC MAIN ACTIONS ­PERFORMANCE STANDARDS ­PERFORMANCE STANDARDS Assessment and ­management Identification of potential environmental, social risk, and potential biodiversity losses Community health, Minimised negative externalities (noise, dust, traffic near the facility) of ­environmental and development of specific remediation/compensations plans safety, and security and social risks and impacts Development of an Integrated Management System Communication and training tools for workers and the local community, for the awareness of existing risks and the care to be taken so that no accidents and/or Regular monitoring, review, and evaluation processes inconvenience occur To improve actions and procedures whenever necessary Community perception on port, routine change Based on stakeholders’ concerns (workers, communities, national authorities, Communication development with the population in general and specifically with and entities, independent experts) the inhabitants of the vicinity of the access routes to the project. This creates a direct Development of an Emergency preparedness and response programme channel for the exchange of information about the enterprise, both in the implementation and operational phases, providing greater clarification to the residents Note: no impact on cultural heritage, therefore this topic was not addressed in the management plan. Labour and Hazard Identification & Risk Assessment Land acquisition and The land was not occupied by local population; therefore, working conditions HSSE Objectives & Improvement Plans involuntary resettlement the terminal had no cases of economic displacement or physical displacement. HSSE Training However, the following plans were developed: Health surveillance programme Stakeholder engagement process Facilitation of understanding of contracts Livelihood Restoration planning and implementation Code of Business Conduct Grievance Mechanism Bribery & Corruption Compensation plan Harassment Biodiversity conservation and Rescue of animals found in the area of the enterprise Labour Issues & development of related policies sustainable management of living natural resources Sick animals were catalogued and sent to recovery centres Resource e ­ fficiency and Centralized Environmental Management Plan pollution prevention Native animals were rescued and released in the area of permanent preservation, Solid Waste & Hazardous Waste Management Programme in order to facilitate their reinsertion into natural ecosystems Emergency Response Plans (PAE & PEI) Reallocation and cultivation of native flora Weekly Operation Environmental Control Sediments: Collection and assessment of sediment in the underwater portion and Native animals were rescued and released in the area of permanent preservation, in the emerged portion of the land in the area for dredging in order to facilitate their reinsertion into the natural biome Surface water: Monthly monitoring of physical, chemical, and microbiological aspects of the Itajaí-Açu River waters, evaluating possible environmental changes existing before the execution of the project Underground water: Piezometric wells implanted in the project area to evaluate the quality of groundwater in the project area 36 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 37 TERMINAL’S EXPANSION PHASE In addition to the license requirements, as compenCORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL AND YOUNG TALENT PROGRAMME – sation for the local impacts on land and biodiversity, SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY YOUNG APPRENTICE PROGRAMME The construction of the greenfield terminal was financed Portonave invested in a wide range of environmental over a syndicated loan of USD 182,4 million (May 2006), initiatives and the ‘Nossa Praia Project’, in partnership Today, Portonave has an Integrated Management In 2008, Portonave created the Young Talent Programme, in compliance with the Equator Principles. On October with Navegantes’ municipal government. Considered System (SGI) which ensures that operations and activwhich offers high school students from Navegantes’ 2007, Portonave received its first container ship. one of Brazil’s most important shoreline recovery ities comply with applicable domestic law, regulations public schools the opportunity to enter the labour In 2015, Portonave was expanded to more 130 thousand works, the Nossa Praia project covers an area of 102 and requirements as well as with applicable internamarket, combining practical experience and theoretsquare metres, enhancing its static c ­ apacity to 30 hectares of Navegantes’ beaches. The initiative aimed to tional standards, guidelines, and indicators on quality, ical learning. The programme benefits young people thousand TEU. This required an investment of a total ­recover the native ecosystem (called “restinga“) through environment, work safety, and health. The system is aged between 16 and 18 years old having a per capita amount of USD 30,74 million, co-founded by Brazilian actions such as removing exotic vegetation, planting regularly reviewed and improved by the Management family income lower than the minimum wage in line internal banks (debentures). After completion of the native species, rebuilding dunes, and closing irregular and/or the Board of Directors whenever necessary. with national minimum age requirements. Hired as enlargement project, the yard become about 400 access trails. In addition, the project also included the Macroeconomic, regulatory, financial, social, and apprentices, the young people stay for up to one year thousand square metres, the equivalent of 40 soccer ­revitalisation of the beach waterfront, the construction environmental matters – including climate issues – are in the Company and work in different areas of the termifields. It is important to note that this work did not of a deck and the lightening of bicycle paths. part of the Company’s Risk Matrix. SGI’s ­fundamental nal, guided by Portonave’s professionals. Since 2008, directly impact the community, once the activities principles also include requirements on standards 108 students completed the programme. The hiring were concentrated in the Direct Influence Area (AID) in which the terminal is certified: ISO 9001 (Quality rate of young people who successfully completed the of the project, which is comprised in the areas owned Management), ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) programme is 48%. by the terminal. The main impacts related to vehicle NOSSA PRAIA PROJECT KEY HIGHLIGHTS and OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety movement, particle suspension, and noise were limited Management). An independent external organisation For more information on other projects and educational • Investment: over 1 million US dollars to the benefit of the project. To avoid potential identified annually audits the SGI to verify non-compliances and/or programmes, please visit: www.portonave.com.br • Extension: 102 hectares (considered one of the largest risks a wide range of mitigation procedures and strateopportunities to improve. Computer systems and access urban beach restoration projects in Brazil). gies were put in place. control processes for people, vehicles, and cargoes are • Timeline: 2015 to 2018 also regularly audited. INVESTMENTS THROUGH INCENTIVE LAWS Every year, Portonave invests in several projects approved under incentive laws to further ensure that the wealth generated by its activities will particularly benefit the population of Navegantes and its surroundings. In 2018, Portonave invested USD 723,000 in a wide range of activities and projects for the local c­ ommunity in the areas of health, education, sports, and culture. These included contributions to a number of initiatives for students such as ‘Music in Schools’, ‘Street Soccer for Education’, and ‘Training Center for High Performance Artistic Gymnastics (Curitiba – PR)’. Nossa Praia Young Talent Programme © Portonave © Portonave 38 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 39 SUPPORTING THE DEVELOPMENT OF INTRA-REGIONAL LOGISTICS SERVICES AND LOCAL CAPACITY BUILDING IN REMOTE AREAS Through its subsidiary MEDLOG, MSC is c­ ontinuously expanding and diversifying its business activities in remote areas and developing countries. Our i­nvestments are significantly contributing to the development of intra-regional trade as well as to the creation of l­ ogistics services in underserved markets, such as those through transportation solutions, warehouses, depots, and Maintenance & Repair of containers (M&R). Additionally, we generate thousands of direct and indirect long-term employment opportunities for local communities, for all segments of the population, without discrimination. Our investments also include a wide range of vocational training and mentoring programmes aimed to improve our locally recruited employees’ soft and technical skills while ensuring compliance with applicable international standards. By doing so we seek to support governments to address poverty and unemployment rates, alleviating ­challenges related to domestic labour markets and levels of i­ nequality across supply chains on both a local and global scales. Read more about our work in promoting economic and social development in remote areas in the following case studies in Chile and Vietnam. 40 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC dry cargo trucking services CASE STUDY CASE STUDY LEVERAGING LOCAL KNOW-HOW SUPPORTING THE ENHANCEMENT MEDLOG, IN SAN ANTONIO, CHILE OF TECHNICAL EXPERTISE MEDLOG IN HAI PHONG, VIETNAM MEDLOG South-East Asia (SEA) started its depot VOCATIONAL TRAINING container operations in Vietnam in 2012 by creating SOCIO-ECONOMIC PROFILE the “Green Future Star Depot (“GFS Depot”)” in the Since the beginning of the operation, to enhance • San Antonio is in the region of Valparaiso, city of Haipong. Today, the Company is present in 22 quality services for customers, MEDLOG has been central area of Chile and next to the Pacific Ocean. locations in South East Asia and in all major seaports investing in transfer of know-how through extensive • It is considered one of the main ports in Chile, of the region, offering 321,491 sqm of depot yard space technical Maintenance & Repair training conducted by with three terminals which is equivalent to 53,227 TEU container storage ­professional international consultants, in line with the • Its main economic activities are connected to capacity. Institute of International Container Lessors ­standards the shipping industry (IICL). The IICL has developed container chassis • Approximately 100,000 inhabitants. According to BUSINESS OUTLOOK ­inspection examination programmes to further promote the National Statistics Institute, 83.6% of the important industry wide efforts of proper inspection, children that live in San Antonio, belong to the firstSituated about 100 km from the capital Hanoi, Hai Phong repair, maintenance, and operational issues. Medlog and second-income quintile, or the families with is one of the five centrally governed cities of Vietnam SEA’s M&R experts were also deployed from other SEA lowest income and reduced access to health and and a strategic gateway thanks to its proximity to the locations to GFS Depot to share knowledge and p ­ ractical education main ports. The city has increased its competitiveness expertise to locally recruited staff. Audits and survey are In September 2018, MEDLOG opened its third depot in • 8.5% of the population in San Antonio belongs to at the ­regional level through massive investments in conducted on a regular basis to monitor compliance Chile, located in the coastal town of San Antonio, next the lowest income quintile10 ­infrastructure becoming the most attractive destination with international standards and continously improve to the port. The Company, MEDLOG San Antonio, offers • 89% of the population live in rural areas for foreign investors and one of the major ­manufacturing practices and procedures. dry and reefer container storage, maintenance and repair, • 14% poverty index and logistics hubs in Vietnam. and warehousing services employing 50 professionals, • 10.1 unemployment in the past year 11 mainly locally recruited. INFRASTRUCTURE HIGHLIGHTS All our employees have been trained in ­communication A dual internship which includes a mentoring and teamwork, as well as in safe crane operations to programme will also be launched in collaboration with • 20,000 sqm area reinforce and complement their abilities and ensure two public schools based in San Antonio. This will allow • 2,640 TEU total capacity storage compliance with occupational health and safety standsenior students to learn manual and technical skills • 94% depot occupancy rate (2018 average) ards. Additionally, to further promote social inclusion, needed to work at MEDLOG. Our experts will provide MEDLOG is establishing a partnership with Aldea some theoretical courses to the students to raise awareKEY STRONG INCLUSIVE SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC RETURNS de Niños, a recognised local non-profit organisation ness of the depot operations and promote careers in the working in the area since 1978. Our main joint projects logistics sector. The project includes the creation of a • Job creation in 2019 will focus on the implementation of music and Job Notice Board with a list of all available positions in • 40 permanent employees environment workshops as a learning tool, targeting 48 the depot. It will be implemented in the fourth quarter • Indirect jobs: repair vendor: 20-40 workers, depending on the repair volume; trucking vendor: 15 drivers vulnerable children between 4 and 18 years old. of 2019 in local schools. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Volumes handled have increased more than ten times in the past twelve years, reaching 1,600,000 TEU in 2018 10 Source: Ministry of Social Development, through the national socioeconomic characterization survey (CASEN) that is carried out periodically to measure the poverty index in terms of education, health, housing, labour, and income in the country. The last CASEN was implemented in 2015. 11 Source: National Statistics Institute, as per the quarterly report of April 2018 42 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 43 PROMOTING TRADE OPPORTUNITIES ACROSS THE SUPPLY CHAIN & REDUCTION OF FOOD LOSS MSC continues investing in cold chains and the latest MSC REEFER MASTER CLASS PARTNERING TO DEVELOP SUSTAINABLE PRACTICES IN PRODUCER COUNTRIES available cooling technologies, which are essential to enhance the supply of quality food and reduce post-­ At the time of writing, MSC has launched its Reefer In some cases our customers gained understanding on technology, it is possible to slow the natural ripening harvest food loss. Training sessions in Valencia, Spain. These combine how to access new trade opportunities, expand their process of the fruit down, to extend its shelf life while We are also preparing well in advance to comply with theory with practical demonstrations. Attendees learn local business activities to global locations as well as to preserving all its freshness and quality. All these benefits the hydroflurocarbon (HFC) phase-down as per the Kigali about the very latest reefer technologies available to increase their market shares. are e­ specially important for a product as delicate as Amendment to the Montreal Protocol which entered ensure optimal transport conditions for perishable cargo. As an illustration, SanLucar™, a Spanish fruit ­exporter, blueberries, and essential to maintain the premium qualiinto force in January 2019. In this respect, MSC is taking The modules also have a specific focus on the evolution has started to use our latest controlled atmosphere ty of the fruit and vegetables that SanLucar produces and necessary actions to reduce the global production and of the global reefer trends and markets as well as on post-­ technology to ship its first cargo of blueberries from sells worldwide.”12 consumption of hydrofluorocarbon which are harmful harvest chemical treatments related to all c­ ommodities, Spain to the Middle East. “This innovative system man-made greenhouse gasses. which are carried out by a dedicated expert in this area. regulates the levels of carbon dioxide (CO2) and oxygen (02) inside the transport container, reducing and elimiMAIN INVESTMENTS Specific commodities case studies are also provided on nating the e ­ thylene released by the fruit. Thanks to this demand to facilitate a better understanding of the new • Carrier Transicold PrimeLINE™reefer containers, technology and its benefits. which can be equipped with low-GWP refrigerants, So far, attendees have included MSC customers, major such as R-513A (GWP=631) Spanish fruit and vegetable exporters, technicians, • Carrier Transicold NaturaLINE™reefer health inspectors, and MSC staff from Spain, Geneva, containers equipped with CO2 (GWP=1), Macedonia, and Greece. the most environmentally safe refrigerant • Controlled Atmosphere reefer containers, which reduce the use of chemical treatments to perishable cargo, therefore ensuring the highest level of food safety and quality to final consumers • Special reefer gensets for rail application: Through its subsidiary MEDLOG, MSC has invested in special power generators in Portugal and Spain in order to transport reefer containers by rail MSC NaturaLINETM reefer containers 12 Source and for more information: https://www.freshplaza.com/article/9098498/sanlucar-makes-its-first-shipment-of-blueberries-from-spain-to-middle-east/ 44 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 45 CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE ENVIRONMENT 46 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 47 CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT: MSC PARTICIPATION IN GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES AND PLATFORMS* DEFINING TOPICS OF OUR TIMES ORGANISATION HOST PRIMARY AIMS CARGO INCIDENT CINS • To highlight risks posed by certain cargoes and/or packing failures NOTIFICATION in order to improve safety in the liner shipping industry SYSTEM (CINS) www.cinsnet.com CLEAN CARGO Business for Social • To measure, report, and evaluate performance data in marine WORKING GROUP Responsibility (BSR) container transport (CCWG) • To share best practice and promote member engagement • To support responsible corporate engagement on public policy • To catalyse and partner on projects that drive sustainability Throughout business, policy and civil society forums, on screens, in print and on social media, the topics of performance improvement Source: www.clean-cargo.org climate and the environment are centre stage. This is understandable, given the increasingly evident impacts of climate change, together with the warnings from the scientific community, notably the Intergovernmental Panel GLOBAL INDUSTRY GloMEEP (Global • To bring together maritime industry leaders to support an energy on Climate Change (IPCC13) and the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem ALLIANCE (GIA) Maritme Energy efficient and low-carbon maritime transport system Services (IPBES14) about the state of our planet. Accordingly, sustainability is on the agenda of every major Efficiency Project), • To focus on priority areas including energy efficiency company in the world. At MSC, our concern for the environment begins with the seas and stretches beyond these co-hosted by the Global technologies and operational best practices, alternative fuels, and horizons. We understand that marine and terrestrial ecosystems are linked through myriad complex physical and Environment Fund, digitalisation biological interactions. It is highly appropriate therefore, that our actions to protect the environment are numerUnited Nations Source: glomeep.imo.org ous, diverse, and prioritised in areas where we can have the greatest positive impact. Development Programme (UNDP) and the International Maritime A SECTOR MOVING FORWARD Organization (IMO) At MSC, we are very proud of our nautical heritage Partnering for progress NORTH AMERICAN NAMEPA • To preserve the marine environment by promoting and strong business performance. We are also proud MSC considers that people, and especially dialogue MARINE sustainable maritime industry best practices and educating the of the broader role of the shipping sector in driving the and exchange, will drive the sustainability agenda and ENVIRONMENT public Source: namepa.net global economy, connecting people and goods, and of advance the sector forward as a whole. Participation PROTECTION our efforts to do this in a way that is socially inclusive in international industry and sustainability forums are ASSOCIATION and sustainable. We believe that the evolving regulatory essential for strengthening collaboration, f­ormulating (NAMEPA) landscape and rising expectations of customers, stakepolicy-based and technical solutions, sharing best holders and investors -which present challenges to the practice and planning for the continued success of the UNITED FOR WILDLIFE The Duke of • To tackle illegal wildlife trade by bringing together conservation shipping industrycan also be a positive force that drives sector as a whole. MSC participates in a wide range of Cambridge & The organisations, governments, and global corporations progress and creates a shift towards more sustainable environmental, sector specific and sustainability-­focused Royal Foundation • To protect endangered species so they can share the world with business. As an industry leader, we feel a particular organisations, some of which are summarised below. future generations responsibility to rise to these challenges and respond in www.unitedforwildlife.org a comprehensive, proactive and p ­ articipatory way. WORLD SHIPPING WSC • To play an active role in the ­development of programmes that COUNCIL (WSC) improve maritime security without impeding the free flow of commerce • To promote sound ­environmental stewardship through new international standards for ships and achievement of reduced air emissions, including carbon dioxide 13 The United Nations body for assessing the science related to climate change, https://www.ipcc.ch/ Source: www.worldshipping.org 14 An independent body, established by UN member States to strengthen the science-policy interface for biodiversity and ecosystem services, https://www.ipbes.net/about * This list is not exhaustive. 48 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 49 THE PATH TO SUSTAINABLE SHIPPING Environmental protection is a topic that is relevant Energy Efficiency Design Index (EEDI) Since records began, MSC has substantially reduced to the work of multiple business areas especially in a In 2011, the International Maritime Organization emissions per ton of cargo. Our EEOI analyses for 2018 large global company such as MSC Shipmanagement, (IMO) adopted the EEDI, the world’s first globally indicate an improvement of 13% since 2015. In addition procurement, certification, compliance, and operabinding design standard that aims to drive improved to this, MSC has been awarded the Energy Efficiency tions departments, to name a few, take environment environmental performance of ships by requiring Operational Index Certificate by a globally recognised and sustainability into consideration in their activities. them to become more energy efficient. Almost all new third-party auditing company. This certifies the a­ ccuracy As sustainability risks and opportunities become better ships are subject to the standards, which will become and usability of the monthly EEOI figures calculated by understood, teams addressing supply chain, human increasingly stringent over time. For MSC, efficiency MSC Energy Efficiency (EE) team. resources, finance, and insurance are increasingly is an environmental imperative that also has cost Delivery of new Ultra Large Container Vessels (ULCVs) factoring the environment into their decisions. At MSC, benefits. Work in this area is already well underway to scheduled for 2019 and 2020 will further reduce emissions sustainability is not a single department, but a mindset, optimise vessel performance and to even go beyond per amount of cargo carried. These mega-ships will be that we seek to embed throughout the Company. the regulatory requirements if possible. propelled by ultra-efficient G-type engines, will include Similarly, there is no one ‘solution’ for sustainability. the latest energy-saving t­echnologies in line with the The path to sustainable shipping involves commitment, One way that MSC achieves optimal fleet efficiency is by Fleet-Network-Terminal Efficiency Team, EEDI standards, and some of them will have an air lubriinnovation, dialogue, advocacy, and investment. The ensuring vessels are modern with the latest advances Geneva Headquarters cation system to further reduce friction of the hull, which following sections demonstrate some of the work of in design and technology, details of which are outlined translates into substantial emissions reductions. MSC in these areas. in the sections below. Further, through investments in capacity management and economies of scale, MSC SAVING ENERGY AND REDUCING has increased average capacity per ship from 2,500 MSC FLEET CARBON EMISSIONS 2015-2018 EMISSIONS TEU in 2003 to 6,500 TEU in 2018, which is s­ ignificantly EEOI = GR CO2/(TONS CARGO/MILES) higher than the average figures that can be found on MSC engineers and design teams are constantly the market. working to reduce energy consumption and therefore 16.65 the Company’s CO2 and other air emissions. There are Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator (EEOI) 17.50 multiple ways in which MSC is making progress in MSC uses the EEOI to record and analyse individual 16.50 this regard. The actions of MSC in this area respond ship and entire fleet performance over time. EEOI is a 15.55 to the Sustainable Development Goals 3 (Good Health tool set out in the IMO Guideline MEPC.1/circ.684, which 16.00 14.80 and Well-Being), 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy) and gives a reliable indication of ship performance in terms 15.50 14.56 9 (Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure) especially. of transport work. It provides data on the fuel efficiency 15.00 MSC’s work on energy efficiency and the fleet retrofit of a ship in operation as well as the impact of ­operational 14.50 and newbuild programmes make a particularly strong enhancements or modifications such as better voyage contribution to targets 3.8, 7.3 and 9.4, referring to air planning or more regular propeller and hull cleaning. 14.00 pollution, energy efficiency, and resource-use efficiency EEOI is defined as the ratio of mass of CO2 emitted per 13.50 and environmentally sound technologies respectively. unit of transport work (unit = gr CO2/Tons cargo/miles). 2015 2016 2017 2018 50 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 51 BIG DATA Real-time monitoring Vessel adaptations and enhancements DATA REAL-TIME Performance monitoring at MSC is led by the An extensive and comprehensive retrofitting programme TRANSMISSION MONITORING ASHORE Geneva-based Energy Efficiency (EE) team and MSC for the entire existing fleet is underway at MSC to reduce Shipmanagement. The EE and MSC Shipmanagement emissions and achieve fuel consumption reductions. By teams continuously monitor the emissions and fuel the end of 2018, more than 200 adaptations had been performance of the fleet. To ensure the information made as part of the MSC ‘Eco retrofit’ programme to available is accurate, detailed, and current, MSC has optimise fleet performance. This represents a ­significant invested heavily in real-time performance ­monitoring. area of investment for MSC. For example, MSC has As a result, MSC now operates a world-class fleet invested EUR133 million in the propeller retrofit monitoring system. It provides vessel-specific inforprogramme and well over EUR47 million in the bulbous 6 mation-rich ‘dashboards’ to technical, operational, and bow retrofit. While the benefits of these modifications voyage planning staff with instantaneous details on, for vary from ship to ship, together with the fact that MSC example, engine power and output, fuel consumption operates one of the youngest fleets in the world, they 5 and speed, as well geographical information such as contribute strongly to the impressive environmental 1 route, location, and environmental zone. In addition to performance of the fleet. 2 9 3 7 5 4 allowing specific voyages to be planned, observed, and In 2018, we revised our methodology for analysing 8 optimised in view of load and weather conditions, the fuel savings, considering a wider range of factors than system provides invaluable data to Shipmanagement for previously. Based on our calculations, we estimate that decision-making on vessel maintenance and upgrades, the hull and propeller cleaning alone have ­resulted to ensure optimal performance. This also allows in a saving of 55,000 tons of fuel, with a consequent monitoring of vessels with regard to the Company’s emissions reduction of 179 million kg CO2. 1 2 3 4 navigational policy compliance and security measures. MSC is committed to transparency and compliance on environmental performance. The data collected from various sources, including the real-time ­monitoring system installed on MSC vessels, contributes to this Rudder retrofits Propeller retrofit Anti-fouling paints Bow modification by providing the Environmental Ship Index (ESI) scores & coating required by port authorities and the Clean Cargo Working Group for their emissions calculations. The ESI is used to identify vessels that perform better than 5 6 7 8 9 IMO standards requirements in terms of emissions. The index assesses the amount of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulphur oxides (SOx) emitted by a vessel and provides a reporting scheme on its greenhouse gas emissions. In this way, the ESI is a useful additional indicator of a Variable frequency Capacity boost Cold-ironing Air lubrication Hull cleaning ship’s environmental performance. Recognition by port drive (VFD) (shore-based system authorities of the leading environmental performance of power) MSC ships is evident in the extent of incentives p ­ rovided based on ESI scores. 52 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 53 TECHNICAL SOLUTIONS USED BY MSC TO IMPROVE VESSEL EFFICIENCY* EFFICIENCY MEASURE EXPLANATION MSC PROGRESS EFFICIENCY MEASURE EXPLANATION MSC PROGRESS AIR LUBRICATION Air blower produces tiny bubbles that pass Pilot vessel will enter into service during 2019 PROPELLER BOSS Improves efficiency by minimising hub Retrofit started in 2012. More than 130 SYSTEM continuously beneath the hull to reduce CAP FINS vortex losses and reduces underwater noise vessels retrofitted by end 2018. Where friction the propeller is replaced with new design, MSC typically also changes the cap fin ANTI-FOULING PAINTS Low-friction anti-fouling paints reduce hull • Partnership established with leading resistance marine paints manufacturer PROPELLER RETROFIT Design upgrade optimises performance and More than 130 vessels retrofitted by end • As policy, all vessels’ underwater areas reduces cavitation 2018 are treated to highest standards prior to anti-fouling paint application PROPELLER COATING Maintains propeller free of fouling and thus Standard procedure during dry-dock on all WITH SILICON PAINTS maintains performance new vessels and most of the new building BOW MODIFICATION An optimised bulbous bow can reduce the >80 vessels retrofitted with bulbous bow programme since 2014 hull resistance considerably for specific design at end 2018 operational profile RUDDER RETROFIT Becker Twist rudder solution limits noise • Standard feature on all newbuild vessels by cavitation and reduces fuel consumption • The largest flap rudder in the world CAPACITY BOOST Modifications to the lashing system and The 13.8K TEU, 14K TEU, 16K TEU and and emissions is in use on some MSC vessels reinforcement of the hatch covers to achieve 19K TEU are involved in the capacity boost additional container storage capacity per project. 50% of nominated vessels have VARIABLE FREQUENCY An adjustable speed drive to control auxil• Standard design for new vessels vessel been modified DRIVE (VFD) iary electric motor speed and torque to use • Retrofit underway for existing vessels power based on demand COLD-IRON Provision of shoreside electrical power to Featured on all newbuildings and a portion (SHORE-BASED POWER) a vessel at berth, to enable main and of the existing fleet auxiliary engines to be switched off HULL CLEANING Fouling of the hull can cause increased Data derived from real-time ­monitoring resistance which results in higher power used by MSC technical staff to inform demand therefore higher fuel consumption scheduling of dry-docking or unscheduled underwater cleaning of hull and propeller * This list is not exhaustive 54 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 55 Receiving recognition for performance to the Port of Oakland for acknowledging the MSC’s The efforts by MSC to prioritise sustainable use of marine 100% record for shore-power ready vessels. Every MSC resources and investments in green technologies, and vessel that called at Oakland in 2018 was fitted with the notable successes achieved, have been widely cold-ironing equipment. This enabled MSC to consistrecognised by global certification schemes and award ently connect to the port’s local power connection, and schemes. For example, in 2018, MSC Mediterranean thereby comply with local regulations. Shipping Company was delighted to win the title of Standards certification provides robust evidence of ‘Greenest Shipowner of the Year’ at the annual Green MSC’s integration of environmental priorities into Shipping Summit in Amsterdam, The Netherlands. management systems. In 2018, MSC Headquarters in The award recognised MSC’s retrofitting of hundreds Geneva and MSC Shipmanagement in Limassol, Cyprus, of ships with technologies for energy efficiency, as well and Sorrento, Italy, all received certifications as outlined as the extensive investments to prepare for upcoming below. In addition, 2018 saw the extension of ISO 9001: regulatory changes regarding marine fuel use. 2015 (Quality management) certification to all MSC MSC Shipmanagement also claimed several significant Agencies worldwide. regional prizes in 2018, including Green Company of the Year Awards in both India and Ukraine. In California, the state government has been actively encouraging shipping lines to switch to shore power while in port, to reduce air pollution in urban areas. MSC was grateful CERTIFICATION MSC HEADQUARTERS MSC SHIPMANAGEMENT, MSC SHIPMANAGEMENT, GENEVA, SWITZERLAND LIMASSOL, CYPRUS SORRENTO, ITALY ISO 9001 (Quality 2015 version management) ISO 14001 (Environmental 2015 version management) ISO 50001 (Energy – management) OHSAS 18001 – (Occupational health and safety) ISO 28000 (Security – – management system for supply chain) 56 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY Geneva MSCREPORT Headquarters 2018 57 MSC NEWBUILD PROGRAMME BRINGS LARGER, MORE EFFICIENT, GREENER SHIPS MSC is committed to reducing the environmental These bigger vessels will reduce the energy requireTo allow for future changes in low-emission technolothe needs of individual ship series and to take into footprint of global supply chains. We have been working ments needed per container through use of the latest gies available, and possible changes in the regulatory account trade and operational profile. The tailor-made closely with shipbuilders, classification societies, design green technologies and economies of scale. The new landscape, the newbuilds will burn conventional fuel cargo system upgrades increase the average carrying firms, and a wide range of other experts and stakeholdships will feature a single engine designed to lower the and use IMO-approved Exhaust Gas Cleaning Systems capacity and optimise loading efficiency. This lowers ers to ensure that future investments in our fleet are optimum engine speed and allow the use of a larger, (EGCS) to provide a safe and practical way to minimise the energy required to transport each container, and both economically viable and feature the best available more efficient propeller. MSC is also trialling a new air air pollution. The ships have the potential to be therefore reduces emissions too. technology and vessel adaptations for environmental lubrication system for these ULCVs. This consists of an ­converted to run on LNG in the future. To address MSC takes considerable pride in its dedication to distil performance. In October 2017, MSC confirmed an order air blower that causes tiny air bubbles to travel continemissions concerns while at berth, and thus concerns 40 years of nautical experience into practical, modern for 11 new 23,000+ TEU vessels (Ultra Large Container uously beneath the hull, like a carpet of air, to reduce about air quality and human health in urban area, where solutions for fleet optimisation. It reflects a company Vessels – ULCVs), setting a new record for the world’s the resistance to ship movement caused by sea water. shore-side infrastructure exists, the ULCVs can cold-iron that excels in combining market awareness, adherence largest container ship capacity. They can carry around Even allowing for the energy required to run the system, when in harbour, allowing onboard generators to be to regulatory obligations and leadership, to constantly 3,000 TEU more than the current largest MSC ships and the reduced friction leads to major fuel savings and a shut down. push the limits of innovation and performance. will replace a significant number of 13,000 and 14,000 10-15% net reduction in CO2 emissions. Cargo efficiency is also closely evaluated at MSC. MSC TEU vessels. has carried out several cargo system upgrades to match 58 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 59 regards to environmental protection. Operation of these MSC is already a market leader in terms of the environHybrid EGCSs generates an emission of SOx equivalent mental performance of its fleet, as evidenced, for to that from engines using low sulphur (0.1% m/m) fuel. example, by the high level of port reduction incentives In April 2018, MSC was the first company to invest in awarded to MSC, as well as the EEOI performance. this technology, signing a contract for 56 EGCS. Since Nonetheless, we strive to continuously improve on this, then MSC has been signing commercial contracts orderthrough a sulphur compliance strategy that is deliberateing about 250 scrubbers to be installed across the fleet ly agile, allowing for a response to advances in vessel during 2019 and 2020. MSC is proud of its decision to propulsion technology and changes in the availability be a leader among shipping companies in investing in and cost of marine fuels. Hybrid ECGS to address its ­environmental commitment MSC is also helping to minimise airborne environmenin a practical and quantifiable manner. tal emissions through increased use of shore power supply (‘cold-ironing’). Auxiliary systems such as lightExhaust Gas Cleaning Systems (EGCS) ing, powering reefer containers, air conditioning, and crew accommodation can be powered with electricity from the local grid. By connecting to the grid in this OPEN LOOP CLOSED HYBRID way, instead of relying on onboard generators, ships can SYSTEMS LOOP SYSTEMS reduce their emissions in port by around 80%. MSC is a SYSTEMS pioneer in this area, having started the installation of the use seawater use can operate in cold-ironing systems in 2007, and has been recognised to treat ­continuously both open loop by the classification society, DNV GL for its inclusion of the exhaust gas ­circulated and closed cold-iron technology in its newbuild programme. MSC and recycled loop modes has increased the number of vessels equipped to run water, with and provide onshore supply from 100 in 2015 to 150 by the end of the addition maximum 2018. At present, few global ports feature the technolof an alkaline flexibility of ogy required to support these shore power systems. ­chemical operations MSC continues to advocate for increased availability to treat the of shore power so its vessels can harness this technolexhaust gas ogy for reducing air pollutions in ports. FUEL CAP OF IMO SULPHUR 2020: In addition to the technical measures described in Liquified natural gas (LNG) reduces SOx emissions by A GAME-CHANGER the previous section to improve fuel efficiency, MSC more than 99% and nitrogen oxide emissions (NOx) by is continuously evaluating the range of best-practice up to 85%, as well as carbon dioxide emission (CO2) by From 1 January 2020, an enhanced global cap on fuel fuel-related and technical solutions to ensure compliapproximately 20%. However, LNG is not a viable option sulphur content set by the IMO will come into place. ance with the IMO 2020 Sulphur Cap. Efforts are currently at present for our cargo ships owing to the relatively The aim of the International Maritime Organization focused primarily on Exhaust Gas Cleaning Systems small number of ports with full-scale LNG bunkering (IMO) MARPOL Annex VI Reg. 14 regulation is to control (EGCS). EGCS technology offers an economical and facilities and other practical considerations. Another sulphur oxide (SOx) emissions from ships. The regulaenvironmentally sound solution for addressing all new option for staying within the emissions limit is to use tion, which will reduce the sulphur limit for marine fuel and existing rules and regulations concerning sulphur low sulphur fuels. This includes the use of Marine Gas from 3.5% m/m (mass by mass), to 0.50% m/m applies emissions from ships. Following extensive research and Oil (MGO) and blends of Ultra Low Sulphur Oil (ULSFO). to ships operating outside designated Emission Control preparations by the MSC Technical Team, and collaboraThe latter is already widely used by MSC, though the Areas. MSC strongly believes it has a positive contribution with leading equipment manufacturers, MSC opted future cost, quality, and availability considerations of tion to make to global initiatives to reduce air pollution to invest in Hybrid EGCSs. Despite being more expenthis option will require thorough evaluation and considfrom ships; we fully support uniform enforcement of sive and not widely available, MSC chose this design eration prior to further scaling up. Fuel solutions will the IMO MARPOL Annex VI regulation, as detailed in because of greater reliability, safety of the crew and, form a part of our 2020 compliance strategy, as well as resolution MEPC 184(59). importantly, to future-proof the retrofitted vessels with utilisation of EGCS technology. 60 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 61 INVESTING IN ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE This resulted in a specific design for cranes installed in locations with extreme weather events such as: 1.5 By 2030, build the resilience of • STS cranes delivered in Freeport Container the poor and those in vulnerable ­situations and reduce their exposure Terminal in the Bahamas have been designed and ­vulnerability to climate-related exwith temporary water ballast reservoirs ­allowing treme events and other economic, the terminal, in anticipation of a hurricane, social and environmental shocks to pump 300 tons of water in the lower section of the crane structure: this lowers the centre of gravity of the structure, and makes the crane more stable in extreme winds, up to 72 metres/second (260 km/h). “Transport has been traditionally looked upon as • STS cranes installed in Asyaport Container a challenge in terms of reducing greenhouse gas Terminal in Turkey, where a very high seismic emissions, and a lot of effort has been rightly directed at risk is present, have been designed with a seismic that issue. In recent years, however, with the Sustainable ­isolation system which increases the crane Development Goals and the Paris Agreement, ­adaptation ­resistance to the oscillation caused by of transport to the future climate, once a ‘poor relation’ an earthquake, and limits the damage. in terms of climate change response, is increasingly being recognised as vital to the continued success of Additional costs for implementing such designs range mobility and global trade and development.”15 from USD 250,000 for the engineering to USD 1,000,000 In line with the above, MSC’s investments in infraper crane for the enhanced manufacturing. Smaller structure and equipment in some highly exposed container handling equipment also benefit from the geographical areas include costs associated to climate engineering developed for the larger STS cranes. change risks and variability. As an illustration, TiL, Furthermore, TiL’s terminals located in some geographiMSC’s terminal operator, already invests in cranes and cal areas considered more exposed and/or vulnerable to other e ­ quipment to reduce the risk of climate change tropical storms and hurricanes such as in Callao (Peru) impacts and enhance preparedness in case of natural and in Houston and New Orleans (Gulf of Mexico) have disasters that might lead to disruption of operations developed and implemented a “Disaster risk manageand create risk to ­employees working in difficult condiment plan” in line with national requirements. During tions. Some of the climate change variabilities taken emergencies, our terminals may also serve as strategic into account in our decision-making include the rising supporting logistic and staging sites, providing power of sea levels as well as changes in frequency and intenoutlets, power packs, lifting equipment, water supplies, sity of extreme weather events, including hurricanes and broader assistance to local communities. and tropical storms.16 More information on our contribution to the SDG 1.5 as well as interrelated SDGs such as 13.1 “Strengthen resilIn this respect, TiL has incorporated the use of wind ience and adaptive capacity to climate related hazards tunnel analysis modelling, solid modelling analysis, and and natural disasters in all countries”, can be found in Finite Element Analysis in the design of the cranes, and the chapter Occupational Health and Safety, page 90 temperature range from -40 °C to + 50 °C in order to (case study on earthquake resilience). increase the stability, improve the performance, reduce the weight, and simulate the reaction of the cranes under various extreme weather conditions. Asyaport Container Terminal, Turkey 15 https://unctad.org/en/pages/newsdetails.aspx?OriginalVersionID=2083&Sitemap_x0020_Taxonomy=UNCTAD Home;#1788; #Transport Policy and Legislation;#2197;#Transport, Climate Change Impacts and Adaptation;#1721;#Transport;#2170;#Transport, Climate Change and Maritime Transport 16 https://unctad.org/en/PublicationsLibrary/ser-rp-2017d18_en.pdf 62 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 63 CASE STUDY TRANSLATING GLOBAL LEADERSHIP Waste management At S11, aluminium, steel, iron, copper, wood, foam Mobility Antwerp is known for traffic congestion, partly due INTO SITE LEVEL EXCELLENCE and refrigerants and plastic are separated and, as to high container volume created at the port. To help MEDREPAIR, ANTWERP TERMINAL, BELGIUM far as possible, recycled. Plastic drinking cups are no reduce this issue, S11 operates throughout the night. longer used. Sustainability is incorporated into procureMEDREPAIR participates in working groups with the ment processes by purchasing more environmentally port authorities with the goal of optimising transit of friendly consumables such as water-based reefer foam, containers and reducing congestion and unnecessary A HOLISTIC APPROACH TO LOGISTICS Automation and digitalisation reduce emissions solvent-free paint, and recycled paper (as well as only emissions. MEDREPAIR also encourages low-emission Automation and digitalisation are key elements of the low-sulphate diesel). Waste volumes are reported by mobility amongst staff and has 40 e-bikes on lease to MEDLOG is MSC’s rapidly growing logistics arm. Thanks expanding sustainability policy at MEDREPAIR. In the type to the authorities. encourage cycling to work. Finally, MEDREPAIR contribto MEDLOG subsidiaries such as MEDREPAIR, MEDLOG last three years, MEDREPAIR has invested more than utes to scoping of ideas for investment in sustainable develops and operates inland infrastructures and corrisix million in automation and digitalisation. This has mobility by participating in the Board of Innovation run dors to provide shipment solutions across the world. modernised data-sharing and reporting whilst ­greatly by MSC Belgium. MEDLOG is fully aligned with MSC’s commitment to reducing the requirements for paper and printing. safety, energy efficiency, and environmental protection. Streamlining inspection processes in the yard has A prime example of one of MEDLOG’s large-scale reduced the number of forklifts moves with m ­ easurable logistic investment is the S11 left-bank terminal (‘S11’) gains for fuel efficiency. A study is also underway to in Antwerp. Here MEDREPAIR operates more than examine feasibility of deploying robotised trailer 30 empty container handlers, a barge gantry crane, systems and container tugs at the site. Measures already multi-trailer shunts and full reefer monitoring. More in place to optimise equipment efficiency, with benefits than 450 employees work twenty-four hours a day to for emissions reductions, include the use of spreaders ensure delivery of constant quality service to meet MSC that can carry two containers instead of just one. Electric logistics requirements. gantry cranes are used with semi-automatic steering and twin-lift spreaders. This has improved the number Air quality and combatting trafficking of barge moves per day, which in turn reduces truck Ensuring a safe working environment is the primary congestion. sustainability concern at MEDREPAIR. This includes, maintaining a high standard of air quality in the Energy, air, and water workshops through the use of a sophisticated air There are two wind turbines installed at S11, with ­circulation and filtration system. proposals under consideration to scale-up wind and The safety programme is led by a manager of health solar energy production to 5,000 Megawatt/yr. Energyand safety who is responsible for risk assessment and saving measures on the site include motion-activated overseeing compliance with Belgian and European LED lights and automatic power-off functions of cranes standards and regulations. and showers. Cleaning of containers has been optimised A safe working environment also includes measures to to save time and energy through the use of blowing/ combat drug trafficking. This spans several corrective sweeping processes and deployment of state-of-the-art and preventive measures including installing fencing high-pressure cleaning systems. Water-saving measures and barriers, night guards, and camera surveillance. have also been put in place at S11. Rainwater is used for Anti-drug and awareness campaigns, drug ­inspections, toilets and grey water from cleaning stations is removed and stronger engagement with police are also key for treatment. Concrete floors are oil resistant, allowing elements of the S11 agenda. the separation of grease from water. MEDREPAIR activities at Antwerp Terminal 64 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 65 CASE STUDY SUSTAINABLE WATER MANAGEMENT MEDLOG IN SOUTH EAST ASIA The supply of freshwater on earth is precious, and constantly dwindling. MSC has a range of programmes in place both on board and on shore, to conserve water where possible. The following examples illustrate how MSC transport and logistics company, MEDLOG, provides wastewater treatment facilities in two regions of the world with high populations water concerns and limited supply of fresh water. JAKARTA, INDONESIA HAI PHONG, VIETNAM The urban area of Jakarta, the capital of Indonesia, is Hai Phong is the third largest city in Vietnam19, ­located home to 10.6 million people17. Rapid population growth about 100km from capital Hanoi. In recent years, is putting enormous pressure on water supplies and the city has evolved rapidly as a commercial and contributing to problems of water contamination18. The ­population centre. This growth has put a strain on the local MEDLOG CPC Depot installed a wastewater treatcity’s i­nfrastructure, especially for water supply and ment system to help combat water pollution, locally. The ­sanitation20. Recognising the need to avoid ­pollution system removes organic compounds, suspended solids from the MEDLOG site, the MEDLOG GFS Depot and microbial pathogens. Residue removed from treated installed additional water tanks to treat the water MSC truck leaving MEDLOG depot in Hai Phong, Vietnam water is collected and disposed of at approved locations. on-site. Once treated, the water is safely released into Water that has been treated at the site meets the nationthe ­municipal system, where it is subject to further al standards for water quality (Ministry of Environment filtration and recycling processes to ensure it meets decree no. 68/2016), allowing it to be disposed in the Vietnamese government standards for safe discharge. public sewer, ensuring that water released does not More than 1,500 litres of water are filtered per day at contaminate municipal facilities. 5,000 litres per day are the Hai Phong site. treated at this Marunda Depot site. 17 https://populationstat.com/indonesia/jakarta 18 https://water.org/our-impact/indonesia/ 19 https://www.urban-pathways.org/hai-phong.html 20 https://www.oecd.org/countries/vietnam/green-growth-in-hai-phong-viet-nam-9789264260207-en.htm 66 ENVIRONMENT MSC depot MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 67 CONSERVING LIFE BELOW WATER, AND ON LAND “The ocean provides food, energy, water, jobs and economic BALLAST WATER MANAGEMENT PRESERVING WILDLIFE, NOW AND FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS benefits for people in every country, even those that are 2018 was a significant year for improvements to landlocked. It is a crucial buffer against climate change, ballast water management in the shipping ­industry. As a company with a strong family ethic, the well-­being and a massive resource for sustainable development. It was the first full year after entry into force of the IMO International Convention for the Control and of current and future generations matters greatly to us at MSC. This includes concern about threatened and The health of our oceans and seas is inextricably linked Management of Ships’ Ballast Water and Sediments endangered wildlife populations that should be an with the health of our planet and all life on Earth.” (BWM). These regulations aim to protect the marine environment from the transfer of harmful aquatic organessential part of the natural environment upon which we all depend. isms in ballast water carried by ships. In response to MSC has partnered with various organisations to H.E. António Guterres, United Nations Secretary General these regulations, all new MSC vessels are being fitted contribute to protection of biodiversity on land and in Opening remarks to the Ocean Conference, 5 June 2017 with compliant ballast water systems that offer superithe seas. We are signatories of the Buckingham Palace or performance in fresh, brackish, and marine waters. Declaration Against Wildlife Trafficking, a pledge to In addition, existing vessels are being retrofitted with combat illicit wildlife trafficking. Believed to be worth up ballast units that are also fully compliant with IMO and to USD20 billion per year, this trade is almost as lucraUnited States Coast Guard requirements. As specitive as the human-trafficking and narcotics and arms Communities all over the world depend on healthy fied by the Convention, plans were established in 2012 smuggling21. The Declaration is an initiative of United oceans and functioning marine ecosystems for food and FACTS & FIGURES to schedule the installation either during dry-dock or for Wildlife, to protect iconic species such as elephants, livelihoods. Yet, marine environments are increasingly during voyage. MSC has provided training simulators tigers, and rhinos, in addition to less well-known species threatened and degraded by ocean warming, plastic and • Biodiversity: The world’s oceans contain somewhere and online training programmes to familiarise crew with including pangolins. MSC is also a member of the Task microplastic pollution, sewage and chemical discharge, between 500,000 and 10 million marine species the ballast water management equipment and its operaForce taking a stand against illegal wildlife traffickinvasive species, and overfishing. Safeguarding marine • Oxygen source: Marine phytoplankton tion and has worked closely with leading manufacturers ing by operating a zero-tolerance policy on the trade ecosystems is a central tenet of SDG 14, ’Life Below (the plant components of the plankton community) to improve the reliability of this equipment. of endangered species or banned wildlife products. Water’. Given MSC’s inherent connection with the seas, produces 50% of the oxygen on earth In 2018, MSC banned the carriage of animal hunting we do not undertake our environmental responsibilities • Carbon sink: Oceans have absorbed as much as trophies and endangered shark fins. MSC will c­ ontinue in this regard lightly. half of all anthropogenic carbon emissions over the to advocate for improved systems of detection and past two centuries. ‘Blue carbon’ ecosystems such ­information-sharing on suspicious activities related to as mangroves, seagrass beds, tidal marshes, and illegal wildlife trade. other marine and coastal vegetated ecosystems are among the most intense carbon sinks on the planet • Oceans at risk: Today 60% of the world’s major marine ecosystems that underpin livelihoods have been degraded or are being used unsustainably Source: www.unesco.org 21 https://www.thegef.org/topics/illegal-wildlife-trade 68 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 69 SHIPS SLOW DOWN The speed restrictions during the period when whales MAREVIVO’S YOUTH-FOCUSED In 2017, Marevivo successfully lobbied for bans on the TO PROTECT WHALES migrate to the area help to mitigate potential collisions EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES use of microplastics in cosmetics and personal care in two ways: by reducing the risk of serious or fatal FUNDED BY MSC products. Throughout 2018, Marevivo worked with the In August 2018, MSC was honoured to receive an award injuries if a strike does occur, and by increasing the Italian government to approve laws that protect marine for setting an industry example by reducing vessel odds that a whale will have sufficient time to react and Since 2015, MSC Cruises has been involved in the work resources against exploitation and help to avoid plastic speeds in areas where endangered whale species feed. avoid the collision. of Marevivo, an Italian marine conservation association. pollution. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Compliance with the programme was verified through Marevivo’s aim is to raise the profile of marine pollution Education is vital in improving the understanding of (NOAA) and the Cordell Bank and Greater Farallones Automatic Identification System (AIS) data from and involve the public and media in protecting the seas. sustainable use and protection of the oceans. In 2018, National Marine Sanctuaries granted the awardsBALLENAS to transponders on each ship that continuously transmit Marevivo’s activities span biodiversity conservation, MSC Group funded three youth-focused e ­ ducational MSC, and a select number of other companies, for PAGE 50 DOC information about a ship’s speed, heading, and location. CLIENT sustainable development, enhancement and promotion activities run by Marevivo. showing a high degree of cooperation with their vessel The four tiers in the award scheme were Bronze (i.e., of marine protected areas, environmental education, speed reduction requests. 10%-25% of their distance travelled at 10 knots or less), and combating pollution and illegal fishing. Further information can be found on: www.marevivo.it The purpose of this speed-reduction programme is to Silver (25-50%), Gold (50-75%), and Sapphire (75-100%). MSC applauds the national and global advocacy work of improve air quality, reduce risk of fatal whale strikes, MSC was the only company to achieve the Sapphire Marevivo, which calls for enactment of laws to protect and protect whales within National Marine Sanctuaries, level in both the San Francisco Bay Area and Santa marine ecosystems. notably blue whales and humpback whales. Ship strikes Barbara Channel region. are a significant cause of whale mortality worldwide. PROJECT DESCRIPTION 2018 IMPACT DOLPHIN GUARDIANS Educational initiative on conservation • 700 students throughout of marine resources the school year TRANSPONDERS • 60 teachers N • 10 Italian islands data NAUTICI IN BLU Provides skills to those who wish to • 800 students from nautical institutes S AIS Automatic Identification System work in the maritime sector during the academic year San Santa • 80 teachers Francisco Barbara Bay Channel #MYBLUWAVE Educational activities for children • 200,000 children on board MSC Cruises SAPPHIRE LEVEL Common bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) 70 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 71 MSC CRUISES: LEADING IN ENVIRONMENTAL EXCELLENCE ALTERNATIVE FUELS 99% 85% 20% • EUR 5 billion investment to build 5 LNG-powered ships • 4 World Class ships less SOx less NOx less CO2 • 1 Meraviglia Class ship emissions emissions emissions • First LNG-powered ship to enter into service in 2022 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT AND • One of the cleanest fossil fuels AT MSC CRUISES RETROFITTING MSC Cruises feels a deep responsibility towards the MSC Cruises is ensuring that environmental perforphysical and human environments in which it operates. mance is a fundamental feature of ship design. All The current fleet of 15 ships (as of end 2018) is one of the new non-LNG (liquid nitrogen gas) ships are equipped most modern fleets at sea. It is being expanded by the with hybrid Exhaust Gas Cleaning Systems (EGCS). addition of 14 new state-of-the-art cruise ships featuring In addition, MSC Cruises has put in place a robust the latest in environmental and maritime technology. programme to retrofit older ships to ensure their The MSC Group believes that innovation benefits a emissions performance also meets the international company in multiple ways. This is especially evident standards set by the IMO. By the end of 2019, 11 of 17 in environmental protection measures. The advances ships will be equipped with hybrid EGCS and 74% of of MSC Cruises in this area are supporting improvetotal berths will be covered by this technology. ment and progress in the wider passenger and cargo divisions of MSC. ALTERNATIVE FUELS The environmental efforts of MSC Cruises attracted global recognition from the international classification To further improve its environmental performance in WASTEWATER TREATMENT society. MSC Meraviglia was awarded the ‘8 Golden ports and at sea, MSC Cruises is expanding its use of Pearls’, which is among the highest recognitions a low-sulphur fuels. This is already standard practice The use of Advanced Wastewater Treatment Systems and compressed into high-grade pellets. These pellets cruise ship can attain for environmental stewardship. In in sensitive locations such as Venice Lagoon, the (AWTS) is helping MSC Cruises go above and beyond can act as a source of fuel for specific on-board energy addition, both MSC Seaside and MSC Seaview received Norwegian Heritage Fjords, and other locations such regulatory standards. 50% of the fleet and 62% of the needs. Depending on the cruise itinerary, MSC Cruises the ‘Green Star 3 Design’ from the international classias IMO designated Emission Control Areas. With more total berths are equipped with AWTS. AWTS treats may also offload this dried biomass ashore, where it fication society RINA for outstanding environmental stringent limitations on sulphur emissions coming into wastewater to a very high quality by mixing d ­ ifferent can be repurposed for energy production. Other liquid credentials. force in 2020 as part of MARPOL Annex VI, MSC has waste streams together and filtering out the larger waste that may be hazardous to the environment such invested five billion to design and build five cruise ships components. The resulting water is then processed as cooking oil, oily water, machinery lubricants, and powered with LNG. Compared to standard marine fuels, even further through very fine filtration and treatment ­cleaning products are never discharged into the sea but LNG reduces SOx emissions by more than 99% and NOx systems, to produce effluent that is of a higher ­standard are offloaded ashore by authorised companies. emissions by up to 85%. The use of LNG also virtually than most municipal waste requirements around the eliminates particulate matter from the exhaust and can world. Through the on-board systems, hazardous result in up to 20% saving in carbon emissions. These substances and pollutants are filtered out and d ­ igested new LNG ships are due for delivery between 2022 and by bacteria. To avoid risking harm to marine life, the 2027. remaining purified wastewater is disinfected by UV processing (never chlorine). MSC Cruises monitors key indicators to ensure any remaining bacteria levels are favourable before discharge. The separated solid residue is removed from the cycle, and dried, compacted 72 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 73 STATE-OF-THE-ART SOLID WASTE The plan goes beyond MARPOL regulations and lays out MANAGEMENT procedures for the separation, compaction, and reduction of as much garbage as possible. It is a response to Throughout the years, we have taken voluntary steps the ISO 14001 standard used by MSC Cruises to manage to equip our ships with state-of-the-art solid waste environmental responsibilities in a clear and systematic management and recycling facilities on board. We way. Our ships are equipped with a comprehensive and manage our waste streams in accordance with mandacoherent system to manage all waste aspects on board tory sound environmental principles of the Cruise Lines and ashore and every ship has a waste management International Association (CLIA) and must comply with plan that details how each type of waste is managed all regulatory MARPOL (International Convention for on board. the Prevention of Pollution from Ships) requirements Every ship in our fleet has an Environmental Officer to prevent marine pollution. in charge of the on-board garbage management, All organic waste, as well as recyclable disposable items who ensures that the Environmental Plan is correctly including plastics, metals, paper and glass, are collected ­executed. The officer has the duty to instruct and train and separated by specially trained waste handling crew the crew about garbage management rules on board. members. Waste is compacted, separated, or incineratIn 2018, MSC Cruises made a commitment under its ed, and residual waste is carefully delivered to dedicated Plastic Reduction Programme to effectively phase out a port facilities. large proportion of single-use plastic items from all ship Training our crew, not only to handle waste, but to underoperations and ashore by April 2019. These items have stand the importance of waste management, is central been replaced by environmentally friendly solutions. to what we do. Our crew members receive ongoing For example, all plastic straws were replaced by 100% training to ensure they remain abreast of the highest compostable and biodegradable equivalents and drinks standards. MSC Cruises has a Garbage Management are no longer automatically served with a straw. Plan for the prevention of pollution by MSC vessels. Ocean Cay, Bahamas TRANSFORMING DEGRADED LAND Ocean Cay is designed to immerse guests in the natural INTO A MARINE RESERVE beauty of their surroundings. To achieve this, MSC has AT OCEAN CAY, BAHAMAS engaged a team of local e ­ nvironmental c ­ onsultants to ensure the island is developed in a way that is The programme at Ocean Cay in the Bahamas is one responsible, zero-impact, and respectful of Bahamian example of how MSC is working to protect marine flora authenticity. The island will welcome its first guests in and fauna in a way that is beneficial to communities November 2019. and aligned with both local regulation and ­international Sustainability performance will remain a ­fundamental standards. MSC is transforming an industrial wasteland priority for MSC Cruises as the range of routes and into a flourishing marine reserve. The island, which was holiday experiences expands. mined for aragonite for more than 50 years before being abandoned, is now subject to an intensive clean up and restoration programme led by MSC. Works to relocate coral, remove invasive species, preserve wetlands, and protect the coastline are all part of the programme. In addition, The Government of the Bahamas, in agreement with MSC management, has committed to designating 64 square miles of waters around Ocean Cay as a Marine Reserve, where human activity is restricted to conserve MSC Bellissima the natural environment. 74 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 75 MEDWAY: ENERGY EFFICIENT RAIL SOLUTIONS MEDWAY is a transport and logistics company based in Portugal. It is part of MEDLOG, offering technologically advanced, customer-focused multimodal logistics solutions. In 2018, MEDWAY transported 8,661,681 tons of goods stated preference for renewable green energy instead by rail. Rail transport has a significantly lower environof fossil energy sources. Some 38% of electricity used mental impact than road, due to lower CO2 emissions by MEDWAY electric locomotives was derived from per ton per kilometre (t/km) travelled. Specifically, ­renewable sources, namely hydro and wind. Also compared to transport by truck, rail transport emits noteworthy in the context of emissions is the use by 14.4kg CO2 less per t/km. MEDWAY of EURO 4000 series diesel locomotives, MEDWAY is certified by ISO 14001: 2015, meaning which are the most efficient locomotives of their kind. its environmental performance is subject to regular In 2018, MEDWAY committed to a programme to monitoring, in particular the CO2 emissions of its fleet replace its larger fossil fuel locomotives with more of locomotives. As a company in an energy OPTION inten-1 efficient shunting tractors in OPTION 2 yards and marshalling sive sector, MEDWAY is also periodically audited for thus to improve energy consumption ratio (goe / Ton. energy efficiency. Accordingly, energy efficiency is a Km). These new shunting tractors have a 32% lower fuel core management topic at MEDWAY and the subject ­consumption than older model 1400 diesel l­ocomotives: of company-wide commitments and emission reducthis translates to an estimated annual emission ­reduction tion actions. Waste management, noise reduction, of 96,500kg of CO2 per tractor. and pollution prevention are also part of the MEDWAY MEDWAY uses a prediction tool to estimate the CO2 Carbon Emissions (Kg CO2/Km) environmental OPTION programme 1 and are subject to m ­ onitoring OPTIONemission 2 of logistics services provided. Transparency and national and European reporting requirements. on environmental performance and pollution prevention In 2018, 88% of the total distance travelled by MEDWAY measures plays an important role in MEDWAY’s engage5.94 trains were with electric locomotives. MEDWAY has a ment with customers, suppliers, and stakeholders. 5.1 68 Locomotives 68 Locomotives 34 electric 34 electric 12.2 20.37 0 5 10 15 20 RAIL (MEDWAY) 68 Locomotives 68 Locomotives 34 electric 239334Wagons electric 2393 Wagons In 2018, 88% of 38% of electricity ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVE the total distance used by DIESEL LOCOMOTIVE travelled by MEDWAY electric + 500 68 2,393 MEDWAY trains locomotives ROAD STAFF LOCOMOTIVES WAGONS was with electric was derived 34 ELECTRIC locomotives from renewable ­sources, namely 2393 Wagons 68 Locomotives 2393 Wagons hydro and wind 34 electric 76 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 77 2393 Wagons CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY 78 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 79 PUTTING PEOPLE FIRST INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIONS, STANDARDS, CODES OR GUIDELINES OBSERVED BY MSC* INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION, GOVERNING BODY FOCUS STANDARD, CODE OR GUIDELINE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION International Maritime Organization Emergencies, Fire prevention, Life-saving FOR THE SAFETY OF LIFE AT SEA (IMO) www.imo.org appliances, safety of navigation, carriage (SOLAS) of cargoes, international ship and port facilities security codes Throughout onshore and on-board operations, MSC commitment to UN Sustainable Development Goal considers that the safety and welfare of employees is (SDG) 3, Good Health and Wellbeing and SDG 8, Decent INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION IMO Prevention of pollution by ships from paramount. To reduce risk and avoid any loss of life, Work and Economic Growth, MSC Shipmanagement ON THE PREVENTION OF operational or accidental reasons MSC has developed a comprehensive suite of policies offices in Sorrento and Cyprus were awarded OHSAS POLLUTION FROM SHIPS covering marine environments: water, and procedures that are in alignment with the follow18001 certification, which demonstrates MSC’s success (MARPOL) air, sewage, garbage, noxious liquid ing conventions and guidelines. in ensuring that health and safety standards are implesubstances, and hazardous cargo in Focusing on safety fully in keeping with the MSC core mented and maintained. packaged form value, ‘Care for People’ and part of our company’s STANDARDS OF TRAINING, IMO Standards of qualification for the CERTIFICATION, AND Master, officers and crew on seagoing WATCHKEEPING (STCW) merchant ships MARITIME LABOUR International Labour Organization (ILO) Working conditions on ships, i­ncluding CONVENTION (MLC) https://www.ilo.org/global/standards/ conditions of employment, health maritime-labour-convention/ protection, medical care, and social security protection INTERNATIONAL SAFETY IMO The safe management and operation of MANAGEMENT CODE (ISM) ships, and pollution prevention THE HONG KONG IMO To ensure that ships, when being INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION recycled at the end of their ­operational FOR THE SAFE AND lives, do not pose any unnecessary ENVIRONMENTALLY SOUND risks to human health, safety, and to RECYCLING OF SHIPS the environment (2009 IMO HKC) OHSAS 18001:2007 British Standards Institute The identification, control, and OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND decrease of risks associated with SAFETY MANAGEMENT health and safety within the workplace CERTIFICATION onshore or on board ships * This list is not exhaustive 80 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 81 LIFE ON BOARD STAYING SAFE Early fire detection In compliance with international safety regulations, MSC At MSC, staying safe involves being informed and implealready operates an advanced early-warning system for menting best practice. To achieve this, MSC develops fire detection on board. Moreover, a significant safety and implements a full programme of safety managedevelopment in 2018 led by MSC Shipmanagement ment systems, policies, and procedures, in accordance in Sorrento, was the decision to install deck cargo with relevant national laws, international regulations, ­firefighting systems on the 23,000+ TEU vessels due and applicable ISO standards. MSC management for delivery in 2019 and 2020. This is well in excess of coordinates training and guidance on, for example, the minimum SOLAS requirements for fire safety. In the handling and management of hazardous ­materials, addition to the cooling effect and reduction of risk to dangerous goods and chemicals to which personnel cargo, the large volumes of water pumped by the new may be exposed, and maintenance of records of work-­ system will substantially reduce the fire risk to crews. related injuries and illnesses. MSC also implements risk Safety loops assessment procedures and incident investigation to Technology supporting safety at sea ensure continuous improvement of practices to provide Technology is an invaluable tool in ensuring the safety a safe environment for employees. of the crew, vessel, and cargo. For example, vessels In 2018, a Health and Wellness Committee has been are being equipped with a third radar that is over and established at MSC Shipmanagement in Cyprus to above statutory requirement, which assists in improving address safety themes in a structured manner. One area navigational safety. Long rangefinders facilitate correct covered by this Committee is awareness raising on how distance measurements of a vessel’s bow and stern to avoid the most common type of injuries such as falls, areas distance from the pier while berthing. Master’s slips, trips, and falling objects. Designated officers on Cabins are fitted with Electronic Chart Display and board are trained to provide medical care and to follow Information Systems (ECDIS). To date, a total of 1,900 appropriate procedures in the event of accidents. Crew navigating officers have received training on operating members are encouraged to share best ­practices and the system. Further, in the interests of maintaining a promote a culture on board that motivates all crew high standard of crew navigational and vessel operation members to behave in a safe manner. Rank-specific skills, new simulators have been installed in MSC traincomputer-based training programmes are available, ing centres in Mumbai, Odessa, Sorrento, Montenegro, which crew members can follow in their own time. and Geneva to offer hands-on training opportunities. During 2018, staff on board completed nearly 100,000 Across these centres, 300 navigating officers completed training hours of this computer-based training. simulation courses in 2018, representing a 45% increase A practical safety measure adopted in 2018 was the on the previous year. installation of safety loops on all vertical ladders accessed by crew in cargo holds, ballast tanks, void spaces, and masts. Firefighting system 82 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 83 MSC’S 4-PART APPROACH TO CYBERSECURITY SECURITY FUNCTION/PURPOSE DETAILS MEASURE UNIFIED To protect against security threats by • Ability to monitor network traffic for malicious THREAT combining and integrating multiple security activity or policy violations, block malicious MANAGEMENT services and features traffic, and report to network administrators SERVICE • Firewall solution routinely updates itself with (UTMS) and applies the latest threat definitions • Monitors resource usage and typical behaviours of MSC applications • Virtual Private Network (VPN) encrypts traffic and data to and from MSC network when accessing remotely • Grants access to networks based on device IP or MAC Address • Filters content for spam SMART To block unauthorised access and misuse • Enforces device PIN/password use for DEVICES FOR accessing the mobile device BLOCKING • Remote device lock and wipe • Detects configuration change • Restricts user and application access to STAYING WELL STAYING CONNECTED AT SEA the device hardware and onshore services • Separate profile for business and personal use Physical and mental health are critical to safe operation Access to social media and online services is a priority at sea. This is why staff well-being is a crucial aspect for crew seeking to maintain contact with friends and MONITORING To constantly check systems for possible threat • Inbound and outbound traffic is monitored to of safety which necessitates management attention family networks during their time at sea. MSC greatly identify unusual activity or trends that could and a specific set of precautions and procedures. Diet, values staff morale and satisfaction and has ­invested indicate attacks exercise, attitude, and mental health are examples of heavily in the necessary hardware and software to • Identifies the unauthorised or accidental topics prioritised at MSC. Nutrition and meal planning ensure crew can remain connected to the rest of the misuse of systems or data and ties specific are taken very seriously by Shipmanagement, with world via the Internet during their time at sea. The Crew users to suspicious activity World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines relatEngagement survey of 2017 demonstrated the benefit • MSC Shipmanagement has a centralised ing to sugar, salt, and saturated fat observed as far as of this investment through a substantial improvement capability to collect and analyse information possible. The 2017 Crew Engagement Survey recorded in the satisfaction of seafarers with their access to the and alerts across the organisation increased satisfaction of the crew with diet on board, Internet. relative to satisfaction ratings recorded by the same Cybersecurity is a high-priority subject in a world of AWARENESS To inform staff about the risks and signs of • Two internal and one external cybersecurity survey in 2015. MSC also provides training and commuincreasing connectivity and improved communications cyberattacks awareness training programmes developed nicates around the benefits of physical activity on board technology equipment. MSC ships and onshore opera• Response protocol prepared for all and on leave. Vessels are equipped with gymnasiums tions use systems that rely on digitalisation, integration, employees to follow if they believe or sports facilities to encourage crew to stay physically and automation, all of which call for careful and they have been compromised active on board, with games and tournaments adding responsible cyber risk management. The Information • Cybersecurity manual provided for all vessels a social dimension. Technology team at MSC have developed a four-part approach to protecting the Company and its e ­ mployees against hackers and online threats. 84 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 85 ENSURING SAFETY AWARENESS & RESPONSE READINESS A HOLISTIC APPROACH Shipping is a complex business. The MSC approach to health and safety is, accordingly, broad, inclusive, and fully comprehensive to ensure that all assets are protected in line with best practice and in accordance with ­international standards and regulations. RELEVANT INTERNATIONAL POLICY/ RELEVANT INTERNATIONAL POLICY/ SAFETY FOCUS MSC POLICIES & MEASURES* SAFETY FOCUS MSC POLICIES & MEASURES* REGULATION/ISO STANDARDS REGULATION/ISO STANDARDS CREW • Crewing policy • Maritime Labour Convention (MLC) 2006 VESSEL • Technical Management Policy • SOLAS • Personal protective equipment (PPE) for all crew • Standards of Training Certification and • Heavy weather stop readiness • International Convention on Load Lines members on board Watchkeeping (STCW) • Fire detection equipment checks • International Code on Intact Stability • Whistle-blower policy • International Life-Saving Appliances Code • Emergency Diesel Generator (EDG) & (2008 IS Code) • Safety loops fitted on vertical ladders (LSA Code) emergency switchboard • International Convention on the Prevention of • Security guards in high risk areas • International Safety Management Code Pollution from Ships (MARPOL) • Lifeboat lowering policy (ISM Code) • No alcohol policy • International Code for Fire Safety Systems ENVIRONMENT • Objective: Zero MARPOL violations • International Convention on the Prevention of • Shore leave night restrictions (FSS Code) • Objective: Compliance with ISO 14001 Pollution from Ships (MARPOL) • Fully telecommunications-equipped citadel • International Medical Guide for Ships & ISO 50001 • ISO 140001 & 50001 standards • MSC Quality, Safety, Environment Protection • International Maritime Dangerous Goods CARGO • Objective of zero cargo damage due to cargo • International Convention for the Safety of Life & Energy Efficiency Policy (IMDG) Code hold flooding, non-compliance with reefer at Sea (SOLAS), 1974 • Vessel retrofit programme for propeller carriage policy, loss or damage due to ship’s • International Maritime Dangerous Goods renewal, propeller boss cap fins, & bow fault (IMDG) Code modifications for vessel fuel efficiency • Enhanced on-deck cargo firefighting system • Code of Safe Practice for Cargo Stowage and • Inventory of Hazardous Materials surveys • Approved loading software Securing (CSS Code) • Sludge generated on board discharged ashore • Tank condition reports • International Maritime Solid Bulk Cargos Code • Checks of lashing equipment condition (IMSBC Code) NAVIGATION • Objective: Zero navigation incidents • SOLAS, Chapter V • Weekly testing of cargo-hold bilge alarms • ISO 9001 :2015 • Mandatory pre-joining training • Convention on the International Regulations • Reefer repair kits for malfunctions • International Convention on the Prevention of • Navigational briefings for Preventing Collisions at Sea (COLREGs), • Daily hold inspections Pollution from Ships (MARPOL) • Harbour Manoeuvring Plans (HMPs) for 1972 • Monthly cargo-hold bilge pumping each port of call • Active membership of Cargo Incident • Use of range-finders Notification System (CINS), initiative • Fitting of 3rd Electronic Chart Display and to develop industry best practice for cargo Information System (ECDIS) & radar and containers • Stringent promotion criteria * This is a non-exhaustive list of MSC policies and measures. 86 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 87 IMPLEMENTING BEST PRACTICE CRISIS MANAGEMENT AND DUTY OF CARE Best-practice management of cargo brings ­multiple safety benefits for the crew, the vessel, and the MSC’s safety culture is woven into our approach to environment. In 2018, the Cargo Incident Notification crisis management. In this area, speed and expertise System (CINS), of which MSC is an active member, are central to our success in managing any incidents produced best-practice guidelines for managing sensithat may arise. Company-wide experts are deployed to tive cargoes (e.g. fragile, flammable, or hazardous). ensure that any emergencies can be resolved ­swiftly Further, MSC Geneva Headquarters, together with MSC even in the most difficult conditions. An ­exceptional Shipmanagement offices in Limassol and Sorrento are feature of MSC’s crisis management response is the all now ISO 9001:2015 certified. This certification, among immediate notification and involvement of senior other things, provides formal recognition of MSC’s management. MSC prides itself on responsible and approach to cargo risk assessment and management, efficient reaction to emergencies. Commitment to and evidence of compliance with related national and rapid and efficient response is demonstrated by Capt. international standards. Gianluigi Aponte, the Company’s founder, and Mr. We are also strengthening our internal systems to Diego Aponte, President and CEO, who are personally prevent cargo-related incidents on board. For instance, involved in all significant emergency operations. in 2018, we launched a new web-based platform called Duty of care on safety extends to an undertaking by the Dangerous, Sensitive Cargo Management (DSCM) MSC to aid others in difficulty at sea. MSC seafarers system. This is strengthening our ability to identify and are trained to provide assistance in such ­eventualities, handle sensitive commodities safely. In 2018, MSC while also maintaining the safety of crew, vessels, implemented a new tool using artificial intelligence to and cargo. Throughout 2018, MSC ships undertook 17 read and analyse dangerous goods declarations, packing separate ocean rescue operations all over the world, declarations as well as, for example, weathering certifiincluding cases of man overboard, stricken vessels, and cates and analysis reports. MSC’s system is advanced, missing persons. While deviations may incur additional using both optical character recognition and intelligent fuel costs and delays, MSC management considers that character recognition technologies to identify and flag shipping schedule and cost are secondary concerns in potential safety risks posed by cargo. the context of aiding fellow seafarers in distress. 88 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 89 CASE STUDY CASE STUDY EARTHQUAKE RESILIENCE CREATING ACCIDENT-FREE MEDLOG IN SANTIAGO AND ARICA, CHILE WORKPLACES ONSHORE LOMÉ CONTAINER TERMINAL (LCT) Earthquake disaster reduction and sustainable developMEDLOG operates within the framework provided by The Port of Lomé, in Togo, is home to the Lomé Container of comprehensive training programmes and is also ment have mutually supportive goals. A structure that its General Plan of Emergency, which lays out s­ pecific Terminal (LCT) operated by Terminal Investment Limited driving excellence in safety performance through the is built with earthquake resilience and lifecycle perforrecommendations in the event of an earthquake. (TiL), a subsidiary of MSC. It has a capacity of 2.2 million implementation of management systems, which have mance in mind also offers better, longer-term safety Prepared in accordance to national legal requireTEU, has nine quay cranes, and occupies an area of 54 been independently certified by third parties. for its occupants. Preparedness and resilience are at ments, the plan is valid for the office building as well hectares. Lomé plays a key role in transhipment and Fatal Hazard Standards have been developed at LCT the core of the MSC approach to safety which aims as for the container yard, in both Arica and Santiago. cargo distribution in West Africa because it is the only to address the risks arising from vessel operations, to ensure that employers and workers are adequately It includes indications on evacuation routes, protection natural deep-water port terminal in West Africa and is a working at heights, interface of mobile equipment protected, have the necessary equipment, know where measures inside and outside of the building, and other gateway to the landlocked countries of Mali, Niger, and and p ­ edestrians, and handling of loads and related to go, and understand how to keep themselves safe safety procedures, such as how to avoid the risk of a Burkina Faso. Container traffic handled in 2018 at LCT ­engineering activities. Once fully implemented, safety when an emergency occurs. fire resulting from an electrical failure. In Arica, the plan amounted to more than a million TEU. measures will include: Chile is a seismically active country. The country also includes safety recommendations in the event of a LCT runs a range of programmes with benefits for the • Stacking profiling system at all rubber-tired gantry is l­ocated on the Pacific Ring of Fire, a zone that tsunami that may be triggered by the earthquake. Safety natural environment and the local community. The cranes, to ensure safe stacking of containers ­concentrates most of the seismic activity on earth. measures extend to the yard, where the container blocks safety of personnel on site is also a central s­ ustainability • Pinning stations at the quay under quay cranes to Two of the most extreme earthquakes in recorded in the yard are stacked to reduce the risk of a fall. focus at the terminal. Management has committed to reduce the risk of injury to pedestrians history took place in Chile, the 1960 the ‘Great Chilean MEDLOG is currently expanding in Chile, with depots an objective of Zero Harm and is deploying a multi-­ • Rear detectors and cameras in reach-stackers and Earthquake with an estimated magnitude of 9.4–9.6, planned for San Antonio, Valparaiso, and Iquique. layer plan to achieve this. All levels and departments in empty container handlers, also to avoid accidents and an earthquake of 8.8 on the moment magnitude Construction standards prioritising safety of ­employees the organisation are included in the mission to instil a involving pedestrians scale in 2010. will feature prominently at these locations too. safety mindset. LCT management is rolling out a series MEDLOG Chile owns two depots and offices, in Santiago and in Arica, both of which have been affected by earthquakes in the past. In total, MEDLOG Chile has a staff of almost 200. Buildings have been built according to strict Chilean building standards, to support low-risk operaMEDLOG CHILE KEY NUMBERS LCT KEY NUMBERS tion for employees. • Established in 2001 • Approx. 700 direct employees and In Santiago and Arica, the buildings were designed • 200 employees 5,600 indirect jobs on a tubular steel frame system, with isolated footing • 2 offices, in Santiago and Arica • 2.2 million TEU capacity concrete foundations, allowing flexibility and oscilla• 140,000 sqm depot facilities • Approx. 865,000 TEU moves (2018) tion that in turn dissipate the energy in the event of • 6,000 sqm warehousing • Area: 53 hectares a seismic movement. The buildings are earthquake-­ • 200+ operated trucks • Quay length: 1,050m resistant meaning they can resist a high intensity • 400,000 sqm depot facility in progress • Maximum vessel size: 14,000 TEUs seismic movement without collapsing, thus increasing • No. of quay cranes (STS): 9 the safety of staff. • 27 electrical RTG (eRTG) LCT, Lomé, Togo 90 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 91 PROMOTING LEARNING AND LISTENING SHARING VALUE THROUGH FOSTERING Results shared in 2018 showed a high response rate better access to the Internet, recorded markedly better PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT OPEN COMMUNICATION (67%) across crewing units, nationalities, rank, and scores than in the previous staff engagement survey. It duration of tenure with MSC, suggesting an interest was encouraging to see the survey demonstrate alignInvestment in knowledge building and skills developAs a global company active in multiple countries around on the part of most seafarers to express their opinions. ment between crew and MSC Senior Management on ment is part of MSC’s commitments to Sustainable the world, MSC has a particularly deep understanding Feedback gained through the survey provides valuable the environment as a key issue for all; according to the Development Goals 4 (Quality Education) and 8 (Decent of the importance of communication. The Company has information to shore-based staff on areas for improvesurvey results, seafarers consider that protecting the Work and Economic Growth). It is widely understood adopted specific measures for promoting open commument and prioritisation. environment is the utmost priority for the Company and by managers and human resources professionals that nication, such as creating a positive work environment, In each of the ten key areas, satisfaction with MSC was feel that it is their responsibility as seafarers to care for employees who can avail themselves of professional providing access to front-line management, ­encouraging well above average, with results showing an overall the environment. Areas for management attention that development opportunities feel motivated and more a more vocal culture, and aiming for clarity in all increase in positive opinion since the previous survey emerged from the 2017 survey relate to information on confident on the job. They are also better placed to communications. in 2015. MSC crew members have a strong feeling of assignments and also promotion criteria and arrangeprogress their careers and, importantly, to execute their Safety is an area that benefits from effective commubelonging within MSC and are highly motivated and ments for seafarers while on leave. duties with expertise and accuracy. A skilled workforce nication at MSC. Examples include providing strong, committed to their personal and professional growth. The survey sets another benchmark on key indicators is therefore of immediate benefit to the positive atmostimely messaging about risks and associated precauThey are happy with the safety culture on board and concerning commitment, satisfaction, and well-being of phere, smooth operation and, ultimately, quality service tions, or registering the concerns of crew before an reported a noticeable improvement in this area. staff and provides an opportunity to further increase the provided by MSC. accident can occur. MSC also provides opportunities Feedback from staff on organisational excellence, includquality of service provided to MSC seafarers. MSC believes that everyone can benefit from leadership for the crew to express their views on areas for improveing for example timely payment of wages, scored an training; knowledge obtained can enable employees to ment, through the biennial MSC Shipmanagement almost perfect result. Specific areas that were flagged take on new or additional responsibilities, allowing their Seafarers Engagement Survey. This has proven an invalfor improvement in the 2015 survey, such as food, provicareers to evolve. As the fleet grows, so too do career uable tool for obtaining feedback from employees. The sion of more comfortable protective equipment and progression opportunities for skilled staff. MSC activesurvey was first run in 2015. It was run again in 2017, ly encourages all employees to commit to continuous using the same principles and approach to data colleclearning and to grow professionally. This is the spirit of tion and analysis, but a with a revised, improved format. value creation and caring for people espoused by MSC, Questions were posed on 10 key areas, each with eight which is part of the unique strength of the Company. questions for prioritisation. THEMES ADDRESSED IN THE 2017 SEAFARERS ENGAGEMENT SURVEY INFORMATION & HUMAN ORGANISATIONAL COMMUNICATION CAPITAL EXCELLENCE • Values • On board • Service excellence • Leadership • On leave • CSR • Six key objectives of Shipmanagement 92 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 93 MANAGEMENT OF VESSELS MENTAL HEALTH GROWTH AND EXPANSION AND CREWING Any comprehensive well-being programme should 2018 was another year of growth and significant address both physical and mental health. MSC is milestones for MSC Shipmanagement. For example, the working with partner Protection and Indemnity (P&I) number of ships managed by MSC Shipmanagement Clubs to develop awareness as part of a strategy to Cyprus has reached more than 200; the number of people The exponential growth of the MSC fleet has necessitated the establishment of MSC Shipmanagement offices in provide support for employees. To overcome the loneliemployed both onshore and on board is 16,000; the crew Limassol and Sorrento to coordinate all tasks related to technical management of vessels and crewing. Specifically ness on board for example, MSC Shipmanagement retention rate is 98%. Shipmanagement Sorrento now relating to crew, MSC Shipmanagement is responsible for the selection, recruitment, training, professional develregularly evaluates the state of social interaction on manages 130 ships and has 25,440 seafarers under its opment, and management of seafarers, in accordance with international standards. board and provides opportunities for seafarers to management (5,000 with MSC Cargo and 20,440 with Everyday operations at MSC Shipmanagement are guided by fundamental objectives which include: Zero Fatal connect with colleagues. MSC Cruises). The increase in the size of the fleet and Accidents, Zero MARPOL Incidents, Zero Cargo Damage and Zero Navigational Incidents. Sustaining growth and MSC Shipmanagement is increasingly devoting crew managed from these centres in recent years is a performance in these areas has required investment in and enhancement of communications, internal manageattention to the topic of mental health, to ensure it is sign of a successful business. It is also a sign of a strong ment processes, coaching as well as provision of mentoring and training opportunities. Progress is evident in the integrated into the broader seafarer well-being agenda. team working well together. MSC will ­continue to invest receipt by MSC Shipmanagement of multiple awards and certifications in 2018, including the Samudra Manthan heavily in programmes that contribute to employee Award ‘Shipowner/Shipmanager Manning & Training Company of the Year’, the Offing Award for ‘Best Employer health, safety, career progression, and job satisfaction. for Dry Cargo Vessel – Large Segment’, the Sea job Award for ‘Best Employer of the Year’ (all in India) as well as the title of ‘Shipmanager of the Year’ in Ukraine. TRAINING: BUILDING AND APPLYING to providing training opportunities, both m ­ andatory EXPERTISE and optional, to facilitate learning at all levels in the Company. In 2018, MSC Shipmanagement Cyprus Many companies and organisations refer to their ‘safety ran more than 25 specific training courses to facilitate culture’ but not all are clear on specific intention or progression of technical and soft skills of staff; 13,000 implementation. At MSC, we have adopted the term, employees were trained as part of this, which ­represents absorbed it into the Company mindset and embedded it a 15% increase on the previous year. deeply throughout our onshore and on-board o ­ perations In addition to training on technical topics via classroom and procedures. Through the comprehensive MSC training, computer-based training, and simulator trainprogramme of awareness, training, checks, and proviing, MSC Shipmanagement Cyprus coordinates and sion of appropriate tools and equipment, we empower delivers a Leadership Development Training programme our crew to demonstrate and apply this safety-focused and various soft skills training initiatives. In 2018, professionalism in their daily activities. 360 employees from management and operational Ensuring that MSC remains a high-performance organlevels participated in these trainings. isation demands investment in skills development At MSC, coaching and mentoring are also ­components and professional excellence. MSC is fully committed of the learning and development programme. MSC Shipmanagement considers that building and s­ ustaining a coaching culture increases curiosity to learn and promotes fast learning on the job, acquisition of new skills, and employee engagement. 94 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 95 CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS 96 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 97 PROTECTING THE HUMAN RIGHTS OF SEAFARERS The international shipping sector is one of the most Repatriation, payment of wages, and further protecare provided with adequate standards in line with the regulated industries at the global level, expected to tion related to seafarers’ well-being are guaranteed by MLC and developed a specific policy to guarantee an MLC MINIMUM STANDARDS comply with a very complex and comprehensive regulainsurance certificates for each vessel required by the excellent working atmosphere on board its vessels. tory framework involving both public and private sector International Labour Organization (ILO) Maritime Labour 1. Minimum requirements for the seafarers The department is responsible for monitoring the stakeholders. Convention, 2006 (MLC) and issued by insurance providto work on board ships compliance with the MLC and for auditing vessels. It Therefore, MSC, in addition to domestic legal requireers such as P&I Clubs. Each Club is an independent, 2. Conditions of employment also assists and coordinates efforts of other concerned ments and regulations in the countries of operations, not-for-profit mutual insurance association, composed 3. Accomodations, recreational facilities, departments to increase awareness about complaint/ must ensure compliance with a wide range of internaof ship owners and charterer members playing a leading food and catering reporting procedures and methods available to crew tional standards and requirements defined by maritime role in coordinating the response to, and management 4. Health Protection, Medical care, Welfare members. and labour conventions adopted at the international of, maritime casualties as well as in providing coverage and Social security protection In some areas, MSC exceeds the requirements set forth level by the United Nations, including the International against third-party liabilities arising out of the use and 5. Compliance and Enforcement in the MLC. As an illustration, we have higher minimum Maritime Organization (IMO)22 and the International operation of ships.24 age requirements, as only individuals of 18 years old Labour Organization (ILO)23. Auditing processes and/or or above can be employed on board its cargo ships, in alignment with MSC Shipmanagement’s Human COMPLIANCE WITH THE ILO MARITIME The MLC includes a “no more favourable treatment Rights Policy. Hours of work and rest of crew are LABOUR CONVENTION, 2006 clause” for ships of non-ratifying countries. This aims checked against the “Rest Hours Record Book” availto ensure fair competition for shipowners and respect able on board for each seafarer in electronic or paper Comprehensive human rights protection for over for human rights and labour conditions for seafarers by form to ensure compliance with applicable Collective 1,600,000 seafarers25 on board merchant ships is providensuring that ships of all countries (whose flag the ship Bargaining Agreements (CBA) and regulatory requireed for by the provisions set forth in the International will fly), irrespective of their ratification of the MLC, will ments. MSC Shipmanagement also regularly monitors Maritime Labour Convention (MLC) which is widely be subject to an inspection during their call to a port in the level of satisfaction of its crew and potential areas known as the “Seafarers Bill of Rights”and as the fourth a country that has ratified the Convention. This ensures of improvement through surveys such as the biennial pillar of international maritime regulations. Adopted in that the ship meets the minimum requirement of the “Crew Engagement Survey” conducted by a third party. 2006 and entered into force in 2013, as of today the MLC MLC. It also helps to address governance and implemenIt also encourages a participatory approach with crew has been ratified by 93 countries representing over 91% tation gaps at the national level related to compliance members during crewing seminars and at the end of or the world’s merchant fleet. monitoring mechanisms and/or enforcement of human each employment contract. It encompasses all relevant standards of existing ILO rights obligations also under Human Rights International More information on surveys and our efforts to promote maritime labour conventions and recommendations, Treaties and International Human Rights Law. crew well-being, workplace safety, open communicaother evaluation mechanisms are carried out by relevant as well as fundamental principles contained in core MSC implemented a number of proactive measures tion, welfare facilities as available on board (such as Flag State authorities and Port State control authoriInternational Labour Conventions and the ILO 1998 to ensure proper and timely compliance with the MLC free high-speed Internet, quality and quantity of food, ties to ensure compliance on board ships. Crewing Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at and further enhance the enforcement of the level of capacity building, and training as well as key initiatives companies based at the labour supply countries need Work. human rights protection for its seafarers. In 2012, MSC to protect crew physical or mental health) are described to undergo audit and verification by local governmental Shipmanagement Cyprus established a ‘Crew Welfare in the chapter Occupational Health and Safety (pages authorities and/or by third parties such as recognised Department’ with a dedicated MLC Superintendent to 79-95). Classification Societies. ensure that all crew members working on board ships 22 The IMO is the United Nations specialized agency with responsibility for the safety and security of shipping and the prevention of marine and atmospheric pollution by ships. IMO’s work supports the UN SDGs. Source: http://www.imo.org/en/About/Pages Default.aspx 23 The only tripartite UN Agency. The ILO brings together governments, employers, and workers of 187 member States, to set labour standards, develop policies, and devise programmes promoting decent work for all women and men. Source : https://www.ilo.org/global/about-the-ilo/lang--en/index.htm 24 Source: https://www.igpandi.org/about 25 Source: http://www.ics-shipping.org/shipping-facts/shipping-and-world-trade/global-supply-and-demand-for-seafarers 98 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 99 RECRUITMENT POLICY AND PROCESSES POLICIES & PROCEDURES • Disciplinary Policy which includes the obligation to MSC Shipmanagement Limited recognises that Candidates are shortlisted based on their competence ensure the respect of relevant provisions as set forth In recent years MSC Shipmanagement leadership has develthe employment of competent personnel is vital in and experience and are offered a position to join the in the Human Rights Policy. MSC Shipmanagement oped and implemented the following policies: ensuring that its fleet operates in a safe and efficient Company after successful completion of the Principal’s may terminate contract agreements or decide not manner. Recruitment procedures are handled by MSC Approval Joining Process, which is rank-specific, as well to engage in business relationships with any entity • Human Rights Policy which supports i­nternationally Shipmanagement in collaboration with its own crewing as the medical screening test and the mental health which has been proven in court of law for violation recognised human rights and applicable labour offices and in compliance with industry standards and/or assessment. of human rights and labour standards. standards as well as applicable laws, regulations, and with BIMCO CREWMAN26 contracts. These hold licenses In accordance with our internal policy, all documents prevailing labour relations and employment practices. issued from national authorities or approved by recogand various certificates such as those required by the Reporting channels mechanisms to encourage ­employees nised bodies and are audited every year for the renewal International Convention on the Training, Certification to report on human rights issues and ­potential human • Child Labour Policy which includes minimum age of the crew recruitment licenses, MLC compliance certiand Watchkeeping for Seafarers (STCW) confirming rights violations. The identity of the reporting persons requirements criteria for employment. fication as well as relevant ISO certifications. candidates’ eligibility and experience, are evaluated is be kept confidential and retaliation is not tolerated. MSC does not charge fees to seafarers at any stage and verified with the issuing authorities. All informaReporting channels include: • Non-discrimination policy which prohibits any discrimof the recruitment process and our Recruitment Policy tion is kept confidential in compliance with the European ination based on any ground, such as sex, race, colour, includes a rigorous crew selection and engagement Union (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) • The on-board Complaint Procedure/Form as per religion, language, national or ethnic origin, age, procedure ensuring: requirements and is not disclosed or communicated to MLC 2006 requirements. disability, political or ideological affiliation, trade union • That the requirements are clearly defined in anybody without due consent of the seafarer. membership, marital status or family responsibilities, ­accordance with the statutory requirements of ­ • An anonymous reporting system where crew can sexual orientation or gender identity or on any basis the relevant flag States, national and international Seafarers are provided medical coverage and medical report any grievance/complaint to a dedicated email which could have the effect of preferring one group of laws, and regulations. benefits during their employment on board ships and address. persons or an individual over another, other than • That those requirements are met by also during their leave in their home country. Contracts the basis of qualification, experience, ability, and the employment of suitably qualified and contain provisions certifying that salaries are paid in • Seafarers Feedback form to be provided at performance. experienced personnel for each position. cash on board or sent to the seafarer’s bank account the end of each contract. • That candidates meet the language in the country of origin. All seafarers payslips are • Anti-abuse policy which includes sexual abuse, requirements. The Master, Chief Officer, Chief audited during shore inspections and monthly by our • Crew Engagement Survey conducted by physical or mental harassment, verbal abuse, or any Engineer, and 2nd Engineer must have a good Accounting Department. Overtime is paid as per applia third party. activity that may offend the dignity of any person or command of the English language and all other cable CBA agreement. a group of people. The policy applies to all employees officers must have a working knowledge of English • Face-to-face meetings during various crewing and covers relations with business partners and other in order to understand key commands/instructions Upon completion of the employment agreement and in seminars and training sessions. stakeholders, such as stevedores and pilots. Specific and transfer relevant information related to our the eventuality of disruption of operations and/or work training and briefings are regularly conducted. Safety Management System. illness, the Company bears the costs for repatriation • That Masters employed have knowledge of all arrangements as applicable. In case of disembarkation quality, safety, and environmental protection due to medical reasons, crew members have access to policies/procedures and, together with their Chief approved medical centres to ensure they receive high Engineer, are adequately briefed at the time of quality medical care and are provided with their sickness joining their respective ships. wages, on a timely basis, as per applicable CBA terms and conditions and regulatory requirements. 26 BIMCO is the largest of the international shipping associations representing shipowners; its membership controls around 65% of the world’s tonnage and it has members in more than 120 countries, including managers, brokers and agents. 100 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 101 TRAINING port state control examination at the ships’ ports of call. The International Transport Workers’ Federation PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES In addition to training on technical topics, MSC (ITF) representatives also visit vessels randomly at Shipmanagement coordinates and delivers training of various ports as part of their responsibility to monitor crew on its Code of Conduct, Group Values, Anti-bribery, the effective implementation of the MLC requirements new regulations such as the GDPR, Health and Wellness, and standards. Leadership Development Training as well as on soft skills. In the past three years over 2,500 employees from COLLECTIVE BARGAINING The UN SDG 16 “Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions” MONITORING COMPLIANCE WITH management and operational levels have participated AGREEMENTS is embedded in our decision-making process and THE MSC CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT in this training. mainstreamed in all our Sustainability Pillars. For MSC Shipmanagement recruits over 500 trainees (deck MSC Shipmanagement follows the labour regulations instance, MSC promotes the respect of the rule of law MSC strives to promote the highest ethical standards cadets, engine cadets, trainee seamen, trainee electriin the respective countries of registration and strictly by complying at a minimum with all applicable domesof business conduct as set forth in its Code of Business cians etc.) each year and it has created its own pool complies with the terms and conditions of the applicable tic laws, internationally recognised human rights and Conduct. To achieve this, training courses with specifof seafarers trained on MSC Culture and Values. As of collective bargaining agreements (CBA) negotiated by labour standards as well as all applicable environmenic modules on all standards continue to be provided to today, over 35% of its crewing pool consists of personnel the ITF and/or affiliated entities on behalf of the seafartal regulations and relevant international rules related all of MSC’s employees and MSC Agencies around the who have started their career as cadets with MSC and ers in compliance with the MLC, 2006. Conditions of to freight containers, road, and rail transportation. world on a regular basis via online platforms and/or live many of them are now working in ranks up to Master employment on board are regulated by an applicaAdditionally, MSC supports the Ten Principles of the sessions. Introductory sessions on the Code are organand/or Chief Engineer. ble Seafarer’s Employment Agreement (SEA) as per United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human ised for newcomers in the context of their onboarding the applicable CBA and required by the MLC, which is rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. programme in MSC’s Headquarters. DUE DILIGENCE AND AUDITING always duly explained to all potential employees before Since 2015, MSC and MSC Shipmanagement follow Throughout 2018, MSC continued monitoring the implesignature of the contract. Seafarers have access to their the guidance provided by ISO 26000 on Social mentation of the Code of Business Conduct within MSC’s The MLC Superintendent and the Technical respective CBAs and their personal data are protected Responsibility27 to further improve and operationalise 493 offices around the world, in collaboration with the Superintendents/Internal Fleet Auditors of MSC as per the EU GDPR legislations. socially responsible processes and impacts, in line with local Code Implementers. MSC insists on focusing on Shipmanagement conduct regular inspections on board. MSC’s broader sustainability efforts and its commitcultural and linguistic adaptations to embed ethics and Special attention is paid not only to the minimum age ments to the UN Global Compact. The ISO Guidance values into the corporate culture in the most effective of crew members, hours of rest on board, food and draws upon the internationally recognised human rights way around the globe and in accordance with applicaliving conditions, medicines on board, and visits to framework, including the United Nations Business and ble laws. In this respect, the Code has been translated doctors, but also to fair treatment of seafarers in the Human Rights framework, supporting companies’ into 20 languages to facilitate its understanding. event of a maritime accident, and liability and compenefforts in the fields of human rights, labour practices, the Furthermore, the MSC Global Human Resources sation regarding claims for death and personal injury, as environment, economic viability aspects, fair operating Department has recently been established within the well as training and communication tools available on practices, consumer interest, community involvement, Agencies Department. Amongst its main objectives, board. During these inspections and audits each crew and other areas of sustainable development28. the function works to ensure the Company policies are member is also interviewed to verify the level of awarewell established, communicated, and integrated inside ness of MSC’s company policies, including the Code of each MSC Agency. In order to ensure the effective Business Conduct, Whistle Blower Policy, and MSC’s MEMBERSHIPS adoption of these policies, the Global HR Department Online Speak up channel. All findings are r­ eported has launched an MSC Employee Handbook. In line with directly to Senior Management for consideration and We are active members of the Business Action to Stop the MSC values, the handbook encompasses all the MSC immediate corrective action, if appropriate. Counterfeiting and Piracy (BASCAP) and the Maritime global policies and is then enriched and customised at a Respective Flag States and Classifications Societies Anti-Corruption Network (MACN), both global business country level in accordance with relevant domestic laws conduct annual examinations to our ships to ensure networks composed of maritime industry leaders and and requirements, including applicable human rights proper compliance with the MLC. Port state inspectors representatives from both the public and private sectors. and labour standards. further verify compliance during the routine and periodic We also work with TRACE International, a non-profit Marine Operations Team, Operations Department, globally recognised anti-bribery association. Geneva Headquarters 27 For more information about the ISO 26000 on Social Responsibility: https://www.iso.org/iso-26000-social-responsibility.html 28 Source: https://www.iso.org/files/live/sites/isoorg/files/store/en/PUB100418.pdf 102 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 103 FIGHTING AGAINST CORRUPTION AT MSC SPEAK UP LINE COMPETITION LAW VSAs and Alliances often require cargo consolidation THE HEART OF MSC’S COMPLIANCE between members, offering a more direct route from In recent years, challenges due to stricter e ­ nvironmental PROGRAMME Consistent with MSC’s values, the ability to speak up one port to another. This is because VSA/alliances’ regulations, volatility of fuel prices, and overcapacity is a cornerstone for building an open and accountable partners rationalise their routes on the trade by multipushed shipping lines to a structural transformation The fight against corruption is at the core of MSC’s workplace culture. In 2018, MSC launched the “MSC plying the number of services within a trade. They also resulting in a proliferation of mergers, acquisitions, and compliance program. In view of prompting robust Speak up Line”, an online platform developed by a provide better service quality through higher frequenalliances. anti-corruption measures, MSC has in place policies and third-party service provider, which complements MSC’s cy of services and better connectivity. Instead of one In this respect, and to further promote fair business procedures that outline responsibilities for all employees existing reporting procedures. long string calling all the ports of the trade, through practices and monitor compliance with relevant interaround the globe to comply with all applicable anti-corThis serves as a mechanism to promote dialogue and the Alliance’s network the same ports will be served national regulations, MSC has established the Antitrust, ruption laws. MSC has a dedicated internal Anti-Bribery to encourage employees worldwide to report any more directly through multiple longer strings. This has Competition and Regulatory Matters Department within Policy that applies to all employees. Throughout 2018, misconduct or violation of laws without fear of retaliallowed the operation of larger vessels or mega-ships MSC’s Corporate Legal Department. The department is MSC enhanced the monitoring of the implementation ation. Through this reporting system the reporter can, instead of multiple smaller vessels for the offer to match responsible for ensuring compliance with, and preventof this policy and of MSC’s anti-bribery e-learning trainaccording to applicable laws and requirements, remain the demand on these services, resulting in economies ing infringement of, competition law by MSC business ing in collaboration with the local Code Implementers anonymous. All reports are carefully and confidenof scale, reduced fuel consumption, and reduced bunker units around the world. To that end, it deploys training within MSC’s Agencies. tially evaluated on a case by case basis by experts in costs. Efficiencies are increased and the environmental courses and guidelines to its employees. The departMSC also has in place a Procedure for Gifts and the relevant subject matter. Depending on the report, impact is minimised. ment also coordinates the filings of Vessels Sharing Corporate Hospitality applicable to employees working internal investigations may be initiated, and corrective Agreements (VSA) when required by the laws of the in MSC’s Headquarters in Switzerland. Throughout actions taken where deemed necessary. countries in which MSC operates. 2018, MSC focused on assessing appropriate thresholds regarding gifts and corporate hospitality within MSC Agencies worldwide. Additionally, MSC continued its related endeavours by imposing contractual compliance obligations on identified business partners (such as terminal operators, connecting carriers, etc). MSC also kept encouraging such business partners to operate under a common ethos and share similar principles to those set forth in the MSC Code of Business Conduct. MACN “SAY NO CAMPAIGN” Since October 2017, MSC has been a member of the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN) which is composed of maritime industry leaders collaborating towards the vision of a maritime industry free of corruption. MACN members work in partnership with local authorities to develop solutions that are beneficial to all and realistic to implement. In December 2018, MSC joined the MACN “Say No campaign” to tackle corruption practices in certain ports. The campaign has been endorsed by our MSC Group President & CEO and involved all Captains of our fleet who often face demands for bribes or facilitation payments in forms of cash payments, cigarettes, and beverages. It is widely known that at most ports denying such facilitation payments may lead to delays in operations. In this context, to further support the fight against corruption, MSC uses tools and shared principles developed by members of MACN, regularly reports incidents as well as seeks collective actions where challenges remain, with other members of MACN. Since the beginning of the campaign, demands for facilitation payments in concerned ports have been significantly reduced. Throughout 2018, the majority of Masters and senior officers of MSC Shipmanagement have been trained in anti-­bribery matters. Contracts Team, Corporate Legal Department, Geneva Headquarters 104 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 105 MODERN SLAVERY LABOUR INCLUSION CAMPAIGNS IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC MSC supports and invests in training programmes in • The first campaign provided three months of profes5.2 eliminate all forms of violence against all women and girls in public and private different parts of the world to unlock the potential of sional training to six young people. Two of them were spheres, including trafficking and sexual and other types of exploitation young people. In line with the ILO MNE Declaration (5th hired as full-time employees. Edition, 2017)29, MSC believes that the prevention of • The second campaign involved training with child labour can also be pursued by creating opportunities the Dominican Navy on relevant IMO Conventions, for youth employment and encouraging skills formation including the International Convention on Standards 8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and and development through apprenticeships. of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for human trafficking, and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, In offering such opportunities, MSC acts in compliance seafarers (STCW). All four trainees were hired including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms with applicable national laws, regulations, and requireon board our cruise vessel MSC Preziosa. ments, ensuring the respect of the children’s rights to attend and/or complete compulsory schooling. Currently there are five more NPH graduates taking the As an illustration, in 2014 MSC Dominican Republic IMO courses who will have the possibility to work for MSC launched two “Labour Inclusion campaigns” in collabCruises. oration with Nuestros Pequeños Hermanos (NPH)30 a Article 4 of the United Nations Universal Declaration of The responsibility to respect human rights and intercharitable organisation that has provided a home for Human Rights clearly states that “no one shall be held national labour standards includes concrete actions thousands of orphans and abandoned children since in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave trade shall to ensure we are not being complicit in human rights 1954. Currently there are NPH homes in nine Latin be prohibited in all their forms”. abuses and to prevent them whenever possible. American countries and the Caribbean. Strongly committed to act with integrity and to promote Therefore, we keep encouraging identified business and support fair, ethical, and responsible business partners to adhere to all applicable anti-slavery and practices, MSC condemns and prohibits slavery and human trafficking laws including, but not limited to, human trafficking practices in all its business activities the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 as well as to share and endeavours. similar standards to those set out in the MSC Code of MSC’s efforts to tackle modern slavery are fully supportBusiness Conduct. We also expect them not to have ed and endorsed by MSC’s top management. The MSC been convicted of any offence involving slavery and Code of Business Conduct includes dedicated sections human trafficking. in this regard. Our progress made in this regard and Additionally, MSC monitors relevant developments in ongoing processes aimed to identify, mitigate, and, both the national and international regulatory framewhenever possible, prevent the risks of modern slavery, works, including in the areas of modern slavery and slave-like practices, and human trafficking in MSC’s human rights, to continuously align and/or further operations and its value and supply chain are described improve its current policies and procedures. in our Modern Slavery Transparency Statements. The statements are published every year, in line with Section For more information, visit: 54 of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. www.msc.com/modern-slavery-statement MSC Preziosa 29 The “ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy” is known as “ILO MNE Declaration”. 30 https://www.nph.org/ 106 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 107 SHIP RECYCLING must be certified for OHSAS 18001 (Health and Safety), EU Ship Recycling Regulation (EUSRR) ISO 30000 (ship recycling management, which includes Effective as of 31st December 2018, the European Union MSC VISIT TO ALANG32 SHIP RECYCLING The ship recycling industry actively supports many provision of safe working conditions for workers) and Ship Recycling Regulation (EUSRR) requires mandatory FACILITIES developing countries’ economies and promotes the compliant with International Labour Organization (ILO) carriage of an Inventory of Hazardous Materials (IHM) by MSC has been periodically visiting the ship recycling circular economy, as materials used to build ships, standards and requirements for health and safety. all new vessels flying European Union member flags. All facilities at Alang, India independently and as part of an especially steel, are recycled and may be used to Further, ­training must be provided for workers, for existing EU flag vessels and non-EU flag vessels calling EU delegation. Improvements implemented at various manufacture new products. example on the handling of dangerous materials, and at EU ports will also be required to carry an approved yards have been commended. This progress reflects Yet poor working and environmental conditions still wearing of personal protective equipment (PPE) should IHM by 31st December 2020 at the latest. This regulation the fact that now there are over 70 ship recycling prevail in some recycling yards due to challenging be mandatory. reflects main provisions as set forth by the IMO HKC and yards with an IMO HKC compliance certificate issued domestic governance and protection gaps. Additionally, To address risks of environmental contamination, requires ships flying an EU flag to be recycled only at by classification societies. Besides the improvements the IMO Hong Kong International Convention for the shipyards engaged in recycling of MSC ships must be EU recognised ship recycling yards. To date, very few in the recycling process, advances made in the areas of Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships certified according to ISO 14001 standards. This requires yards outside EU have been included in the list. MSC health, downstream waste management, worker train(IMO HKC) “aimed at ensuring that ships, when being shipyards to have, for example, concrete flooring to supports and complies with the EU Regulation on Ship ing, housing facilities, and health centres are expected recycled after reaching the end of their operational lives, prevent soil and ground pollution. Effective draining Recycling Regulations, where applicable. to continue. do not pose any unnecessary risk to human health and systems must be in place as well as facilities for safe safety or to the environment31”, has not yet entered removal, handling, transport, and removal of hazardInventory of Hazardous Materials (IHMs) into force. ous waste. MSC is preparing fleet-wide Inventories of Hazardous At present, the IMO HKC is considered to be the only As part of our due diligence efforts, we also conduct Materials (IHMs) as per the EU SRR and following the international policy instrument that can be fully impleregular visits to the approved recycling yards, either requirements of IMO HKC. This aims to further minimise mented, when it comes to vessels’ sustainable recycling with our internal auditors or with external parties to human risks, including occupational exposure to toxic processes. It covers the entire lifecycle of the ship as monitor compliance with environmental, health and substances and potential adverse health and safety it provides appropriate recycling standards from the safety, labour conditions and human rights, anti-corrupand environmental impacts on land, workers, and local design, construction, operation to the preparation of tion, and downstream facilities for waste management communities in the long term. ships to the end of their operational cycle. This facilitates and disposal. Any breach of our compliance framework The IHMs serve to ensure correct handling of hazardsafe and environmentally sound recycling of the vessel. observed during our visits is reported to the recycling ous materials, and to regulate waste management to Furthermore, it establishes appropriate enforcement yard management for immediate corrective action. prevent exposure of crew to hazardous materials on mechanisms for ship recycling, including certification MSC ensures also that a specialised company monitors board ships and at the recycling phase of the vessel. and reporting requirements. and conducts surveys of its main suppliers’ facilities and In 2015, MSC developed an implementation plan to Consistent with the relevant IMO implementing ship repair yards where the majority of its vessels go ensure that by 2020, the deadline specified by the IMO, resolution, MSC has already integrated the applicable for repairs. All findings are communicated for immedieach MSC vessel will have an IHM. This inventory will requirements and technical standards of the IMO HKC ate corrective action where required. To further improve be maintained and updated throughout the operational in its Ship Recycling Policy (available on www.msc. safety and reduce any risk on board when dealing life of the ship, with certification issued by a classificom/ship-recycling). MSC sales contracts impose on with, for example, any potential asbestos containing cation society to confirm compliance with applicable the buyer or yard to undertake safe and environmencompound, each vessel has been supplied with a safety requirements. tally sound recycling as per IMO HKC standards. The kit. Once compliance has been achieved, regular checks contracts also require use of approved ship recycling will be undertaken to ensure that IHMs are maintained, facilities, as demonstrated by certifications under current, and accurate. the standards of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and by recognised Classification Societies. In this respect, our policy specifies that yards 31 http://www.imo.org/en/About/Conventions/ListOfConventions/Pages/The-Hong-Kong-International-Convention-for-the-Safe-and32 Alang is a town on the west coast of India which has a large share of ship recycling business. The recycling business provides Environmentally-Sound-Recycling-of-Ships.aspx employment to over 55000 people and accounts for turnover of approx. one billion USD each year. 108 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 109 WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT MSC is actively working to promote maritime careers for In 2018, we also partnered with a non-profit organisaDespite the enhancement of initiatives and programs, women as well as female employees to senior positions. tion offering expert free and confidential support to our challenges still remain, especially at the local level, Efforts include internal mobility programmes and trainHQ employees relating to health, work, finance, family, where other elements such as cultural factors and social ing to increase their interest in pursuing a career in our social insurance, and personnel issues in order to ensure challenges, further prevent advancement in reaching sector therefore retaining female talent. in 2018, 35% of their continued well-being and work/life balance. gender equality. In this regard, as in the past years, we the promotions in MSC were given to female employees remain focussed on the following strategic areas: and 29% of internal mobility roles were given to women. Additionally, we enhanced our investments in • promotion of access to employment opportunities The shipping sector is a traditionally male-orientFurthermore, in collaboration with our SAP34 team programmes to improve the technical skills and expertargeting local women in challenging countries ed industry. The level of women participation is an based at Headquarters and our Agencies worldwide, tise of our employees all around the world. One of • vocational training on specific shipping-related estimated 2% and patterns of job segregation as well as we promoted training to female employees working in our key global developmental initiatives is the MSC services/operations to improve soft and technical gender stereotyping still exist. In the maritime industry, the finance and accounting departments. Those roles are Academy, managed and implemented by the MSC skills required to work in our sector over 76% of the female workforce operates at adminextremely important as employees supervise a sophistiGlobal Human Resources Department. This opportunity • reduction of barriers to women’s empowerment. istrative, junior, and professional positions, with only cated process to ensure correct reporting to authorities, is offered to a pool of selected high potential employees Initiatives included creation of breastfeeding rooms, 0,17% of women enjoying an executive leadership role. as well as respecting the obligations of MSC vendors with the aim of supporting their growth, being exposed flexible working hours, facilities for women, t­ raining Nevertheless, an increasing number of women are enterproviding almost real-time monitoring of costs and to new networks increasing their knowledge of the on healthy nutrition practices, and mentoring. ing the shipping industry in all roles, including seafaring cashflow worldwide. business and our culture as well as our Sustainability and operations, chartering, insurance, and law.33 approach. The project includes a People Management Specific case studies on the above were reported in our Training Programme which takes place both remotely 2016 and 2017 Sustainability reports. In 2018, the Global SAP users per region and face-to-face to strengthen soft skills as well as the HR Department also launched the global data c­ ollection Men Women Shipping Training Programme for Africa (STPA) targetof a number of “Social Performance Indicators”, which ing ­employees working in our Agencies in the African includes gender indicators and gender d ­ isaggregated 900 Continent. data. The SPIs also have a specific focus on v ­ ulnerable 800 700 categories of workers such as women and migrant 600 workers, in line with relevant GRI standards, UN 500 400 Guidance tools and key areas we promote as part of 300 our broader sustainability strategy. 200 100 0 Africa Asia, Oceania, Headquarters Latin America, North Europe, Middle East and Black Sea (Geneva, Switzerland) South Europe North America Total SAP users by gender MSC ACADEMY HIGHLIGHTS ROLES MEN WOMEN • 26 sessions in all our Agencies worldwide since the CFO 42 19 launch of the programme CLERK 867 1034 Men Women • 302 participants passed the final examinations KEY USER 344 322 • 42.7% female participants TOTAL 1253 1375 Global HR Team, Geneva Headquarters 33 Source: Review of Maritime Transport 2018, UNCTAD 34 Third largest software public company after Microsoft and Oracle, with 27.4B$ revenue [1], SAP (“Systems, Applications & Products in Data Processing”) is a German-based European multinational software corporation that makes enterprise software to manage business operations and customer relations. 110 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 111 CASE STUDY MSC FOR THE SCHOOL PROJECT MSC SHIPMANAGEMENT, SORRENTO, ITALY “MSC for the School” was launched by MSC In 2017, students visited MSC offices in Singapore and in Shipmanagement Sorrento in 2017, in collaboration with 2019 the plan is to invite them to our offices in Panama. the Nautical Technical Institute “Nino Bixio” in Sorrento, MSC Shipmanagement Sorrento’s leadership team Italy. This gives the opportunity every year to five of the also provides regular courses on opportunities in the best male and female students from the deck departmaritime sector, promoting seafaring as a career. ment and five from the engine department to get direct In the past, MSC Shipmanagement Sorrento has exposure to the merchant shipping reality. Students are often employed women on container vessels as shortlisted not only on the basis of their school records Radio Officers. With the advent of more ­sophisticated but also as identified potential candidates to work ­electronic equipment, as GMDSS, few women are onboard MSC cargo ships. In 2018, students were given employed as navigational officers whereas more women the opportunity to visit MSC offices in Shanghai and the are employed on MSC Cruises, always as n ­ avigational Yangshan Terminal, one of the largest and busiest termiofficers and as Chief Officers. Ashore, in the crewing nals in the world. The ten-days experience i­ ncluded full and technical department several women are employed. immersion in the world of logistics, shipbuilding, port Approximately 12% of employees in this division activities, documentation, compliance with regulations are women, some of them with a naval architecture and certification as well as covering life on board. background have become managers and are responsible for new important projects. KEY NUMBERS • 4,000 employees on cargo ships • 121 employees onshore Students visiting the Terminal of Shanghai 112 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 113 SUPPORTING HUMANITARIAN EFFORTS According to the United Nations Office for the of emergency relief to affected populations. The private MSC’S ENGAGEMENT IN 2017, in cooperation with the New York State Governor Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) “the sector’s expertise and financial contributions as well as HUMANITARIAN ACTION and the United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund growing scale, complexity and impact of humanitarian innovative technologies are further helping to build a (UNICEF), MSC and MSC Cruises joined efforts to crises around the world threaten decades of peacemore inclusive and diverse humanitarian relief system, “Effective logistics systems are central to deliver provide logistics support to Puerto Rico, the US Virgin building and development efforts.”35. Today, major contributing to address related humanitarian needs emergency relief (...), to “deliver the right supplies, in Islands, Dominica, St Maarten and Tortola, which were humanitarian crises are exacerbated by geopolitical and risk management issues on the ground in collabgood condition and the quantities requested, in the right severely impacted by the Hurricane Maria, a Category challenges, conflicts and other factors such as climate oration with key local and ­international humanitarian places at the time they are needed.”36 In this respect, in 5 hurricane. Furthermore, hundreds of containers were change, requiring enhanced collaboration and concertstakeholders. recent years, MSC has further increased its support to donated to various charity organisations across the USA. ed efforts from different actors to ensure timely delivery humanitarian assistance by providing not only in-kind At the time we are writing this report, MSC is also a­ ctively contributions, but also assets, services and business participating in the humanitarian relief and recovery expertise providing effective and efficient disaster efforts in Grand Bahama and the Abaco Islands, which response in partnership with local authorities as well have been affected by the Hurricane Dorian. Our contrias the broad UN system. Our efforts helped to ­leverage bution includes supporting any kind of service providers existing networks and fill crucial logistics gaps in a to deliver the needed supplies and goods to the Islands number of countries. even in absence of an operating terminal. This is helping Additionally, MSC supports intergovernmental organlocal stakeholders and local c­ ommunities to ­effectively isations and international aid groups by providing address shortage of basic necessities, including the high containers, as well as space on ships for food imports, demand for e ­ mergency shelters and housing that can as part of the overall relief efforts. As an illustration, in only be transported via containers. Some examples of other actions taken by MSC Agencies in 2018 are summarised in the below table. 2018 CARGO DIVISION CONTRIBUTION TO EMERGENCY AND RELIEF* COUNTRY ACTION INDIA In September 2018, during the heavy flood in Kerala MSC Kochi staff volunteered to assist local ­communities and also ­provided supplies of drinking water bottles and food items in affected areas. The office also supported efforts in relation to first aid and training of emergency medical technicians for young people in partnership with local stakeholders. GREECE Support to combatting wildfires in Attiki Area in July 2018. SOUTH AFRICA Financial support for the water crisis in Durban. AUSTRALIA In 2018, MSC Australia provided financial support to Drought Angels, a local NGO supporting farmers affected by drought in Australia. * The table is not exhaustive. It is intended to provide a general overview of our commitment to affected populations. 35 https://www.unocha.org/sites/unocha/files/OCHA%202018-21%20Strategic%20Plan.pdf 36 https://www.careemergencytoolkit.org/programme-support/15-logistics/1-introduction/1-1-role-of-logistics-inhumanitarian-operations/ 114 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 115 SUPPORTING MERCY SHIPS in developing countries and more specifically in VOLUNTEER CREW IN ADDRESSING GAPS IN HEALTHCARE Sub-Saharan Africa. The report also states that q ­ uality, SERVICES AND SURGERY SKILLS accessible, affordable, and universal essential ­surgical In 2018, over 1,200 volunteer crew, from 56 different nations served on board the Africa Mercy with up to 400 IN AFRICA services are essential to decrease mortality and ­individual volunteers at work on the ship at any one time. Volunteers serving with Mercy Ships contribute monthly ­morbidity ratios across the world. Reducing healthcare crew fees and raise their own finances to live and work on board. This means that funding received is c­ omplemented gaps and health inequality promote gender equality and by contributed services and gifts-in-kind, enabling Mercy Ships to deliver medical and development services at a non-discrimination practices, increase economic growth, fraction of the traditional cost. In 2018, 500 African nationals served onboard as “DayCrew”. and support infrastructure development. In line with the above, Mercy Ships does not only ­significantly contribute to the progressive realisation of the Sustainable Development Goal 3 (Good Health and Well-Being), but also helps realise a number of ­interrelated Global Goals. Indeed, their volunteers ensure quality surgical care to marginalised and the most vulnerable people, and in some cases, mitigate Throughout 2018, MSC continued to support Mercy the impact of mass casualities by maintaining delivShips, a global charity, which deploys hospital ships ery of health services in fragile environments or in to some of the poorest countries in the world, deliverareas a ­ ffected by conflicts. In addition to completing ing free, vital healthcare to people in desperate need. thousands of urgent operations on board its ‘stateMSC’s contributions include logistics services and free of-the-art’ floating hospital, the Africa Mercy; Mercy transportation of medical equipment in support of the Ships doubles its impact in the long term by working activities carried out in Douala, Cameroon, and Conakry, ­closely with host nations to improve the way healthGuinea. care is delivered across the country. In this respect, According to the Lancet Commission‘s 2015 report volunteers also train and mentor local medical staff and entitled “2015 Global Surgery 2030: evidence and healthcare professionals as well as provide support in © Mercy Ships solutions for achieving health, welfare, and ­economic ­renovating hospital and clinics, in partnerships with development”37 more than 18 million people die every local authorities. year due to lack of timely surgical care, ­especially IMPACTS OVERVIEW • 22,146 potential patients screened for surgery • 1,369 healthcare professionals trained through courses • 2,522 life-changing surgical procedures provided • 1,299 unique volunteer crew • 32,017 dental procedures provided • 431/17% general surgeries • 8,998 unique dental patients • 102/4% women’s health surgeries For more information: www.mercyships.org LOOKING FORWARD A new ship, Global Mercy, is currently being built by remains committed to continuing to support Mercy Mercy Ships in China. This will more than double the Ships including as it expands its capacity to provide ability of the organisation to deliver direct medical care, life-changing health assistance to communities. expand their services in Africa as well as to increase the © Mercy Ships potential of medical capacity-building projects. MSC 37 A world renowned medical publication: https://www.thelancet.com/; The full report and related articles on this topic can be found here: https://www.lancetglobalsurgery.org/ 116 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 117 PARTNERING WITH ANDREA BOCELLI FOUNDATION (ABF) FOR HAITI THE MOBILE CLINIC PROGRAMME: ABOUT THE COLLABORATION KEY IMPACTS WITH THE ABF HAITI: COUNTRY PROFILE38 Haiti is one of the least developed countries in MSC provides financial contributions to the ABF Mobile MSC and the Andrea Bocelli Foundation officially the world, with high mortality and poverty rates: Clinic programme, which aims to deliver healthcare launched their partnership in December 2017, during • 80% of the population lives with less than assistance and prevention services to students, families the christening of MSC SEASIDE in Miami. Believing 1 dollar per day and the communities in the five poorest and most that music can have a powerful and universal sense • Average life expectancy does not exceed remote areas of Haiti. The project covers the ­following of communication, Maestro Bocelli and MSC Cruises 55 years five schools: ­invited thirty children from Haiti on board, to join the • 56% of the population suffers from malnutrition • Jeremy (St. Augustin School) choir “The Voices of Haiti” during the ceremony. This • 1 out of 3 children dies of hunger or • Kenscoff (St. Philomene school) aimed to further promote and raise awareness of the preventable diseases before the age of 5 • Croix-des-Bouquets (notre Dame du Rosaire) critical challenges affecting Haiti. • 1 out of 2 children lacks education • Dame Marie (Manitane School) • Only 67% of children aged between 6 and Andrea Bocelli in Haiti • De Varenne Grand Riviere, Fondwa – Jacme Founded in 2011 by Italian vocal maestro Andrea 12 years attend school (St. Raphael school) Bocelli, the Foundation aims to empower people and • Only 30% of children attending primary school ­communities experiencing poverty and exclusion by complete the 5 years education cycle envisaged Key services provided include patient registration and helping reduce the barriers that prevent them e ­ njoying • 70% of the population does not have recording, general counselling, overall screening of their basic human rights and expressing their full an occupation general health conditions and indication of relevant potential. • Infrastructures, sewage systems, water pathologies, early screening and detection of ­disabilities distribution, and electrical systems are either absent and diseases, abuse screening, medicine provision, or severely lagging behind. vaccinations, transportation to the hospital, seminar for healthcare prevention and care for the students and their In January 2010, a 7.0 magnitude earthquake left 260,000 families, hygiene and nutrition, sexual and ­reproductive dead, 300,000 injured and one million homeless. The health education programmes. country is still in an emergency phase and trying to In 2018, the initiative benefitted 8,850 direct ­beneficiaries recover from the disaster, which was also exacerbated (2,850 children and 6,000 other people) and 16,075 by cholera chikungunya and two hurricanes. indirect beneficiaries, impacting overall the health of Andrea Bocelli’s performance at MSC Seaside Christening a total 24,925 people. 38 Source: ABF Mobile Clinic Project – 2018, Activity & Financial Year Report 118 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 119 ABOUT THIS REPORT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE This report has not been assured externally. However, it takes into consideration relevant guidance tools, stakeholders’ expectations, recommendations received by external auditors as well as the GRI Standards. CONTACT For further information about this report and MSC’s approach to sustainability, please feel free to contact us: sustainability@msc.com MSC Mediterranean Shipping Company 12-14, Chemin Rieu 1208 Geneva, Switzerland www.msc.com 120 MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 121 © MSC Mediterranean Shipping Company SA, Sep 2019 If an EU Ecolabel printed paper product (e.g. newsp Alternative Label-Varianten indicate that the EU Ecolabel logo and licence num ™ If an EU Ecolabel printed paper product (e.g. newspapers, journals, m Alternative Label-Varianten FSC™ C020637 The mark of indicate that the EU Ecolabel logo and licence responsible number refer solely forestry to EU Ecolabe ™ EU Ecolabel : X PEFC/0 Prom Sustaina FSC™ C020637 Manag www.p The mark of EU Ecolabel: SE/011/05 responsible forestry If an EU Ecolabel printed paper product (e.g. newspapers, journals, EU Ecolabel magazines, books, b : XXXX/YYY/ZZZZ Alternative Label-Varianten indicate that the EU Ecolabel logo and licence number refer solely to the EU Ecolabel p ™ PEFC/05-33-99 Promoting Sustainable Forest FSC™ C020637 Management www.pefc.org The mark of EU Ecolabel: SE/011/05 responsible forestry EU Ecolabel : XXXX/YYY/ZZZZZ msc.com/sustainability Printed on Munken Polar Rough
