Management Report Colombia 2018 Coordinación General Contabilidad General • o.rodriguez@bbva.com • angelica.granados@bbva.com • rosalina.rojas@bbva.com Responsabilidad Corporativa • liliana.corrales@bbva.com Jurídica • myriam.cala@bbva.com • andrea.giraldo@bbva.com • alejandro.escobar.munoz@bbva.com • natalia.neira@bbva.com Gestión y Planificación Financiera • dianaconstanza.polania@bbva.com Comunicación e Imagen • mauricio.floresmarin@bbva.com • williamdavid.vargas@bbva.com Contents 1. Letter from the President 6 2. Performance 10 • BBVA Colombia Profile 12 • Organizational chart and business structure 13 • Work environment 17 • International initiatives 26 3. Strategy 28 • Vision and aspiration 30 • Progress in BBVA Colombia transformation 32 • Our values 41 • Innovation and technology 43 • Analysis of materiality 51 • Model of responsible banking 61 4. Financial information 62 • Management 2018 64 • Risks 73 • Shareholders 110 5. Business segments 116 • Retail banking segment 118 • Legal Entities Segment 120 • Corporate & Investment Banking 122 • BBVA Asset Management S.A. 125 • BBVA Valores Colombia S.A. 127 • Insurance Banking 130 6. Relationship with the Customer 132 • Customer experience 134 • Transparent, Clear and Responsible Communication (TCR) 135 • Consumer Service 138 • Omni-channel model 145 • Operative risk management and customer protection 147 7. Responsible practices 150 • The team 152 • Corporate Governance System 164 • Compliance system 165 • Internal control model 172 • Compliance with Legal Requirements 189 • Responsible procurement 193 8. Sustainable finance 196 • Management of social, environmental and reputational risks 198 • Ecoefficiency 201 • High social impact products 205 9. Investment in community 214 • Corporate Social Responsibility Policy 216 • Investment in social programs 218 10. Supplementary information 226 • Corporate governance annual report 228 • Guideline for reporting 250 • GRI Indicators 252 • Independent review report 262 LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 1. Letter from GRI-102-14 the President Global economy grew nearly 3.7% in 2018, meaning 3.4% world acceleration from 2017. This is the highest rate since 2011 (3.9%). The results in 2018 were led by emerging economies and China, 5.3% and 6.5% growth, respectively. United States with an outstanding performance in 2018, had 2.8% GDP, 2.2% above 2017. On the contrary, the Eurozone growth was below 2017 records, decelerating from 2.5% to 2.0% in 2018 as a result of lower expansion rates in Germany, France, Italy and Spain. Latin America, in turn, was the region with lowest expansion in 2018, with growth rate reduced from 1.2% to 0.9% from 2017 to 2018. Mexico and Brazil, the two largest economies of the Region, maintained low growth and prevented that better results in Colombia, Peru and Chile were transferred to the Region average growth. In Colombia, several trends appeared throughout 2018. In the first place, the recovery of consumption was materialized finally. A high growth of public expense was maintained, and the household spending bounced back, mainly in services and long-lasting goods. In the second place, real exports went back to positive land and grew in the accumulated of the year, something that did not happen for an entire year since 2015. This was due not only to the better price on raw material but for the rebound of non-traditional exports, although from very low levels. In the third place, the investment kept a heterogeneous Dynamic: positive in machinery and equipment and negative in the construction sector; although with a gradual recovery process in the latter for the last part of the year. Finally, imports rebound, which is related to the higher pull of the consumption of goods and a good portion of investment. In total, the Colombian economy grew by 2,6% in 2018. 6 BBVA COLOMBIA LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT 7 LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Current monetary policy has allowed the process of credit profiling, improving the overdue portfolio, decelerating the impairment and favoring quality metrics, thus preventing things to get worse. According to data from the Financial Superintendence, the annual nominal growth of gross portfolio was 5.8% at the end of November 2018 which implies 2.2 times the economy growth. The portfolio quality indicator was 4.8% (at the end of November) which represents 35 basic points increase versus 2017 (the portfolio quality indicator increased 110bps in previous year). On the other hand, the system intermediation margin increased 22 bps, going from 7.52% average for the first eleven months of 2017 to 7.74% average for the first eleven months of 2018. Under such scenario, BBVA Colombia closed the year with a positive balance. For retail banking segment, important progress took place in transformation, mainly supported by the development of new digital products, the growth of self-management and client’s transactional transformation. Products incorporated digitally into the portfolio were: Free consumption, Orders of payment, Online Housing Loan, Online Account, Investment Funds, Automobile Insurance (SOAT). This has encouraged the share of digital sales in total sales; 23.1% units correspond to digital contracts. At the end of November 2018, BBVA is the second leading bank in consumer portfolio in Colombia, reaching 14.61% quota. The total portfolio of the retail banking segment recorded 14.62% quota. For the legal entities segment, BBVA reached 7.00% share, 7 pb growth versus previous year. In this segment, providing the best possible experience to customer has been one of the fundamental pillars of the strategic priorities of BBVA focus. In this regard, we have worked on the digital transformation, encouraged through the transactional strategy, which consisted on driving the use of net cash in segment clients; this has resulted on the increase of clients with transactional net cash +31% for the year, +16% in the number of payments and 20% TAM in average balance of resources. 8 BBVA COLOMBIA LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT Additionally, the first phase of BBVA Net Cash mobile was launched. For year-end, more than 5 thousand clients have the functionalities of the application. The following are highlighted: consulting the global position of accounts, activation of Mobile Token, validation of the statement of payment files and authorization of payment files from the application. At the closing of December 2018, the Bank has a basis of active customers of 2,4 million, 7,1% more than in December 2017. From the total of customers, 740 thousand are high-recurring digital customers, 35,4% more than in December of previous year and 644 thousand mobile customers, 51,2% more than in December 2017. As a consequence, BBVA Colombia closed 2018 with income after taxes for $549 bn, +20.1% versus previous year and very good levels of solvency and liquidity exceeding the demands of the regulatory entity and corporate standards. Regarding Corporate Responsibility, we invested $6,2 bn in our 2018 programs. In conclusion, BBVA Colombia, closed 2018 with positive balance and increase in market shares. With regard to digital banking and transactionality, important progress was made. ÓSCAR CABRERA IZQUIERDO BBVA Colombia CEO 2. Perfo rmance BBVA Colombia Profile 12 Organizational chart and business structure 13 Environment 22 International initiatives 26 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Profile GRI-101-1 • GRI-102-2 GRI-102-5 GRI-102-7 GRI-102-45 In Colombia the BBVA Group is present through Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria Colombia S.A. -BBVA Colombiawith its affiliates BBVA Asset Management S.A. Sociedad Fiduciaria and BBVA Valores Colombia S.A. Comisionista de Bolsa; and, through BBVA Seguros Colombia S.A. and BBVA Seguros de Vida Colombia S.A. Banco Ganadero was incorporated in June 1956 within the framework of the First Agricultural Exhibition Fair and supported by the local stock farmers. Law 26 of 1959 defined the legal nature of the Bank as a mixed-economy bank with public and private capital of 20% and 80% interest, respectively. In 1992 its legal nature was amended and since then it operates as a corporation. In 1996 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya (BBV) acquired 34.70% of stock capital through hammer auction and direct subscription of shares. In 1998 BBV increased its share by 49.14% through the Public Exchange Offer; in the same year the corporate name was modified to BBV Banco Ganadero and in 2000 to BBVA Banco Ganadero. In year 2001 a takeover bid took place simultaneously in USA and Colombia for shares of Banco Ganadero by virtue of which BBVA acquired common shares with preferential dividend, increasing its interest to 94.16% of the Bank capital. In year 2004 the brand was changed, and the corporate name was modified from BBVA Banco Ganadero S.A. to its current denomination Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria Colombia S.A. “BBVA Colombia”. At year-end 2018 BBVA holds 95.43% interest. Ownership interest of BBVA Colombia Shares with preferential Shareholder Common shares % Participación dividend Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A 10,766,099,008 196,857,652 76.20% BBV America, SL 2,511,124,962 256,150,000 19.23% Others 630,705,101 26,752,348 4.57% Total shares 13,907,929,071 479,760,000 100% 12 BBVA COLOMBIA PERFORMANCE Organizational chart and GRI-102-6 business structure The organization structure of BBVA Colombia is divided into strategic units made up by eight Executive Vicepresidencies. “Network Management”, “Financial”, “Legal Services and General Secretariat”, “Risks”, “Engineering”, “Corporate & Investment Banking”, “Client Solutions”, “Talent & Culture” and a strategy and control area, named “Communication and Image”, “Internal Audit”, and “BBVA Research” reporting directly to the Bank CEO. 13 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Network Management, this unit encompasses the deployment of distribution strategies, taking into consideration and managing segment, product and channel variables to create a value offer for the customer, thus seeking to reinforce and generate value to structured business (capture of customers, financial depth, retention, transactionality and return) to compete in the new climate. Their main responsibilities are: • Guarantee the execution, business evolution, income statement and good operation of the network. • Establish priorities of the network performance and dependent areas, framing them within the guidelines defined by the business committee. • Be accountable for the entire application of the direction schemes defined by BBVA Colombia for its offices. Financial unit, it focuses to ensure the proper, timely and adequate control of the financial management and the continuous tracking of financial reporting systems, leveraging the strategic priorities to improve the business return and sustainability. Also, it coordinates the implementation of strategies to keep an adequate structure of the Bank balance sheet that allows achieving the goals proposed through the management of structural risk and liquidity Legal Services and General Secretariat. It focuses on delivering optimum legal advisory for BBVA Colombia to develop its activity pursuant to legal provisions. In the same way, defending on a timely and efficient manner BBVA Colombia interests and obtain the adequate legal risk coverage and coordinate activities of internal audit and regulatory compliance. Risk Unit is framed to preserve the Bank solvency, support strategic lines and ensure business development, managing and controlling efficiently the credit, market, liquidity, structural and operational interest risks by means of the appropriate implementation of processes, structure, circuits, methodologies, policies, applications and tools. Also, developing the administrative management of risk recovery, aiming all efforts at the achievement of the greater recovery in the shortest time possible. Engineering unit comprises aspects as relevant as the definition, development and implementation of technological solutions that support business processes, ensuring their correct and efficient operation, thus 14 BBVA COLOMBIA PERFORMANCE contributing to the transformation of our customers’ marketing. experience, both in digital and traditional channels. • Maximize the delivery of constant value to Key responsibilities comprise: customers, making real the transformation of • Managing and controlling operative and BBVA Group in Colombia through the proposal preventive processes that support business and prioritization of initiatives that impact units, as well as the continuous improvement to favorably the strategic indicators of the Bank, the be able to deliver better services both to internal conceptualization and design of customerand external customer. centric solutions, and planning and execution of projects. • Manage the infrastructure of technology installed in accordance with the business and • Focus on the strategy of products and Bank guidelines, marking state-of-theart trends customers, directing, administering and and solutions and required needs. controlling activities toward the investigation, design, development, innovation, implementation • Ensure that the Organization has goods and and follow up of the bank strategy, products and services required for its management, as well as services addressed to clients segment. This also those required for external clients, thus contributes to the experience and satisfaction of supporting the income statement of the Bank, customer needs. developing the optimal physical infrastructure and certifying that the supply of general services • Definition of new management models for the has a high quality and opportunity level. network, ensuring that the customer experience is satisfactory and reaches the levels defined by Client Solutions, intended to offer solutions to the the Organization. customer in innovative products and services, developing following aspects: Talent and Culture (T&C), focused toward talent development, as well as the definition and guidance • Design and lead the execution of the digital sales of adequate staff policies that incorporate the legal strategy in order to comply with strategic labor framework and facilitate the comprehensive priorities with emphasis on global and local goals management of human talent, fostering the of digitalization and sales. Support is also given to attraction, development, retention and management 15 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 of human talent. Also, ensuring that the Bank has the appropriate organization in terms of structure, dimensioning, roles, responsibilities and relationship model to meet the goals. Corporate & Investment Banking, unit responsible for directing, planning and executing commercial, financial and operational strategies intended to corporate clients, thus generating added value in each of their business units through the execution of said strategies that allow the compliance with goals proposed, as well as the delivery of integral solutions to the needs of companies and industries. Additionally, under the President’s responsibility, the Organization strategy is set as well as the action and control frameworks in aspects as relevant as Compliance, Communication, Internal Audit, among others, as follows: • BBVA Research: Unit responsible for economic studies and the promotion and development of institutional relations. Key variables of Colombian economy are forecasted thus allowing foreseeing opportunities and business risks and the balance of BBVA Colombia. • Internal Audit: It is framed within the conduction of independent audits that contribute to meet the needs of the Entity and expectations of shareholders with added value services. It is based on a five-axes structure: Front, Discipline & Portfolio, Solutions Development, Program Managers and Agile Transformation • Communication and Image: It is focused on planning and implementing the development of communication and institutional relations of BBVA Colombia with different stakeholders by planning and executing Corporate Responsibility programs and institutional sponsorships that contribute with the principles and strategic priorities of the Bank. 16 BBVA COLOMBIA PERFORMANCE Work Environment Macroeconomic environment Global economy growth in 2018 was around 3.7%, meaning a deceleration from 3,4% of growth in 2017. This is the highest world rate since 2011, when it grew 3.9%. The result in 2018 was led by emerging economies and China, 5.3% and 6.5%, respectively. For China, a soft landing is still taking place and the solidity in growth rates above 6.0% is maintained thanks to fiscal incentives and the positive effect of some structural reforms made in the past. The United States also had an outstanding performance in 2018, 2.8% GDP growth, above 2.2% in 2017. The tax reform promoted by Trump’s government that reduced the corporate tax rate and fiscal benefits to investment, mainly, the solid and sustained recovery of the household consumption, gave place to such improvement of economy. On the contrary, the growth of the Eurozone was below 2017, decelerating from 2.5% to 2.0% in 2018, as a result of lower expansion rates in Germany, France, Italy and Spain. From these economies, only Spain had a rate above 2.0%, and grew near 2.6%. Also, the European automotive industry with high presence in first economies, was affected by the escalation of more protectionism to global trade. In turn, Latin America was the region with lower expansion in 2018. The growth rate was reduced from 1,2% to 0.9% in 2017 and 2018, respectively. Mexico and Brazil, the two largest economies of the region, maintained low growth and prevented the better results of Colombia, Peru and Chile moved to the average growth of the region. Finally, the protectionism and increases of interest rate from the US Federal Reserve (Fed), with effects on capital markets in emerging countries, are still the most relevant risks on the horizon, making that the global scenario is subject to risks, mainly negative. Throughout 2018 Colombia had several trends. In the first place, the recovery of final consumption was 17 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 materialized. A high growth of public expense was maintained, and the household expense rebounded, mainly in services and lasting goods. In the second place, real exports returned to positive land and will grow in 2018, something that did not happen for an entire year since 2015. This was due not only to the better price of raw material but for the rebound of non-traditional exports, although from very low levels. In the third place, the investment held a heterogeneous dynamic: positive in machinery and equipment and negative in the construction sector, although with a gradual recovery process in the latter sector for the last part of the year. Finally, the increase of imports is related to the greater drive of the consumption of goods and a portion of investment. In total, Colombian economy grew 2.6% in 2018. On the other hand, since May the expectation of an accelerated adjustment of global liquidity, higher oil prices until October and pushing the inflation in developed countries, and a solid activity in United States, provoked an increase of market volatility, in particular in emerging economies. In such land, those economies facing more demanding short-term financing conditions received the largest portion of the negative adjustment of the capital flow, materializing in the accelerated and significative depreciation of exchange rates, an abrupt fall of stock market assets and an important penalty on risk premiums and interest rates. For Colombia, the country risk was relatively steady, allowing that the impact has been low and contained mainly to exchange market. Notwithstanding, since October, when the oil prices began falling and global volatility increased more, the effects on Colombia have been stronger¸ in part because the deficit of current account stopped, the capital inflows of portfolio flowed slowly to the country and at the same time, the tax reform was under discussion. In this context, the exchange rate was above COP 3,000 during a good portion for the second semester of the year, in line with the higher global volatility, less capital flows and subsequent fall of the oil price. Henceforth, it is very likely that the exchange rate levels are high, ranging from COP 3,100 to COP 3,300, placing near the top of the range during the first semester and gradually getting closer to the low part of the interval by year end. The support to the US dollar Price, this is, factors that will keep it high, are the oil price that will be US10 below average in 2018; Fed could increase the rate twice in 2019, the global volatility will be maintained above the historic average and a higher deficit in the current account that will not be fully financed with direct foreign investment 18 BBVA COLOMBIA PERFORMANCE yet, it will have to be covered, additionally, with portfolio flows and/or external debt. On the other hand, 2018 inflation was 3.2%, below 4.1% at year-end 2017. A good portion of inflation components decelerated in 2018: inflation of non-tradable went from 5.5% to nearly 4,0% and inflation of tradable went from 3.8% to 1.4%. In turn, food inflation has grown at low rates 2.0%, throughout the year. The only group that did not contribute to the inflation drop has been the regulated products, mainly due to the acceleration of power inflation from 2.1% to nearly 8% and the rice in fuel price. At the beginning of 2019, the inflation had an upward behavior because the dryness restricted crops of some food and raised the prices; also, the transfer of the exchange rate devaluation to the prices of imported goods. está teniendo un comportamiento al alza porque la sequía restringió las cosechas de algunos alimentos y elevó sus precios, además por el traspaso de la devaluación del tipo de cambio a los precios de los bienes importados. The downward inertia of some components, such as the inflation of rentals and education and health services will be key to offset the increase trend in prices. With a controlled inflation scenario, around the middle point of the goal range, and an activity that although starts the recovery trend, it goes slowly, the Central Bank will keep the reference rate steady until mid-2019 by 4.25%. This is due in good extent to the current balance among internal forces: in favor of the monetary support to consolidate the recovery and the external forces: in favor of not altering the balance of current capital flows. The position of current monetary policy has allowed a profiling process of loan that improved the dynamic of overdue portfolio, decelerating its impairment and favoring quality metrics of portfolio, thus preventing they continue get worse. An abrupt adjustment of rates, as it could be generated from external volatility scenarios, could create a negative environment to recover the portfolio. Such trend would take a special dimension in the commercial portfolio, which despite of having very favorable interest rates for a long term, has had a slight reaction and has contracted in real terms. 19 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Digitalization and the change of the customer’ behavior e We face a setting where consumers are connected permanently (they want to operate in any time and from any place), accustomed to digital experiences where they expect proactive and customized assistance to manage their finance, and use multiple devices and applications seeking to operate from the channel that is more convenient. Similarly, they demand more transparency and confidence in their banking relationship, as well as more customization, accessibility and convenience in financial services to achieve their core goals. Currently, the banking should react fast to be more competitive and offer added value solutions with more focus on and development of digital offer. The new era of digitalization has modified also the relationship between clients and financial entities, where clients are requesting a new type of banking relationship and have started to demand new services based on new needs. The technology is the change gear to redefine the value proposal focused on the real needs of customers. In this regard, the use of the cell phone as the preferred tool, and often the only one, for interactions between the client with the financial entity has changed the character of said relation and how the financial decisions are made. It is vital to offer customers a simple, consistent and pleasant experience without reducing the safety and taking advantage of every technological resource. In turn, data is the basis of digital economy. Financial entities should take advantage of opportunities offered by technology and innovation, analyzing the customers’ behavior, needs, and expectations to offer them customized services and added value. The development of big-data based algorithms allow new advisory tools for the management of personal finance and access to products that, so far, were only accessible for high-value segments. Market and Competitive Position In regard to credit investment, BBVA maintained the fourth position with 10,30% market share at October 2018, which showed +16 pb variation versus 2017. The retail portfolio recorded 14.72% share at October 2018 and showed -13 pb reduction versus 2017. The 20 BBVA COLOMBIA PERFORMANCE companies portfolio market share was placed at 7.02% at October 2018 and reflected +15 pb increase versus 2017. BBVA was at the third and fifth position, respectively. With regard to customer funds, BBVA held the fourth position in October with 11,91%, market share, and +33 bp variation versus previous year. Funds on demand increased +144 bp in October versus 2017 and held the third position with 13.33% share. Savings recorded +57 bp increase and held the fourth place with 10.60% share. In turn, Term Deposit Certificates (CDTs per its acronym in Spanish) recorded -35 bp reduction versus October 2017. This variation showed 13.30% share and the third place. Regulatory climate During 2018, Authorities issued the regulation related to banking activity. Below the most relevant regulations: Laws Law 1902 of June 22, 2018: by means of which the general framework for the order of payment or direct discount is set forth, adjusting the regulation provided in Law 1527 of 2012. Decrees Decree 246 of February 2, 2018: to strengthen the regulation and supervision of Financial Conglomerates in Colombia, establishing the exclusion criteria of the supervision on the Legal Entities Segment or investment vehicles that given the nature and amount of its activities, do not represent a significative interest for the purpose of the supervision. Decree 521 of March 15, 2018: to regulate the purchase process of assets and assumption of liabilities and Bridge Bank in order to give viability to the mechanism of resolution of credit institutions ordered with administrative compulsory winding-up, preserving the stability of the financial system pursuant to Law 1870 of 2017 on financial conglomerates. 21 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Decree 720 of April 26, 2018, amending the Decree 2555 of 2010 with regard to Electronic Savings Accounts by extending their benefits to peasant communities that belong to the National Comprehensive Program for the Substitution of Illicit Crops (PNIS per its acronym in Spanish). Decree 774 of May 8, 2018: amending the adequate levels of capital for financial conglomerates, where the Financial Holding is liable for the compliance. To determine the levels, those activities performed by the member entities and risks they are exposed to were considered. Decree 923 of May 28, 2018, adding to Decree 2555 of 2010, the “Resolution Plans” matters, taking into consideration the particular circumstances of each entity; i.e., their nature, complexity, interconnection and size. This regulates how stress situations are faced, such as materializations, even an eventual winding-up in order to gain the public’s confidence on the financial system, protecting consumers and reducing the risk of the necessity to use public funds. Decree 1357 of July 31, 2018, rules the collaborative funding activity (Crowdfunding) through the issuance of securities. The Crowdfunding is provided as an activity of the stock market and is defined as “the activity performed by institutions authorized by the Financial Superintendence on the basis of an electronic infrastructure that might include interfaces, platforms, internet pages or other mean of electronic communication through which a plural number of contributors get in contact with recipients that request funding on their own behalf intended to an investment productive project. Decree 1486 of August 06, 2018 that rules the criteria to determine the quality of related parties to the financial conglomerate and the financial holding, as well as criteria and mechanisms to identify, administer and disclose the conflicts of interest. Also, policies and limits of risk exposition and concentration were set among entities of the conglomerate. Circular letters of the Financial Superintendence External Circular Letter 007 of June 5, 2018, to provide instructions for risk management of cyber security and 22 BBVA COLOMBIA PERFORMANCE security standards to strengthen the protection of consumers’ information. For such purpose, entities should: (i) Have the required policies, procedures and resources; (ii) Set principles and guidelines to promote the cyber security culture that includes dissemination, training and awareness activities both in-house and to users and third parties; iii) include the response, recovery, resume of operation in contingency and restoration of the business continuity plan in the event of a cybernetic attack; iv) inform consumers about the cybernetic incidents that affect the confidentiality or integrity of their information, as well as adopted measures; v) make up a risk management unit; vi) get updated permanently on new modalities of cyberattacks; vii) report to Authorities that form part of the national incident management, COLCERT (Response Group to Cybernetic Emergencies of Colombia) about the attacks received. External Circular Letter No. 26 of July 17, 2018, to create the Bridge Bank as a resolution mechanism of credit institutions that are ordered with the administrative compulsory winding-up, as an alternative to the payment of the deposit insurance. Banco de la Republica (Central Bank) Bulletin 13 of May 25, 2018 to issue the External Resolution 01 of 2018 that amend the exchange regulation in the External Resolution 08 of 2000. The new resolution updates and softens the exchange operations and enhances the exchange procedures, seeking more efficient proceedings for the user. Also, it implements instruments to control the risks associated to flows and positions of the residents’ balance sheet, preserving the principle of non-dollarization of the economy, the financial stability and effectiveness and autonomy of the monetary policy. Macroeconomic perspectives for 2019 In 2019 private consumption will keep decelerating, driven by the expense in lasting goods and services which will be supported by drops in interest rates, stability of US dollar in high levels and increase of country available income. In particular, the expense in tourism, hotels, restaurants and education will win share in household consumption basket, a characteristic associated to the times when the income in household increase. Other services affected by the acceleration of consumption in 2019 will be entertainment, trade, transport, restaurants 23 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 and the telecommunications sector; the latter has been historically a very procyclical activity. Public consumption will grow above GDP at a rate similar to the latter, unlike 2018, when it almost duplicates its expansion. Public spending will be boosted by the greater execution of regional and local governments, which is characteristic in the last years of the terms of office, as in 2019. Investment in housing construction had a turning point at the end of 2018, as anticipated by some leading indicators: housing sales recovery in large cities, stabilization of stocks with a slight downward trend, and a good number of projects that sold already more than 70% units in offer and works have not even started; the rebound of economy could materialize this. However, the recovery will be mainly in Social housing segment, which will limit the added value for GDP since these will be unfinished houses at lower sale price. Shortly afterwards, toward second semester 2019, the non-residential construction sector will start growing again although at low rates still and with a positive dynamic, limited to works for logistics in port and industrial plants. Also, the last year of department and municipal governments will boost the spending in infrastructure, partly due to higher resources of royalties. On the contrary, the construction of offices and commercial premises will have small drops since this type of plot lands could delay their adjustment in terms of excess of offer until end of 2019 or the beginning of 2020. Due to the improvement in construction, the industry will have a more balanced growth. In said sector, activities related to construction (manufacture of metallic and non-metallic products, chemical and plastic industry) lagged for the poor behavior of the sector, will show a better behavior in 2019. Remaining industries, particularly food, will keep showing positive figures due to higher internal demand. Also, the entrepreneur activity sector will benefit from the industrial recovery and consumption. Remaining investment, from spending on machinery and transport equipment, will keep growing at high rates since it goes hand in hand with better results in industrial production, agricultural activity, the gradual recovery of mining sector and the dynamic of consumption. In total, investment in 2019 will have the higher growth rate since 2014. Thus, the investment rate will pass from 22.4% GDP in 2018 to 22.6% GDP in 2019, although below the 24 BBVA COLOMBIA PERFORMANCE highest level achieved in 2014 (23.4% GDP). As a result, in 2019 the GDP growth will be 3.0% annual and will accelerate from 2.6% in 2018. Mining and oil sector will keep low growths. There will be a temporary rebound in 2019 due to the greater production of coal versus the low production in 2018 which was affected by rains. Oil production will keep flat due to the insufficient investment levels to increase the production forward. The metal mining sector will have anemic growth due to the legal instability of popular consultations. Finally, mining and quarries sector will be the only one to rebound due to the greater activity in construction. In conclusion, the growth of economy will be more balanced onwards with an important contribution from services sector. The time for the negative contribution of mining is past (growth since mid-2014 to year-end 2018 was -3.0%). The same is true about the construction of buildings. Its adjustment process is over, and we will start seeing positive figures from the end of year (this sector fell at 4% rate average in 2017 and 2018). In this context, we will have a GDP that will start accelerating slowly forward. 25 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 International initiatives GRI-102-12 BBVA is signatory of the following international initiatives: • United Nations Global Compact (www.globalcompact.org) • United Nations Environment Programme – Finance Initiative (UNEP) (www.unepfi.org) • Equator Principles. (www.equator-principles.com) • Principles for Responsible Investment – United Nations. • International Integrated Reporting Council. • Carbon Disclosure Project. • Thun Group of Banks and Human Rights. • Natural Capital Declaration. • Global Initiative for Sustainability Ratings. • Green Bond Principles. Likewise, BBVA publicly acknowledges its respect for the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the basic regulations of the International Labor Organization and the OCDE Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises In 2018, BBVA continued working to connect the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) approved in September 2015 by the UN, with the initiatives and its materiality. 26 BBVA COLOMBIA PERFORMANCE Our contribution to the achievement of the SDGs is reflected in the following table: Objectives BBVA Initiatives Eradicate every way of poverty around the Objective 1 Microfinance Foundation BBVA. world. Eradicate hunger, achieve food security, Objective 2 improve nutrition and promote the Integration Scholarships Program. sustainable agriculture. Ensure a healthy life and promote the Objective 3 «Early Childhood» OEI Project. wellbeing for all at all ages. Ensure an inclusive, fair and quality Objective 4 education, and promote learning School for Entrepreneurship Program BBVA. opportunities throughout eveeryone’s life. Achieve gender equality and empower all Objective 5 Global Gender Diversity Olan women and girls. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable Occupation safety, freedom of association, Objective 8 economic growth, full and productive responsible procurement. employment and decent work for everyone. Objective 10 Reduce inequality in and among countries. Frontiers of Knowledge Award BBVA Foundation. Make cities and human settlements Research initiatives for healthcare – BBVA Objective 11 inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Foundation. Guarantee modalities of sustainable Global Eco-efficiency Plan, Responsible Objective 12 consumption and production. Procurement. Adopt urgent measures to fight climate Objective 13 Eco-efficiency . change and its effects. Promote pacific and inclusive societies for the sustainable development, facilitate the Model Development of Responsible Banking, fight Objective 16 access to justice to everyone and create against corruption and bribery efficient, responsible and inclusive enities at all levels. Strengthen the means for the execution and Frontiers of Knowledge Award BBVA Foundation Objective 17 reinvigorate the Global Alliance for – Development cooperation. Sustainable Development. 27 3. Strategy Vision and Aspiration 30 Progress in the transformation of BBVA Colombia 32 Our values 41 Innovation and technology 43 Analysis of materiality 51 Model of responsible banking 61 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Vision and aspiration GRI-102-15 • GRI-102-16 BBVA is fully engaged in a process of transformation necessary to adapt to the new climate of the financial industry and maintain its leadership. This climate is characterized by: • Economic slowdown, increased regulatory pressure, negative impact in the industry profitability, low interest rates and strong competition. • Changes in clients’ expectations, which demand higher added valued that help them to achieve their objectives. Clients seek advice, transparency and a digital relationship model. • Speed of environment change in which the Bank operates as a result of the exponential growth of new technologies that provide new products and services to clients, adapted to their evolving needs, while in parallel, significant changes occur in different sectors and companies. • Irruption of new entrants and large digital companies with very attractive value propositions with the subsequent risk for traditional banks of possible gradual loss of the relationship with their clients. To be successful in this new environment, it is necessary to adapt the universal banking model, by being more selective and redefining the value proposition, to offer access to services at all times, from anywhere and through any channel the client chooses, providing the means to do it autonomously through digital channels or through human interaction. During 2018, BBVA continued experiencing significant progress in its Transformation Journey, based on its purpose and its six Strategic Priorities, the bank reinforced the new strategy focusing mainly in digitalization, customer experience and streamlining the organizational structure. Likewise, during 2018 BBVA continued strengthening and promoting is Model of responsible banking based on three pillars: Transparent, Clear and Responsible Communication (TCR), Financial Education and high social impact products. 30 BBVA COLOMBIA STRATEGY Artificial Intelligence Data processing Biometrics Higher efficiency Better experience 31 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Progress in the transformation of BBVA Colombia GRI-102-16 In 2018 BBVA moved forward towards the achievement of our purpose: “Make available to all, the opportunities of this new era”. We help our clients to fulfill their goals; being an engine of opportunities and positively impacting people’s lives, in addition to the companies’ businesses. Strategic priorities The best customer experience Our objective with all our campaigns and shares is to offer the best experience to our clients. Among the shares developed, we highlight the following: • Launch of the new BBVA page under the AEM platform, in order to optimize it from SEO to maximize organic traffic to the site. Building a content structure to be more relevant to users and improve site performance, optimizing load times and making navigation routes accurate and timely. • Work on hybrid initiatives (Digital and Non-digital) to take advantage of both communication platforms and provide various access channels to information and offers (e.g. Mortgage and Remodeling Session and Automobile Show). • Preparation of Journeys in Sales Force to schedule sending e-mails, SMS and pushing product notification to clients, taking into account 32 BBVA COLOMBIA STRATEGY their interaction with other messages sent. The foregoing with the purpose to accompany the client, in a timely and relevant way, in addressing the messages. • Implementation of a tool for monitoring social networks conversations (Sentesis), which allow identifying users’ feelings towards our publications, and the different concerns that may arise facing a digital product. • Innovation and continuous improvement in our own media. For example, implementation and sending of push notification to the Bank’s clients taking advantage of the animated creatives (GIF). • During 2018, 21 tests were carried out using Adobe Target, our tool for customization of experiences, and thanks to the use of this tool during the month of December, with the UGA-UGA campaign, the first customization exercise was performed in (https://www.bbva.com.co), with an increase of 22.6% in the number of unique users with the intention to contract the product, representing a positive economic impact. In this process, we highlight the results achieved in favor of mobile and digital customers, experiencing an unrestrained growth since 2017. +1 million digital clients Growth 2018 Clients +40% 65% of new clients download and activate the app in 1.272.000 Mobile clients their first month with the bank Digital clients +0,49% web clients 1.132.000 of new clients come for a digital Mobile clients product 89% Digital clients use the app Mobile clients 52% Digital clients 46% 30% most of our clients are digital already 33 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Boost of digital sales At BBVA, it is essential to foster digitalization in order to transform and boost business on digital channels. In this regard, the Bank is developing a digital offering of products and services in such a way, that customers are enabled to use the most convenient channel. During 2018, several product launches and improvements were made, representing significant increases in digital sales, including the following: The activation of Always On campaigns (throughout the year), accompanying with communications, those products that can be acquired through digital channels. In addition, support for transactionality and digitalization of our clients in order to improve their experience through the bank’s digital channels. • Investment in digital payments means with the purpose of supporting the launching new products in the Bank’s digital channels (e.g. Online Account, Investment Funds, Mandatory Traffic Accident Insurance (SOAT), foreign exchange platform in the Net and payment store). • Activation of the Digital Sales Squad for better results, and detection of areas of improvement, that allow us optimizing the clients’ contracting process, in which we were able to remove the transactions password to acquired CD online, increasing the number of registrations for this product. 34 BBVA COLOMBIA STRATEGY • Definition of Smart Interaction bases (Automatic bases where the increase of clients’ accounts balance is detected) which allow to schedule sending e-mails in an timely and automatic way, encouraging clients to acquire a new product like online CD or Investment Funds. • Progress in the labeling of Bank’s digital products in order to obtain more information about the clients’ contracting processes of these products, allowing to generate funnel of the contracting process. The foregoing has allowing us to achieve a maturity in the net and mobile digital analytics, which has been shared with different Product Owners. • Labeling of digital products in Appsflyer that allows us to better understand a clear attribution model of the source of origin of clients, when contracting a digital product, allowing us to identify new registrations, attributable 100%, to Digital Sales (It will be fully configured in 2019). • Automation in sending personalized e-mails to clients whose SOAT is close to its expiration date, to keep them informed about the date in which they have to renew their mandatory insurance and the possibility to do it through the BBVA net. • Communication of the general steps for the opening of a product in an attractive and impressive way, which helped to generate an increase, during the month of December, in the opening of Investment Funds and CD online. The main digital sales milestones in 2018 were the following: Online Account closed 2018 with a digital penetration of 28% during the second half of the year, where 67% of these accounts correspond to payroll and the remaining 33% were savings accounts. • In November, the new Investment Funds functionality was launched from BBVA mobile, which allows the user to open an investment fund and make contributions to this fund at any time and any day. • After the launch of the UGA-UGA campaign, where one of its references was payment with CVV, there was increase in sales that reached $32m in the last semester of 2018. • As of December 2018, 45% of the CD that were open in BBVA, were digital, of this total, 85% were open through the application. 35 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 • In 2018, 50% of the contributions to Investment Funds were made through digital channels, highlighting the month of December with the launching of the UGA-UGA campaign, reaching 68% through digital channels. • During December, together with the UGA-UGA campaign, 76.7% of Investment Funds registrations were made from BBVA mobile. In line with our purpose and our goal of being a Company that is more data based, there was major breakthrough related to the use of information and the construction of analytics. • During 2018 we had a total of 29 digital sales funnels, which allow us to identify and address two (2) CD funnel improvements, and increase in payroll advance activation and use. Only CDs, represented an increase of $921,582,939 with its optimization. • In addition, there was significant progress in information integration both from Adobe Analytics that contains product Funnels information as well as monitoring information of digital sales and marketing campaigns through the creation of dashboards that are now available online. 30% of our sales are mae through digital channels Digital penetration in our main products Digital clients Advance Payroll Accounts Consumer of value through digital channles AP not included 36 BBVA COLOMBIA STRATEGY New business models In 2018, the capture of SME clients was a priority, which are one of the main sources of for this reason, a synergy action was established commissions. As a result, in September, the between specialized banking and SME banking, commissions reached the amount of $6,380, as a result, the SME banking obtained 4,529 contributing in 44% of the commissions referrals from which 437 became clients under generated in that period. The above also helped the established criterion of value clients, on the to position BBVA as the second bank in IRS other hand, SME banking captured 3,948 new trading in the market. clients, representing 25% of TAM. With the purpose of increasing the non-financial As a segment priority, a commissions scheme offer, in 2018, the BBVA-PTESA commercial was established, for this reason, Alliance was launched, which allows during the second half of 2018, the our Legal Entities segment, to have “My Insured SME” action was access to a comprehensive established, for placement of insurance solution for electronic invoicing premiums for SMEs, directly through the with great benefits: bank’s commercial network, with the support and training from BBVA Seguros, obtaining 753 new insurance policy registrations • Unified portal for issuing and receiving for the amount of $1,446 bn pesos in premiums, invoices, preferential rates and the possibility representing an increase of 230% in the value of to finance them. premiums issued compared to 2017. • Possibility to include attachments to the Between March and September 2018, the Electronic Invoice. treasury action was performed, which focused on attracting SMEs clients and companies with • Downloading Reports of invoices issued and trading desk products like Fx, Forwards and IRS, received. 37 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Optimization of capital allocation During 2018, Business Banking, obtained a significant increase in the contribution in terms of margin with 19% of TAM and a Budget compliance of 116%, contributing in this way in 8% of the bank’s gross margin; in addition, there was an increase in commissions of 166% through the collection of cash. In conclusion, 2018 we highlight the constant work in the process of transactional transformation, directly related to provide the best advice to our clients, and promoting new tools that support one of our main corporate values “the customer comes first”, looking for the best alternatives and being pioneers in the market with innovative products, so clients have a better experience both in contracting and in their transactionality, optimizing the experience of having the Bank on their mobile. In line with the above, we have supported and accompanied institutional clients, who seek bancarization for their employees, like the National Army, where more tan 20,000 soldiers have obtained access to formal banking, seeking financial inclusion in the Banking sector; another segment is the retirees, improving their experience by having banking access; so far this year, more than 8,000 retirees now receive their pension allowance through a bank account, improving their experience and with a greater opportunity for contracting other services. 38 BBVA COLOMBIA STRATEGY Efficiency leadership In an environment with lower return for the financial industry, being efficient becomes a crucial priority for the BBVA transformation plan. Such priority is based on building a new organization model, that is as agile, simple and automated as possible. In this regard, throughout 2018 the following activities were developed to achieve efficiency and optimization leadership: • Integration of the Bank data with data digital, to know the behavior of active products in BBVA net and BBVA mobile, which allowed identifying the clients’ behavior and sticking points, where clients may abandon the process of contracting a product. • Implementation of Tealeaf as a qualitative analysis tool of the clients’ behavior during the contracting process, which allows seeing, in real time, the steps taken by the clients, and the points in which they may abandon the idea of contracting a product through the Bank’s digital channels (initially in BBVA net). • Preparation of an A|B Testing on the public page and sending of e-mails, in order to identify the best way to speak to, and approach our clients, in addition, to know how to optimize the experience in these contact channels. • Adoption of an agile culture and model, focusing in the priorities and make more efficient teams. All without losing sight of providing the best customer experience. 39 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 The best team The BBVA’s priority is to attract, develop, motivate and retain the best team, wee seek to deliver the best employee experience and continue evolving our corporate culture to achieve our goals. At the same time, with the agile methodology, we work in a collaborative and entrepreneurial culture, with flatter structures, but which do not stop thinking big. Agile Culture BBVA is transforming to be more efficient, introducing agile practices in areas like Talent and Culture, Client Solutions and Finance, improving the collaborative work, breaking down silos, and flattening the organizational structure, using new ways of doing things, changing workstations to an “open space” scheme, where even the management layer is more accessible, facilitating timely decision making; all focused on effectively satisfying clients’ needs, providing strength and market competitiveness. More tan 1,000 employees are trained in agility knowledge, using new work methodologies that have helped improve performance, reducing the use of emails and increasing collaboration through visible boards, that help to discover processes bottlenecks and obstacles, managing them at an earlier stage. We worked on projects for the automation of the software development life cycle, from the initiative to its deployment, with a repository of software versioning, automatic validations and automation in the deployment of solutions in digital channels, which has allowed leveraging the improvement of Time to Market. 40 BBVA COLOMBIA STRATEGY Our values In order to identify our Values, The BBVA Group carried out an open process, in which employees from different geographical areas and Group’s units expressed their opinion. These values define our identity and are the pillars to make our Purpose a reality: 1. The customer comes first, BBVA has always been customer-focus, but the customer now comes first before everything else. It has a holistic vision of the client, not just financial. This means working in a way which is empathetic, agile and with integrity, among other thighs. Were are empathetic: we take customer’s point of view into account from the outset, putting ourselves in their shoes, to better understand their needs. We have integrity: everything we do is legal, publishable and morally accepted to society. We always put customer interests’ first. We meet their needs: we are swift, agile and responsive in resolving the problems and needs of our customers, overcoming any difficulties we encounter. 2. We think big, it is not only about innovating but instead to have a significant impact on people’s lives, enhancing their opportunities. BBVA is ambitious, questioning everything, not settling for doing things reasonably well, but seeking excellence as a standard. We are ambitious: we set ambitious and aspirational challenges, to have a real impact on people’s lives. We break the mold: we question everything we do to establish new ways of doing things, innovating and testing new ideas which enable us to learn. We maze the customers: we seek excellence in everything we do to amaze our customer, creating unique experiences that exceed their expectations. 41 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 We are empathetic Somos empáticos We´re Somosambitious ambiciosos I’m committed Estoy comprometido Somos We íntegros showintegrity Rompemos We moldes break moulds Confío eneach We trust el otroother We solve your needs Solucionamos sus We surprise thealcustomer Sorprendemos cliente Soy BBVA I amBBVA necesidades 3. We are one team; people are what matters most to BBVA. All employees are owners and share responsibility for this project. We break silos and trust others as we trust ourselves. We are BBVA. I am committed: I commit myself to my role and my objectives and I feel empowered and fully responsible to achieving them, working with passion and enthusiasm. I trust others: I trust others from the outset and work with generosity, collaborating and breaking down silos between areas and hierarchical barriers, I am BBVA: I am the BBVA owner. I assume the Bank’s objectives as my own and do everything within my power to achieve them and make our Purpose a reality. These values are reflected on the daily life of all BBVA Group employees, influencing every decision. For the implementation and adoption of these Values, BBVA has the support of the entire Organization, including the Global Leadership, launching global and local initiatives that ensure these Values are adopted uniformly throughout BBVA 42 BBVA COLOMBIA STRATEGY Innovation and technology BBVA continues with the digital transformation process, which main aim is to achieve its Aspiration of strengthening the relationships with its customers and being the best bank for them. Engineering In 2018, the strategic plan continued developing for the technological transformation of BBVA Colombia, achieving the deployment of the new global platform Ether, breaking schemes and changing the ways we work, materializing the value “We Thing Big”. To achieve this objective, 44 persons were trained in this technology, with whom the first 100% Ether initiative was deployed: Credit Card Pre-sales in BBVA net, which is already being used by clients. These premises are the essential basis of change, where having a global platform, allows us to be more competitive in the Colombian banking system. Strengthening the value “We are One Team”, the consolidation of collaborative work continues, with special focus on scrum teams (Safe Methodology), with the implementation of solutions with Services Architecture, where Colombia ranks third, at a group level, with 16% contribution in the deployment of 176 APIs (Application Programming Interface) with Business functionalities to be reused. In the environment of digital channels, the Bank adopted front Ether.Cells capabilities, enabling reuse in the development; Ether.Salesforce for personalized marketing management Process, with efficiencies of 50%in the launching of commercial campaigns, reducing commercial saturation. Cloud capabilities were also generated for publication of Web portals (Ether.AEM and Ether.Openweb). In the backend line, The Analysis focused on the deployment of low cost technologies (LowCost), was performed, which allow generating efficiencies, and deploying the document management extended platform, to support business processes like the new bank’s contracting model. The comprehensive work of all teams, that are part of the Engineering area, stands out, under the “Client comes first” principle, applying self-management, self-training and self-control strategies. 43 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Digital transformation Transactional mobility Infrastructure and communications During 2018, several initiatives were implemented improving internal and external clients’ experience, among them, migration of the main communication channels to the Synapse network, a corporate Project to manage a Cloud telecommunications model and the adoption of WebEx as an internal communication channel. Progress was made in the transformation of the application certification model, automating testing of the main digital channels (Mobile Banking, Net People, Net Companies); contributing to Time to Market of the application deployments, as well as the stability and reliability of the productive services. Likewise, initiatives were developed that strengthen the high availability, service continuity and obsolescence vectors at a hardware and software level, such as the migration of the White page (www.bbva.com.co) to the Amazon Web Service Cloud. As a result of the above, the availability indicators at the closing of 2018 for digital services, were the best in the last three years, reaching a prime of 99.8%. 44 BBVA COLOMBIA STRATEGY Process transformation During 2018, the BPE Unit continued carrying out the Process Plan, which incorporates 20 projects with 36 improvement lines, that with a cross view of the Organization and the use of corporate collaborative methodologies, leverage the group strategic priorities. The efforts have been focused towards mobile manager, new contracting model, offices improvement, universal assistance and robotics; as well as improvement of important processes in key areas such as: Guarantees, Insurance, Budget, Project Office, among others. The replacement of the BPM (Business Process Management) as a basis for the implementation of the new contracting model Project, was an important milestone to achieve the objective to improve the process of placing asset products (loan and credit cards) through the sales force. Mobility, cost efficiency and multi-product process, with a comprehensive Vision of the customer, are the main benefits of this project. The Process Architecture as a fundamental pillar of the transformation, was consolidated during 2018. In this regard, 180 processes, corresponding to the Core were modeled out of 327 identified in the business value chain, allowing identifying the person responsible for each one of them. The foregoing, added to the robotization of 5 processes in the Credit Factory, whose main benefits were the reduction of time and cost of the associated operations. Likewise, the beginning of the 14 work-lines contemplated within the global plan called transformation of the Productive Model (TPM), was led, which intends to achieve the maximum possible efficiencies in the processes of the branch network. Additionally, the renewal of more than 1,700 pieces of technological equipment in the branches network and in more tan 600 central areas, was carried out, as part of the the execution of the obsolescence plan defined for 2018. On the other hand, the online support model transformation was initiated, based on the self-management initiatives focused on generating cultural transformation and efficiencies in the IT-Help support process, achieving a better service reflected in the reduction of incidents related to the workplace. 45 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Within the strategy of ATM’s channel renewal, the gear was managed with the different areas to achieve effectiveness in the renewal of 180 ATM’s from a total of 318, which were obsolete at the beginning of the year. This will allow, among other things, to remotely solve the faults, generating greater availability and efficiency in customer service, sending updates to the service, as well as, massive and controlled advertising for the different strategies required by the Business. The Channel Services function was also consolidated, seeking to contribute and ensure an adequate customer experience in the channels, strengthening relationship models with those involved in its transformation, and participating as an intermediary between Business and Engineering, in order to generate greater efficiency in the communication and implementation of uniform strategies, supporting the actions defined, so they have a balanced mix between ease, high availability and performance. Operations In 2018, Operations supported important initiatives for the implementation of new services and processes, focused on offering digital alternatives and new portfolios to customers. Optimization were made for processing of operations to keep pace with the demand, with emphasis on digital, manual processes were eliminated, reducing the processing times in the contracting of products by incorporating automatic elements; besides, operational processes were streamlined, allowing a better control and improving the response times for customers and user areas. Data The strategy of having an organization based on data, was consolidated (data driven), through the development of two key projects: • Transcendence: planning of the use cases was carried out, defining the roadmap to initiate the first 4 use cases in January 2019, with the objective of ensuring the necessary intakes and the productive deployment of the Datio tool. Likewise, the first journey of training of Data Scientists, Data Specialists and Data Developers was successfully carried out, were 24, 17 and 20 employees respectively, from the different Vice-presidencies, 46 BBVA COLOMBIA STRATEGY were trained. The Transcendence Data Hub team, to date, has three cells, each one with 7 employees dedicated to extraction processes, governance and data intake. • Governance: The Project was deployed through several stages called Ola1 and Ola2, which consisted of the development of data process maps for 4 domains (Finance, Risk, Client Solutions & CIB), identifying 17,316 operating entities; subsequently, Ola3 was developed, defining high level process flows for Project Management related to data (DOM Data Operating Model). New digital businesses In 2018, we were the country with the most active participation in Open Talent, a Fintechs global contest in which the startup Prestagente, a Colombia winner, represented the country in the Madrid Open Summit, the grand worldwide final. A pilot is currently being carried out in Colombia, demonstrating that integration between fintechs and banking is possible. Through Open talent and different bank initiatives, we met more than 250 startups, becoming the South America fintech hub for the BBVA Group. We conducted 6 pilots tests with startups, turning them into associated providers in our platform, 2 of them have even scaled their pilots to other countries were BBVA is present. For the third consecutive year, due to the Innovation investment with two projects, through Colciencias, the Bank obtained tax benefits. In our own Brand event, Open Talks, we had 119,384 people connected to the streaming, 336 people attended in person, 153 connections with entrepreneurs and companies and 26 business opportunities were detected by the BBVA areas. In the second half of the year, Colombia was selected to implement the global collaboration model with 10 Startups called Fast Track, carrying out two editions with 7 business areas and entrepreneurs from 6 countries. BBVA Colombia generated important contributions to the Colombia and the region Innovation and entrepreneurship eco-system, being an active part of the Fintech Colombian association and having presence in different events and global communities. 47 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Digital sales For 2018, BBVA Colombia increased digital sales with products like mobile Payroll Advance, with immediate cash availability of pre-approved transactions in net and mobile applications, network and mobile rollover of consumer credits, Online Account on mobile, SOAT in the Net, and companies Mobile Banking (APP net cash) and increase of Funds in mobile. Within the CIB Global Markets business, during 2018, Forex FX Purchase and Sale functionalities were implemented through the Net digital channels and NetCash, applications that also allow Price flexibility through the Price engine. It was the opportunity to consolidate the digital strategy, attract new clients with different profiles, and satisfy the need of those who demand “avant garde” products every day, challenging to create 100% digital products. Online Account: • A 100% digital product, is formalized without documents and without signatures. • Immediate opening without the need to go to an office. • COL$417,000 average balance in the account +62.500 60% Accounts opened New through the mobile customers + 75.000 Opened accounts 48 BBVA COLOMBIA STRATEGY Payroll Advance: • 100% digital: attracts the public for its simplicity by not requiring credit +221% Annual experience or sending documents to growth the office. • It allows completely digital selfmanagement. • More than 51,000 operations in the first 6 months. • Represented more than 52% of total 180.000 8 registrations. U Investment Funds: • The contributions to funds contracted through the application are completely digital. • 56% of registrations in Funds are now digital. +50% 60% Of contracts are of made through this contributions way are digital 49 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 The financial industry must be transformed to offer better service and advice to clients and a new value proposition based on the digital relationship model focused on the Omni-channel model, personalization and convenience. All these innovations reduce costs, thanks to processes automation, which was evidenced in other initiatives carried out during 2018 such as: Pre-approved, CD and Consumption: • Electronic contract. • 70% of the consumption in the second semester. • $266M savings in two months of the operation. • 4,942 consumption disbursed through this way in the second semester. • $108M Factory cost savings in the last 4 months. Consumer rollover in Network and mobile: • +1,345 Consumer rollover in digital channels in the last 4 months. • $29M savings in operational costs. Legal Entity: In 2018, the Private Legal Entities Segment, became Sales Enterprises, beginning a new stage in the creation of new strategies for SMEs and business segments aligned with strategic priorities. 50 BBVA COLOMBIA STRATEGY GRI-102-40 • GRI-102-42 Materiality analysis GRI-102-43 • GRI-102-44 GRI-102-46 • GRI-102-47 GRI-103-1 This year BBVA has improved, again its materiality analysis. To the analysis based on data already used in recent years, the participation of the strategy area in the exercise of materiality, as well as the collaboration of different “owners” of the relationships with stakeholders (the areas of Client Solutions, Talent & Culture, Investor Relations, Supervisory Relations, Legal Services, Responsible Business…) have been added. With this, it has achieved two things: to substantially improve the process of identifying ‘issues’ and to carry out a debate on the relationship between stakeholders’ priorities and the business strategy. The phases of materiality analysis are the following: • Identification of relevant issues for each of the stakeholders from the interviews with the relationship owners. These stakeholders in turn, relied on the information from the listening and dialogue tools they usually use. • Aggregation of issues in a single list of multistakeholder issues. • Prioritization of issues according to their importance to the stakeholders. • Prioritization of issues according to their impact on BBVA’s strategy. 51 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Identification of issues relevant to each stakeholder Clients Areas interviewed: Seamless Experience and Client Solutions Strategy. Both areas cover Retail banking segment clients as well as companies. Dialogue tools: Surveys that measure experience and recommendation level of BBVA clients in the different markets and Analysis of claims. Main issues identified: • Solvency of the entity: Peace of mind since the deposits are safe. • Consumer protection: transparency and good marketing practices and sale of adequate products with fair conditions. • Cybersecurity and responsible use of data. • Agility, simplicity, convenience and self-service. • Value counseling: Clients’ expectation about having a bank that helps them make good decisions for their life or business, at the right time. Employees Areas interviewed: Talent & Culture. Dialogue tools: Gallup Surveys, internal reputation surveys, information from workshops and focus groups with employees. 52 BBVA COLOMBIA STRATEGY Main issues identified: • Labor security, company strength. • Culture and values aligned with their own values. • Autonomy in the performance and professional development. • Equality of opportunity, diversity and conciliation. Shareholders, Investors and Analystss Areas interviewed: Investor Relations and Responsible Business. Dialogue tools: Roadshows, conferences, interviews, ad-hoc meetings, perception studies, Shareholders meetings, analysts’ questionnaires. Main issues identified: • Solvency. • Shareholder remuneration. • Strategy and creation of sustainable value. • Good entity governance. • Environment and climate change (especially for a certain collective). 53 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Regulators and Supervisors Areas interviewed: Supervisory relations, Financial Systems Regulation, Legal Services, Institutional Relations. Dialogue tools: On-site supervisory activities, regulatory reporting, working groups, ad-hoc questionnaires, conferences. Main issues identified: • Depositors defense, consumer protection and fundamental rights (including privacy). • Solvency and liquidity. • Good corporate governance and Risk Management (including non-financial). • Sustainability of the business model. • Stability and transformation of the financial system. • Respect for regulation. • Employment protection. • Environment and climate change y sustainable finance. 54 BBVA COLOMBIA STRATEGY Society Areas Interviewed: Communication y responsible business Dialogue tools: Meeting with Non-government organizations and civil society groups, media and social networks analysis, non-clients’ surveys. Main issues identified • Consumer protection and fundamental rights. • Financial inclusion: Access to finance. • Financial literacy. • Environment and climate change. Trends Analysis Areas interviewed: BBVA Research Main issues identified: • Open banking. • Disruptive technologies (artificial intelligence, machine learning, quantum • New financial competitive climate: bigtechs, computing and robotics among others): fintechs. opportunities and ethical challenges. • Digital gap: inequality risk. • Cybersecurity and data protection. • Integrity/ financial system ethics (anti-money • Criptoactive and decentralized economy. laundering). 55 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Aggregation in a single list of multi-stakeholder issues Based on the total of issues identified for each of the stakeholders, BBVA prepared a list of 12 multi-stakeholder issues, which are the following: The stakeholders expect BBVA to be a bank with sufficient capital and liquidity, thus contributing to the stability of the system. In addition, they expect BBVA to be a bank with good results over time. That is, they demand a sustainable business model in the current ecosystem characterized by 1. Solvency and sustainable results the emergence of disruptive technologies (block chain, quantum computing, artificial intelligence ...) and new competitors (fintech, bigtech, ...). A more competitive Climate, with more opportunities and also with more risks. They also expect the business model to respond to geopolitical issues. The stakeholders expect BBVA to have good Corporate Governance: an adequate composition of the governing bodies, solid processes for decision 2. Corporate Governance making and the assumption of risks, clear assignment of responsibilities, control procedures, all of these well documented The stakeholders expect the Bank to have integrity, Specially, they expect the Bank to protect consumers or depositors: by being transparent, 3. Ethical behavior and consumer offering adequate products to their risk profile, with fair prices, offering protection security, managing with integrity the ethical challenges arising from some of the new technologies. Stakeholders expect the Bank to get to know its clients and propose personalized solutions and recommendations to better manage their 4. Personal advice to the client personal finances and achieve their vital goals. All this proactively and with fair treatment. The stakeholders expect BBVA to make the opportunities offered by new technologies available to clients. So it will be much simpler and agile for 5. Simplicity, agility and self-service for clients to operate with the Bank anytime and anywhere (mobile banking, clients wallet, totally digital contracting processes ...). In addition, the new technologies will allow BBVA to be more efficient in its operations and create value for its Shareholders. 56 BBVA COLOMBIA STRATEGY The stakeholders expect their data to be safe in BBVA, and that it uses it 6. Cybersecurity and responsible use of only for the agreed purposes and that it makes use of it with a positive data impact on clients and society. This is essential to keep trust. The stakeholders expect BBVA to be a good place to work, capable of 7. Talent attraction, development and attracting, developing and retaining the best professionals, those with the retention necessary skills and attitude in the current changing context. The stakeholders expect BBVA to be a diverse entity from all points of view 8. Diversity and reconciliation (gender, race, age ...), that it offers equal opportunities in which it is possible to reconcile work and personal life. Stakeholders expect BBVA to protect the environment and promote, 9. Environment and climate change through its business, a low carbon economy that slows down global warming. Stakeholders expect BBVA to respect and promote human rights in 10. Human rights everything it does: labor conditions, the right to housing, financing projects subject to respect for human rights The stakeholders expect the Bank to contribute to the inclusion and banking Access for the most excluded people as a way to improve their 11.Inclusion and Financial Literacy living conditions. They also expect that the Bank provides education to facilitate their good financial health. The stakeholders expect BBVA to contribute to generating wealth in the 12. Contributions to the development of societies in which it operates, by maintaining and creating employment societies (despite digital transformation), payment of taxes, access to credit, and support for the groups that most need Jobs. 57 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Prioritization of issues for stakeholders BBVA used the following sources for the prioritization of stakeholders. Clients: BBVA prepared an ad-hoc questionnaire for its clients in the countries it operates, asking about the importance of each of the above mentioned material issues. For this, it used an existing tracking system (RepTrak®), in which it incorporated, during an Ola (October-November) a series of specific questions Employees: Similar to the previous case, BBVA is important for its employees, according to the annual survey made to employees, to measure the pride of belonging. Shareholders, Investors and Analysts: In this case, it was the Investor Relations area, who acted on behalf of the most mainstream collective. For this purpose, it answers the questionnaire designed to prioritized the list of multi-stakeholder issues. Additionally, BBVA identified the most relevant aspects for the most sensitive group to sustainability, through the questionnaires analysis answered by analysts and reports from expert bodies in socially responsible investment. Regulator: Through Datamaran and from the interviews with the areas closest to the regulators, BBVA identified the main laws and regulatory initiatives, both mandatory and regulatory that affect the financial industry in different geographical areas. Society: In order to know the issues that most concern society, BBVA carried out several exercises: • Media and social networks analysis, to know about the issues in both sources. • Expectations analysis of the most active NGOs in the financial industry, through a study of their most recent reports and publications. 58 BBVA COLOMBIA STRATEGY BBVA completed prioritization with the analysis of: • Trends. After studying the main trends reports about the industry, BBVA was able to identify the issues related to the trends. • Industry. Thanks to the Datamaran database, BBVA analyzed which are the most common issues for our peers (Financial reports, sustainability reports, integrated reports…) Besides, BBVA carried out a previous prioritization of its own interest groups Sources Interviewed Clients 1,250 BBVA clients surveyed Employees 5,894 BBVA employees surveyed Shareholders , Investors and Mainstream Analysts Surveyed carried out on the Investors Relations area 21 reports Investors and Sustainability Analysts 14 organizations 83 regulators Regulations 631 regulatory documents 4,639 articles Media and Social Networks 221 K tweets 40 reports ONGs 20 organizations Peers 94 peers 30 reports Trends 24 organizations 59 STRATEGY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Prioritization for the strategy The strategy team, carried out and assessment on how each of the issues impacts the Bank’s six strategic priorities. Those issues that help us achieve our strategy, are the more relevant for BBVA. Materiality Matrix Solvency and sustainable results Corporate governance Easy, fast & DIY Ethical behaviour & consumer Importance for stakeholders protection Cibersecurity & responsible Human rigths use of data Environmental and climate change impact Adequate and timely advice to customers Contribution to societies’ development Talent attraction, developement and retention Financial education & inclusion Diversity and conciliation Importance for BBVA’s business 60 BBVA COLOMBIA STRATEGY Model of responsible banking GRI-102-16 BBVA has a different banking model, called responsible banking, based on the search for a return in accordance to principles, the strict compliance with the regulations, good practices and the creation of long term value for all stakeholders. This is reflected in the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy or the Responsible Banking (or CSR Policy); a policy whose mission is to manage the responsibility for the Bank’s impact on people and society which is key to delivery the BBVA purpose. The CSR is approved by the Board of Directors. The model of responsible banking is monitored by the Board of Directors and the Permanent Executive Committee, as well as the Bank’s Global Leadership Team (GLT) chaired by the managing director. All the business and support areas integrate this policy into their operating models. The Responsible Business Unit coordinates its implementation and works mainly as a second line to define standards and provide support. The four pillars of the BBVA’s responsible banking model are the following: • Balanced relationships with its clients, based on transparency, clarity and responsibility (TCR). • Sustainable finance to fight climate change, respect human rights and achieve the Sustainable Development Objectives (SDO) of the United Nations. • Responsible practices with employees, suppliers and other stakeholders. • Investment in community, to promote social change and to create opportunities for all. 61 4. Finan Infor cial mation Management 2018 64 Risks 73 Shareholders 110 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Management 2018 The Management Report submitted for approval to the Shareholders’ General Meeting, adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to Minutes No. 1641 of January 28, 2019, contains the economic and financial analysis of the Balance Sheet and Statement of Income of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria Colombia S.A. “BBVA Colombia”, banking establishment incorporated as Stock Company by Public Deed 1160 of April 17, 1956, for a term until December 31, 2099. The Audited Financial Statements of BBVA Colombia are attached herein, in conformity with the standards of the Financial Superintendence of Colombia (SFC per its acronym in Spanish) and the Commerce Code. In accordance with Article 57 of Decree 2649 of 1993, the information and statements in connection to the Financial Statements have been duly verified and obtained from the accounting records of the Bank, prepared in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards and guidelines provided by the Financial Superintendence of Colombia. The Financial Statements include descriptive notes about accounting standards and accounts required for their preparation. Specifically in Note 49 balances and transactions with related parties (affiliates, partners and administrators) at December 31, 2018 have been disclosed. The figures of the Statement of Income and Balance Sheet included herein, were taken from the Audited Financial Statements. They have been classified and grouped in accordance with the methodology of the Financial Superintendence of Colombia, pursuant the convergence with IFRS. 64 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION Financial performance Balance At year end, total assets of BBVA Colombia reached $62,4 trillion. They showed 8,7%, annual growth, representing +$5,0 trillion variation. Balance GRI-102-7 (Individual balances Million Colombian pesos) dec-18 dec-17 Var TAM Cash $ 7,908,659 $ 4,735,857 $ 3,172,803 67.0% Lending positions in market operations 514,422 1,032,004 (517,582) (50.2)% Investments and operations with derivatives 9,591,623 8,409,898 1,181,724 14.1 % Loans and leasing portfolio 45,573,222 43,649,649 1,923,573 4.4% Impairment (2,944,928) (2,290,570) (654,358) 28.6% Other assets 1,758,909 1,890,374 (131,466) (7.0)% Assets 62,401,906 57,427,212 4,974,694 8.7% Deposits and receivables 49,559,346 46,866,106 2,693,240 5.7 % Borrowing positions in market operations 3,345,050 2,635,115 709,935 26.9 % Financial instruments at fair value 1,307,567 840,020 467,547 55.7 % Banks and other financial obligations 2,519,646 1,842,312 677,334 36.8 % Trade payables 625,419 581,558 43,861 7.5 % Labor obligations 218,954 212,217 6,738 3.2 % Other liabilities 479,168 425,892 53,276 12.5 % Liabilities 58,055,151 53,403,220 4,651,931 8.7 % Share capital 89,779 89,779 Reserves and specific-purpose funds 2,764,479 2,535,777 228,702 9.0 % Surplus 958,739 956,523 2,216 0.2 % Profits or losses 533,758 441,913 91,845 20.8 % Shareholders’ equity 4,346,755 4,023,992 322,763 8.0 % Total Liabilities and Shareholders’ equity $ 62,401,906 $ 57,427,212 $ 4,974,694 8.7 % 65 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 With regard to the liquidity resources of the Bank, increase is due mainly to the $1,5 trillion increase in Cash recorded an increase by +$3.2 trillion versus Savings Deposits, at $997,8m.M increase in Special 2017. This increase was due to the variation of +$2.0 Deposits; at $826,1m.M increase in Current Account trillion in Cash in the Central Bank (Banco de la Deposits and $48,4m.M increase for services Republica) and +$1.2 trillion variation in Cash in enforceability. On the otherhand, Term Deposit Banks and other financial entities. Certificates showed -$712,1m.M variation. The balance of Lending Positions in Market Borrowing positions in market operations increased Operations closed with $514.4m.M, showing -50.2% by $709,9m.M, due to the increase of +$1,9 trillion in reduction versus 2017. This -$517,6m.M decrease Repo Operations, the reduction of -$568,9m.M in was due to a lower volume in concurrent operations, short positions, -$522,0m.M in concurrent and which showed ($447,9m.M) variation and a lower -$150,1m.M in interbank funds. volume in Temporary Transfer of Securities with ($89,7m.M.) variation. Financial instruments at fair value closed with $1,3 trillion balance which represented 55.7% increase In turn, Investments and operations with derivatives versus 2017. Such variation is explained by the showed +14.1% positive variation versus December increase in Forwards (+$261,5m.M), in Swaps 2017, closing with $9.6 trillion balance. (+$273,7m.M) and negotiation options (+$10,8m.M). On the other hand, hedging swaps Gross portfolio of Loans and Leasing recorded an showed -$78,9m.M reduction. annual growth of 4,4% or $1.9 trillion, closing December 2018 with $45.6 trillion balance. In turn, Credit facilities with banks and Other Financial the Impairment account that corresponds to the Obligations recorded an increase of $677,3m.M, due specific and generic provisions of the portfolio to the increase of +$403,5m.M of other financial showed +28.6% increase. Other assets account obligations, +$329,3m.M of obligations with Findeter showed -7.0% reduction or -$131.5m.M. and +$44,0m.M obligations with Bancoldex. While obligations with foreign entities and Finagro showed With regard to liabilities, deposits and receivables negative variations of -$72,7m.M and -26,7m.M, accounts, they showed an annual growth of 5.7% or respectively. $2,7 trillion, closing with $49,6 trillion balance Said 66 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION Trade payables showed +7.5% variation while Labor obligations showed +3,2% increase. Other liabilities increased by 12.5% or $53,3m.M, closing the year with $479,2m.M balance. Finally, the Shareholders’ Equity account showed 8,0% and closed with $4,3 trillion at December 2018. Loan portfolio At December 2018, gross loan portfolio closed with $45,6 trillion and showed +4.4% variation versus 2017. Likewise, net loan portfolio showed a positive variation (3.1%) and closed with $42,6 trillion pesos balance. Loan portfolio dec-18 dec-17 %Var TAM Gross loan portfolio $ 45,573,222 $ 43,649,649 $ 1,923,573 4.4 % Consumer 15,434,702 14,311,984 1,122,717 7.8% Commercial 15,384,065 15,802,077 (418,012) (2.6)% Microloans N.C% Mortgages 10,944,898 10,075,289 869,609 8.6% Leasing 1,698,190 1,661,208 36,982 2.2% Non-performing loan portfolio 305,645 286,059 19,586 6.8% Delinquent loan portfolio 1,805,722 1,513,031 292,691 19.3% Impairment (2,944,928) (2,290,570) (654,358) 28.6 % Net loan portfolio $ 42,628,293 $ 41,359,078 $ 1,269,215 3.1 The loan portfolio of BBVA Colombia maintains its focus toward the Retail segment which represents 57.9% of gross portfolio at year end December 2018. This segment showed 8.2% increase versus previous year and $26,4 trillion balance. The consumer portfolio, made up by Order of payment, Vehicle, Free Investment, Revolving Credit Limit, Individual Credit Cards, Retail banking segment and Particular Overdrafts, showed 7.8% annual increase. Orders of payment kept the higher participation in consumer portfolio with 58.4%, followed by Free Consumer with 26.5% and Vehicle loans with 11.0%. 67 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 The mortgage portfolio grew by 8.6% which represented $869,6m.M variation, and at year end, 24.0% of gross portfolio. The commercial portfolio showed a reduction -2,6% annual with a variation -$418m.M. In turn, the leasing portfolio increased by 2.2% growth with +$37,0m.M variation. Portfolio impairment showed 28.6% increase, boosted by impairment in consumer loan portfolio by -$457,3m.M, commercial credits by -$145,9m.M and housing loans by -54,8m.M. The counter-cyclic component variance was +3,7m.M. Return ratios and indicators The adequate risk management performed in BBVA Colombia allows the development of their commercial operation, keeping good quality indicators of the portfolio and the sound risk profile. Delinquent portfolio and hedging Item dec-18 dec-17 Var TAM Gross loan portfolio $ 45,573,222 $ 43,649,649 4.4% Total non-performing portfolio 2,111,367 1,799,090 17.36% Non-performing loan portfolio 305,645 286,059 6.85% Delinquent loan portfolio $ 1,805,722 $ 1,513,031 $ 19.34% Portfolio indexes % % % Non-performing loan portfolio 0.67% 0.66 % 0.02% Quality of delinquent loan portfolio 3.96 % 3.47% 0.50% Provisions $ 2,944,928 $ 2,290,570 28.57% Hedging of delinquent portfolio 163.09 % 151.39 % 11.70% At year end, the portfolio quality indicator was 3.96%. In turn, the hedging indicator of delinquent portfolio was 163.09%. 68 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION Customer funds At year end, customer funds were kept adjusted to the liquidity needs of the Bank and deposit takings behaved in line with the growth dynamics of the portfolio. Customer funds increased by 5.7%, which represented +$2.7 trillion variation, closing the year with $49,6 trillion. Term Deposit Certificates represented 39.1% from the total resources and recorded -3.5%, reaching $19.4 trillion. Customer funds Item dec-18 dec-17 Var TAM Demand deposits $ 7,256,409 $ 6,430,323 $ 826,086 12.8 % Savings deposits 18,991,932 17,463,534 1,528,397 8.8 % Term Deposit Certificates 19,373,593 20,085,801 (712,208) (3.5)% Other deposits 1,654,559 608,484 1,046,075 171.9 % Total customer deposits 47,276,492 44,588,143 2,688,350 6.0 % Outstanding investment securities 2,282,854 2,277,963 4,890 0.2 % Total customer funds $ 49,559,346 $ 46,866,106 $ 2,693,240 5.7 % *(Prompt balances Million Colombian pesos) Transactional deposits (Demand and Savings) increased by 9.9%, which represented +$2,4 trillion variation. Such deposits represented 53.0% from total customer funds. Outstanding Investment Securities closed the year with $2,3 trillion and showed a negative variation by +0.2% versus 2017, issued in 2010. Sufficient equity and solvency ratio Shareholders’ equity of BBVA had a positive variation of 5.1% and closed with $4 trillion. Such variation is explained by the increase of reserves in $256.5 bn . 69 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Technical equity closed at December 2018 with $5,6 trillion balance and showed 4.6% variation. Equity required pursuant to Colombian standards was $4,1 trillion, which implies $1,5 trillion surplus. Sufficient equity and solvency ratio Item dec-18 dec-17 % Book value of equity $ 4,346,755 $ 4,023,992 8.0 Computable sufficient equity 5,586,189 5,339,204 4.6 Basic equity 3,113,678 2,964,083 5.0 Additional equity 2,994 2,994 Additional equity 2,469,517 2,372,127 4.1 Technical capital 5,586,189 5,339,204 4.6 Required sufficient equity 4,071,722 3,918,100 3.9 Equity surplus 1,514,467 1,421,103 6.6 Weighted assets and contingency per risk level 45,241,351 43,534,449 3.9 Value at Risk (VaR) 234,923 242,911 (3.3) Solvency ratio without VaR 13.10 13.07 3 pbs Solvency ratio with VaR (minimum 9%) 12.35 12.26 9 pbs Tier 1 (%)1 $ 6.88 $ 6.81 7 pbs *(Saldos puntuales millones de pesos) Weighted assets per risk level closed in $45,2 trillion and grew by 3.9%, which evidenced the growth of activity. In turn, the Value at Market Risk (VaR) decreased 3.3%. The solvency ratio of the Bank closed by 12.35%, with 9bps increase versus 2017. Income statement Below the accrued results of BBVA Colombia at the closing of December 2017 and 2018: 70 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION Income statement Item dic-18 dic-17 Var TAM Loan portfolio $ 4,830,056 $ 4,712,894 $ 117,161 2.5% Interest expenses (2,060,057) (2,237,399) 177,342 (7.9)% Net income for interests 2,769,998 2,475,496 294,503 11.9% Net income for bank fees 158,175 154,743 3,432 2.2% Investment portfolio 433,213 488,268 (55,055) (11.3)% Dividends 17,471 10,940 6,532 59.7% Remaining income 85,525 157,423 (71,898) (45.7)% Other operating income 536,209 656,630 (120,421) (18.3)% Gross margin 3,464,383 3,286,869 177,513 5.4% Net supply of assets (1,107,289) (1,186,035) 78,745 (6.6)% • Overhead administration costs (1,530,220) (1,530,871) 651 (0.0)% • Staff costs (560,693) (569,009) 8,316 (1.5)% • Overhead costs (379,450) (362,100) (17,349) 4.8% • Contributions and taxes (120,222) (133,868) 13,646 (10.2)% • Others (460,403) (460,929) 526 (0.1)% • Operating risk (9,452) (4,965) (4,487) 90.4% Operating expenses (2,637,510) (2,716,906) 79,396 (2.9)% Income before taxes 826,873 569,963 256,910 45.1% Income tax (277,562) (112,497) (165,065) 146.7% Net profit $ 549,312 $ 457,466 $ 91,845 20.1% *(Prompt balances Million Colombian pesos) The interest margin recorded an inter-annual increase of 11.9%. Income from loans portfolio recorded a $117,2m.M, while expenses decreased by $177,3m.M. The foregoing driven by the scenario of the reduction of interest rates which makes deposits to be depreciated in a more accelerated form than the portfolio. For such purpose, net income for interests showed an increase of $294,5m.M. 71 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Net income for bank fees closed at December 2018 with +2.2% variation. In turn, income from the investment portfolio showed -11.3% or -$55,1m.M, this is due to the reduction of income for derivatives and the decrease in income from securities. Dividends recorded 59.7% increase and closed with $17,5m.M. Additionally, the other income entry line that includes operating income for financial services supplied and recoveries from Operating Risk and others, recorded a reduction by -45.7%. The net supply of assets showed $1,1 trillion and reduction by -6.6% versus previous year. Administrative expenses recorded -$651 million decrease versus previous year. Staff costs reduced 1.5% versus previous year. In addition, overhead expenses grew by 4.8%. Expenses for contributions and taxes recorded -10.2% reduction. Finally, BBVA Colombia recorded net income for year 2018 for $549,3m.M. This resul showed a TAM variation of +20.1% or +91,8m.M, thus concluding an excellent management for the year. 72 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION Risks General Risk Management and Control Model As member of BBVA Group, BBVA Colombia has a general risk management and control model, tailored to the local business, its organization and geographies where it operates. Said Model allows developing its activity within the framework of the risk management and control strategy and policy defined by the Board of Directors, adapted to a changing economic and regulatory climate, facing the risk management on a global basis and adjusted to the circumstances at any given moment. The Modelo is applied thoroughly in BBVA Colombia and is made up by basic elements detailed below: • Governance and organization. • Risk appetite framework. • Decisions and processes. • Evaluation, follow up and reporting. • Infrastructure. Governance and organization The governance risk model in BBVA Colombia is characterized for a special coordination of its corporate bodies to establish both the risk strategy and the follow up and continuous supervision of its implementation. The Board of Directors approves the risk strategy and supervises the internal control and management systems. In particular, with regard to the risk strategy, the Board of Directors approves the Risk Management and Control General Model, the declaration of risk appetite of BBVA Colombia and subordinates, the fundamental metrics (and declarations) and the basic structure per types of risks (and declarations). The Board of Directors also 73 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 ensures the approval and follow up of the strategic and business plan, annual budgets and management goals, as well as the investments and financing policy. All this, on a consistent basis and aligned with the approved risk appetite framework. Pursuant to the basis established by the Board of Directors, the Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) performs the follow up on the risk limits, being informed both of the surpluses produced over the limits and, in this case, of timely correcting measures that could be set. It also performs, as a special relevant task, the control and detailed follow up of the risks that affect the risk area as a whole that allows the supervision of the effective integration in the risk management strategy and the application of the policies approved by corporate bodies. The Risk Vice-presidency, for the best compliance of its functions, is supported on a structure made up by specific units pursuant to risk types: Market and Structural Market Risk, Operating Risk, Risk Strategic Management and Credit Risk, which in turn, are classified per customer type (Wholesale Risks and Retail Risks). Within its competence scope, risk management and control functions, it is responsible for applying the corporate policies and standards approved by the Board of Directors and reporting as appropriate to the corporate bodies. The decision-making process of the Risk Area is supported by the structure of the committees; the Risk Management Committee (RMC) is the highest committee of the risks function and, among others, it proposes and contrasts the risk internal regulatory framework, the procedures and infrastructures necessary to identify, evaluate, measure and manage the risks faced by the Bank when developing their businesses, portfolio risk limits or offsetting entry, as well as the admission of risk operations. The Risk Management Committee (RMC) articulates the development of its functions in different supplementary committees: • Operations Technical Committee and Central Risk Committee which purpose is the decision making with regard to the admission of wholesale credit risks of certain customers’ segments. • Wholesale Segment Follow-up Committee and Retail and SMEs Segments Follow-up Committee: which purpose is to determine the action measures to manage the recovery of non-performing loan portfolio and local and consolidated delinquent loan portfolio. 74 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION Risk appetite framework The Risk Appetite Framework approved by the Board of Directors determines the risks and level thereof that BBVA Colombia is willing to assume in order to accomplish its business goals. They are expressed in terms of solvency, return, liquidity and financing or other metrics, which are reviewed as in the case of substantial modifications of the business or of relevant corporate operations. The definition of Risk Appetite has the following goals: • Develop the Bank strategy and highest risk levels that is willing to undertake. • Establish the action guidelines and a medium-long term management framework that prevent actions with which the future viability of the Bank may be compromised. • Ensure the consistency in the decision-making process, thus preventing contrasting behaviors with other geographies of the Group. • Ensure the alignment with the new regulatory requirements facilitating the communication with regulators, investors and other stakeholders thanks to a comprehensive and stable framework of the risk management. The Risk Appetite defined by BBVA expresses the risk levels and types that the Bank is ready to take in order to carry out its strategic plan without relevant diversions, even in stress situations. The Risk Appetite is embodied in management and determines the basic activity lines of the Bank since it provides the framework of the Budget. Decisions and processes The transfer of the Risk Appetite to ordinary management is supported on three basic aspects: • A homogeneous regulatory body: The Risk area follows and adapts the regulatory body, defined by the organization, to local demands and for the purpose to having the decision-making process adequate to the local level and aligned with the BBVA Grupo policies. 75 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 • Risk planning: The risk planning allows ensuring the integration in the Risk Appetite framework management through the cascade process of setting limits, where the function of the Risks Area of Colombia is to guarantee the alignment of said process with the Risk Appetite Framework authorized, in terms of solvency, return, liquidity and financingn. • Daily risk management: All risks should be managed comprehensively during their life cycle based upon a differentiated treatment pursuant to their typology. Evaluation, tracking and reporting The evaluation, tracking and reporting is a cross element intended to allow the risk control and management model having a dynamic and anticipated vision that enables the compliance with the Risk Appetite Framework approved by the Board of Directors, even in face of unfavorable scenarios. This process is integrated into the activity of risk units and is developed in following phases: • Identification of risk factors that might commit the Bank performance with regard of defined risk thresholds. • Evaluation of the materialization impact of risk factos in metrics that define the Risk Appetite, based on different scenarios, including stress scenarios. • Response to undesired situations and proposal of reconductions measures with the appropriate instance, allowing a dynamic management of the situation, even before it appears. • Tracking the Bank risk profile and identifies risk factors through internal, competitors and market indicators, among others, that allow anticipating their future evolution. • Reporting risk evolution to the Board of Directors with complete and reliable information, with the frequency and comprehensiveness according to the nature, relevance and complexity of risks reported. The principle of transparency rules the reporting of risk information. 76 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION Infraestructure The infrastructure constitutes an element that must ensure that BBVA Colombia has the sufficient human and technological resources for an effective risk management and supervision, the performance of functions comprised in the Model and the goals achievement. Risk culture BBVA Colombia regards the risk culture as an essential element for the consolidation and integration of other components of the Model. The culture transfers, to all levels of the Organization the implications that, from the risk perspective, involved in activities and businesses of BBVA Colombia. The risk culture is articulated based upon the following levers: • Communication: promotes the dissemination of the Model and, in particular, of the principles that should rule the risk management in BBVA Colombia, consistently and comprehensively through the most suitable channels for such purpose. • Training: its main objective is to disseminate and settle the risk management model of the Bank, ensuring the standards in capacities and knowledge of the different parties in the risk management processes. • Motivation: area that pursues the incentives of the risk function teams that support the strategy management, values and culture of the function at all levels. It includes the compensation and every such element related to motivation -working environment, etc.,that contribute to the achievement of the Model objectives. Risk events As described above, BBVA Colombia has processes to identify risk and analyze scenarios that allow the Bank to perform a dynamic and advanced risk management. Risk identification processes are “forward-looking” to ensure the identification of emerging risks, and gather the 77 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 concerns arisen from both the business areas, closer to Colombian reality, and from the Board of Directors. Risks are captured and measured on a consistent basis and with adequate methodologies for each case. Measurement includes the design and application of analysis of scenarios and “stress testing”, and takes into consideration controls under which the risks are submitted. As part of this process, a future projection of Risk Appetite variables is made in stress scenarios in order to identify possible deviations with regard to the thresholds established, in which case, the appropriate action measures are taken in order to keep said variables within the target risk profile. Credit risk The credit risk management in BBVA Colombia is framed within the general model that comprises guidelines and policies for each one of the stages of the risk management. This set of internal standards provide the action framework to direct the credit risk control and management of BBVA Colombia, upon the determination of respective standards and limits. Principles that support the credit risk management are the following • Risks assumed should be adjusted to the general risk strategy set by the Management Board of BBVA Colombia and approved by the Board of Directors. • Risks assumed should maintain the proportionality with the level of own and third-party resources and generation of recurring income, giving priority to risks diversification, and preventing relevant concentrations. • Risks assumed have to be identified, measured and valued, with the mandatory existence of procedures for tracking and management, besides of sound control and mitigation mechanisms. • Risks should be managed with soundness and integration during their life cycle with a differentiated treatment pursuant to their typology and an active portfolio management based on a common measure 78 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION (economic capital). • The payment capacity of the lender to meet in full, timely and in due form, the financial obligations undertaken from business income or income source, usual, not dependent from guarantor, bondsmen, or assets as collateral, is the key criteria to grant credit risks. During 2018 and in the course of prudent supervision activities from the Financial Superintendence of Colombia, the following issues became relevant: • The regulator continued following up the action plans toward the growth trend of non-performing loan of different portfolios. For March, having complied with plans implemented, the Superintendence finished the monthly follow-up carried out since September 2017. • An “extra situ” inspection was conducted for a cross-study of credit risk on Residential Construction subsector portfolio. The recommendations report focused on following items: • Origin policies • Follow-up and rating – policies and methodologies Policies of modified and restructured loans Risk rating methodology Disclosure of risks in housing projects • Information reporteda to the SFC The Financial Superintendence of Colombia (SFC) through Asobancaria, has forwarde the External Circular Letter Project for comments of financial entities about the implementation of the Comprehensive Risk Management System (SIAR per its acronym in Spanish). Its purpose is to set the system that integrates risk management of loans, market, operation, liquidity, counterparty, collateral and insurance, and incorporate instructions with regard to country risks, data aggregation of risks and presentation of information. 79 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 The SIAR is made up by four parts: • PART I. SIAR Overall: It contains provisions applicable across all risks to which entities supervised by the Superintendence are exposed to, and incorporates new instructions with regard to risk culture, Risk appetite framework and risk governance . • PART II. Risk management: It contains the instructions for the particular management of loans, market, operation, liquidity, country, counterparty, collateral, and insurance risks. Also, it contains provisions with regard to aggregation of data about risks and presentation of information. • PART III. Measurement and standard report of risks: It contains standards to achieve an adequate measurement and reporting of credit, market, operation, liquidity and country. • PART IV. Definitions: It contains definitions used in parts I, II and III of SIAR. Once the circular letter has been released, following activities shall be developed by the Bank • From the date of enforcement of the External Circular Letter, there will be one (1) year to implement the instructions provided in new Chapters XXX and XXXI of the CBCF. • Chapter XXX – Comprehensive Risk Management System (SIAR) and annexes. • Chapter XXXI – Risk Management Systems of Exempt Entities (SARE). • For the proper compliance with this instructions, there will be two (2) months from the date of enforcement of the Circular Letter to file the “Internal Implementation Plan of SIAR” with the Superintendence. • Additionally, subsequent to filing said plan and until the enforcement of the Circular Letter, the Bank should send the progress report and development of the mentioned implementation plan within the first ten calendar days of every month. Credit risk exposure With last sector figures, at the cut-off date October 2018, BBVA holds 10.4% share, ranked as the fourth largest 80 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION competitor in the Colombian market. Annual investment growth at said cut-off date was 6.7%, focused on consumption portfolio (9.4%). In turn, Mortgages show 6.3% variation, while commercial portfolio shows 4.6% variation. At the end of October 2018, BBVA credit investment shows +$2,8 trillion (6.7%); at the cut-off date. Both Retail segment portfolio with (+$2,1 trillion, 8.1%) and the commercial portfolio with (+$0,8 trillion, 4.6%) have shown a lower growth in investment versus past year portofolio. From Admission Retail banking segment, processes of automatic, crossed and comprehensive granting processes are fostered, which although involve and are adjusted at risk level established to allow the development of digital culture for a better customer experience. An improvement is noticed on the portfolio indicators, as a result of the application of policies and controls in the admission processes, even in a scenario of light expansión in placement, all this framed within the evaluation of clients profiles adjusted at the established risk levels. For SMEs Segment, the Bank is working on different areas to implement the Power Curve Origination tool for the admission of small enterprises. This tool automates the decision-making process, has greater control on each proposal, and in turn, through the statistic model generates one sanction of each request, reducing response times and operation risks in the process. At December 2018, the MVP2 is already in production and is expected that for 3Q the tool is 100% in production. In 2018, the Wholesale Risk Segment managed the admission of credit risk, giving continuity to the application of action guidelines defined for different economic sectors, in line with the outlooks reported by Holding and the evolution of markets. Together with the above, the heat map of economic sectors was defined to identify those groups with greater vulneerability where the credit risk delegations have been restricted at different decision levels. This allows having best practices to grant risk in order to minimize the impairment on portfolio quality. 81 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Within the follow-up, following activities were incorporated: • Together with Risks Business areas, as strategy of containment of non-performing loan portfolio, the agenda was implemented for clients with default below 30 days. • Together with Business and Admission areas, the individual analysis of clients with greater warnings, to define anticipated actions on the effective portfolio. For the companies rating models, the inclusion of rating scores in host of specialized portfolio (territory entities, financial sector, finance Project, and consortiums) was enabled, the data required for oficial metrics and eliminating the operating risk arisen from the manual manipulation of this information. Classification and rating for modality of loan portfolio at December 31, 2018: Portfolio Capital Interests Others Commercial Category “A” Normal $ 16,336,125 $ 123,905 $ 4,386 Category “B” Acceptable 421,325 8,236 1,514 Category “C” Appreciable 316,749 11,182 1,749 Category “D” Significative 114,244 3,948 440 Category “E” Uncollectible 646,403 24,205 12,668 Total Commercial 17,834,846 171,476 20,757 Consumption Category “A” Normal 14,742,618 136,229 2,576 Category “B” Acceptable 219,003 4,527 162 Category “C” Appreciable 130,108 2,787 168 Category “D” Significative 236,172 5,916 463 Category “E” Uncollectible 1,033,789 27,392 3,810 Total Consumption $ 16,361,690 $ 176,851 $ 7,179 82 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION Portfolio Capital Interests Others Microcredit Category “A” Normal $ $ $ Category “B” Acceptable Category “C” Appreciable Category “D” Significative Category “E” Uncollectible 2 Total Microcredit 2 Housing Category A Normal 10,239,064 54,907 4,024 Category B Acceptable 244,720 2,205 376 Category C Appreciable 73,095 957 437 Category D Significative 215,758 2,924 738 Category E Uncollectible 186,312 3,466 2,947 Total housing 10,958,949 64,459 8,522 Housing Employees Category A Normal 308,704 618 Category B Acceptable 665 9 Category C Appreciable 498 7 Category D Significative 307 3 Category E Uncollectible 698 17 Total housing Employees 310,872 654 Consumption Employees Category A Normal 105,831 235 Category B Acceptable 304 4 Category C Appreciable 273 2 Category D Significative 84 2 Category E Uncollectible 371 3 Total Consumption Employees 106,863 246 Impairment (ProVision) general Housing Impairment (ProVision) general Employees Impairment commercial individual counercyclic componentl Others 4,987 Total Loan portfolio $ 45,573,222 $ 418,670 $ 36,46 83 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Mitigation of credit risk, security interests and other credit improvements The highest exposure to credit risk in most cases has been reduced by the existence of security interests, credit improvements and other actions that mitigate the exposure of the Bank. The hedging policy and risk credit mitigation in BBVA Colombia comes from its conception of bank business, focused toward the relational banking. In this connection, the demand of collaterals may be an instrument necessary but not enough to the risk granting since the assumption of risks requires the previous verification of the debtor’s capacity of payment or to generate enough resources that allows them the risk amortization under the conditions agreed. Consequently, the policy of the credit risk assumption in BBVA Colombia is instrumented in three levels: • Analysis of the operation financial risk based upon the capacity of reimbursement or generation of resources of the credit receiver. • Where appropriate, provision of guarantees adequate to the risk assumed in any of the forms generally accepted: monetary, collateral, personal or hedings, and finally, • Risk valuation of recovery (liquidity of asset) of guarantees received. The focus of BBVA Colombia for the risks assessment is based upon the resource generation instead of the guarantees provided; in this spirit, the Bank does not grant credit operations based only on the guarantee. At corporate level, the management tools to regularly monitor the portfolios showed in 2017 following advances: • Capital map: tracking is maintained without significant changes in structure. • Asset Allocation: through the circuit established, the modification of the limits provided for 2017 was requested which were approved by the Board of Directors in September, October and December. Bearing in mind the macroeconomic environment of Colombia which goes through indicators with some degree 84 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION of detriment in specific sectors, processes of tracking and analysis of the individual portfolios have been oriented to detect possible focuses of impairment, mainly in consumption lines where the reaction was to adjust the policies and admission tools toward the restriction of profiles with greater likelihood of non-compliance. The team work and cross strategy along the value chain since the customer’s requirement until the recovery of the loan, has allowed the more efficient visualization toward the efforts direction in order to reach the balance of the risk as critical axis to the income statement. Risk concentration With regard to the mitigation of the credit risk concentration, BBVA Colombia keeps updated the maximum concentration indexes authorized, both individual and sectorial, with regard to the different variables observable, related to the credit risk. On the other hand, the presence or finance quota of the Bank in a particular client is conditioned by its credit quality, the nature of the risks kept and the presence of the Bank in the market pursuant to following guidelines: • The finance needs of the Customer (commercial/financial, short-term/long-term, etc.,) are intended to be reconciled with the Bank interests to the extent possible. • The legal limits that may exist about risk concentration (relation between risks maintained with a client and the funds own of the entity assuming them) are taken into consideration as well as the situation of markets, macro-economic situation, etc. The Bank loan portfolio at December 31, 2018, was distributed into debtors dedicated to the following economic activities: 85 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Activity 2018 2017 Associaion activities – education – health $ 1,651,156 $ 1,410,637 Entertaining Activities – Cultural activity 127,335 182,504 Real estate – companies – lease activity 1,278,042 1,167,418 Water collection – depuration – distribution 46,826 25,178 Wholesale commerce – fees – contracting 1,648,067 1,638,931 Retail commerce – non-specialized establishments 2,346,856 2,354,567 Construction – conditioning – finishing 1,686,168 2,123,775 Mail and telecommunication 324,507 396,41 Preparation food products and beverages 1,392,605 1,180,404 Exploitation public administration and defense 1,715,980 1,548,020 Non-metallic minerals exploitation 13,443 14,884 Coal extraction 16,530 29,489 Ore minerals extraction 2,257 2,236 Oil gas – natural gas extraction 147,357 365,241 Paper manufacture– cardboard and its products 60,725 48,525 Manufacturing – refining – oil – chemical products 586,514 578,876 Non-metallic minerals manufacturing 52,740 100,418 Other manufacturing industries 58,126 91,411 Metallic products manufacturing– machinery 286,262 252,367 Textile products manufacturing 310,849 233,082 Insurance plans finance 24,693 31,409 Generation – manufacturing electricity– gas – water 1,955,735 1,992,324 Hotels and restaurants 308,088 262,228 Industry – manufacture – metals 73,900 48,350 Finance intermediation 2,138,433 1,472,730 Employees 22,942,147 18,904,250 Capital rentiers 353,235 560,562 Printing activities 30,206 38,322 Not differentiated activities of individual households 595 370 Extra-territorial organizations and bodies 15,870 10,123 Other community service activities 1,898,743 4,711,147 Production fishing farms $ 20,789 $ 14,570 86 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION Activity 2018 2017 Agriculture and livestock production $ 880,924 $ 894,039 Sanitation services and similar 77,048 67,596 Forestry, extraction woods and services 37,281 36,242 Transformation – factory – basketry wood 16,298 18,855 Transport 1,046,892 842,159 Total $ 45,573,222 $ 43,649,649 Quality Credit quality of financial assets that are neither past-due nor impaired BBVA Colombia has qualification tools that enable ordering the credit quality of its operations or customers as from the valuation and correspondence with the probabilities of default (“PD”). In order to study how such probability varies, tracking and historic data base are available to gather the information generated internally that permits to group it in Scoring and Rating models. Scoring: scoring is a decision model that helps granting and managing retail credits: consumption, mortgages, individual credit cards, small business, etc. Scoring is the basic tool to decide granting a credit, the amount to be granted and the strategies that may contribute to set the price thereof since it is based on the algorithm that orders the operations with regard to its credit quality. Such algorithm allows the assignment of a score to each operation requested by a client on the basis of a series of objective characteristics that statistically have demonstrated the risk quality of such type of operations. The scoring advantage resides in the simplicity and homogeneity: for each client only requires a series of objective data and its analysis is automatic through an algorithm. There are three types of scoring pursuant to the function of the information used and purpose: • Reactive scoring: it measures the risk of an operation requested by an individual using relative variable to the operation requested as well as of social economic data of the client available at the time of request. The decision to grant or turn down the new operation is made on the basis of the qualification given by the scoring. 87 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 • Conduct scoring: it scores the operations of a certain product of the active risk portfolio in the entity, enabling the follow up of the credit quality and being proactive with regard to the customer’s need. For such purpose, the operation and client variables available internally are used. Specifically, variables that refer to the behavior both of the product and the client. • Proactive scoring: it grants the score at client level using variables of general conduct of the individual with the entity, as well as their behavior of payment in all products contracted. Its purpose is to follow up the credit quality of the customer, using it to give a previous granting of new operations Rating: Unlike scorings (that qualify operations), rating is a tool focused toward the customers’ qualification: companies, corporations, SMEs, and public administrations, etc. The rating is an instrument that allows, on the basis of a detailed financial analysis, determining the capacity of the customer to meet their financial obligation. Usually, the final rating is a combination of different factors in nature. On one side quantitative factors and on the other, qualitative factors. It is a middle path between individual analysis and statistical analysis. The fundamental difference with the scoring is that the latter is used to evaluate retail products while the ratings use the whole sale banking approach. Besides, the scoring only includes objective variables while ratings incorporate qualitative information. Although both are based upon statistical studies, incorporating a business vision, for developing the rating tools a greater weight is granted to the business criterion than in scoring. In such portfolios where the number of defaults is quite small (sovereign, corporate, with financial entities risks, etc.), the internal information is supplemented with the benchmarking from the independent rating agencies (Moody´s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch). For such purpose, every year the estimated PDs are compared by the rating agencies for each risk level and the result is the equivalence between the levels of the different agencies and the levels of the Master Scale of BBVA. Once estimated the probability of default of operations or customers, the so-called “cycle adjustment” is made since it is required to establish the measure of the risk quality beyond the context estimate, seeking to gather information that represents the behavior of portfolios during an entire economic cycle. Such likelihood is linked to the Master Scale prepared by BBVA in order to facilitate the classification in homogeneous terms of their different risk portfolios. 88 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION Below the reduced scale used to classify the active risks of BBVA Colombia: Probability of default Internal ratings External ratings Minimum Reduced scale (in basic points) Maximum Standard & Poor´s scale from 0 (22 groups) AAA AAA 1 0 2 AA+ AA+ 2 2 3 AA AA 3 3 4 AAAA4 4 5 A+ A+ 5 5 6 A A 8 6 9 AA10 9 11 BBB+ BBB+ 14 11 17 BBB BBB 20 17 24 BBBBBB31 24 39 BB+ BB+ 51 39 67 BB BB 88 67 116 BBBB150 116 194 B+ B+ 255 194 335 B B 441 335 581 BB785 581 1.061 CCC+ CCC+ 1.191 1.061 1.336 CCC CCC 1.500 1.336 1.684 CCCCCC1.890 1.684 2.121 CC+ CC+ 2.381 2.121 2.673 CC CC 3.000 2.673 3.367 CCCC3.708 3.367 4.243 The determination of said different levels and their limits of Probability of Default (PD) was performed taking as reference the rating scales and default rates of independent agencies Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. In this way, the levels of Probability of Default of the BBVA Master Scale are set. Calibrations (score mapping of PD tranches / levels of the Master Scale) are made as a tool for BBVA Colombia. 89 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 The update of customers financial information continued from Companies Risk in different tools available to capture the quantitative and qualitative information (sectorial rating, risk analysis) of vital importance to safeguard the quality of the wholesale portfolio, therefore, permanent campaigns were carried out to allow the reduction of updating and validation percentages of ratings which by year end reached 85%. Non-performing and not impaired risks Although the existence of the non-performance segment is understood as any credit operation exceeding 30 days of non-payment but not in default yet, in BBVA Colombia tracking is focused on the non-performing portfolio. Doubtful or impaired risks For the classification of a doubtful credit operation it should be taken into account the portfolio to which it belongs and the non-payment days incurred, as follows: Item Overdue days Consumption >60 days TDC >60 days Mortgages >120 days Commercial >90 days With regard to this sector, the doubtful portfolio shows a better behavior with 9.7% increase, below the sector with 19.4% increase, despite more write-offs than in BBVA. Local provision is made as set forth by the Financial Superintendence in annexes 3 and 5 of Section II of the Accounting and Fiscal Basic Circular Letter with regard to the Commercial and Consumer Reference Model keeping a wiser management of the Consumer Portfolio severity. The breakdown of the provisions recorded in balances to cover losses for impairment estimated at December 31, 2018: 90 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION Interests Impairment Portfolio Capital impairment Collateral impairment Others Commercial: • Category “A” Normal $ 149,25 $ 1,39 $ 88 $ 12,222,333 • Category “B” Acceptable 13,908 277 58 890,591 • Category “C” Appreciable 32,984 2,402 768 628,449 • Category “D” Significative 58,423 3,196 570 121,197 • Category “E” Uncollectible 529,896 25,843 13,383 480,7 Total Commercial 784,456 33,11 14,867 14,343,270 Consumption: • Category “A” Normal 238,627 3,403 70 1,246,803 • Category “B” Acceptable 16,867 606 22 24,476 • Category “C” Appreciable 6,186 1,975 133 27,376 • Category “D” Significative 195,745 7,321 451 36,917 • Category “E” Uncollectible 1,023,303 25,981 3,92 140,995 Total Consumption 1,480,728 39,286 4,596 1,476,567 Microcredit: • Category “E” Uncollectible 2 Total Microcredit 2 Housing: • Category A Normal 102,617 3,704 473 23,489,018 • Category B Acceptable 7,844 2,322 382 604,118 • Category C Appreciable 7,311 1,277 495 194,607 • Category D Significative 43,093 2,433 661 759,166 • Category E Uncollectible 64,324 3,451 2,943 426,345 91 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Interests Impairment Portfolio Capital impairment Collateral impairment Others Total housing $ 225,189 $ 13,187 $ 4,954 $ 25,473,254 Housing Employees : • Category A Normal $ 3,087 $ 11 $ $ 691,028 • Category B Acceptable 21 8 2,272 • Category C Appreciable 50 7 1,014 • Category D Significative 88 3 676 • Category E Uncollectible 209 14 1,504 Total housing Employees 3,455 43 696,494 Consumption Employees : • Category A Normal 1,692 4 2,414 • Category B Acceptable 15 • Category C Appreciable 55 2 • Category D Significative 42 2 • Category E Uncollectible 321 2 117 Total Consumption Employees 2,125 10 2,531 Housing general impairment (provision) 109,589 Employee general impairment (provision) 4,177 Individual commercial impairment counter-cyclical component 102,639 1,185 Individual consumer impairment counter-cyclical component 232,568 2,428 Others Total Loan portfolio $ 2,944,928 $ 89,25 $ 24,42 $ 41,992,116 92 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION Recoveries In 2018 those intitiaves generated in 4Q, 2017 were materialized. The recovery model strengthened through the changes in area structure and the implementation of new strategies to increase the portfolio recovery. Following are the main milestones for 2018: Creation of portfolio Standardization Management This new work team will be in charge of generating policies and procedures to standardize the portoflio on a safe and efficient basis; such as Modified and Restructured loans for all type of client (Retail banking segment and SMEs) Upon the issuance of External Circular Letter 026 of 2017, it was required to create a new model to formalize the standardization for 2018. Said Circular allows debtors to apply for the renegotiation of their obligations with the entity. This was the first time that the Financial Superintendence encouraged clients to apply for Modified or Restructured loans. At the beginning of 2Q, the industrialization of standardizations had allowed BBVA formalize a monthly average of 1,500 operations, thus enhancing the timely customer assistance and descongestion in offices. New follow-up model and motivation to external agents For recoveries, we have generated a new Comprehensive Metrics of Agencies (MIA in Spanish) which enabled us to evaluate, monitor and foster collection agencies on a more objective, homogeneous and focused manner. Understandng the specialization of each collection agency, the MIA allowed the condensation of results in 10 indicator focused on anticipation (1 to 30 days range), containment (recovery of non-performing loan portfolio) 93 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 in recovery (doubtful recovery), impact on expense (clean-up ranges), and finally, quality of information (increase of contactability and compliance with payment agreements). Results of this model that involved challenging budgets per area and type of portfolio led us to a recovery efficiency of 65% by year end (doubtful recoveries/entries to doubtful) versus 58% budget. Said result was leveraged on less entries to doubtful recovery during the year which were 13% less than expected. Optimization of portfolio allocation One of the pillars of portfolio recovery is based on its efficient allocation to different management channels (virtual, office network, external agencies, executives, etc.), and with the enforcement of the MIA, we obtained a more organized and efficient manner to distribute the contracts to be managed. Thus, we have been able to reduce from 5 days to 2 days the opportunity in delivery to collection channels. Focus on recovery of write-offs For 2018 it was decided to centralize the written-off portfolio in 5 agencies which did not have any share in the portfolio allocation, thus the dedication to this segment was total. Such specialization together with quarterly recovery brigades generated 28% increase versus collections in 2017. Market risk Portfolio market risk The market risk is generated from the movements in market variables that impact on the valuation of financial products and assets with which the trading activity is carried out. Major risks arising may be classified in following aggregations: 94 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION • Interest rate risk: this arises as a consequence of the exposure to the movement in different operating curves of interest rates. Although the typical awareness generating products of movements in interest rates are the products from the monetary market and derivatives of traditional interest rates, in practice, the totality of financial products is exposed to movements on interest rates for the effect in their financial discount valuation. • Exchange rate risk: this is caused by the movement in the exchange rates of foreign currencies of the position held. As in variable income, this risk arises in the spot positions and in any derivative product whose underlying asset is an exchange rate. . Metrics developed to control and monitor the market risk in BBVA Colombia are aligned with the best international practices, ranking the Bank as the landmark in local market. Metric procedures are established in terms of the possible impact of negative market conditions of the markets under both ordinary circumstances and stressful circumstances of the trading portfolio of BBVA Colombia. Standard metrics used to measure the market risk is Value at Risk (“VaR”), which indicates the maximum loss that may occur in the portfolios at a given confidence level (99%) and temporary horizon (one day). This statistical value is widely used in the market and has the advantage of summing up in a single metric the risks inherent to the trading activity, bearing in mind the relations among them and providing a prediction of loss that the trading book could sustain as a result of the fluctuations in prices of the interest rate and exchange rate markets. The analysis of market risk includes the consideration of following risks: basis among different instruments and correlation risk. Most entries of the consolidated balance sheet of BBVA Colombia, subject to market risk, are positions measured with VaR. The current management structure includes monitoring the risk market limits that consists of a scheme of limits based on VaR (Value at Risk), economic capital (based on VaR metrics) and VaR sublimit, as well as stop-loss orders for each Treasury business units. 95 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 The VaR metric model used by the Bank is based on historic simulation. It collects negative impacts in the income statement of the trading portfolio and negative impacts from historic risk factors over the current position of the Bank. When using historic data, it includes naturally the correlation between them and their occurrence distribution. Figures of VaR are still being estimated following the VaR without smoothing methodology. From a sample of 2 year of simulated results the fifth worst data is taken. Also, and following the guidelines set by European Authorities, BBVA Colombia incorporates additional metrics to VaR in order to meet the regulatory requirements of Banco de España for the purpose to calculate own resources for the trading book. In particular, metrics incorporated in BBVA Colombia since February 2015 (pursuant to the guidelines of Basel 2.5) are: • Target Average Economic Capital (CEMO per its acronym in Spanish): Target Average Economic Capital, VaR calculation is added with Stressed VaR, the final metric is the highest of both (VaR and Stressed VaR) for 3-month period average. In this way, a higher weight is assigned to stress events of current or past market. This metric is re-scalated by the multiplier set by Basel (3 x the root of 10) to calculate the burden of economic capital. CEMO is consolidates with IRC as management metric. • Specific Risk: Incremental Risk Capital (“IRC”). Quantification of default risks and downgrade of the credit rating of securitization positions. The burden of incremental capital is determined on the basis of losses associated (at 99.9% in 1 year-horizon under the constant risk hypothesis) as a consequence of the migration of rating and/or default status or default by the issuer of the asset. Additionally, the price risk is included in the positions of sovereigns for the stated items. The validity tests of the risk measuring models used by BBVA Colombia are conducted regularly in order to estimate the maximum loss that could have been produced in those positions with a certain level of probability (Backtesting), as well as impact metrics of extreme market moves in the risk positions held (Stress Testing). 96 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION Market risk in 2018 Market risk of BBVA Colombia remains in low levels when compared against the credit risk levels of the activity of Global Markets. This is the consequence of performing the activity as franchise operation, which generates the assumption of low risk of the own position leverage. During 2018, the average VaR was $2,788 billion with the top level for the year reached on February 2 that amounted to $5,417 billion. Below there is the evolution of BBVA Colombia market risk in 2018, measured in terms of VaR (without smoothing), with 99% confidence level and 1-day horizon, expressed in Million Colombian pesos. Millions COP jan-18 jan-18 jan-18 feb-18 feb-18 mar-18 mar-18 apr-18 apr-18 may-18 may-18 jun-18 jun-18 jul-18 jul-18 jul-18 aug-18 aug-18 sep-18 sep-18 oct-18 oct-18 nov-18 nov-18 dec-18 dec-18 VaR without smoothing During the year, the fixed income trading portfolio was characterized for the concentration of the short-term position, holding TCO, TES with maturity less than 1 year and CDTs. Additionally, the derivatives portfolio kept the composition per type of product. Major products were forwards US dollar Colombian peso and IRS in IBR. In an unified way with the portfolio composition, the sensitivity was focused per type in Colombian pesos and US dollar. The aforementioned characteristics of portfolio made the average VaR to remain low since short-term positions produce the relatively low sensitivity and interest rate delta had conservative consumer risk over the period. At December 31, 2018 and 2017 the VaR balance was $2,834 billion and $3,307 billion, respectively. The breakdown is as follows: 97 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 VaR per risk factors Interest risk Exchange risk Total Year 2018 Average VaR $ 2,702 $ 430 $ 2,788 Maximum VaR 5,365 2,517 5,417 Minimum VaR 1,609 29 1,593 VaR at year end 2,304 618 2,834 Year 2017 Average VaR 2,71 769 2,795 Maximum VaR 5,633 3,403 5,652 Minimum VaR 1,511 22 1,505 VaR at year end $ 3,316 $ 33 $ 3,307 Model validation The internal model of the market risk is validated regularly through Backtesting. The purpose of said backtesting is to validate the quality and accuracy of the internal model used by BBVA Colombia to estimate the maximum daily loss of a portfolio for 99% confidence and 250 days temporary horizon by means of comparing the Bank results to the risk measures generated by the model. These tests evidenced that the internal models of the market risk of BBVA Colombia are adequate and accurate. In backtesting the daily VaR is compared against the clean results once both results and positions of portfolio generated in the day have been subtracted. In this way, the suitability of the market risk metrics is validated, in such a way that the VaR model used was collecting adequately the changes in trading portfolio results. Analysis of stress test Different exercises of stress test were carried out in the trading books of BBVA Colombia. On one side, historic scenarios were used, both globally and locally, replicating the behavior of some past extreme event, for instance the Lehman Brothers’ bankruptcy. Such stress exercises were supplemented with simulated scenarios where the 98 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION intention was seeking the generation of scenarios with significant impact on different portfolios but without anchoring in any concrete historic scenario. Historic scenarios: The benchmark historic stress scenario in the Bank is Lehman Brothers’ which sudden bankruptcy in September 2008 derived in a significant impact on the behavior of the global financial markets. The most relevant effects of such historic scenario are the following: • Increase in the volatility of most financial markets giving place to a large variation in the prices of different assets (foreign currencies, equity, and debt). • Liquidity shock in financial systems which reflected into a strong move of interbank curves, especially in shorter tranches of euro and US dollar. Simulated scenarios: Unlike the historic scenarios that are fixed and, therefore, do not get adapted to the composition of the portfolio risks every time, the scenario used to make economic stress exercises is supported under the Resampling methodology. This methodology is based upon the use of dynamic scenarios, recalculated regularly pursuant to which are the main risks kept in the trading books. Over the data windows, large enough to collect different stress periods (data is taken since January 1, 2008), the simulation exercise is carried out through the resampling of historic observations, thus generating the distribution of profits and losses that enable the analysis of the most extreme events from those that have taken place in the selected historic window. The advantage of this methodology is that the stress period has not been set previously but depends on the portfolio held at each time, and that by making a high number of simulations (10,000 simulations) the analysis of the expected shortfall can be performed with greater richness of information than the one available in those scenarios included in the calculation of VaR. Main characteristics of this methodology are the following: a) simulations generated respect the structure of data correlation, b) flexibility in the inclusion of new risk factors, and c) enable the introduction of a greater variability in simulations (desirable to consider extreme events). 99 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Structural risks The Assets and Liabilities Committee (ALCO) is the key body for the structural risks management with regard to liquidity, finance, interest rate and foreign currency. On a monthly basis and with the representation of the ALCO Finance Management, Research, Market and Structural Risks, and Business Areas, the Committee monitors the aforementioned risks and presents for approval the management proposals. Such management proposals are performed by the Finance Management Area on a prospective basis, bearing in mind the framework of the risk appetite, with the purpose to ensure the recurrence of results and preserve the entity’s solvency. In turn, Market and Structural Risks are responsible for identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling structural risks and present them to the appropriate bodies and management committees. Interest rate structural risk The Interest Rate Structural Risk (“IRSR”) collects the potential impact generated by the fluctuations of market interest rates in the interest margin and the equity value of the entity. In order to measure adequately the IRSR, BBVA Colombia regards as major risk generation sources: repricing risk, yield curve risk, optionality risk and basis risk, which are analyzed from two supplementary perspectives: interest margin (short term) and economic value (long term). ALCO monitors the risk metrics of the interest rate and the ALCO Finance Management Area presents the management proposals for the structural balance. The management objective is to promote the stability of interest margin and equity value with regard to the fluctuation of market types, respecting the solvency and internal limits in the balance sheet of BBVA Colombia and in compliance with requirements to maintain the interest rate risk within the approved limits, meeting current and future regulatory requirements. Control and monitoring of risk management of the structural interest of BBVA Colombia is based upon a set of metrics and tools that enable the appropriate monitoring of the entity’s risk profile. In this way, a broad range of scenarios is measured regularly, including the sensitivity to parallel moves in face of different shocks, changes in 100 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION slope and curvature. Also, other probability metrics based on statistical methods of simulated scenarios are assessed such as Earnings at Risk (“EaR”) and Economic Capital (“EC”), defined as the maximum adverse deviations in the interest margin and economic value, respectively, for determined confidence level and time horizon. Over such management metrics, impact thresholds have been established both in terms of fluctuations of the interest margin and the impact on the economic value. All this conducted on a differentiated way for each of the foreign currencies to which the BBVA balance sheet is exposed, thus considering the diversification effect among foreign currencies. In order to guarantee the model efficacy, it is submitted periodically to internal validation. Additionally, interest risk exposures of banking portfolio are subject to different stress scenarios in order to observe the balance sheet vulnerabilities under extreme circumstances. Those exercises take into account both the analysis of unfavorable macro-economic scenarios designed specifically by BBVA Research, and a large spectrum of potential scenarios seeking those environments with interest rates particularly detrimental to the entity. For such purpose, extreme rupture scenarios of interest rate levels and historic correlations have been generated, giving rise to sudden changes in slopes and even to inverse curvatures. The model is supported, necessarily, on an elaborated set of hypothesis intended to reproduce the behavior of the balance sheet as real as possible. Within such assumptions, particular relevance is given to those related to the behavior of the “accounts without explicit expiration” for which stability and remuneration assumptions have been set in accordance to an adequate segmentation per typology of product and customer and prepayment estimates (implicit optionally). Hypothesis undergoes regular reviews and adaptations pursuant to the evidence of the evolution of behaviors and is kept properly documented, being reviewed periodically in the internal validation processes. Impacts on metrics are evaluated both from the economic value perspective (gone concern) and from the financial margin perspective, for which purpose the dynamic model (going concern) is applied, in consistency with corporate assumptions of the results preview. Medium interest risk levels are shown below in terms of sensitivity for the 101 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 BBVA Colombia balance sheet during years 2017 and 2018: Impact of interest margin (*) Impacto valor económico (**) Analysis of sensitivity to interest rate . Increase by 100 Detriment of Increase by 100 Detriment of pb % 100 bp % bp % 100 bp % dec-17 23.27% 23.37% 28.77% 34.11% dec-18 25.67% 27.12% 3.43% 7.50% (*) Percentage versus the interest margin “1 year” projected of each unit. (**) Percentage versus Core Capital of each unit. Year 2018 was characterized for low growth of loan portfolio with inflation levels, resulting in stability of interest rates of the Central Bank. Under such context, BBVA Colombia, has focused its balance structure to generate the sufficient composition from the risk perspective. Exchange rate structural risk In BBVA Colombia the structural exchange rate risk arises from the exposure of the structural balance sheet to foreign currency positions and their impact on the solvency of BBVA Colombia. ALCO Finance Management designs and executes the strategies in order to control the potential negative impacts for fluctuations of the exchange types in capital ratios. Additionally, Market and Structural Risks implements and develops tracking and of structural exchange risk controls. It also controls and monitors, on a regular basis, the open exposures of the structural balance sheet. The monitoring risk metrics are reported in the Assets and Liabilities Committee. ALCO, and supplemented with additional evaluation indicators of the operating position in foreign currencies of the Bank in order to ensure the regulatory compliance with the limits to the foreign currency position and the adequate management risk. The exposure level to the exchange rate structural risk of BBVA Colombia is around 25 bp solvency and 10% variation of the Colombian peso. 102 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION Exchange rate behavior in 2018 was stable despite the depreciation of Colombian pesos by $266 and the volatitly in the same period. The structure allowed the stability in exchange structural risk. Solvency sensitivity to exchange rate fluctuations pbA lerta 35 30 24 24 24 23 23 24 23 24 24 23 23 23 23 23 25 20 15 10 5 0 may-17 nov-16 dic-16 jan-17 feb-17 nov-16 dic-16 ene-17 feb-17 mar-17 mar-17 abr-17 apr-17 may-17 jun-17 jun-17 jul-17 jul-17 ago-17 aug-17 sep-17 sep-17 oct-17 oct-17 nov-17 nov-17 dic-17 dec-17 Liquidity risk The finance and liquidity management in BBVA Colombia is grounded on the principle of financial autonomy of the Entity, approach that contributes to preventing and mitigating the liquidity risk of the Entity by limiting the vulnerability to events that affect the BBVA Group in periods of high risk for their affiliates in other geographies. For such reason, the Entity acts on an independent basis in order to cover its liquidity needs in the respective market. ALCO Finance Management performs the liquidity and finance management of BBVA Colombia, planning and executing the funding of the long-term structural gap and proposing to ALCO the actions to adopt in such matter pursuant to the policies and limits provided by the CDP and the Board of Directors. 103 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 The Market and Structural Risks area is responsible for implementing and adapting corporate liquidity and financing policies to local requirements, as well as executing the control scheme for compliance purposes. The target behavior of the Entity, in terms of liquidity and finance risk, is measured through the Loan to Stable Customer Deposits (LtSCD) ratio, which is the relationship between the net credit investment and stable funds from customers. The goal is to preserve the stable finance structure in the medium-term, bearing in mind that maintaining an adequate volume of steady resources of customers is critical to reach a solid liquidity profile. Such steady resources are computed through the analysis of the behavior of balances of different customer segments, identified as susceptible to provide stability to the financial structure; giving priority to the connection and applying higher haircuts to the credit facilities of less stable customers. In order to establish the target levels (maximum) of LtSCD and provide a reference for the optimum financial structure in terms of risk appetite, Market and Structural Risk identifies and consolidates some economic and financial variables that may be deemed as conditioning to the financial structure of the geography. The behavior of the indicators reflects that the solidity of the financial structure is maintained during 2017, in the sense that self-funding levels are maintained with steady resources from customers that exceed the requirements. Loan to Stable Customer Deposits (LtSCD ) december 2018 % december 2017 % 104.99 107.42 The second axis in liquidity and funding risk management is to achieve the proper diversification of the funding structure thus preventing a high dependency of the short-term funding through the maximum level of the short-term fund raising that comprises both the wholesale funding and the less stable resources from non-retail customers. As the third main axis, the resistance to the short-term liquidity risk profile is promoted, ensuring that BBVA Colombia has sufficient collateral to face the risk of closing wholesale markets. The basic capacity is the metric of the risk management and control of short-term liquidity that is defined as the relation between explicit assets available and maturities of wholesale liabilities and volatile resources, at different temporary terms, with 30 day special relevance. 104 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION The Entity has an individual liquidity fund. The following chart shows the liquidity available per instruments at 28 de December 2018 for BBVA Colombia: december 2018 BBVA Colombia Cash $ 3,272,727 Fixed income 4,000,586 TES (Public debt securities) 2,579,929 Corporate bonds 977,812 Collateral received as guarantee $ 483,397 Above metrics are completed with a series of indicators on which the thresholds are established which purpose is to prevent the concentration on the wholesale financial per product, counterparty, markets and term. Additionally, reference thresholds are established about a series of indicators that allow anticipating stress situations in markets and adopt, where appropriate, preventive actions. Within the analysis of liquidity and financing risk management, the stress analysis is a key element of the follow up scheme since they allow anticipating deviations with regard to the liquidity targets and limits established in the appetite and establish tolerance ranges in different management axes. Also, they perform a leading role in the design of the Liquidity Contingency Plan and the definition of specific performance measures to redirect the risk profile. For each scenario, it is contrasted whether the Bank has enough stock of net assets that ensures the capacity to meet commitments/liquidity outflows in different periods analyzed. The analysis regards four scenarios: one central and three of crisis (systemic crisis, own crisis that impacts the capacity to issue in wholesale markets and to the risk perception of business by bank intermediaries and Entity customers; and mixed scenario, the combination of both). Each scenario considers following factors: market liquidity, behavior of customers and financing sources, the impact of rating downwards, market values of net assets and collaterals, and the interaction between liquidity requirements and evolution of credit quality of the Bank. From the stress exercises performed periodically it is concluded that BBVA Colombia keeps a liquid asset buffer 105 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 (stress buffer) sufficient to face the outflows of the estimated liquidity in a scenario resulting from the combination of a systemic crisis and own crisis, during a period exceeding 6 months. In addition to indicators above mentioned, BBVA Colombia reports the Liquidity Regulatory Indicator (IRL), a weekly and monthly regulatory report, which contains short-term contractual and non-contractual flows. The IRL should meet for each band (7 and 30 days) that the relation between the liquid assets adjusted by market liquidity and exchange risk and the requirement of the total net liquidity exceeds 100%. Throughout year 2017, the IRL level for BBVA Colombia has maintained above 100%, comfortable levels, indicating their strong position in terms of liquidity. Taking into consideration, BBVA Colombia participation in BBVA Group, established a demand level of compliance with LCR ratio set by Basel, based upon the highest standards in connection to liquidity risk. Internal levels required are oriented to comply with enough anticipation and efficiency the implementation of 2018 regulatory requirement, above 100%. During year 2018 the LCR level was maintained sufficiently above said level. In summary, in 2017 the Entity held a strong liquidity position, comfortably fulfilling local and corporate indicators. Operational risk and internal control The Operational Risk (“OR”) may generate losses due to human errors, inadequate or faulty internal processes, and systems failures as a result of external events. This definition includes legal and reputational risk and excludes the strategic and/or business risk. Operational risk management framework The management of the Operational Risk in BBVA Colombia is built based upon following levers: • Admission of Operational risk materialized in Committees; this process covers any initiative that incorporates a significant operational risk that could modify greatly the defined risk appetite. 106 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION • Self-evaluation of operational risk that comprises establishing the perimetere of the management model, identification of potenatial and real operational risks from the review of processes and standards and regualtions, prioritization of operational risks to separate the critical risks from those that are not. • Indicators to measure the evolution over time, both of operational risks and effectiveness of mitigants and controls, and in this way, having unexpected information of evolutions to perform a preventive management of operational risks. • Collection of operational losses occurred in units; i.e., with the sufficient detail level to enable the effective analysis that provides useful information for management. • Operational risk scenarios that reflect the exposition to a limited number of situations that may generate high-value losses with an estimated reduced ocurrence. Three-line defense model in operational management risk First line: Made up by the Business and Supporting Areas responsable for managing of operational risks in products, activities, processes and systems. Second line: Made up by the Internal control and y Operational risk units and the Unit is control specialist. These define the Framework of Mitigation and Control in their speciality and is contrasted with the implementation by the first line. The specialists act on a cross basis, performing their operation on such areas where the operational risks materialize of their speciality environment. Third line: Performed by BBVA Internal Audit. Operational risk management principles Operational risk is managed in all units under following principles: i. Align with the Risk Appetite Framework. 107 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 ii. Cover BBVA management needs related to the compliance with standarads, regulations, industry standards, as well as with decisions or positions of BBVA governance bodies. iii. Foresee the potential operational risks BBVA Colombia would be exposed to as a result of the appearance or modification of new products, activities, processes or systems and outsourcing decisions, and establish procedures that enable their reasonable evaluation and mitigation before their implantation, a well as regular reviews on current processes. iv. Establish methodologies and procedures that allow the regular reevaluation of the relevant operational risks to which BBVA Colombia is exposed to adopt mitigation measures that are more suitable in each case, once the identified risk and the mitigation cost (cost/benefit analysis) have been considered, and preserving always the BBVA Colombia solvency. v. Identify the causes of operational losses of BBVA Colombia and establish the measures for their reduction. For such purpose, there should be procedures that allow the capture and analysis of the operational events generating them. vi. Analyze the public events that have produced losses for operational risk in other entities of the financial sector and boost, where appropriate, the implementation of the measures required to prevent their occurrence in BBVA Colombia. vii. Identify, analyze and quantify events unlikely to take place but with high impact, which for their exceptional nature, it is very possible that they are not gathered in the data base of losses or otherwise, they have low impact. The final purpose is to ensure their mitigation. viii. Have an effective governance where the functions and responsibilities of areas and bodies that participate in the RO management are clearly defined.. Structure of Committees The Corporate Assurance Committee, constitutes one of the components of the Group internal control model. It pursues the identification and prioritization of relevant situations for the purpose of operational risk control and 108 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION management. This forum allow sthe defense second line to raise matters deemed appropriate to contribute to an adequate business control climate. The Operational Risk Admission Committee fosters the analysis, approval, and follow-up on initiatives as new businesses, new products, assurance of operational risks and outsourcing of initiatives within the Operational Risk Appetite that has been established. During the period, emphasis was made on digital initiatives of the strategic plan both for retail and companies banking, incursion in assessment of risks associated to outsourcings and warning indicators in relevant processes were defined. Internal Control and Operational Risk Committees in Business and Supporting Units. They encourage the operational risk management, making mitigation decisions for the case of the identificación of weaknesses control; performiing the follow up on them, on indicators and on initiatives presented to the OR Admission Committee. Training activities were carried out (Bank and Affiliates staff) pursuant to the Operational Risk Management System (ORMS) legal regulations, including those of the Bank suppliers, provided by Asobancaria. We also conducted an update to the Operational Risk and Control Specialists and Agents about the recording of operational events and losses. In terms of culture for the operational risk prevention, the publication related to the responsibility in terms of control was published on the internal magazine “Al Dia”. 109 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Shareholders Performance of main stock market indicators At the end of 2018, the Colombian stock exchange reported a significant devaluation with respect to the end of 2017. In fact, COLCAP, the main stock index of the Colombian Stock Exchange, decreased 12.63% interannual. Its performance was dominated by global trends, the increase in interest rates in the United States, crisis in certain emerging markets, low expectations of lower growth in world economies and geopolitical factors affected the outlook. The end of the year was once again accompanied by a buyer appetite sustained by the recovery of oil price. Despite the good performance for the second consecutive year of the main stock index in Colombia, its advance was less than that reported in other regional and emerging markets. In part, this was due to a less robust macroeconomic performance and the delay in the expected recovery due to weak consumer confidence. Other indexes of Colombian stock exchange showed performances very similar to COLCAP, although they differed slightly in their interannual variation rates. COLEQTY, which includes the 40 largest and performing shares, decreased 12.68% during the year. The COLIR, which groups institutions with best practices in their relationships with investors, including BBVA Colombia S.A., decreased by 12.42%. Finally, the COLSC, which contains the 15 smallest capitalizations of companies listed on the stock exchange, also contracted by 26.04%. BBVA Colombia´s share price evolution The price of the ordinary Share closed in 2018 at $265, 7.02% lower, considering the price as of December 31, 2017 which was $285. BBVA Colombia ordinary share is considered by the Colombian Stock Exchange as a continuous market instrument because its stock market presence. This same dynamic is applicable to the Share price with preferential dividend and without the right to vote, which 110 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION is of little transactionality in the market. This share showed a rise in its quotation of 9.56% compared to year 2017, when the share closed with a price of $ 251, compared to $275 in 2018. This type of share is considered as Auction market stock. The Bank’s floating capital is 4.57% and its detailed as follows Type of Share Amount Ordinary 630,705,101 Preferential dividends without the right to vote 26,752,348 Market capitalization of BBVA Colombia (COP) 2015 2016 2017 2018 $ 3,479,432.18 $ 3,879,878.45 $ 4,084,179.55 $ 3,817,535.20 * (in million COP $) Market capitalization 4.500.000 Million capitalization 3.500.000 2.500.000 1.500.000 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 111 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Evolution of BBVA Colombia´s share Price Year 2015 2016 2017 2018 Final Price (Ordinary share) $ 240 $ 270 $ 285 $ 265 Final Price (Share with preferential dividend without right to vote) $ 295 $ 260 $ 251 $ 275 450 400 350 300 Quotation 250 200 150 100 50 0 Final quote Final quote (preferred share with (common share) no voting right) BBVA Colombia shares and stock market ratios Concept diciembre 2017 diciembre 2018 Number of Shareholders 65.304 65.251 Number of shares outstanding 14.387.689.071 14.387.689.071 Concept diciembre 2017 diciembre 2018 Highest price (Ordinary share) $ 299 $ 290 Final price (Ordinary share) 285 265 Lowest price (Ordinary share) 250 250 Highest price (Share with preferential dividend without the right to vote) $ 265 $ 275 112 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION Concept diciembre 2017 diciembre 2018 Final price (Share with preferential dividend without the right to vote) $ 251 $ 275 Lowest price (Preferential share without the right to vote) 251 250 Book value per share 279,68 302,12 Market capitalization (Million pesos) 4.084.179,55 3.817.535,20 Price / Book value Ordinary share 1,02 0,88 Price / Book value – Share with preferential dividend 0,90 0,91 Loss (Price / benefit) Ordinary share 15,99 16,67 Loss (Price / benefit) Share with preferential div 14,09 17,30 Dividend yield (Dividend / Price) Ordinary share 0,0625 0,0600 Dividend yield (dividend / price) Share with preferential dividend 0,0710 0,0578 Declared dividends $ 17,82 $ 15,9 Since 2007 and consecutively, the General Assembly of Shareholders has approved the payment of dividends in cash for the two types of shares, both shares with preferential dividends without the right to vote, and the common shares, and the payout has been 50%. The dividends declared during 2018 were COP $ 15.90 per share payable in two instalments, June and October 2018. Share structure Shareholders Shares Shares tranches Number % Number % Up to 1,000 28,193 43.21 9,378,650 0.07 From 1,001 to 10,000 27,269 41.79 98,569,336 0.69 From 10,001 to 50,000 8,215 12.59 175,628,937 1.22 From 50,001 to 100,000 1,046 1.60 71,393,631 0.50 From 100,001 to 1,000,000 483 0.74 94,786,693 0.66 More than 1,000,000 45 0.07 13,937,931,824 96.87 Total 65,251 100 14,387,689,071 100 113 FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 BBVA stock is traded in the Colombia Stock Exchange with the mnemonics BBVACO for ordinary shares, and as PFBBVACOL for stocks with preferential dividend without the right to vote. With the new classification of the Colombian Stock Exchange, they are classified as follows: • The Ordinary Share as a continuous market instrument and the preferential share without the right to vote as an auction mode instrument, this new classification is made taking into account their stock market presence. • The BBVA Colombia Share is part of the COLEQTY reference index, which is a general index that includes 40 shares with the best selection methodology of the Colombian Stock Exchange, where the weight of each share within the index, is determined by the floating weight (adjusted capitalization) of each of the constituents. In this basket published by the Colombian Stock Exchange, that has the 40 main shares quoted on the Stock Exchange, there is BBVA with a participation in the basket of 0.018%. The COLIR is an index that includes the shares of the companies with the IR recognition that are part of the COLEQTY index, the weight of each share is determined by the free float of each of the constituents. Within this basket there are 30 companies that have IR recognition, among them, BBVA Colombia. 114 BBVA COLOMBIA FINANCIAL INFORMATION 115 5. Business Segmen ts Retail banking segment 118 Legal Entities Segment 120 Corporate & Investment Banking 122 BBVA Asset Management S.A. 125 BBVA Valores Colombia S.A. 127 Insurance Banking 130 BUSINESS SEGMENTS MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Retail banking segment 2018 was a year of important progress in our transformation, this mainly leveraged by the development of new digital products, the growth of clients’ self-management and the increase of their transactionality. In relation to the digital products portfolio, we incorporated new products that allow our clients to improve the experience in contracting digital products in an agile, safe and comfortable way. Products incorporated into the digital portfolio were: Free consumption, Online Housing Loan, Online Account, Investment Funds, SOAT Insurance. This has driven the participation of digital sales over total sales, where already 23.1% of the number of units belong to digital. Currently, BBVA is positioned as the only Bank that makes available to customers the option of contracting online, any of the savings or investment options. It is worth noting the participation of digital sales over the total units sold during 2018, as follows: • For savings accounts opened between September and December, 21% of them were registered from the Mobile Banking. • In the case of CDs in January, digital participation was 13% and at the end of the year it reached 53%. • In the same way, the Investment Funds registrations added up to more than 70% participation for the month of December. Additionally, in Theft through ATM insurance, we continue generating positive results in the units sold, exceeding 3M registrations in 2018. Transactional transformation has been one of the strategic focuses, starting from the contact with our clients, seeking to provide comprehensive advice and taking the customer not only to contract the products, but to use 118 BBVA COLOMBIA BUSINESS SEGMENTS the different channels we have at their disposal, especially the Mobile Banking and the use of BBVA Wallet, in such a way that through channels functionalities, they can continue increasing the use of key transactions such as: payment of credit products, transfers, utilities payments, among others, seeking to improve the customer experience. BBVA Wallet during 2018 has had significant increases in the use of the application services and in the use of contactless payment through the sticker, thanks to campaigns and launches such as Use Your Points and the significant increase in the acceptance of technologies Contactless in almost 100% of the businesses with data phones nationwide. 119 BUSINESS SEGMENTS MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Legal Entities Segment In this segment, we continued working on the strategic priorities proposed, were providing the best possible experience for the clients, has been the pillars for which we have worked on the digital transformation, promoted through the transactional strategy, which consisted of promoting the use of net cash among the clients of this segment, starting with the unification of ACH rates and the Bank’s rates, resulting in a growth in the number of clients with transactional net cash of + 31% for the year, + 16% in the number of payments and a TAM of 20% in the average balance. On the other hand, to boost the average balances of investment in SMEs, we conducted different strategies within which, for the first time, we granted loans with controlled attributions at the office, with the purpose of increasing the banker’s share by means of the placement of commercial portfolio loans and factoring of clients from different sectors. As a result, an average effectiveness of 17% was obtained, doubling the one obtained in the previous year, contributing with about 8% of the 2018 billing in SMEs. In order to offer innovative solutions to clients, that are integrated with their daily life, and to increase the digital offer, the first phase of the application BBVA Net Cash mobile for year-end was launched. More than 5 thousand clients already have the functionalities of this application, among which, the one for consulting the global position of accounts, stands out, Activation of Mobile Token, validation of the status of their payment files and the authorization of payment files from their application. All this was complemented by the launch of the selfmanagement service in November 2018, a module that allows clients to manage the portfolio of products and services online from BBVA net cash without documents, ensuring that all clients from the companies and SMEs segments that have the channel active, use this service. On the other hand, the Bank’s Foreign Trade transactional platforms have been updated, reducing the amount of data required and improving clients´ experience. This has allowed a greater growth of this type of transactions digitally, consolidating them as one of the most complete and modern Foreign Trade platforms within the 120 BBVA COLOMBIA BUSINESS SEGMENTS Colombian market. Since July, Comex new product: Imports Factoring in Foreign Currency, has been available to its clients. This service allows customers to anticipate the payment of their purchases to foreign suppliers, with the possibility of having additional days for the payment of the obligations, according to the negotiated conditions. The Comex portfolio of products from BBVA Colombia is strengthened and complemented. Between March and September 2018, the treasury share was sold, which was focused on deepening the relationships with SMEs and companies offering trading desk products such as Fx, Forwards and IRS, which are one of the main sources of commissions. As a result of this initiative, commissions of $6,4 bn were achieved as of September, contributing in 44% of the commissions generated in the same period. This also positioned BBVA as the second bank in IRS trading in the market. The above, added to the transactional transformation strategy in the world of Corporate Banking, also had a positive impact, since in 2018 obtained a significant increase in the contribution in terms of margin with 19% of TAM and a Budget compliance of 116%, contributing in this way in 8% of the bank’s gross margin; in addition, there was an increase in commissions of 166% through the collection of cash. 121 BUSINESS SEGMENTS MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Corporate & Investment Banking CIB, Corporate and Investment Banking is the area in charge of providing their corporate customers and Financial Institutions, besides traditional financial products, added value products and services that allow clients to fulfill their purposes in the different local and international markets. At CIB, we made it not only possible for our clients to access debt markets in an efficient and timely manner, but also managed to offer tailor-made consultancies in both Investment Banking as well as Transactional and Markets products. We also make available to our customers digital and innovative products such as the Fx platform, that allows a superior experience in buying and selling currencies. CIB consolidated within the Latin American markets as a benchmark in financial solutions with a strong focus on Innovation and digitality, generating differentiating ideas at highly competitive prices, democratizing high value solutions for our largest clients. The performance of CIB in each of the six strategic priorities during 2018 was focused on: Providing the best possible customer experience: 2018 was a unique year, CIB focused all its energy on generating ideas and solutions based on data, being able to position itself commercially in offering differentiated solutions that allowed winning very competitive RFPs. Transactional products offered by BBVA Colombia were most wanted by our corporate clients; products and solutions such as BBVA Net Cash, BBVA Global Net Cash, H2H, Swift, Mobile Banking and in-houses, that allow us complying with daily and short-term requirements, thus improving the experience and positioning ourselves as their main bank. Likewise, we maintained our focus on Customer-Centric methodologies, where empathy towards the needs of the client marked the day-to-day strategic decisions. Boosting digital sales: BBVA is characterized in all its geographical areas, as an innovative and highly digital 122 BBVA COLOMBIA BUSINESS SEGMENTS bank; therefore, BBVA Colombia is not the exception, even more, the corporate banking during 2018, developed through its website, and soon from the mobile application, the purchase and sale of currencies in a 100% digital way, being the first entity in achieving it, in compliance with the current regulations. This development will allow not only carrying out negotiations quickly and reliably, but in transparent way and on equal terms for all users. Likewise, during the year the use of Net Cash was enhanced at the local level, as a digital channel for the vast majority of transactions and the Global Net Cash at a regional level, for our companies with presence in other countries. Our goal is to continue implementing services such as H2H and Swift that will position BBVA as the main Bank of our clients. New business models: In order to always be at the forefront of ideas and solutions for our clients, CIB has focused its attention on offering a holistic service. That is why, in our team, we work with specialized bankers by industry, by product and by segment in such a way that we generate the necessary skills that allow improving the dialogue of the different areas with our clients such as: commercial, processes, innovation, etc., to have a complete vision and to generate differential ideas of high added value to our clients. Optimization of capital allocation: CIB is committed to the optimization of resources and the constant improvement of financial indicators, not only in the area but also in the Bank in general. All operations are analyzed to verify compliance with the group’s indicators: RORC, ROE, RAR and EVA. The CIB model is focused on the permanent search of cross-selling to complete value offer of credit products with services of low capital consumption to generate efficiency to the balance sheet. Adapt the model, processes and structures to achieve the best level of efficiency: In line with digital transformation, working models, processes and structures have been transformed. Within the new agile structure, the objective is to have more efficient activities and seek consensual solutions, discussed and agreed upon, within commercial schemes that evaluate which are the best alternatives for the business and for the client. The best team: The CIB Colombia drives constantly the retention, development and promotion of the entire 123 BUSINESS SEGMENTS MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 team, in line with new market trends, reason why personnel with knowledge on Data Analytics and technological innovation was incorporated to the work team. Also, teams with specific experience and expertise were trained on services, industry and market, in order to have a high-performing interdisciplinary team focused toward attaining the goals set, positively impacting the results in the short and long term. 2018 was a year with important challenges, one with presidential elections, and a very volatile macroeconomic environment of emerging economies. However, one can say that there was a greater business consolidation, improvements in the operational processes and strengthening of commercial relations. The performance of our business areas has been excellent, with budget over-compliance and higher-thanexpected growth. During 2018, The GTB (Global Transactional Banking) area was characterized by having a consultative model based on an exhaustive KYC process that allowed us knowing in detail the client’s transactional value chain in order to offer integral and transversal solutions, positioning ourselves as the main paying and collecting bank for several clients. In a climate marked by volatility, GM (Global Markets) achieved a profitable and reasonable management of the portfolio as well as an increase in the franchise of clients not only increasing the results but through products with high suitability. Finally, in Investment Banking, after several years of work, the financial closing of Ruta del Cacao was carried out, the first 4G project where BBVA participated in the consultancy, structuring and financing of the project. 124 BBVA COLOMBIA BUSINESS SEGMENTS BBVA Asset Management S.A. Sociedad Fiduciaria BBVA Asset Management is the unit of the BBVA Group that encompasses global Investment Funds and pension management companies. It represents a global benchmark in the asset management world with leading positions in both Spain and Latin America. BBVA Asset Management S.A. Sociedad Fiduciaria (“BBVA AM”), of BBVA Colombia subordinate, is responsible for for administering for over 40 years the resources in the Investment Fund and Structured Trust. BBVA AM is ranked as one of the first 5 collective Investment Fund management trust companies (without private equity funds) with a differentiated product and a strategic ally for our clients with needs of trust structures. The success of BBVA AM lies on their people, investment processes and control of global risks applicable, and thus, the pursuit of consistent performance over time for its customers. Total AUM´s COP +$11.5 TAM Variation 26.07% Number of contracts 45,395 Efficiency ratio Market share BBVA AUM’s Investment Funds AM Sector Dec 2017 Dec 2018 +52 $4.01 +20.2% +26.6% PB dec-18 8.22% 8.74% dec-17 $4.82 +26.3% dec-17 dec-18 125 BUSINESS SEGMENTS MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 In line with the Group strategic priorities and with the purpose to drive the business return, BBVA AM has set a plan with priority focuses that include: digital sales, improvement of customer’s experience, launch of new products according to segments needs, and technological optimization. Provide the best possible experience to customer: In 2017, BBVA AM became the industry reference, positioning the brand among recommended entities by individual and legal entities customers from collective investment funds and structured trust. This is the result of the business transformation, thanks to the strategy developed by the Entity which main axis is to offer the best customer experience with regard to assistance, service quality and transparency. Boost digital sales: The new market reality and needs from our customers require us to lead the way of the sector where the boost of new distribution channels is one of the strategic priorities that we have developed throughout the year. In 2018 the entity achieved significant successes by allowing the contracting of funds by mobile banking, being the first entity in the industry that offered this type of service New business models: The distribution commercial model split into two business lines (Fics and Structured Trust) has been crucial to achieve and exceed objectives set. Focusing on the Structured Trust business on three main lines such as administration, guarantee and real estate, helped to improve the indicators in an outstanding manner. Efficiency leadership: BBVA AM has consolidated within the Top 3 of more efficient trust entities thanks to the work performed by all areas where priority has been given to the continuous monitoring and the proper allocation of funds, plus a leading sales dynamic in the market. First class workforce: Professional development and projection of our team is one of the strategic pillars of BBVA AM. In 2018 we developed activities and initiatives to reinforce their personal and professional growth, thus helping us become a flagship and leading player entity. 126 BBVA COLOMBIA BUSINESS SEGMENTS BBVA Valores Colombia S.A. Comisionista de Bolsa BBVA Valores Comisionista de Bolsa S.A., subsidiary of BBVA Colombia, offers advisory, and support services in Colombian stock market, intended to premium and individual customers, as well as direct customers or foreign customer with interest in the local market. Additionally, its Investment Banking and Finance structure team, is responsible for providing support and advice on strategic approaches to companies in Colombia and the region. Strategic priorities of BBVA Valores for 2018 will be performed as follows: Provide the best possible experience to customer: The relationship with customers by improving customer service channels and offering personalized investment alternatives tailored to their needs, enabled BBVA Valores to better interact with Premium Banking customers and corporate banking customers to fulfill their needs. Boost digital sales: we continued the process of acquiring new technologies and tools, to improve customer´s experience, always structuring new products, which lead to promote client´s knowledge and management of the stock market, adjusting it to the new and changing customers needs. New business models: BBVA Valores is currently designing a strategic plan aimed at deepening 3 business lines, which we consider reinforce and complement the work of BBVA Valores. With differentiated levels of customer service and advice according to each business line, BBVA Valores communicates to customers all the potential that a global group such as BBVA can offer to them. These lines of business are related to our private, corporate and institutional banking clients and all the investment banking services we provide. 127 BUSINESS SEGMENTS MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 128 BBVA COLOMBIA BUSINESS SEGMENTS Optimization of capital allocation: During 2018, the capital structure of BBVA Valores was in line with the needs of its customers and the products offered that also complies with legal capital requirements. Likewise, and thanks to the good results obtained, we achieved a very positive ROE and above the industry average. In 2018, BBVA Valores consolidated as one of the stockbrokers with lowest administration expenses of the sector, which shows that the enhancement of processes initiated in previous years, has yielded results. Moreover, thanks to the Bank’s synergies with different support areas of BBVA Colombia, we have highly qualified personnel for those procedures in which the commission agent requires support, saving time and costs. Efficiency leadership: the search of customers was intensified in BBVA Colombia network, meeting their needs in portfolio investment and in the Retail banking segment products with the purchase and sale of bonds, CDTs and Tidis. We also achieved a milestone for the development of the Colombian capital market by structuring and placing the first bond issued in local currency by a private foreign company without presence in the country; reinforcing the relevance of the Colombian market in the regional Climate. Finally, thanks to the group relationship, BBVA Valores has agreements and contracts with the same suppliers of BBVA Colombia, an aspect that guarantees that the provision of services is of the highest quality with optimized prices thanks to this relationship. The best team: BBVA Valores has an integral staff committed to the objectives of the stockbroker and the Bank, working as one team and focused on offering an excellent service to all our clients. The internal areas of the commission agent work and cooperate permanently with the support areas of BBVA Colombia, as well as with those of BBVA Seguros and BBVA Asset Management, in compliance with the goals and objectives proposed for the BBVA Group in Colombia. The culture of collaboration, entrepreneurship, agility and transparency promoted by the group, seeking to improve the customer experience are and will continue to be paramount for the Entity. 129 BUSINESS SEGMENTS MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Insurance Banking Insurance Banking maintains the drive to six strategic axes, providing experience and innovative ideas to each of them, thus strengthening the synergies in the Group. Following goals have been achieved: Best customer experience: The best customer experience: We continue improving the quality of sales in the offices, demanding the document in Sigdoc, we also changed sales, focusing on collections with credit card and registrations with periodicity greater than quarterly. We updated the insured values of mortgage guarantees through communication under the Behavioral Economics methodology, adjusting 4,679 guarantees in 2 months that represent an increase of $372M in annual premiums. Boost of digital sales: In digital channel we launched in 2Q the Soat in BBVA Net where more than 1,350 insurances have been sold. The theft insurance sold through ATM´s generated positive results with more than 3,000,000 registrations; we have taken actions to reduce by 80% the number of claims presented in the third quarter. New business models: On the Net, we launched two new products in the 4Q: Unemployment Insurance with 364 policies sold and Multiriesgo with 95 policies sold at the end of November. In Telemarketing we launched the Unemployment Insurance, achieving the sale of 402 policies in November. Additionally, the Personal Accident and International Assistance Insurance was implemented, which complements the basic international assistance plan of the TC BBVA. The offer for companies is expanded with the implementation of PYME paquetizado, to be marketed by the offices for companies with assets of up to $2 bn, resulting in 520 policies valued at $942Million (Nov.). And the SME product for Corporate and Institutional Banking (BEI) was developed and implemented as of December. Optimization of the capital allocation: We awarded the tender for Life, Fire and Earthquake insurance of mortgage loans to BBVA Seguros for the year 2019, thus achieving centralization of the operation. 130 BBVA COLOMBIA BUSINESS SEGMENTS Adapt the model, processes, and structures to achieve the best level of efficiency: We continue with the control of endorsements and uninsured loans, where as of October/18, 7,571 fire and earthquake insurance policies have been issued for a value of $5,468M in annual premiums and 1,130 life insurance policies for a value of $858M in annual premiums. 131 6. Relation the C ship with ustomer Customer experience 134 Transparent, Clear and Responsible Communication (TCR) 135 Consumer Service 138 Omni-channel model 145 Operative risk management and Customer protection 147 RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Customer experience Keeping in mind BBVA value “Think Big”, added to our value “The Customer comes first” we have performed actions required to offer the best experience, both internally and externally. Thus, we have obtaine dthe best historicNPS rating since the beginning of measuring with this indicator. Tha main strategies performed in 2018 include: • Core implementation project for the • Because it is considered strategic for the management of claims and complaints that customer’s experience, the Unique allows greater traceability and efficiency. Experiences program was created within the Agile structure, devoted to providing a • Control and escalation with higher agility on differential and adequate experience to meet quality and experience issues, integrating our customers’ needs. the entire value chain for the solution of the root cause. • Full compliance has been given to the Financial Consumer Assistance System • Evolution of experience culture, reinforcing (SAC per its acronym in Spanish), required positively the high importance leveraging for by the regulatory entity to all financial customers, identified in our quality metrics. entities. Its purpose is (i) to consolidate in • Develoment of the strategy to increase the each entity the assistance, respect and number of assistance services and resolutions service cutlrue for all financial consumers; in the first contact with our customers. (ii) to adopt systems to provide adequate • Social media and App Store management, information; (iii) to reinforce the procedures considering the customers’ inquiries and for complaints, claims and inquiries consultations about the use of digital attention; and (iv) to foster the protection of channels in a larger time range and with the financial consumer rights as well as their greater availability. financial literacy. 134 BBVA COLOMBIA RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CUSTOMER Transparent, Clear GRI-FS-4 and Responsible Communication (TCR) This project encourages transparent, clear and responsable relationships between BBVA and its customers. • T for Transparency; i.e.; providing the customer with relevant information at the adequate time, balancing advantages and costs. • C for Clarity, this means easy to understand. BBVA attains this through the languaged, structure and design. • R for Responsibility, which implies caring for the interests of the other in the short, medium and long term. The project has two major working lines: • Implement TCR to transform the traditional banking through the creation of TCR product technical sheets, adjusting contracts to the TCR form, modifying answering letters to claims and following up of telephone selling and BBVA advertising. • Implement TCR in the new bank and progress in training and change to the TCR culture. The goal is to help the customer to make informed decisions, improve the relationship with the Bank, looking after their interests and making BBVA a more transparent and clear bank. TCR Contracts This initiative consists of reworking current customer contracts and designing new contracts of digital products more intuitively in 2019. 135 RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 In 2019 following contracts will be adjusted: • Savings account contract (upon regulator approval, required) • Payroll agreement • Acquisition agreement • Term-deposit certificate Digital TCR GRI-417-1 In 2018 a/b testing was conducted to enhance campaigns, making retesting about: • BBVA web • BBVA mobile • digital products: Investment Funds, Online Account, CDT On line, Digitalization and preapproved. Call center Review of all sale scripts was initiated together with the economic behavior team (sale of insurance, covered sales, purchase of portfolio, rediferred) to perform clear and transparent sales and in the consumers’ language for them to make informed decisions and contract products on a conviction basis. Public web (AEM) This initiative consisted of developing a new browse structure, visual change, design and generation of TCR contents for the web. In 2019 the creatin of the hub with contents of financial literacy will continue to faciliate customers and noncustomers the inclusion of financial language and the opportunity to administer their finance adequately. 136 BBVA COLOMBIA RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CUSTOMER Digitalization Digitalization of our customers is a fundamental target. For such purpose, we developed communications for open market that allows disclosing developments, innovations and functionalities that improve the browse and transactionality experience. Simultaneously, we generated direct communications for our customers from different contact points, with emphasis in customer’s functionalities in the mobile and wallet. In 2018 such communications were focused to invite our customers to: • Know our new payments store. • Know our new web page – AEM. • Generate recharges, transfers, consultations, payments. • Use more time since the Bank is in the mobile, when required. As to messages and contact points, we focused on working on main digitalization barriers highlighted in different and recent market studies. • Insecurity. • Access (innovation/data). • Ignorance (easiness, clarity, enough information). Although we keep an information and training channel to increase our mobile customers, we work to evolve our way of relationing since we live in a climate in which consumers are permanently connected (they want to operate at any time and from anywhere), and some used to digital experiencies (they expect proactive and customized assistance for their finance management) from multiple convenient devices and applications. With all this, we as financial industry, must get transformed constantly to offer greater assistance and advisory to customers, especially a new value proposal based on digital relations with the Omni-channel model, customization and convenience, more centered on customer experience and development of digital offer. 137 RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Consumer Service As a contribution to the achievement of SAC goals, we continued the procedure of disabled customers assistance. Thus BBVA was nominated as an inclusive bank. Also, the review of risk controls pursuant to SAC continued as well as the coordination with the Internal Control area to define joint actions to achieve the goals. Our balance of 2018 in regard to control entities is positive. All requirements from the Financial Superintendence of Colombia corresponded to impacts on the financial sector and were responded on time. Our relationship with the Financial Consumer Ombudsman was ensured for objectiveness and Independence and every case was responded timely. With the Statutory Audit area, we reinforced the need to strengthen the legal training plans in collaboration with Talent and Culture area. Other actions performed that allowed having the above results were: • Identification of events affecting customers and development of actions with areas related to mitigation control. • Boost the Committee of due attention as a governance body that seeks to contribute with the Bank policies related to the protection and due attention of financial consumers pursuant to Law 1328/09. • Validation process – Develop Practice Communities to share knowledge and differentiating service experiences in the sector. • Contest “The Customer comes first” which purpose is to: (I) Raise awareness of General Management about the relevance of their role service. (II) Reduce PQR volume by 20%, (III) Meet our service training. (IV) Generate knowledge and integratin in General Direction, and (V) Support our Digitalization goal and raise awareness on digital experience. The foregoing to leverage services and participate in mass 138 BBVA COLOMBIA RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CUSTOMER mitigation plans. We keep on strengthening the “Pregúntale a DG” tool, which was consolidated in 2018 as the web consultation tool, used by the every commercial office. New areas from the central order were involved such as: Sarlaft, Security, Fraud and Insurance Management, creating more traffic of consultations (13,534 handled by specialists). The knowledge basis was reinforced with updated information about products and services, regulations in force and recurring consultations to specialists. From SAC, the implementation of CE008/17 of the Financial Superintendence of Colombia “Inclusive Banking for Disabled People” was completed. Thus, offices became more accesible both physically and with signalling. Additionally, training was given on the tool “Centro de Relevo” (Handover Center) to interact with hearingimpaired people through a mobile application and at the Call Center through the Calls Handover (only for commercial consultations of products and services). Concurrently with the above, the update of www.bbva.com.co made it accessible for hearing-impaired people, incorporating a contents reader. Most used models of PQR communications were updated in TCR forms and all the commercial offers are being redesigned under this same standard. In August, 2018 the Super Advisor pilot program was launched in the Call Center. It is intended to improve the experience of the customer’s first contact, supporting the resolution and effectiveness of assistance in the channel. This process involved a training aimed at the knowledge of products and services; to date there are 30 inegral advisros with excellent results. With regard to social networking, we initiated the structuring of a project to extend the service hours through the Call Center (specialized cell). Finally, we closed with 30% progress and the definition of other functionalities is ongoing. 139 RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Management of claims and complaints Within the actions implemented by the Bank there is the Control Tower and the resolution of incidences and errors impacting massively the customers had better timings. Upon the inventory of events affecting customers, the central áreas were involved in the root causes of claims. Actions toward not only, rectifying the situation but mitigating generating risk are being taken. Timeliness in assistance has been achieved. Alsto, all areas have action frameworks and are proactive in the solution. The circuit works as follows: (I) The problem is evidenced, (II) The warning is generated, reporting to areas involved, (III) Adjustments are made, and (IV) Finally, the protocols are built for all channels involved in the direct contact process with the customer. Number of complaints in connection to the respect for privacy and GRI-418-1 leak of customers’ personal data Months Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Law on protection of personal data 14 3 16 10 8 4 5 2 8 7 8 10 An improvement in reduction of cases reported was observed versus 2017 (10 claims); this, thanks to the reinforcement in trainings due to the high impact generated. Time for complaint resolution BBVA-6 Total Ene Feb Mar Abr May Jun Jul Ago Sept Oct Nov Dic Average Días 3.38 2.87 2.81 2.93 3.4 3.26 3.31 4.01 3.87 3.7 3.77 3.68 3.41 140 BBVA COLOMBIA RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CUSTOMER This year there was an increase in the resolution time versus previous year (2,99 days in 2017) due to the fact that cases with higher impact required more time from management such as: unrecognized transactions, portfolio normalization, review of resettlement. Percentage of claims resolved on time Month Total managed Total managed on time Timeliness January 10,958 10,183 92.90% February 10,675 10,099 94.60% March 10,211 9,633 94.30% April 10,320 9,601 93% May 10,448 9,810 93.90% June 8,457 7,960 94.10% July 9,329 8,728 93.60% August 10,117 9,325 91.60% September 9,333 8,417 90.20% October 9,508 8,687 91.40% November 10,497 9,551 91% December 9,790 9,023 92.20% PQR´s Timeliness . 94,6% . 94,1% . 94,3% 93% . 93,9% . 93,6% . 92,2% 92,9%. . 91,6% . 91,4% 91% . 90,2% 141 RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 BBVA-8 Percentage of claims and complaints managed by SPC (First Contact Solution) Month Complaints filed SPC Complaints managed SPC SPC Participation Jan-18 7,1 22 4,476 62.80% Feb-18 5,872 4,759 81% Mar-18 5,515 4,187 75.90% Apr-18 5,557 3,737 67.20% May-18 6,017 3,743 62.20% Jun-18 3,375 2,862 84.80% Jul-18 4,055 3,293 81.20% Aug-18 4,204 3,819 92.80% Sept-18 4,508 3,288 78.20% Oct-18 6,053 3,333 73.90% Nov-18 5,393 3,844 63.50% Dec-18 61,758 3,699 68.60% Average 61,786 45,040 72.90% For the cases of first contact, we keep on working on the migration to assistance in the first level. This is the reason why the volume of SPC participation has increased several activities have been developed seeking greater attribution and training to advisors. Thanks to the light form implementation, claims or requests have been detected before being reported. They could be handled in the first level and this has allowed the training for particular matters. They have been reported to the network through the Committees and reinforce on the “Comunired”. In connection to technology and digitalization, the new web site was launched in 2018. It shows more fresh, thorough and organized information, both customers and users can acces to interesting information about products and services, simulate their operations and find detailed rates and fees. Finally, the functionalities of BBVA Mobile are being standardized with BBVA Net, in such a way that our customers have the same nformation and operativity options in both channels. 142 BBVA COLOMBIA RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CUSTOMER The functionality “Store of Payments” was implemented through BBVA Mobiel. Our goal is to become more digital and encourage our cusotmers to login in the application for their monetary operations, including digital sales. The assistance button can be selected on the main menú to have a guide assistant which is activated or deactiated as requried. Payments of PSE cards, taxes, recharges and transfers can be made as well as the creation of the recurring payments favorite. The following chart shows the operations percentage per channel. Monetary transactionality Accrued 2017 Accrued 2018 Channel Transactions Quota Tx´s Transactions Quota Tx´s Own ATM 71,790,665 29.34% 76,364,795 27.12% H2H 61,126,813 24.99% 69,467,426 24.67% POS 41,877,252 17.12% 51,549,310 18.31% Net Cash 25,882,901 10.58% 32,360,468 11.49% Offices 24,010,431 9.81% 22,680,532 8.05% Mobile Banking 7,404,658 3.03% 15,000,517 5.33% Third-party ATM 5,090,843 2.08% 6,184,708 2.20% Net 4,394,687 1.80% 4,531,776 1.61% Non-Banking Network 2,960,812 1.21% 3,377,689 1.20% Telephone Banking 111,762 0.05% 81,750 0.03% Total 244,650,824 281,598,971 143 RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Transaccionalidad no monetaria Accrued 2017 Accrued 2018 Channel Transactions Quota Tx´s Transactions Quota Tx´s Offices 8,635,731 87.46% 9.523.902 57.47% Mobile Banking 1,797,884 14.04% 5.722.018 34.53% Net 1,249,270 9.76% 548.219 3.31% Own ATM 815,871 6.37% 540.392 3.26% Net Cash 169,907 1.33% 172.906 1.04% Telephone Banking 128,976 1.01% 61.868 0.37% POS 3,506 0.03% 2.138 0.01% Total 12,801,145 16.571.443 144 BBVA COLOMBIA RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CUSTOMER Omni-channel model BBVA-9 New technological developments suppose and demand an advance in the improvement of the customer’s experience, as well as providing an easy access, better, more beneficial and comfortable conditions to the customer; BBVA offers its customer simple interactions and a fluid transition through their channels. In 2018 there is an evidence of a reduction in the transactionality of the customers in the office network due to the new functionalities in Mobile BBVA and BBVA Net. Additionally, the use of the Host-to-Host was boosted as well as the purchase in shops with cards. Currently, the Bank has a large number of effective transactions on digital channels. The challenge is to seek better usability always and thus, improve penetration. BBVA offers interesting options to open the door to new interactions. Thanks to all such initiatives, BBVA consolidated more than one million digital customers and more than 20% of sales were made through the digital channel, changing the way customers relate to the banking and at the forefront of current banking technology. Such new initiatives allow the customers to have less visits to the Offices and most transactions to be done through the virtual channels (BBVA Net or Mobile BBVA). In 2018 it is evidenced the impact of the strategy for the transactions migration: • Drop of transactionality in Offices. • Strong growth of transactions in POS (cash conversion). • Evident migration to digital channels in Retail banking segment (Mobile and Net) and legal (Netcash) as in the increase for direct debits (H2H). • Growth of ATMs transactions, aligned with the sector. We have seen a higher growth in the number of transactions in digital channels, while transactions in ATM’s and Offices have decreased. • POS transactions have also increased, which reflects the success of the “Uga-Uga” campaign. More importantly, we have seen that payments of loans have migrated from Offices to the App. 145 RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Operations per channels 2018 2017 Own ATMs 27,1% 29,3% H2H (Automatic) 24,7% 25% POS (Purchases at shops) 18,3% 17,1% NetCash 11,5% 10,06% Offices 8,1% 9,8% Mobile banking 5,3% 3% Others 5% 5,1% Distribution of BBVA Colombia per territories GRI-FS-13 BBVA Offices Banking correspondent ATM´s Bogotá North Center West 146 BBVA COLOMBIA RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CUSTOMER Operative risk management and customer protection Corporate Security & Enginnering Risks area (CS&ER) ensures the integrity, confidentiality and availability of different products and services offered by BBVA Colombia to customers, shareholders, employees and third parties to generate trust, loyalty to the brand and minimize risk events, both internal and external. During 2018, the model for the integral management of fraud and cyber security was strenghtened, thus keeping the process of emerging risk management for the use of new technological trends. The Bank projects the cyber security as an enabler of digital transformation. This is outlined as one of the strategic projects of the Group. Implementation of initiatives seeking the protection of different transactional channels of the Bank such as ATMs, Swift interbanking transactions, protection of the internal technological infrastructure and prevention of the leak of information. All such projects are aligned with the local standards, best practices of the industry and corporate guidelines. With regard to fraud prevention, the results allow us to have a leading position in the country, looking for the protection of customers. Reduction from 3.9 to 3.5 affected customers for fraud per each 10 thousand active cards. In banking channels clients affected are 2 per each 10 thousand. Monitoring systems allowed the early detection of activities not recognized by the customers, thus achieving the reduction of fraud amounts by 36.7%, although the industry in Colombia only fell by 0.5%. Also, only 0.0012% fraud was recorded. Business continuity schemes were strengthened thus allowing availability levels of critical services at adequate values and within the fulfilment of proposed goals. Physical security: In 2018 there were 15 robberies recorded in Offices with 18.14% reduction in the value of funds robbed versus 2017. 147 RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Robberies to BBVA Offices Colombia in 2017 2017 2018 Modality TAM Nr. Amount Nr. Amount Robbery 15 $ 187 15 $ 153 $ (34) (18%) Total 15 $ 187 15 $ 153 $ (34) (18%) Absolute Variation $ 34 Relative Variation (18.14%) As a continuity of the execution of the security plan, which main goal is to streamline the passive security systems for safeguarding the cash in cashiers’ windows, 100 motorized chests were acquired for 30 Offices. Additionally, tellers were trained on the compliance with security policies for handling and safeguarding the cash. On the other hand, the alarm reception center was updated. This improvement allows a comprehensive management of the Offices network alarm system. Also, the videorecorder systems of the ATMs, branches and customer assistance points were upgraded and renewed. Such actions provide an improvement in Commercial Offices. 148 BBVA COLOMBIA RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CUSTOMER 149 7. Responsible Practice s The team 152 Corporate Governance System 164 Compliance system 165 Internal control model 172 Compliance with legal requirement 189 Responsible procurement 193 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 The team BBVA’s purpose is to “make the opportunities of this new era available to everyone” and in order to make this a reality, taking into account the demands of the 21st century, it has been necessary to undertake a process of profound and total transformation, not only technological, but structural, with teams, processes, ways of working and interacting, as well as communicating. That is why Talent & Culture based and planned its strategy in four (4) pillars focused on execution and with Top 10 programs that allowed, as a team, to contribute to, and fulfill the strategic mission of the organization.: A First-Class Workforce • Professional Careers • Internal Mobility • Talent Management Driven by our purpose • Values and behaviors • Leadership Area Infrastructure • Roles and people valuation process • Technological platforms • Data capacities & Analytics 152 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES Work as one team • Project-based Organization • Experts communities In the execution of this strategy, the new people management model was implemented, a fundamental component in the transformation process. This model is made up of six (6) key elements: External recruiting Evaluation Job Internal movility of people evaluation Training Development 153 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Internal Mobility and External Selection: For both internal and external mobility, global tools were developed, Mobility (mobility of internal talent) and Talent Link (recruitment of external talent), being the fundamental objective of the policies, to have each person in the appropriate role, maximizing the value contribution and increasing commitment of the employee and at the same time, growing professionally and with continuous learning. The Internal Mobility model consists of 10 policies that seek transparency, flexibility, trust and effectiveness of all vacancy filling processes. In 2018, 433 processes were managed through “Apply for the Vacancy” and “Mobility” through which 347 employees were promoted. Role assessment: Role assessment: The Role Assessment process of employees in the Commercial Network payroll was executed, evaluating all positions, documenting roles description and defining the requirements and skills to assume each role. People Assessment: The new People Valuation model was aligned and adapted to the reality and change that both, the Bank and the business are experiencing, in our values and the need of talent evolution towards the new skills required to leverage transformation. The process incorporated the assessment of cultural, leadership, general and technical skills, in 360° view, generating for each employee, a Base Competence Report for the feedback process and the construction of action plans, with the employee being the advocate and the protagonist of his career, development and training. Training, culture and values: The training strategy focused on the promotion of BBVA’s values, the customer comes first, we think big and we are one team. Actions focused on living the purpose, values and desired behavior for BBVA, were carried out, being the main promoter the Management Committee, which, together with its first line, started and was the driving force behind the cultural transformation activities, which irrigated each and 154 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES every one of BBVA’s employees in Colombia, through the development of the initiatives: Our desired culture, Values Day, Ambassadors of our values, among others, reaching 100% of the workforce. The training also focused on the development of new capabilities. For this, the leverage was the Campus Framework providing support to the different areas to facilitate the implementation of the new Agile structure and new technologies (TECH U DATA U). Additionally, through the use of the gamification of contents with the CAMPUS TRAINING, the training processes were deployed in the networks in order to improve customer experience. BBVA’s digital transformation reached the employee training processes in 2018 through Btokens, a BBVA Campus tool that reflects a new training model based on continuous learning, autonomy, digital resources and shared knowledge. Btoken Works as a virtual marketplace, where the employee will be rewarded for the time dedicated to learning and teaching his/her peers, in a way that: • Employees have an initial allocation of 510 Btokens. • They obtain a Btoken for each hour of training. • Completed coursed also grant Btokens. • The course taught by the employee which is considered a good one, allows to obtain additional Btokens The Btokens gained / obtained can be invested in new virtual and face-to-face training programs. Currently, the BBVA Campus has a training offer of more than 7,600 courses. In relation to Employee wellbeing, the wellness strategy was designed and implemented, based on the philosophy of Total Leadership (person, company, family and society), under the concept: Life 360. 155 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Development of people: Currently, the People Development process is being carried out through the dissemination of the results of People Assessment, feedback, and the preparation of Development Plans. Organizational transformation Front Disciplines NonFinancial Risk Control It provides advisory and support to They develop strategies, policies and external and internal customers methodologies to ensure the connection of members in the execution teams Solutions Development Execution They develop projects through They execute processes with a E2E vision Manage and coordinate the quality of delivery teams, which are assigned to deliver value to internal and external iinternal control and operational risk on a dynamic basis customers (guarantee the daily operation) models of the Bank and affiliates In order to promote cultural change and new working ways, it was necessary to transform it into an Agile Organization. This organization has been structured in 5 basic blocks, with the fundamental objectives of achieving greater agility in the execution of the strategy with customer vision and higher quality, with more autonomous multidisciplinary teams and decision-making capacity. Additionally, As well, through the new structure, Communities of Practice CoP are created by a group of professionals in the execution teams that ensure a common application of discipline knowledge in the projects/ processes, in which they are assigned. During 2018, the areas of Talent and Culture, Finance, Legal Services and General Secretariat, Client Solutions and Internal Audit evolved into Agile structure, in addition to the Compliance function, thus reaching an implementation and execution level of 70% of the transformation. The Talent & Culture Area implemented a process of monitoring and advising the different areas in order to identify the different Buildings Blocks, design the new structure and and act as a facilitator of such implementation. 156 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES New ways of working After the transformation of each structure, the Structure office and Agile Culture, has accompanied the teams in incorporating collaborative practices among the areas, breaking silos and using new ways of doing things, for this it has supported its management in the Agile Couch, key figure for helping and training the teams, so the transition from functional, traditional way of work in silos, to the way of working in autonomous teams with execution capacity, is a reality. More than 1,000 employees were trained in agility knowledge and the use of new work methodologies that have increased performance by up to 30%, so it has been decided to reduce the use of email and increase collaboration through visible boards that allow to identify bottlenecks and impediments in the implementation, to address them at an early stage. Also, throughout 2018 the strategic axes of the Agile office in Colombia were defined to achieve cultural transformation, initiating the development of key work fronts that leverage the sustainability of the Agile Model in the Organization: adoption strategy supported in the Agile Route, methodology of Project Management in the Organization, training and development of Agile Coaches, with the aim of training professionals in agility that have a solid knowledge to accompany the cultural transformation of the Bank, which will allow to continue placing products efficiently in the market, making BBVA more competitive and creating new opportunities for our customers, putting at their reach the benefits that the digital age brings. Modernization of General Management building The change of the workspaces in the central areas is in progress, to align them with the new Agile culture, looking for modernism, transparency and comfort. We went from 32 meeting rooms to 99, totally equipped with audiovisual media and connectivity, and from 4 collaborative spaces to 147, improving in this way interaction between teams. 157 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 The project ends with the adaptation of a Business Center on the 1st floor to serve customers and suppliers, and an additional one on the 11th floor, a gymnasium for the exclusive use of Bank employees, a dining room with a capacity for 350 people, with food service administered by a third party, and finally, an auditorium on the 12th floor with a capacity for 230 people, which can be subdivided into 3 rooms with a terrace equipped with furniture that allows informal meetings or recreation. Negotiations of collective agreements In December 2018, the collective agreements and collective bargains were signed by representatives of the employees and the Bank, with a remarkable relationship between the parties, reaching agreements within market conditions. Of the total payroll, 23% are affiliated to the Trade Union and 77% to the Collective Agreement. Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS), (SG-SST, by its initials in spanish) During 2018, BBVA continued to develop the OHSMS, investing more than 13,000 hours in promotion and prevention activities, covering 100% of work centers nationwide and complying with the work plan established for this period; the activities performed were: 2,953 occupational medical examinations, 533 evacuation drills in the event of earthquake, mindfulness, update of first-aid kits and delivery of the PMU briefcase for the correct handling of emergency situations; all of this with the objective of mitigating present occupational risk factors.. The team in figures GRI-102-7 Collective headcount breakdown Total employees BBVA Colombia 2018 5,238 Men 2,188 Women 3,050 Men (%) 41.77% Women (%) 58.23% 158 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES Personnel turnover (increase and reduction) Gender Increase Reduction Turnover Percentage* Female 207 209 13.76% Male 162 146 14.24% Total general 369 355 Turnover rate 13.96% * Average headcount:: 5,185.75 workers Breakdown by category and age GRI-405-1 Positions 2017 Under 25 Between 25 to 45 Older than 45 Total Directors 25 32 57 Middle level 10 693 566 1.269 Specialists 55 912 298 1.265 Sales Force 15 693 142 850 Base job 214 1.093 490 1.797 Total general 294 3.416 1.528 5.238 Workforce breakdown by employment category and gender GRI-405-1 Positions Female Female % Female % Male Directors 12 45 21,05% 78.95% Middle level 717 552 56,50% 43.50% Specialists 663 602 52,41% 47.59% Sales Force 594 256 69,88% 30.12% Base job 1,125 672 62,60% 37.40% Total general 3.111 2.127 52,48% 47.51% 159 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Gender ratio broken-down by professional category average GRI-405-2 Average fixed Salary ratio Positions Female Male annual income female / male Directors $ 216,116,922 $ 275,886,016 $ 261,541,433 78.33% Specialists 89,087,277 101,867,871 94,490,904 87.45% Sales Force 70,263,801 78,534,899 74,317,727 89.46% Middle Level 54,108,719 56,342,342 54,788,797 96.03% Base Job 36,484,469 37,874,192 36,923,813 96.33% Average $ 93,212,238 $ 110,101,064 $ 104,412,535 89.52% GRI-202-1 Hiring wage versus legal minimum salary ratio BBVA Colombia 2018 Minimum Salary CMS Minimum salary ratio $ 1,864,849 $ 781,242 2.39 Social benefits employees 2018 Benefits No. Employees Amount Paid Seniority premium 987 $ 9,853,079,955 Vacation Premium 4,543 8,455,095,203 Optical aid 1,965 1,298,290,000 Food allowance 568 813,564,407 Educational aid for children 1,749 569,084,005 Extra legal premium 5,144 57,384,165,439 ATM Incentive 896 241,913,614 Maternity Aid 196 135,681,000 Funeral aid parents and siblings 111 67,377,000 Funeral assistance spouse and children 7 4,242,000 Educational aid undergraduate employee 839 2,557,654,770 Educational aid postgraduate employee 272 $ 1,196,612,079 160 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES Average hours of annual training Training hours Total hours BBVA Colombia 192,099 Average by individual 36.02 Training hours per employee category Gender Hours % Female 119,136 62% Male 72,963 38% Total hours 192,099 100% Training hours per employee category Employee category Hours % Directors 840 0.40% Middle level 21,178 11% Specialists 24,227 13% Sales Force 136,048 71% Base Jobs 9,806 5% Not specified 192,099 100.00% Total hours 192,099 100% Headcount by type of contract and gender Contract type Female Male Total Indefinite 3,050 2,188 5,238 Learning 176 97 273 Temporary 560 199 759 Total general 3,786 2,484 6,270 161 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Headcount by type shift and gender GRI-102-8 Shift Female Male Total Full time 3,638 2,430 6,068 Partial time 148 54 202 Total 3,786 2,484 6,270 Employees by type of contract and region GRI-102-8 City Indefinite Learning Temporary Total % Bogota 2,760 133 270 3,163 50.45% Cali 266 34 45 345 5.50% Medellin 314 25 69 408 6.51% Barranquilla 197 25 37 259 4.13% Other Cities 1,701 56 338 2,095 33.41 Total General 5,238 273 759 6,270 100% Percentage employees under collective agreement GRI-102-41 Concept Total Headcount under collective agreement 1,196 Headcount on collective bargains 4,042 Total number of employees 5,238 Collective agreements (%) 22.83% Collective bargains (%) 77.17% GRI-403-2 Occupational Accident Ratio Type of accidents With disabilities Without disabilities Total Number 21 60 81 Accident frequency rate 15.21 Absenteeism rate 3.29 162 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES Volunteering and social engagement BBVA-11 As contribution to the Responsible Banking model, and in particular, to support the education, sports and culture, a group of more than 1,700 Volunteers participated in different activities related to these topics. Within the BBVA Global Volunteering Week framework, Colombia had volunteers from different regions who were present in different social institutions who participated in more than 14 activities and also donated more than $120 million pesos in cash to the foundations chosen by each of them. Additionally, within the framework of Life 360 (a Human Resources Area integration activity), held in early November, a group of 150 employees was present at the headquarters of IE Gabriela Mistral, Melgar, Tolima where they performed maintenance work, painting, decorating murals, demarcation of courts, decorating classrooms and also delivering backpacks with school supplies. 163 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Corporate Governance GRI-102-11 • GRI-102-12 GRI-102-18 System The Corporate Governance System of BBVA Colombia is aligned with the international, corporate and local recommendations and trends. Its principles, elements and practices are set out in different instruments that guide the structure and functions of the corporate bodies, such as the Articles of Association, the Corporate Governance Code, the Rules of the Shareholders’ General Meeting, the Rules of the Board of Directors and the Rules of the Board Supporting Committees. The System is also made up by the standards of internal conduct contained in the Code of Conduct of BBVA, the Code of Conduct in the Securities Market and Code of Conduct for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing set out in the postulates that govern the actions of their senior management, members of the Board of Directors, administrators and employees. Additionally, the Corporate Governance System of BBVA Colombia is conceived as a dynamic process in permanent review, with a focus toward improvement and adaptability to the new realities of the Bank and its affiliates, taking as reference the regulations and recommendations produced with regard to the best practices of Corporate Governance. The Management Report, the Corporate governance annual report annexed as supplementary information and the Implementation Report of Best Corporate Practices, for the year 2018, are available on the BBVA Colombia website: https://www.bbva.com.co/content/dam/public-web/colombia/documents/home/prefooter/gobiernocorporativo/encuesta-codigo-pais/DO-08-Reporte-codigo-pais-2018.pdf 164 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES Compliance system El BBVA’s Compliance system constitutes one of the based upon which BBVA consolidates its institutional pledge to conduct all operations and business in accordance with strict code of ethical conduct. The Compliance Area continues articulating its activity around the development and implementation of policies and procedures, the dissemination and training in Compliance matters and the identification, evaluation and mitigation of potential compliance risks, understood as those that affect the following issues: markets behavior, dealing with conflict of interest, prevention of money laundering and terrorism financing and consumer protection. During year 2018 the goals of the area were fully accomplished, under the adequate organization structure and clear assignment of roles and responsibilities, with regard to aspects such as managing and mitigating adequately the Compliance risk, active involvement in the New Products Committee, providing support and accompaniment to the commercial performance of the Bank and other BBVA companies in Colombia, strict compliance with internal and external reporting, timely compliance with the requirements of the State control and surveillance entities and continuous training to all employees with regard to the Compliance function matters. In compliance with the BBVA corporate policies, the Compliance Area conducted the Compliance Testing to 30 offices of the Network, to validate the controls associated to the function of SARLAFT. In accordance with the results obtained thereof, improvement plans were implemented for strengthening the application of corporate principles and legal regulations. The Compliance Testing is a methodology focused toward the verification that the controls established to mitigate the risks, are being properly executed. GRI-205-1 • GRI-205-2 Standard of conduct GRI-205-3 On September 22, 2015, the BBVA Board of Directors approved the Code of Conduct, a pillar of the entity’s behavior guidelines, which in its 4.3 section establishes the “anticorruption policy” the framework for actions to prevent, detect and promote communication of corrupt practices or risk situations, seeking to ensure that the customer is the first in the performance of a team’s functions, that things big and conduct its actions in a coordinated way to 165 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 achieve local and corporate goals under strict standards of conduct. This Code of Conduct contains the commitments that contribute to non-tolerance of corruption, as well as the guidelines to promote transparency, inclusion and financial responsibility. On November 19, 2018, The Anti-Corruption Policy was approved by the BBVA’s Board of Directors, which stablishes zero tolerance to corruption and mainly develops the principles and guidelines included in section 4.3 of the Code of Conduct. The Policy establishes BBVA’s framework for action to prevent, detect and promote the communication of corrupt practices or risk situations, establish specific guidelines for behavior in sensitive activities or areas and facilitate the recognition of possible situations that require special caution; for this same date in the Steering Committee the dissemination and compliance of same was determined, consequently all members of the Board of Directors are aware of the contents and guidelines of the Code of Conduct and the Anticorruption Policy. On the other hand, all BBVA’s employees at the national level, have been enrolled in the Code of Conduct course, offering, therefore, an effective training about internal regulation to all Bank’s members. Likewise, communications are periodically sent to all employees, (e-mails, projection on corporate screen, magazine, etc.), reinforcing anti-corruption issues, Acceptance of Gifts Policy and Participation in political campaigns. Besides, on November 1st, 2018, the training course “The customer is first”, was launched, which must be completed by all entities’ employees; the deadline for this task to be completed is May 2019. The course includes the following topics: Development of professional activities, Acceptance of Gifts or Personal Benefits, Conflict of Interest, Complaint Channel, Better Protection of Privacy, Responsible Action, The Customer is First and Customer’s Knowledge. Additionally, BBVA Colombia has the Product Governance and Conduct Policies, in the Securities Market area and the Governing Document of the Risk Administration System of Assets Laundering and Terrorist Financing, which 166 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES develop the principles contained in the Code, incorporating specific standards and establishing the performance guidelines that are expected from the BBVA Colombia members. The BBVA Code of Conduct is published on the website, available for consultations by anyone at: https://www.bbva. com.co/personas/atencion-al-inversionista/gobierno-corporativo/codigo-de-conducta.html and the Anticorruption Policy is published in the Compliance portal, which may be consulted by all BBVA entities’ employees. Denunciation channel GRI-205-3 Main aspects that may be informed The complaint channel constitutes a mechanism to through the complaint channel help employees to inform non-compliance observed or Frauds Intellectual property reported by employees, clients, suppliers or peers; it is Provide confidential Appropriation of collections Appropriation customers’ accounts information to third parties Credit grants Sale of data bases available 24 hours a day 365 days a year, and it is open Appropration of entity’s Appropriation inactive accounts Accounting manipulation applicatives Favoring third partis also to the Group’s suppliers. The complaints received have been diligently processed, promoting always Classification of complaints verification and measures for their resolution. The information has been objectively, impartially and Markets integrity Violation of law Privileged use -Laws or decrees Conflicts of interest Resolutions or circular letters confidentially analyzed. Market manipulation Supervising bodies During 2018, the Channel was disseminated, as the principal mechanism for the management of behavioral risks, including the corruption risk, through face-to-face and virtual training, reviewing and reinforcing the legal update contents “campus training, difussion of information on TV screens, e-mails and the support of the Talent & Culture area, through Business Partners; likewise, it is highlighted that through the Channel, BBVA entities employees, clients and suppliers, may inform any breach of the Code, through a supervisor or through a Talent & Culture delegate, e-mail to the mailbox canaldedenuncia.co@bbva.com, or to (57) (1) 3808171 voicemail. During the period between January 1st and December 31st, 2018, there was no corruption cases and therefore, there were no disciplinary measures, contract rescissions or legal procedures regarding this matter. 167 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Business Integrity EYear 2018 has been quite important for BBVA in its permanent commitment with business integrity; it was recognized as an Active Anti-Corruption Company by the Secretary of Transparency of the Presidency of the Republic; and it continued to disseminate the Code of Conduct, designing training programs and updating their contents, taking into account international standards recognized as good practices with regard to anti-corruption and integrity. In line with the above, the Anti-Corruption Policy was adopted, taking into account that there are a number of risks related to corruption and bribery, which in an entity with the characteristics of BBVA could manifest, among others, those related to activities such as offer, delivery and acceptance of gifts or personal benefits, promotional events, facilitation payments, donations and sponsorships, expenses, hiring of personnel, relationships with suppliers, agents, intermediaries and business partners, merger processes, acquisitions and joint ventures or the accounting and recording of operations. To prevent, identify and manage these risks, BBVA has an internal regulatory body comprised of principles, policies and other internal developments that reflect BBVA’s firm commitment to legality and its ethical principles, which require acting with the utmost honesty, integrity and transparency, both within the entity, as well as with clients, agents, intermediaries, business partners, public or private institutions and other third parties with whom it is related. Additionally, the Compliance Area has continued with its advisory work and response to the inquiries to the different areas of the BBVA Entities in Colombia, with regard to the application of the Code of Conduct, mainly regarding the objectivity in the selection, hiring and promotion, the development of other professional activities, the acceptance of gifts or personal benefits, the treatment and management of potential conflicts of interest and in the management of personal assets. With regard to consumer protection, the Product Governance Policy was approved, which establishes the principles that BBVA Colombia must observe when evaluating the characteristics and risks of products and services, as well as defining its distribution conditions and its 168 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES monitoring, in such a way that the interests of the clients are taken into account at all times, and compliance with the applicable regulation is guaranteed, with regard to customer protection. The Compliance Area participated in the advice for the preparation and distribution of products and services appropriate to the needs of the clients, within a framework of responsibility with a society energized by the new technological trends and the boom in the financial offer, promoting financial education and the provision of sufficient information, to guarantee informed contracting of products offered by BBVA entities in Colombia. The above, in development of the entity’s strategic priorities, seeking the promotion of the digital sales, trying to guarantee the best customer experience, in the development of new business models, with efficiency leadership and the implementation of methodologies that inquire about digital evolution, the needs of consumers and the optimization of resources and capital allocation. On the other hand, the action plans in charge of the Compliance Area established by the control entities were completed within the deadlines, and permanent monitoring and accompaniment was made to the other areas of the entity in compliance with the commitments assumed by them. In relation to the Securities Markets Area Conduct, the Policy and the Internal Code of Conduct in the Securities Market (RIC) were updated in order to meet the new trends in the markets and the amendments to the regulations. As a result, a new adhesion process was carried out for the people subject to the RIC, training sessions were held on the subject, and situations that could lead to market abuse were analyzed, to promote the creation of monitoring scenarios to adequately mitigate the risks. Likewise, the Compliance Area managed several Privileged Information Files and Special Confidential Projects, to guarantee compliance with the obligations related to the confidentiality of the information and mitigate the risk of misuse of privileged information by persons with knowledge of those files, while actively participating in the generation of concepts specific to the areas under its responsibility when the initiatives so required. Additionally, it actively participated in the Committees and meetings that transversally in the different Entities and at different levels, have required the issuance of concepts that involve those aspects that are within its competence, as well as in all those in which it has a voice and vote given the nature of its functions. 169 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing Prevention of money laundering and terrorism financing (hereinafter PML&TF) constitutes, above all, an everpresent objective that BBVA Colombia associates to its improvement commitment in different social contexts in which it operates. For BBVA Colombia, ensuring that its products and services are not used for illegal purposes, constitutes also an essential requirement for safeguarding the corporate integrity and thereby, one of its main assets: the trust of people and institutions it deals with, daily (customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers, etc.). In order to achieve such purpose, BBVA Colombia as member of a worldwide financial group with branches and affiliates that operate in several countries, has a corporate risk management model which comprises all compliance issues (see description in the Compliance System section). This model not only takes into account the Colombian regulation but also incorporates the best practices of the international finance industry in this regard, as well as the recommendations provided by international entities such as FATF (Financial Action Task Force). It is also worth mentioning that the risk management model for prevention of money laundering and terrorism financing is constantly evolving and subject to independent review on a permanent basis. In particular, the risk analysis performed allowed to reinforce the controls and establishing, in this case, additional mitigating measures to strengthening the model. During 2018, BBVA Colombia has continued strengthening the referred model for which purpose, performed important activities aimed at preventing that funds from illegal origin, have access to, and use the financial system. For such purpose it kept reinforcing the policies of the Risk Management System for the prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing. 170 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES Following activities are highlighted: Project, in order to modify the objective reports sent to UIAF, in compliance with External Circular • The segmentation methodology of the 017 of 2018 of the Financial Superintendence of jurisdiction of the risk factors, products and channels, was adjusted and reviewed. As a result Colombia. of that work, a new manual called “Segmentation • The reengineering of the People Special Base Methodology for risks factors according to LA/TF that automated some controls to more effectively risk”, was prepared and published. mitigate certain identified LA/FT risks. • In coordination with the companies’ segment • The requirements of the Financial areas, a work plan was executed to improve the filling out of the indicators of the final clients’ Superintendence of Colombia, were dully beneficiaries table, that are the Legal Entities resolved, as well as those information Segment. requirements from the investigation bodies. • The update of information of those clients that • Execution of the training plan, applying virtual are considered Publicly Exposed Persons, was and face-to-face strategies, covering more than coordinated. 90% of the employees. Both the schedule of • An application was developed for management of attendants and the contents of courses gave the area internal processes, that improves control special attention to the needs of such employees and update of same, achieving greater efficiency performing in higher risk areas. in the consolidation of clients’ information, allowing to make more assertive and timely • Action plans performed of control bodies within decisions. terms set. • Feedback above sector average was obtained, • Compliance Testing conducted on the proper regarding reports sent by the UIAF, related to the operation of SARLAFT. Additionally, adjustments quality of the suspicious operations reports. within the process to ensure greater • The corresponding steps were initiated with homogeneity in the criteria and independence in Engineering Areas, to start a technological the execution of same, were made. 171 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Internal control model BBVA Group initiated the evolution of its control model since year 2013 with the creation of new governance. The model evolution was based upon the combination of two levers: (i) Internal control model built over the existence of three differentiated control levels (three line defense model), and (ii) Coordinated governance model of the internal control model, denominated Corporate Assurance (comprehensive vision and involvement from senior management). The model has been adjusted based on the identification of several improvement opportunities, based on the three lines defense: 1. Business and support areas are responsible for control in their environment and execution of measures set, in this case from higher instances. Such defense line has been reinforced with an ad hoc team that manages, coordinates and supervises the execution of control tasks performed therein. 2. The Operational and Internal Country Risk Management Direction, based on corporate guidelines and local regulation, provides the methodology and common tools for management. In this new model, the second line is the local figure that leads and coordinates with cross vision, the Internal Control System incorporated to the current function of operation risk mitigation. The control units specialized in this line (Internal Financial Control, Internal Risk Control, Internal Operations Risk, Internal Technology Control, Compliance and other in Human Resources, Legal Services areas) supervise the control of different units within their cross-sector specialty, focusing towards the definition of Policies and Procedures thereof and the exercise of “challenge” to the control activity made by the first defense line. 3. The Internal Audit unit performs an independent review of the model, verifying the Compliance and effectiveness of corporate policies and providing independent information about the control model. In turn, the Internal Audit performed the independent evaluation to the effectiveness of the Internal Control System of BBVA Colombia pursuant to the provisions of Section IV of Title I of Part I of the External Circular Letter 029 of 2014 (Legal Circular Letter) issued by the Financial Superintendence of Colombia. In such evaluation it 172 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES was concluded that the Internal Control System implemented by the Bank complies reasonably with the criteria that the Financial Superintendence of Colombia has stated in the above mentioned Circular, as well as that improvement plans established by the Bank to mitigate risks identified in the evaluations made during 2018, have been implemented. During 2018, a new vision for the Operational Risk Admission Committee is proposed to be established, to incorporate the topics of Product Governance, outsourcing, and risk assurance, through insurance policies, to foster the control culture (self-management, self-control, and self-regulation). Internal Audit Report El Plan de Auditoría interna 2018, que incorporó una visión trienal 2018-2020, se alineó con el propósito y las The Internal Audit plan for 2018, which incorporated a three-year vision 2018-2020, was aligned with the purpose and priorities set by BBVA Group, in order to provide assurance on how the Risk Management and the control model, are adapted to the strategy. The plan was built based on the continuing assessment of 11 risk typologies defined by the BBVA Group (Risk Assessment), the function strategy and observations or requirements of the main stakeholders: the administration, the governance bodies and the supervision entities The Risk Assessment methodology provides a comprehensive vision of risks to which the organization is exposed to, in the development of its activity, as well as the level of control exercised over these risks, allowing an adequate prioritization of the assurance tasks. The assurance activities defined in the annual plan, are the result of the main focuses derived from the analysis, notwithstanding, it is possible that for a certain risk, no specific assurance activities are contemplated within the annual plan, or that these are prioritized to be developed in triennial horizon, without this implying that the assessment has not been carried out with the same standards as for other risks. 173 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 The following are the activities that, because the strengthening the profiles administration on the results, are considered important, were monitored by applications. the senior management and the Audit Committee: Evaluation of the operating processes related to • Operating risk: Cash collection operation for CIB CDs issued by the Bank which are negotiated in Banking clients (In House), activity that the secondary market (Advanced CDs supported “the best customer experience” as the Dematerialization Procedure), which supported strategic priority. As a result of the audit, “the best customer experience” strategic priority. improvements related to governance framework As a result of this assessment, improvements and control over the cash collection operation, were made to the operation and control over the and operations developed by third parties CDs capital and interest payments, in offices a (service level agreements) and controls over the through DECEVAL, as well as the ownership asset custody and physical security, were controls on the Bank’s system and how this established. impacts tax reports. Charges and massive payments to clients’ circuit Likewise, assessments corresponding to the (OPS – Simple Process Operation), from whose Treasury operation (operating risk in the treasury assurance, the entity is improving controls over room), the Operating Risk Model (in order to the operating circuits involved in the process, in certify the advance model before the Banco de particular, those carried out by third parties España), the branch network operation (visits to (outsourcing) and the conciliation process of the 45 offices), and forensic activities that demanded affected accounts. the participation of the Internal Audit team, were carried out. Applications for foreign currency operations in the channels (FC Engine); through this evaluation • Credit risk: The evaluations made to the the strategic priority of “boosting digital sales” attributions granted to employees, regarding was impacted. The activity contributed to credit for the wholesale portfolio (wholesale and improve the monitoring of the service, in order to SMEs delegations) and to the credit modification not impact clients, or the the Bank’s own and restructuration processes within the Circular position, regarding the timely registration of the 26/2017 framework (credit modification and operation made through the channel, as well as restructuration processes): supported “the best 174 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES customer experience” strategic priority. As a internal network. “the best customer experience” result of this evaluations, emphasis has been strategic priority, was also supported. given to the improvement of the sectorial risk • Legal risk: The assessment of the legal risk control model (Rating), monitoring of delegations and framework allowed to support two strategic conservation and management of relevant priorities: “the best customer experience” and documentation (credit files), selection criteria “improve the efficiency level”. As a result of the and financial viability in the analysis of audit, improvements to the processes of modifications and restructuration, among others. conciliation of provision accounts for Other activities developed correspond to the contingencies, regulation change management, Operating Risk Assessment associated to credit registration and renewal of the Commercial and the portfolio quality review of the branch Register for the branch network, were network, (sufficiency of provisions) focused on established. clients of the civil works sector. Likewise, the Consumer Service evaluation was • Technological risk: The evaluation of the carried out, in accordance to the current production management process, which involved regulation. the monitoring, availability, changes • Compliance risk: with regard to Customer management, and technological infrastructure Compliance and with the purpose of supporting assurance, that supported “the best customer “the best customer experience” strategic priority, experience” strategic priority, also supported the two activities were developed (Incentives and strengthening of the local critical infrastructure sales practices model, and commercial practices security, and second level controls for the affecting the consumer), which have allowed to infrastructure. develop actions on the commercial incentives On the other hand, an audit was carried out, on model, in search for a better alignment with the the entity’s response capacity to cyber-attacks remuneration corporate policies, and the design (Cyber-security response), which resulted in of a comprehensive strategy that guarantees improvements to technical areas coordination timely handling of PQRs, in order to improve sales and Access to monitoring tools, with the purpose quality indicators, and contributing to reduce of optimizing the management of incidents in the customer churn. 175 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Like wise, the SARLAFT evaluations was performed in accordance to what was established by the FSC. • Business model risk: The audit to the application of metrics (Metrics Optimization), contributed to the improvement of clients transactional information consolidation management process. As a result of the assurance specific activities, carried out in 2018, regarding the risk of extended Business, Internal Governance, Markets and Structure, there were no relevant situations to inform to the senior management. The Capital risk, which was secured through the Risk Assessment methodology, did not constitute a focus for 2018. Lastly, as in previous years, Internal Audit accompanied the administration in assisting the surveillance and control bodies. Specifically, it supported the monitoring of the Supervisory actions established by the Financial Superintendence of Colombia, and the requirements in which this entity requested independent assurance. 2018 Audit Committee and Compliance Report In compliance with the provisions of the Financial Superintendence of Colombia (SFC) in the Legal Basic Circular Letter (6.1.2. of Section IV, Title I, Part I) the Board of Directors of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria Colombia S.A. (hereinafter “BBVA Colombia”, or the “Entity” or the “Bank”) has the Audit Committee (hereinafter the “Committee”), study and support body that provides assistance to comply with its supervision function of the entity’s Control Architecture. It addresses the issues related to the control environment, risk management, internal control system, communication and monitoring. The regulation of the Audit Committee is provided in Law 964 of 2005 and in the above mentioned Circular Letter of the SFC, in article 13.1 of the Board of Directors Regulation and in the Internal Regulation in concordance with the aforementioned standards, their purpose, composition, functions, meetings and other aspects related to their operation, documents that are posted on the website of the Bank. 176 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES Composition The Committee is made up by three Directors of the Board of Directors, from which two, act as independent and one as the chairman. Each member has the experience and sufficient knowledge to fulfill their appropriate functions. During 2018 the Audit Committee was made up as follows: Carlos Eduardo Caballero Argáez (independent) Ana María Ibáñez Londoño (independent) Juan Eugenio Rogero González ((equity)) Operation The Audit Committee, in conformity with the provisions of the Legal Basic Circular Letter of the SFC and Law 964 of 2005 (Article 45 Paragraph 4) sits quarterly and its decisions and actions are reflected on the minutes signed by the President and Secretary, in compliance with the requirements provided in Art. 189 of the Code of Commerce. 177 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Additionally, the Committee is presented with reports from the Statutory Audit, Internal Audit, and Compliance Officer. It also receives the reports from the members of Senior Management, when deemed necessary, to meet its functions. In conformity with the provisions of the Internal Regulation, the Committee may call for external advisory services with regard to relevant matters whenever the specialization or independence issues cannot be provided by experts or technicians from the Bank. Purpose The purpose of the Audit Committee is to provide support for the supervision of the financial statements, compliance with annual plans of the Statutory Auditor, Internal Audit and Compliance area, as well as with the management of the Bank’s Board of Directors with regard to the implementation and supervision of the Architecture of Control. Also, the Committee is responsible for ensuring the compliance with the laws and pertinent regulations and the effective controls of business with regard to conflict of interests and fraud. Through the Audit Committee it is ensured that the Entity submits the required information and that the functions of the Statutory Auditor, Internal Audit, and Compliance Officer, have the adequate means with regard to personnel, materials, technological tools, procedures and performance manuals. The functions are detailed in numeral 4 of the respective internal regulation. Operation of the Internal Control System (ICS) Below there is the report about the ICS prepared by the Audit Committee in conformity with numeral 6.1.2.1, Section IV, Title I, Part I of the Legal Basic Circular Letter of the SFC: 178 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES General policies established for the implementation of ICS For the year 2018, the corporate internal control model was monitored, whose main objective is to reinforce the action scope of the Internal Control and Country Operating Risk, of the control specialists and business units of control managers, to closely support the identification, monitoring and mitigation of risks processes. This model is based on on the principles of self-control, self-regulation and self-management, also accompanied by the BBVA Code of Conduct approved by the Board of Directors. The application of the model is supported on the anticipatory management which allows the control and business decision-making process, under the three lines of defense in line with international best practices. 1. Business and Support Areas: responsible for control in its area of responsibility and execution of measures set, in this case from higher instances. Such defense line has been reinforced with an ad hoc team that manages, coordinates and supervises the execution of control tasks. 2. Operating Risk and Country Internal Control Direction: provides the methodology and common tools for Internal Control System management. Locally, it leads and coordinates the ICS incorporated to the mitigation function of the Operating Risk. 3. Internal Audit: performs an independent review of the model, verifying the Compliance and effectiveness of corporate policies and providing independent information about the control model. The internal control model is coordinated at corporate level, from the Corporate Operating Risk and Internal Control Unit that belongs to the Global Risk Management and locally, through the Country Direction of the Operating Risk and Internal Control in the risk area. In turn, the business or support areas have Control Managers and Managers of Internal Control and Operating Risk who depend functionally from the Country Direction of Operating Risk and Internal Control and are in charge of implementing the model on the routine of every area of the organization. In this way, the Bank has a closer vision of processes that encourages the identification and prioritization of risks and mitigation decisions. 179 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Process to review the effectiveness of ICS The risk assessment and the effectiveness of its control, is made from the awareness and understanding that the management has on the business, and the operating processes analyzed. For such purpose, both the quantitative materiality criteria, probability of occurrence and economic impact, as well as qualitative criteria associated to typology, complexity, nature of risks or the structure of business or process, are taken into account. The identification system and risk assessment of internal control of the financial information is dynamic, evolves over time on a permanent basis, thus reflecting at each moment the business reality, the modification in operating processes, the risks affecting them and the mitigation controls. All this, documented in a corporate management tool (Storm) that contains risks and controls associated to processes, recorded by different control specialists, among them, the internal control of Financial Information. Additionally, Internal Audit issues its opinion about the ISC effectiveness on a yearly basis. The Internal Audit related to year 2018 reported that the ISC implemented by the Bank, complies reasonably with the criteria provided by the Financial Superintendence of Colombia in Section IV, Title I, Part I of the Legal Basic Circular Letter and that improvement plans provided by the Bank for mitigating risks identified in the assessments conducted in 2018, have been implemented or are in the process to be implemented. Most relevant activities developed by the Audit Committee During 2018 the Committee performed its functions with autonomy of operation, complying with the schedule of meetings, and the agenda was coordinated by its Chairman and Secretary of the Board of Directors. In the period evaluated, the Committee held five meetings (January, February, May, August and November) with 100% attendance from its members and the participation of the Statutory Auditor, the Compliance Officer and the Internal Auditor, among others, thus ensuring and maintaining the permanent communication line with the Board of Directors and Bank Administration. The Committee performed all activities required to comply with functions assigned by the regulation in force, bylaws and Internal Rules. 180 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES Following were the main activities developed by the Committee during year 2018: Financial information presentation and reporting: The Committee became aware of and agreed with the accounting principles, policies and practices and the evaluation criteria followed by BBVA Colombia in the process of preparation and presentation of the financial information. The Committee has verified that the preparation, presentation and disclosure of financial information is adjusted to the provision of the regulation in force (national and international), reviewing also the adequate delimitation of the consolidation perimeter. The Committee studied and issued its opinion about the individual and consolidated financial statements for the year 2018, in the sense that they comply, as to the contents and presentation, with all the requirements provided thereof by the regulation, and that have been prepared pursuant to the national and international best practices and recommendations, and the legislation in force. Regarding Internal Control System: The Audit Committee supervised and learned about the different reports prepared, both internally and by the Statutory Auditor about the Internal Control System of BBVA Colombia and its affiliates, establishing that the ISC provides reasonable security in pursuing the following objectives: • Effectiveness and efficiency of operations; i.e., compliance with the basic objectives of the entity, safeguarding its resources; • Sufficiency and dependability of the financial information as well as of the preparation of all the Financial Statements; • Compliance with applicable regulation; • Having a documented organizational structure, with divisions of responsibility, policies and procedures. 181 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Furthermore, during year 2018, the Committee monitored Compliance under the instructions given by the Board of Directors in connection with the ISC. Regarding the Statutory Auditor: The Committee established appropriate relations with the Statutory Auditor, KPMG S.A.S., appointed for year 2018 by the Shareholders’ General Meeting held on February 28, 2017, which has supplied also direct information to the Committee in all the meetings. The Committee has been aware of and given its conformity to the Work Plan 2017 of the Statutory Auditor, has followed the advance and evolution of the works in course, recommendations formulated and plans adopted by the Entity for implementation. The Committee also supervised the Statutory Audit services throughout the year, verifying that they were executed with quality, independence, fulfillment and effectiveness. Said verification was materialized by an evaluation completed by the members of the Audit Committee, whose unanimous result was the highest satisfaction score, highlighting the professionalism of teams, quality of reports and being a great ally for the governance and direction bodies with regard to the supervision and evaluation of the efficacy of the Internal Control and Risk and Compliance Management Systems Rergading Internal Audit: The Committee analyzed and approved the Work Plan for year 2018 of Internal Audit, which was focused toward the risk identification and management of the main processes of the Bank. The Committee made a regular follow up of its execution and was reported directly about any incidence during the performance. The Committee learned about the recommendations formulated by the Internal Audit arisen from its review works, as well as of the specific action plans defined and put into effect for its resolution, making a regular follow up of those more significant to the entity. Regarding Compliance: The Committee knew and approved the Work Plan for year 2018 prepared by the Compliance Area and made regular follow up of the most relevant matters, thus verifying its adequate execution; reviewed the SARLAFT reports on management, evaluation and control; additionally, it monitored the efficacy of 182 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES claims channels and actions of the members of the Board of Directors with regard to their Regulation in the Securities Market and the compliance with the Code of Conduct. Regarding supervisory authorities: The Committee learned about the communications sent to the Bank by Supervisory Authorities, such as the Financial Superintendence of Colombia and the Self-Regulatory Organization of Securities Market, following up the matters that gave rise to such communications, answers to the authorities and action plans to comply with the requirements received. Finally, the Committee made the quarterly follow up to the levels of risk exposure; verified that the operations with related parties would have been made in market conditions for similar transactions with third parties, in compliance with the standards about the limits to grant credits and maximum debt quota or risk concentration, effective on the approval date of the operations. Material deficiencies detected, recommendations formulated and measures adopted: • No material deficiencies were observed. Observations formulated by supervisory bodies Financial Superintendence of Colombia (SFC): Administrative Order for Financial Consumer Protection: On November 23, 2017, the SFC issued and administrative order related to the alleged delays in the cancellation of credit contracts established with credit cards, limiting the channels to carry out such procedure, which also generated costs overruns for the clients. An appeal for reinstatement was filed, in which the SFC was asked to revoke the administrative order, since there were no unjustified delays, abusive charges or limitations on the channels for the processing of credit cards, indicating also, that BBVA Colombia, will proceed to make improvements in the cancellation process, to benefit the financial consumer. Subsequently, the SFC confirmed the administrative act on February 19, 2018, through which BBVA Colombia is 183 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 ordered to immediately suspend the abusive practice, consisting of unnecessarily delaying and hindering requests for cancellation of obligations and transferring the costs to the consumer, for the non-cancellation of obligations, when the delay is attributable to operating issues of the entity. In compliance with order on May 21, 2018, a certification issued by the KPMG Statutory Auditor and the Bank’s Legal Representative was sent to the Authority, informing the adoption of preventive and reactive measures for timely processing cancellations of credit card requests submitted by the customers. A communication was sent to all offices, informing the procedure to be followed, when a customer has a pending balance or a balance in favor, at the time of requesting cancellation of products, enabling also, the definitive blocking of credit card, which must be done at the offices in order to avoid extra charges to the financial consumer, such as management fees or interests. Additionally, a monitoring and control over the client retention process, implemented by the Bank through the Call Center, to carry out such process within a reasonable period of time and a monthly follow up of the actions implemented by the Customer Care, people, Business and Call Center areas, to comply with the administrative order. Retransmission of opening financial statements: On January 18, 2018, the SFC, requested the Bank to retransmit the Opening Financial Statements (ESFA), the disclosures in the notes to the financial statements and certification of the statutory auditor, reason for which, on January 19, 2018, the Bank requested the Supervisor the opening of channels for the retransmission of the Opening Financial Statements (ESFA), eliminating goodwill for the purchase of Granahorrar, by not adjusting to the IFRS for intangible assets. Monitoring of the action plan for commercial and consumption past due loans: On December 22,2017, SFC performed an off-site inspection, in response to the monitoring related to the credit risk management of housing portfolio and the action plan for the convergence of the past due consumption portfolio, reason for which the Bank was asked to make clarifications on certain issues such as: payment capacity, portfolio follow-up, among others. 184 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES Subsequently, on January 4, 2018, the SFC requested the Bank to make a presentation in its facilities, which took place on January 29, 2018, where matters related to residential construction industry, macro and micro aspects, main credit policies applied at the time of generating credits, were exposed; and the aspects considered in the Analysis of the requester, technical studies of projects, POT legal risks, among others. 2018 SuperVision Plan: On January 3, 2018, the SFC required BBVA Colombia to develop the risk-based superVision model in order to know the relevant aspects of the Management of the Bank’s main risks, proposing a work plan for the year 2018, which consists of a series of meetings with the Risks and Internal Audit Area, scheduled for the months of January, February, April and October 2018. The 2018 work plan was aimed at following up: i) the action plan for the convergence of the consumption and commercial past due portfolio, ii) the execution of the 2018 Audit Action Plan. Additionally, the SFC informed the performing of extra-situ inspections for the months of May, August and October 2018, regarding Solvency/ Statutory Audit, Insurance Assessment/Tender, qualitative and quantitative information evaluation EPR. Follow-up on controls and improvements implemented for timely attention to the requirements from different authorities: In compliance with the SFC requirement, the integral improvement plan that seeks to enhance the Governance was submitted in order to reduce: i) Retransmission requests, ii) Non-compliance in the terms established for the transmission and iii) Reprocesses in the preparation of the reports and guarantee the quality of the data. For this purpose, the “agile model” was worked on, where the project was undertaken with a scrum team, after definition of the sprints by each area of Risks, Financial, Market Administration (Back Office), among Others. The project is implemented with short, medium and long-term actions, which were informed in the responses given to each item subject of the requirement. The plan also includes the implementation of a Reporting Governance to the SFC and External Entities (local), defining responsible for the process, roles and responsibilities, as well as the control committees that will be implemented. In this projects the owners of reports, the stage of the reports was defined, differentiating between the functional 185 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 reporting owner, who will be the person who defines de data; the Generator of the information and the areas in charge of the retransmission. To date, response from the SFC is pending. Requirement from the Ministry of Finance and SFC on the management of master accounts for the provision of health sector services: The SFC requested: i) To review the level of compliance of the instruments and the periodicity for the report to the Ministry, provided in Resolution 1128 of 2013 ; ii) Evaluate compliance with the operating conditions of the accounts, especially regarding the sending of reports on movements and beneficiaries; iii) Define an action plan to correct the inconsistencies detected in the evaluation, with compliance dates, a progress indicator and the completion of the corrective action: iv) Adopt the necessary controls so that the administrative and legal orders are timely complied with and v) The results of the evaluations, the action plan and the controls adopted must be submitted by the Administration to the Board of Directors, so that through the Audit Committee it carries out the respective follow-up. The action plan was sent to the SFC, indicating the actions, measures, responsible persons, implementation date, and the Progress as of May 30, 2018. In response to the requirement from the SFC, the Bank, certified completion of the implementation process of the action plan, for managing the master accounts for the provision of health sector services, approved by the Board of Directors in session of April 25, 2018. Once the results obtained were reviewed, it was noted that the measures adopted have solved the qualitative and quantitative inconsistencies raised by the Ministry of Finance, therefore, the reports to be done, comply with the frequency, structure and required conditions, and will be submitted on the established dates Likewise, the Authority was informed that the reports to be reprocessed for 2018, on August 30, 2018. Follow-up on controls and improvements implemented for timely attention to requirements – comprehensive improvement plan: In order to monitor the execution of the Improvement Plan, which the Bank has been implementing, the SFC scheduled 5 meetings (August to December 2018), to submit the execution levels and milestones reached and the pending activities. 186 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES Tender insurance associated with mortgage loans and house leasing, for fire and earthquake, and for life debtor group: Within the framework of the new tender process for the contracting of insurance associated with mortgage loans and house leasing for life debtor group and fire and earthquake, the SFC requested information related to: i) list of national insurers that the Bank invited to tender; ii) insurers that withdrew the terms of reference and those that asked questions; iii) eligibility requirements; iv) Calculation of the Technical Reserves Support indicator, among Others. Notwithstanding the foregoing, BBVA Colombia informed the SFC of its decision to declare the tender process for the fire and earthquake insurance contract void, due to the lack of concurrence of a plurality of insurance companies that complied with the eligibility requirements of the process. As a result, a process was initiated awarding the tender to BBVA Seguros. Mandatory Investment in FINAGRO’s TDAs: The Bank detected a difference derived from a typing error when registering as a substitute portfolio, a lease operation with FINAGRO for COP $ 223 bn (73,115,000 USD), with a real value of COP $ 223 million (73,115 USD). This generated a defect in the mandatory investment in class B TDA’s for an estimate of $ 72,792,693,674 (€ 63,000) during the periods of January March 2018 and April June 2018. The Bank contacted Finagro and the SFC to set aside this defect immediately, and at the same time, measures were adopted to correct these situations, including: i) validation of the credit vs. support documentation; ii) registration in the platform and authorization of the operation through a profile that validates the information; iii) periodic controls (weekly and monthly) of the registered operations; and iv) training for operational and business areas. Clarification of the resistance testing scheme: Taking into account that in the transmission of the results of the Resistance Testing Scheme (RTS), it was established that in the liquidity and solvency scenarios, the Bank has space in the indicators to avoid being affected by an adverse scenario, therefore, the structure of the liabilities is solid in terms of deadline counterparty and rate variability, due to compliance with international regulation requirements, that are more strict than the local ones; therefore, the SFC required more information related to the Business Plan, credit, market and liquidity risks, for the mitigation of risk and the development of contingency plans in stress situations. 187 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Self regulator of the Securities Market of Colombia (AMV) In the second instance, the Review Chamber of the Disciplinary Court of the AMV, within the investigation related to sales operations of CDs, decided: 1) Absolve BBVA Valores SCB and the operators for the charges corresponding to the duty of best execution; 2) Confirm the fine to BBVA Valores for conflicts of interest and the caution for advisory duty and 3) Confirm the caution to the operators for advisory duty and impose a caution for conflict of interest. Taking into account that there was no appeal against the decision, BBVA Valores proceeded to pay the fine and to analyze the possibility of suing before the jurisdiction Evaluation of the task performed by Internal Audit The Committee supervised the functions and activities of Internal Audit, determining their independence and objectivity in connection to the activities audited. There were no limitations that prevented their adequate performance and the scope of their task met the Entity’s needs. Such monitoring was materialized on the annual assessment to Internal Audit completed by the Committee members and which unanimous result was the highest satisfaction score. 188 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES Compliance with Legal Requirements Banking is one of the key sectors of a country economy largely due to savings, investment and financing made through it. For this reason, banks are subject to special surveillance, and supervising authorities are an impotent stakeholder of the financial industry in general and of BBVA, both at corporate and local levels. The constant dialogue with supervising authorities is a fundamental task to adapt to new regulations. Below the report on compliance with legal requirements by BBVA Colombia. Legal Situation of BBVA Colombia: During 2017, BBVA Colombia complied with legal requirements ruling the banking activity. It also performed its operations in accordance with appropriate instructions provided by authorities, within the framework and adjustment to new legal guidelines. Additionally, all relevant matters were duly and timely reported to shareholders, investors and public in general through the tool that the Financial Superintendence (Relevant Information) has provided on its web page. In turn, the legal processes resulting in contingencies have been disclosed in the appropriate note to the Financial Statements. With regard to actions from the Financial Superintendence of Colombia, during year 2018, and within the Integral Oversight Framework IOF, the Bank attended the meetings scheduled by the control entity which addressed the review of the risk management, operating management of the origination and recovery process of credit card, restructurings and recovery process, portfolio, and information security. 189 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 2. Assess all risks in which the Entity could incur Disclosure and control of the when preparing its financial information. financial information (Art.47 Law 964 of 2005) 3. Design the controls required to mitigate the most critical risks. In 2018 BBVA Colombia Management maintained 4. Establish the proper information circuits to adequate disclosure, monitoring and control systems detect and communicate the system weaknesses of the financial information, supporting on the control or inefficiencies. and monitoring systems and processes implemented by the Bank and specialized areas in risk 5. Monitor said controls to ensure their functionality management, all which is oriented to ensure that the and the validity of their efficacy over time. financial and accounting information is presented adequately and in conformity with legal requirements. In compliance with the aforementioned policies, the analysis and control mechanisms of the accounting Specifically, the financial information prepared by BBVA information systems were defined, among which it is Colombia is subject to an Internal Control System (ICS) worth highlighting the following: with the purpose to provide a reasonable assurance of • The Accounting Events Committee purpose its reliability and integrity, as well as that the operations are carried out and processed in accordance with the is to review, analyze and evaluate the criteria provided by local regulation applicable, by the impacts on the accounting circuits derived corporate policies and by BBVA Colombia from failures in computer processes and Management. The ICS was developed by the Group identify solutions that mitigate the Management in conformity with the international operational and legal risks. standards of the “Committee of Sponsoring • The Strategy, Governance and Culture Area Organizations of the Treadway Commission” (“COSO”) functions consists of, among others, that sets forth five components on which the efficacy controlling, monitoring and alerting on and efficiency of the Internal Control systems should be subjects related to the management of supported: accounting and financial information on 1. Establish an adequate control environment to which there is also an exclusive position for monitor all such activities. the inspection of information reports to 190 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES control entities in order to improve the accounting information in a more agile and interface mechanisms and extraction of safe way. accounting information in a more agile and safe way. Internal Audit evaluates constantly the effectiveness of procedures and controls provided for the • Internal Audit evaluates constantly the operation of the information systems of BBVA effectiveness of procedures and controls Colombia, concluding that the information system is provided for the operation of the information adequate and safe, and that the plans to implement systems of BBVA Colombia, concluding that the improvement recommendations identified have the information system is adequate and safe, been performed without evidencing a relevant risk to and that the plans to implement the the entity. improvement recommendations identified have been performed without evidencing a Operations with Related relevant risk to the entity. Parties, Partners and • The Accounting Events Committee purpose Administrators is to review, analyze and evaluate the impacts on the accounting circuits derived The operations of BBVA Colombia with its related from failures in computer processes and parties, partners and administrators comply with the identify solutions that mitigate the legal standards in force and the general policies of operational and legal risks. the Bank. The detail is disclosed in the Note to the Financial Statements “Transactions with related • The Strategy, Governance and Culture Area parties” of year 2018. functions consists of, among others, controlling, monitoring and alerting on Intellectual property and subjects related to the management of copyrights accounting and financial information on which there is also an exclusive position for In conformity with the provisions in Article 47 of Law the inspection of information reports to 222 of 1995, amended by Law 603 of 2000, BBVA control entities in order to improve the Colombia informs that it complied strictly with the interface mechanisms and extraction of 191 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 legal provisions related to the intellectual property unit for developing its function; such activity reported and copyrights for different services, products and regularly to the Board of Directors operations. With regard to the brands and other intellectual property used by the Entity, the Finally, at December 31, 2018, we do not have any appropriate ownership or the licenses and knowledge about outstanding claims by authorities authorization for exploitation have been obtained. or third parties with regard to intellectual property or copyright issues. In connection to the software installed, in use or in possession of BBVA Colombia, the appropriate Evaluation from other licenses have been obtained and controls have been reports implemented for the purchase, development, installation, fitting and maintenance processes BBVA Colombia declares that in conformity with the thereof to be in compliance with the legal provisions in Article 57 of Decree 2649 of 1993, the requirements about copyrights, privacy and information and statements contained in the e-commerce. Financial Statements, both individual and consolidated, have been duly verified and obtained The Internal Control and Operational Risk as well as from the accounting records of the Bank, are free Media, Business and Audit Areas, have evaluated and from material defects or misstatements and have monitored the status of compliance with the been prepared in conformity with the accounting standards about intellectual property and copyrights standards and principles applicable. in accordance with the methodology established for such purpose to mitigate the materialization of the Also, it states that any other reports required by virtue respective risks of article 446 of the Code of Commerce have been disclosed in the Financial Statements and their Notes. In turn, in compliance with the provisions in Circular Letter 016 of 2011 of the Financial Superintendence, Finally, evidence is left that BBVA Colombia does not it is stated for the record that the evidence of such limit the free circulation of invoices issued by evaluations has been left in the tools and work sheets suppliers or vendors, the foregoing in compliance used by the Internal Control and Operational Risk with article 87 paragraph 2 of Law 1676 of 2013. 192 3. BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES Responsible procurement GRI-102-9 During 2017, BBVA Colombia continued strengthening the relation with its suppliers in order to ensure an adequate procurement circuit. For such purpose, bids are based on the homologation process in which eleven aspects are evaluated on the productive, technical, finance, legal and commercial capacity, thus guaranteeing the compliance with the commitments contracted, as well as validating that the suppliers follow not only the Responsible Procurement Policy and the Corporate Standard for Acquisition of Goods and Contracting of Services, but also by the same Code of Conduct of BBVA; documents that set up the criteria that affect both the homologation process and the bidding terms and contracts. On the other hand, the Procurement Policy was updated with regard to the internal requirement process of goods or services, thus reducing the steps to be coherent with the Agile culture. The transfer of the principles of the Code of Conduct to the procurement function is made through the Application Principles to the Participants in the Procurement Process (IPA per its acronym in Spanish), applicable to all units involved in said process, in any entity of BBVA Group. Simultaneously, the Supplier Portal was launched (allowing the online interaction between BBVA Colombia companies and their suppliers through a collaborative climate. It cover the main scenarios of the supply process, from issuance of orders to the recording of invoices and also allows the electronic exchange of documents, thus eliminating paper documentation). It has following collaborative climates: Public environment: This is a web through which BBVA facilitates general information about the Procurement Process and other relevant aspects of its Procurement Model, thus enabling the companies and self-employed willing to offer their products and services to self-register and keep their information updated. Private environment: It allows those suppliers registered in Adquira to operate electronically with the Bank, having a comprehensive management of the procurement cycle, covering the processes of negotiation, release, issuance, reception of orders and issuance of electronic pre-invoices. 193 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Benefits: • Control, traceability and visibility of the status of the pre-homologation and negotiation processes. • Automatic update of the companies’ information. • Online management of orders and acceptance of delivered goods and/or services. • Reduction of mistakes as a result of the integration and automation of processes. • Training and integral support to operation in the portal.. In addition to the foregoing, the GPS platform has been supplemented with the Relation Center with Latam Suppliers: peripheral global level 1 service to attract and support Latin America suppliers incorporated to the portal; as a supplement, we have an Invoice Reception Center for the suppliers of goods and supplies, operating in working days from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. BBVA meets the commitments of payment set forth contractually with the suppliers of goods and services, as well as with the obligations with Public Treasury and Withholding Agents pursuant to the tax quality of each supplier at the time of payment. On the other hand, we attended the course on Sustainable Procurement by the Superintendence of Finance with the purpose to incorporate shared responsibility to the area processes and in this way, ensure a sustainable circuit from beginning to end. Share of expenditure in local suppliers* GRI-204-1 Item 2018 Payment percentage to local suppliers* 77.18% * Individuals or legal entities that supply goods, products or services and are legally incorporated in Colombia. 194 BBVA COLOMBIA RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES Information about suppliers Item 2018 2017 On-line negotiations through ADQUIRA (1) 442 515 Requests recorded in Neon 371 306 Requests recorded through GPS (2) 826 895 Suppliers homologated at year end 285 342 Increase of suppliers % (3) (16) 13 (1) On-line negotiations through ADQUIRA. HUB and Colombia processes reported for 2018. Also, corporate process reported at the cut-off September. (2) Requests recorded through GPS. Effective requests reported. Rejected requests dismissed and in creation by user areas. (3) Increase of suppliers %. Variation for 2018 reported on the basis of registered suppliers. Capital social y relacional Social and relational capital 2018 2017 Volume invoiced by suppliers (million pesos) 983,147 748,045 Volume invoiced by suppliers (million USD) 315 547 Volume invoiced by suppliers (million Euro) 275 470 Average payment time to suppliers (Days) 23 11 195 8. Sustai fin nable ances Management of social, environmental and reputational risks 198 Ecoefficiency 201 High social impact products 205 SUSTAINABLE FINANCES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 GRI-102-12 Social, environmental and reputational risks management As a financial institution, BBVA Colombia has an business sectors, and a new improved process of due impact on the environment and society: directly diligence that can assess new operations, customers through the consumption of natural resources and or products with criteria that are aligned with BBVA’s its relationship with stakeholders; and indirectly strategy of climate change and sustainable through its credit activity and the projects it finances. development. GRI-FS-1 These non-financial risks may affect the credit profile Equator of borrowers or the projects financed by the Bank. To Principles manage such risks, BBVA takes into account environmental, social and reputational aspects in its The energy, transport and social services risk management, alongside traditional financial infrastructures that boost economic development variables. and create jobs can have an impact on the environment and society. BBVA strategy for social and environmental risks is aimed at integrating slowly its management within BBVA is committed to managing the financing of the Risk Managemet Framework of the Group in these projects in order to avoid and reduce their order to achieve their Mitigation based on the negative impacts and boost their economic, social prudence principle. For such purpose, BBVA is and environmental value. All the decisions on project developing different initiatives to reinforce their capacity to identify and evaluate such type of risks. finance are based on the criterion of return adjusted to principles. Placing people at the core of the In 2017, BBVA worked with a number of areas business implies dealing with stakeholder involved in the development of new standards for the expectations and the social demand to fight against mining, energy, infrastructure and agricultural climate change and respect human rights. 198 BBVA COLOMBIA SUSTAINABLE FINANCES BBVA Group has contributed to their development projects and bridge loans. and dissemination as a member of the working groups in which it participates and has been one of Since its accession to the EP, BBVA Colombia applies the eleven signatories to the letter sent to the it with the higher standard, extending it to projects in Equator Principles Association, in which it urged the operation stage and to those funded with other measures to be taken to tighten the environmental financial products: project bond, assignment of and social due diligence requirements for project credit rights and guarantees attached. BBVA finance. Thus, during the EP annual meeting, it has Colombia does not apply the minimum threshold for been decided to prepare the fourth version of the 10 million US dollars, reviewing all the operations Principles to align them with the Paris Convention, under the EP regardless their amount. facing the complications to implement the informed consultation and participation processes and clear In BBVA Colombia we have a team dedicated to the the inconsistencies in standards to asses projects management of the EP integrated in the Corporate & environmental and social risks. Investment Banking (CIB) Area that analyzes the projects, represents the Bank with stakeholders, is The Corporate & Investment Banking (CIB) accountable with the senior management and Sustainable Finance and Reputational Risk team is designs the management system, proposing the responsible for analysis of the projects, adoption of best practices and getting involved in the representation of the Bank before its stakeholders, training and communication of all the aspects related accountability to senior management, and the design with the EP. and implementation of the management system, proposing the adoption of best practices and The analysis of the projects is incorporated in the contributing toward training and communication on internal processes of structuring, admission and matters related to the Equator Principles. monitoring. Each transaction is submitted to an environmental and social due diligence process that The EP is applicable to fund the new projects and is initiated with the assignation of a category (A, B or significant expansions through four financial C) in conformity with the categorization process of products: advisory for funding projects, projects the IFC that reflects the risk level and environmental funding, corporate loans to related parties for and social impact of the project. 199 SUSTAINABLE FINANCES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 During 2018 the Bank participated to funding 4G For the implementation of the methodology two key Bucaramanga-Barrancabermeja-Yondo project, types of functions are involved: developed by Ruta del Cacao S.A.S. concessionaire. • The Responsible Business and Communications The loan contract was closed in October 2018 for teams are responsible for the identification of the $207mM and the first disbursement was made in risks and their impact valuation. December of same year for $50.994.424.060; the remaining portion will be disbursed quarterly until • The so-called assurance providers, responsible for year 2021, when the project will be built. assessing and mitigating the risks identified come from diverse areas since the origin of the Reputational management risk reputational risks is quite diverse. Since year 2006, in BBVA Colombia we have a Each of these functions should report the methodology to identify, assess and manage the reputational risk management of its action field reputational risk. Through said methodology, the through the reporting channels used usually. Bank defines and reviews regularly the map that prioritizes the reputational risks faced and the set of Responsible lending action plans for their mitigation. BBVA Colombia has incorporated the best practices of During 2018 the methodology was strengthened, responsible lending to consumers and has policies and and an IT tool was used for its management. In procedures described in the section of credit risk accordance to this new model of governance, two report. groups have been defined for the design and implementation of the methodology to identify and promote the management of reputational risks: one at global level and the other at local level and, that in both cases are made up by the directors of Internal Risk Control & Operational Risk, Compliance, Communications and Responsible Business. 200 BBVA COLOMBIA SUSTAINABLE FINANCES Ecoefficiency During 2018, BBVA kept on working in their third Global Ecoefficiency Plan (GEP), which Vision is to position the Bank among the worldwide ecoefficiency leading entities. The GEP sets following strategic vectors and global goals for the the period 20162020, continuiding the two previous plans initiated in 2008 and 2012, respectively, and setting following goals: Global Ecoefficiency Plan Vector Strategic line Global goal* Environmental management and % occupants in certified properties sustainable construction Consumption per occupant (kWh/occupant) Energy and climate change % renewable energy Co2 Emissions per occupant (tCO2 / occup) Consumption per occupant (m3/occup) Water % occupants in properties with alternative water sources Consumption per occupant (kg/occup) Paper and waste % occupants in properties with selective waste collection Extension of commitment Awareness campaigns and suppliers * Goal per person BBVA envionmental policy reveals its strong commitment with the care of natural resources and efforts to contribute with the construction of a more sustainable society. BBVA develops sseveral programs within its Corporate Responsibility policy focused on environment issues, as in the case of the BBVA Entrepreneurship School to develop initiatives aimed at the mitigation of the climate change through recycling of plastic, use of waste and used plastic and reutilization of used tires for manufacturing furniture, among others. Additionally, work is focused on three strategic action lines intended to the environmental preservation and 201 SUSTAINABLE FINANCES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 sustainable use of renewable natural resources, as well as the society wellbeing to minimize its exposure to different : 1. Make available to customers the guidelines and products to grant the credits and/or investment in sustainable and environment responsible projects, investment in social programs that promote the care of the natural resources thus contributing to the improvement of the life quality of the population. 2. Inside the organization, develop initiatives that promote the reduction in the consumption of paper, energy, water and toner in the processes necessary to perform the daily working actions. 3. During the credit process study and investment in projects to be financed it is taken into account the environment and social fingerprint, all this together with the environmental standards and laws in force in the country. GRI-FS-1 • BBVA-10 Environmental Management System (EMS) Renewal process for ISO 14001 certification BBVA Colombia commitment in environmental matters is maintained as part of the Ecoefficiency Plan defined by Corporate policies; BBVA Colombia has maintained during 2018 the ISO 14001 certification awarded by Bureau Veritas in year 2015 for General Management, Media, Mortgage Center and Teusaquillo buildings; i.e., 43% of BBVA officials in Colombia work in certified buildings under ISO 14001. Auditors’ recommendations about the certification process were implemented and the action plan was prepared in order to be adjusted to the update of the standard. Environmental awareness training and initiatives Processes to improve the staff skills when implementing policies and social and environmental procedures applicable to business lines. 202 BBVA COLOMBIA SUSTAINABLE FINANCES • Allocation of workforce (in-house staff): a full-time person at the General Management facilities. This person is responsible for reviewing the material submitted at the collection center of the building in order to separate recyclable waste and put it in bags according to the type of waste. • Collection of recyclable waste: each week the recyclable waste collection route passes by all Bank administrative premises. • Implementation of waste compacting pilot plan at General Management building to reduce the environmental impact from non-recoverable waste retirement. • Monthly information with the summary of figures about the waste managed by the Bank. • During 2018 different awareness activities were conducted with the staff of Bogota buildings in order to improve the separation of recyclable waste in the source; also, training was given about sustainable use of resources and services required for daily activities at home and office. Waste managed by type (kg) GRI-306-2 Material Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Total Files 730 292 1621 1306 418 1326 110 48 678 940,5 250 1871 9,591 Cardoard 447 72 411 214 201 371 256 226 225 297 258 500 3,478 Junk 10 1727 40 1,777 Newspaper 34 49 3 12 18 43 14 11 36 220 Pet 137 52 62 87 159 105 186 118 91 175 112 115 1,399 Plastic 5 7 11 14 19 36 9 100 201 Folded 33 46 33 49 32 62 65 61 240 68 221 910 Glasscartón 251 117 237 308 481 394 601 319 243 401 296 449 4,097 Total general 1,647 533 2,377 2,004 1,322 2,240 1,215 808 1,360 3,831 1,044 3,292 21,672 Awareness on the responsible use of water, paper, eneryg, and toner was communicated internally to all employees. Additionally, as every year, BBVA joined the world event Earth Hour. General Management, Media, Mortgage center, Teusaquillo and Cali Management buildings were turned off completely as the symbol of the commitment with environment. 203 SUSTAINABLE FINANCES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Main consumption indicators in BBVA Item 2018 2017 Paper consumption (Kg) GRI-301-1 Total paper consumption 269,035 301,927 Employee consumption 40 45 Energy consumption of Organization (MJ) GRI-302-1 Diesel consumption 1,949,509 1,947,659 Power consumption 96,528,467 98,852,436 Total consumption 98,477,975 100,800,095 Water consumption (m3) GRI-303-1 • GRI-306-1 Total consumption 162,631 169,069 Consumption per employee 24 25 Managed waste (Kg) GRI-306-2 Paper waste 9,591 15,222 Other waste** 12,082 16,446 Managed waste (unit) GRI-306-2 Toner waste* 1,353 1,047 Emissions scope 1 (Equivalent CO2 tons) GRI-305-1 Emissions per diesel oil consumption 136 36 Total 136 36 Emissions scope 2 (Equivalent CO2 tons) GRI-305-2 Emissions per electricity consumption 7,188 5,535 Emissions scope 3 (Equivalent CO2 tons) GRI-305-3 Emissions per airplane flights 1,683 1,581 Certification ISO 14001 GRI-FS-11 • BBVA-10 Number of people working in certified buildings 2,974 2,129 Percentage regarding total headcount (%) 43.7% 31.5% * Delivery is recorded in units since toners are classified and dispatched for export en reuse. ** Other waste refer to waste detailed in table of page 203. 204 BBVA COLOMBIA SUSTAINABLE FINANCES High social impact products As the third strategic priority of the responsible banking model, high social impact products are developed as financial products and services that integrate differential social attributes. The purpose is to integrate differential social attributes within the products and initiatives of the Bank daily activity. In this way, besides the social impact generated by the ordinary activity, products and services can be designed with a higher social impact. Said products are grouped in four large blocks: those useful to favor the financial inclusion, those for SMEs, for individuals with special needs, and finally, the socially responsible investment. Fundación Microfinanzas BBVA Within the framework of BBVA commitment with financial inclusion, Fundación Microfinanzas BBVA (hereinafter Fundacion or FMBBVA), was created in 2007, as a non-profit entity which mission is to promote the economic and social, sustainable and inclusive development for underprivileged people, through Productive Finance. This model pursues the client’s development and offers a customized service to vulnerable entrepreneurs, getting closer to their home or company a thorough range of financial and services products, as well as the advisory and training on financial administration and management for their small businesses. With the name “Midiendo lo que realmente importa”(Measuring what really matters), the Fundación releases annually its Social Performance report that summarizes the impact of their activity in customers’ life. This social measurement system has been highlighted by the UN and is a benchmark for the sector. From its incorporation, the Fundación has disbursed an aggregate volume for USD 11,775 bn to low-income entrepeneurs in Latin America for developing productive activities (2007-2018) and has become one of the greatest private philanthropic initiatives of the Region. 205 SUSTAINABLE FINANCES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 During 2017, the Fundación, with more than 8,000 employees, continued working to deepening in the neediest areas, servicing almost 2 million customers. More than half of the entrepreneurs serviced were women (57%) which contribute directly to reduce gender inequality. In Colombia, Fundación Microfinanzas is present through its entity, Banco de las Microfinanzas Bancamía. With the purpose to improve the life quality of low-income families in urban and rural areas of the country with difficulties to access the formal banking, Bancamía offers customized financial and non-financial products and services, covering microcredits for productive activities, savings accounts, term deposits, insurance or international transfers, channels and services such as Mobile Banking and Financial Literacy. At the closing of December 2017, Bancamía was serving 1,016,625 people; 56% living in urban areas and 44% in rural areas. Women are the 55% of customers. Bancamía celebrated in October 2018 its 10th anniversary with the fórum “Microfinance for the progress of an entrepreneurial Colombia emprendedora” with the participation of Mrs. Marta Lucía Ramírez, Vicepresident of Colombia and high representatives of UN Women and USAID. The mission and methodology of the Fundación have been recognized in several times by the UN for its contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund (SDG) of the Agenda 2030 for the eradication of poverty, gender equality, support to inclusive and sustainable economic growth and dignified work, among others. During 2016 the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations (ECOSOC) granted FMBBVA the consultative status, recognition to the work in its field of action: microfinance for development. The Fundación could be consulted by United Nations to guide and recommend actions to contribute the sustainable development. Also, the UN Panel on Women’s Economic Empowerment of the General Secretary of the UN highlighted the Fundación as a study case. • The Fundación has been actively involved in the Commission on the Status of Women (CSW62) at UN 206 BBVA COLOMBIA SUSTAINABLE FINANCES Headquarters in New York. • Fundación Microfinanzas BBVA also participated in the meetings of the OECD Development Assistance Committe (DC) Gender Equality Group. • Together with diplomatic representations from Spain, Colombia and UN Women, Fundación Microfinanzas BBVA held an act at the UN Headquarters in New York, gathering the main international actors of development to talk about the Sustainable Development Goals and financial inclusion, mainly focused on women and innovation. • FMBBVA signed an agreement with Microsoft to join efforts and collaborate for the economic and social develoment, sustainable and inclusive for vulnerable people, groups and communitites, to transform the community and create a social change which is an imperative necessity. • H.M. The Queen of Spain visited an entrepreneur woman of Fundación Microfinanzas BBVA at her home-business in Dominican Republic. • Following two initiatives of Fundación Microfinanzas BBVA were awarded at the Latin America and Caribbean Forum on Housing and Habitat: “Construyendo Confianza” (Constructing Confidence) addressed to the reconstruction of affected areas of “Fenómeno del Niño Costero”. This initiative constributes with sustainable construction and financial solutions, technical assistance and training about reduction of disaster risks. It incorporates, also the “Proyecta” apps that allows clients to visualize technical aspects of the construction. “Casafin” is a program for the progressive construction and improvement of houses of vulnerable entrepreneurs. It offers loans with technical assistance for the construction and financing of works, mainly at house-companies of beneficiaries. • Fundación Microfinanzas BBVA conducted two workshops on corporate governance in Peru for advisors and directors of micro-finance entities with ESAN in Lima and Universidad Católica San Pablo in Arequipa. • Togheter with FAO, held and act in Madrid on the occasion of the Interational Day of Rural Women. Also, it 207 SUSTAINABLE FINANCES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 associated with FAO in Latin America to empower rural women: “Rural women, women with rights”. • Fundación Microfinanzas BBVA participated actively in FOROMIC, the main evento of Financial Inclusion in Latin America organized annually by the Interamerican Development Bank. This edition name was “Reinventing inclusion”, held in Barranquilla, Colombia. In the face of 2019, the Fundación will keep on working to deepen their scale and scope with an extended value proposal that ensures the development and progress of their entrepreneurs through technological innovation, thus improving efficiency and processes and the use of synergies. Banking correspondents Banking correspondents are channel to get closer to our customers. Therefore, BBVA made the work in 2018 to get connected with one of the largest and strongest networks of the country, VIA Baloto, with which it could extend its banking correspondent network, from 5,864 to 14,000 points, increasing by 85% the presence in country municipalities. Additionally, we offer our services through strategic allies such as Paga Todo, Movired, Servicer, Distracom gas stations, EDEQ, which allows us to reinforce the presence of our Offices and ATMs with transactions such as payment of utilities, payment of obligations, deposits and cash withdrawals. In 2018 more than 2 million transactions were made thru said correspondents. Support to SMEs BBVA-2 • BBVA-3 BBVA understands that SMEs are the drive that boosts the social development of the country, and as such, they require support in their growth projects and for such reason, we focus our actions and management model to be able to assist their needs efficientlyes. To boost average balances of investment in SMEs, different campaigns took place. For the first time, 14,442 loans were approved and disbursed to clients and non-clients with debt in the financial sector, with attributions 208 BBVA COLOMBIA SUSTAINABLE FINANCES controlled in office. The purpose of this action was to increase the banking quota through the placement of commercial loans and purchases of portfolio of clients from different sectors. As a result, 17% average effectiveness was obtained, exceeding effectiveness by 8% versus year 2017, contributing 8% to 2018 invoicing in SMEs. • FX in network: 25% of network operations • Net Cash v7 migration and self-management: 37,438 migrated references 99.84% 60 references in V5 100% References with immediate access to contracts 41,800 References with self-management 50% Estimated operative reduction 5,140 clients who already have functionalities of this application: • Consulting their global posiitionof saving accounts and current accounts • Activating their Mobile Token • Verifying their statement of payments • Authorizying payment files from their application From July the new Comex producto was available to customers: Factoring of Import in foreign currency. This service allows clients to anticípate the payment of purchases to foreign suppliers, with the possibility to access to additional days for the payment of the obligation according to the conditions negotiated. The BBVA Colombia Comex products portfolio is strenghened and supplemented. 209 SUSTAINABLE FINANCES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 In November the self-management service was launched. This module allows clients to administer the on-line products and services portfolio from BBVA net cash, without documents, thus making all corporate clients and SMEs with net cash assets to have access to this service. Foreign trade sections in the Bank transactional platforms have been updated, reducing the amount of data required and improving the customer’ experience. This has increased this type of digital transactions, consolidating as one of more complete and modern foreign trade platforms in the Colombian market. GRI-FS-14 Support to retail banking segment with special needs “Héroes” Affinity Card: BBVA continues strengthening the commercial relation with active members and administrative officials of the National Police and the Armed Forces of Colombia by making them easier to reach their goals through preferential products and services in payroll, payroll deduction loans, credit cards and other asset and liability products. In 2018 more than 7,000 new customers became members of the “Héroes” portfolio, and at year end there were 60,000 cardholders and purchases exceeding $31mM. Besides of strengthening the new “Héroes” credit card, exclusive for such group, the portfolio is focused to boost products such as saving, payroll and leveraged credits, and it also drives the use of transactional channels such as BBVA Mobile and BBVA Net, among others. At the closing of 2018, the “Héroes” BBVA Program, in agreement with the Ministry of Defense, has contributed with more than $200 million through the Fundación Matamoros. “Visión Mundial” shared brand credit card: Vision Mundial is an international humanitarian NGO devoted to the assistance, development and defense of girls, boys and families and communities in poverty and unfair condition. BBVA Colombia and Vision Mundial have developed an alliance to provide a better future to the Colombian childhood through a credit card that for each purchase generates a 0.5% donation from interests received by 210 BBVA COLOMBIA SUSTAINABLE FINANCES BVVA Colombia to support the Visión Mundial program. During 2018customers with the Vision Mundial card supported the Colombian childhood. Currently, there are more than 35,000 cardholders, billing at year end $30 mM. “Mujer BBVA” Affinity credit card: BBVA offers this card in alliance with Visa. The “Tarjeta Mujer” credit card provides home assistance, having at hand specialized services for domestic incidents: plumbing, locksmith, electrical damages services, among others, available on a free basis. In 2018 more thab 25,000 women became part of our portfolio with purchases near $33mM. Inclusive banking: Although legal regulation of November 1, 2017, effective through CE 008/17, gave us the initial boost, our interest was to provide distinct experiences to our customers and this led us to deepen the knowledge on the subject and open the door to become an inclusive bank, from 4 action lines: • Training to the commercial network. • Physical access and signaling. • Adaptation of channels. • Strengthening of service culture and training to Group employees. We have invested 16 months to develop such actions, holding internal and external meetings, making valuations with external consultants, designing with suppliers and conducting in-situ visits. The investment was USD 200,000, including: • Functional design of data base of individuals to include in Nacar the question about disability from the time of registering the client or at the time of updating the information already existing. New Capture Form for customers. 211 SUSTAINABLE FINANCES MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 • Official video that makes public the BBVA – TIC Ministry Alliance. Respite Center Colombia. Advetising pieces on the Bank web site and on the Respite Center and Fenascol, also in Segment agents and social networking. Construction of the Inclusive Assistance Guideline, assistance and advisory protocols. • New signalling and enabling of the audio systems to the segment agents of commercial offices. Extension of the bandwidth required and adequate electronic devices to the assistance platforms to contact the Respite Center Colombia. Dinero móvil (Mobile money) Initiative to encourage the financial inclusion through electronic deposit, product from banking usage addressed to the more vulnerable collectives and ruled under the provisions in Decree 4687 of year 2011. Dinero móvil enables handling cash up to 3 Minimum Monthly Wage (SMMLV per its acronym in Spanish) monthly: in balance, debit and credit transactions, exempt from the charge of lien to financial movements (GMF) up to 65 monthly units of tax value (UTV). Its contracting is fully virtual through a mobile device and the account number is the telephone line. It allows transfer transactions, cash withdrawals, deposits, payments of utilities and cell phone recharges. Free of management fees. From 2018 it is possible to make registries and mass deposits to Dinero Móvil through Net Cash, thus, allowing the money distribution directly to electronic deposits. Contracts in force increased to 26.707 and average balances to COP $ 673 million. Agribusiness credit facilities BBVA-5 BBVA Colombia maintains its support to the farming and agribusiness sector of the country, en 2018 al corte de Noviembre, se han colocado más de 3.680 créditos por valor de $2.3 Trillion, con una participación del 15%, en el total colocado por Fondo para el Financiamiento Agropecuario Finagro. 212 BBVA COLOMBIA SUSTAINABLE FINANCES We are moving toward the integration of the different links of the chain (unions, suppliers, and producers), working with the companies to achieve the industrialization of agro-livestock and drive them to export Financing of development and GRI-203-1 • GRI-FS-1 BBVA-4 infrastructure sustainable projects BBVA Colombia contributed in 2018 with the financing of more than 600 projects of sustainable development of the agro-livestock sector, with more than $200 bn, split in $138bn in Machinery and Equipment and $63bn in infrastructure and civil works for the production improvement and quality. Financing en Financiación agribusiness of líneas de crédit o Financing of sustainable Financiación development de proyectos credit facilities agroindustrial and infrastructure project de desarrollo e infraestructura sostenible +3.680 credits colocados Créditos placed +600 +$200 proyectos projects mil Millones billion For Por valor de $ 2,3 trillion Billones Financiación para for Financing improvement the production mejoramiento and quality de la producción y calidad Share Participación $138 mM $63 mM en total 15% colocado el totalplaced Maquinariaand Machinery y equipo equipment Infrastructure Infraestructura y obras and civiles civil works In bypor Fondo the Fund forel para Financiamiento Finagro agribusiness Agropecuario Finagro 213 9. Investment in com munity Corporate Social Responsibility Policy 216 Investment in social programs 218 INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Policy BBVA understands the Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) as the responsibility it should assume for the impact of its activity on people’s life and on society. To accomplish said responsibility, BBVA integrates the social, environmental, ethical, human rights and stakeholders concerns, both in its daily business and in the relations with all of them. • Through the CSR Policy, the BBVA Group should contribute with following objectives: • Develop the main activity with responsibility, placing people at the core of its purpose. • Maximize the creation of sustainable and shared value to its shareholders and stakeholders and for the society where it operates. • Prevent and mitigate possible negative impacts arisen from its activity. • Manage BBVA reputation. This CSR policy intends to create a framework reference that helps to define and drive behaviors that allow the generation of value for all stakeholders (clients, employees, shareholders, suppliers and society) within the social responsibity culture translated into a “Responsbile Banking” throughout the entities that form part of the BBVA Group. The purpose of BBVA is to make available to everyone the opportunities of this new era. For such purpose, one of the goals of the Group is to develop a different way of doing banking, through the “Responsible Banking” model, based on the return adjusted to ethical principles, compliance with law, good practices and the creation of long-term value for all stakeholders. 216 BBVA COLOMBIA INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITY This configurates as the Gobal Vision of the Group performance. This CSR policy is aligned with the BBVA Code of Conduct that sets the behavior guidelinies pursuant to BBVA values. The principles governing the CSR Policy are: • Integrity as the manifestation of ethics in BBVA performance and in the relations with stakeholders. • Sound management of risks. • The transparency, as the principle to offer access to clear and true information. 217 INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Investment in social programs BBVA-1 With $6,192 bn investment, BBVA Colombia developed the Corporate Responsibility program throughout 2017, when it consolidated as the literacy Bank in Colombia, benefiting more than 180,000 families and structuring around the support to sports new innovating ways as the commitment with social and economic development of the country. Distribution of investment (In Million Colombian pesos) Strategic priorities Investment % Education Financial literacy Adelante con tu futuro $ 606 9.78 Financial literacy Escuela para el emprendimiento BBVA 1,789 28.89 Business education and training 280 4.52 Education for society 1,856 29.97 High social impact products Support for SMEs growth 380 6.13 Other strategic lines Culture and sports 155 2.50 Support to social entities 537 8.67 Others 589 9.51 Total $ 6,192 100 Economic value and tax contribution BBVA undertakes the commitment to maximize the creation of sustainable and shared value for its shareholders and for any other stakeholders and the society where it operates through its Corporate Social Responsibility policy. A sustainable and shared value that, together and pursuant to the methodology provided by GRI for 201-1 contents, can be measured and detailed as economic value generated, distributed and withheld by the Group. 218 BBVA COLOMBIA INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITY Economic value generated and distributed (In Million Colombian pesos) GRI-201-1 Value Indicator 2018 2017 Var. % Economic Value Generated (EVG) $ 3,464,383 $ 3,286,869 5.4 Net interest income 2,769,998 2,475,496 11.9 Net income for bank fees 158,175 154,743 2.2 Result valuation investment portfolio 433,213 488,268 (11.3) Other operating income (1) 102,996 168,362 (38.8) Economic Value Distributed (EVD) 1,996,633 1,778,871 12.2 Indicator sent to Dividends 262,104 218,280 20.1 Results attributed to minority 12,552 10,453 20.1 Suppliers and other administration expenses (wages and salaries excluded) 771,607 745,252 3.5 Taxes (2) 385,177 235,877 63.3 Staff cost 560,693 569,009 (1.5) Investment in communities *4,500 6,499 Economic Value Retained (EVR=EVG-EVD) 1,467,749 1,507,998 (2.7) Reserves 274,656 228,733 20.1 Net provision of assets and amortizations 1,197,594 1,279,265 (6.4) Contributions, taxes on benefits and others $ 385,177 $ 235,877 63.3 1 It includes Disposals, Leases, Company’s dividends and Operative risk. 2 It includes Income tax and Other taxes. * This value does not include the investment in Financial Literacy Programs. Note: Data from the Bank Statement of Income pursuant IFRS and SFC methodology. Creation of direct tangible value: detail per stakeholders (In Million Colombian pesos) GRI-203-1 Grupo Indicador de Valor 2018 2017 Var. % Shareholders Dividends 1 $ 274,656 $ 228,733 20.1 Employees Staff cost 560,693 569,009 (1.5) Customers Interests and Assimilated Burdens 2,060,057 2,237,399 (7.9) Suppliers Other Administration costs (2) 771,607 745,252 3.5 Societies Contributions, Taxes on Benefits and other Taxes $ 385,177 $ 235,877 63.3 219 INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 We benefit more than 150,000 families 61,000 students 295 institutions 960 teachers 153 municipalities Financial literacy BBVA Momentum 44,000 trained people 30 entrepreneurs Education Backpacks with Technical and high scholarships school kits school scholarships 5,000 per year 25,000 kids benefited 175 young people We consolidate as the Education Bank in Colombia BBVA and its customers transform Femenine entrepreneurship Other actions of CR the education in Colombia Training on business skills $1,350 bn 1.100 +300 200 1,200 +20 Donated Libraries for Participants in Trained BBVA volunteers sport by BBVA rural In Bogota and Entrepreneur donated time and people customers institutions Medellin women money supported Financial literacy BBVA has made available to Colombians a program focused to the financial training that allows, through learning basic ítems of economy and finance, acquire skills to use adequately the financial products and make informed decisions. Through interactive workshops, the program provides financial ítems in a clear and simple education process on subjects such as savings, credit cards, credit health, transactional channels and bank security. In 2018 our Financial Literacy program travelled across the coutrny with a mobile classroom with state-of-the art technology, and conducted workshops to 30 people simultaneously. They could develop experiences on personal finance with the advisory of a trainer. This training was developed as part of a non-financial offer to the companies clients of BBVA in order to accompany the learning process of employees, thus improving the social balance of the company and develop competencies and skills to create a financial culture and improve the administration of economic resources, generating a positive transformation in the financial behavior and management. 220 BBVA COLOMBIA INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITY Entrepreneurship BBVA Momentum: Support program to social entrepreneurship that seeks to encourage the growth and consolidation of innovative social companies in growth phase. The program provides to participants training on business management, strategic assistance, visibility, networking and access to financing and markets. This program was made in coordination with MET Community, Corporate Learning Alliance (CLA) de Financial Times and the IE Business School, and it also involves the participation of BBVA executives who act as coaches providing strategic assistance. During 2018, 30 social entrepreneurs of Bucaramanga, Medellin, Cali, Popayan, Villavicencio and Bogota completed satisfactorily the training program with five f2f sessions and 21 virtual weeks. Throughout the training, entrepreneurs had access to work events with different objectives (education, visibility, relevant connections, market access, financing access, etc.). Also, they had platform networking to contact coaches and other global participating entrepreneurs. Escuela para el emprendimiento BBVA: This is a classroom Project that educate students from eighth to eleveneth courses on entrepeneur and financial skills. During 2018, the program was performed in 13 departaments of the country, impacting more than 61 thousand students, 1,000 teachers in 153 municipalities of the country. During 2018, the program took innovation proposals to the departments benefited where it was evidenced that there were students with the capacity to present their productive ideas through business pitchs of 2 minutes. From this point, they could strenghten soft skills such as oral expression, ability to argue and security to convince and attract clients. In addition, the best business ideas of each department were selected under the “Selección Colombia” initiative which purpose is to select projects based on specific criteria of impact, innovation, sales and background to 221 INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 make a follow up on each one and issue the appropriate recommendastions to the business idea. Projects were selected from regions such as La Guajira, Cesar and Eje Cafetero and a video was filmed to participate in the Global “Opportunity Awards BBVA”, winning the second place. “Escuela para el emprendimiento BBVA” was highlighted as “Sucess case” of the Colombian financial sector by Asobancaria in 2018 for the social and economic impact that this training has generated on the entrepreneurship and in young people. Women entrepreneurship: Leadership and entrepreneurship finance is a program offered by BBVA and MET Foundation intended to develop and train innovative entrepreneur women with growth potential to learn, transmit and encourage a different way of action that makes, in turn, the business sustainable. Within this frameworkd, the 26th Forum of Women Entrepreneurship MET-BBVA was held with the participation of more than 300 business women and the fair of entrepreneur women, showing their product and services portfolio. The forum invited Yessica Hernández as special guest. She is 30 years old and household head. She struggling to raise her 4 children, she hass been able to do so thanks to an entrepreneurhip supported by the Fundación BBVA para las Microfinanzas through Bancamía. She leases washing machines, delivering and picking them up at their clients houses, mostly neighbours, in the south-east part of Bogota. Apiculture Project for women and peasant communities in Santander: Developed at El Socorro, Santander, it pursues to contribute to the improvement of rural communities, encouraging the environment sustainability and women entrepreneurship among different agricultural, academic and community collectives involved. This initiative comes from Bees for Peace with the participation of George Mason University of Virginia, USA, Universidad Industrial de Santander and majors of the municipalities benefited with the project such as El Socorro, Palmas de Socorro and Confines. The project allows making technical, financial and supply contributions to 60 peasants, mainly women 222 BBVA COLOMBIA INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITY household heads, becoming micro-business women, thus improving their income and the life conditions for them and their families. Education for society BBVA-12 For BBVA education is the most important development lever and this is the reason why their Corporate Responsibility policies are aimed at the support of the education for girls, boys and young people. Technological education: BBVA and Fundación Plan resumed in 2018 their program “Plan de Becas BBVA” (BBVA Scholarship Plan) that benefits more than 175 young people in vulnerability conditions of Sincelejo, Cartagena and Tumaco in Nariño; they will be able to study technological careers in areas such as Cooking and Bar, Computer Maintenance, Childcare and Secretarial Program, among other. Thus, their working competencies will be reinforced to be able to access better jobs and salaries. Educational enhancement: In alliance with Corporación Manos Visibles, the Bank developed in 2017, for second consecutive year, “Educapazcífico” a project that pursues the academic enhancement of students of 10th and 11th grades who live in the Colombian Pacific region (Buenaventura, Tumaco and Quibdo) with the purpose to improve their basic competencies and thus, give the chance to more students of the region to be able to access to programs of universities of Bogota, Cali or Medellin. During 2018 a group of students of Buenaventura, initiated their education at Nacional, Los Andes and Jorge Tadeo Lozano universities to study careers related to Engineer and Movies and TV. In total, 840 students and 140 teachers were impacted in 14 Education Institutions. They improved their skills on mathematics and language under the focus of active learning. More than 300 students of 11th course worked on the construction of their life project. Back-packs with school kits: With this program BBVA Colombia has joined to different initiatives of the Ministry of Education and has contributed to the reduction of school dropout indexes in Colombia by supporting thousands of kids every year with school kits. In 2018 more than 25 thousand back-packs were delivered with 223 INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 “Escuela para el Emprendimiento BBVA” Atlantico, Cesar, La Guajira, Santander, Arauca, Norte de Santander, Cundinamarca, Antioquia, Caldas, Quindio, Risaralda, Tolima Huila and Cauca. Women Entrepreneurship Together with Fundacion Met, we have trained women from Medellin and Bogota on business and financial issues, and held Forums for Women Entrepreneurship. Microfinanzas BBVA-Bancamía 1,016,625 customers BBVA SMEs 55% women – 44% live in rural areas. More than 106,000 SMEs managed We offere a differential experience with specialized sales force, national coverage and a digital products and services portfolio. BBVA Momentum Medellin, Cali, Bucaramanga, Villavicencio, Popayan and Bogota 30 social entrepreneurs Virtual and F2F business education with IE Corporate Learning Alliance, business school of the Financial Times. 224 BBVA COLOMBIA INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITY notebooks, dictionary, case with pencils, colors, ruler, eraser, glue, scissors, folder with bond paper and cardboard, also, watercolors, crayons, a literary text and recipient for liquids. National Teacher Award BBVA 2018 The Fourth Version of the Teacher Award took place with the participation of nearly 1,000 teachers from all over the country. This initiative pretends to recognize the work of teachers in projects focused to encouraging Reading and writing among students. Among the finalists, rhere were five teachers from different places. The first prize went to Professor Edwin Rendón, of Fredonia, Antioquia, with a Project named “Escuela de Paz y Poesía” (School of Peace and Poetry), where through literature, he helps students to forget the difficult years of war that wracked that region. Support to young athletes In 2018 BBVA extended their support to young Colombian atheletes, structuring a group of 25 athletes in different disciplines, who raised high the name of Colombia and BBVA in both national and international arenas. The most visible case was Francisco Sanclemente, a paralimpic athlete who won for the second time the top podium in wheelchair marathons in Miami, Madrid and Buenos Aires, setting a national record and consolidating his career as key speaker. With his Foundation “Ser Inspiración” and the support of BBVA he could organize the second version of the “Ser Incluyente” race at his home town Buga, Valle del Cauca, with the participation of more than 1,500 athletes, disabled, amateurs and professionals. Another outstanding athelete was Sofía Gómez Uribe, diver, who conquered a silver medal and a bronze medal at the Apnea World Championship Outdoor in last October. Honey Ospina, a young taekowndo player, sponsored by BBVA, obtained the golden medal in Argentina and silver medal in the Pan-american Games of Brazil. 225 10. Supplemen Informat tary ion Corporate Governance Annual Report 228 Guideline for reporting 250 GRI Indicators 252 Independent review report 262 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Corporate Governance GRI-102-12 • GRI-102-18 Annual Report Corporate Governance System BBVA Colombia The Corporate Governance System of BBVA Colombia (hereinafter the “System”) is aligned with the international, corporate and local recommendations and trends. Its principles, elements and practices are set out in different instruments that guide the structure and functions of the corporate bodies, such as the Articles of Association, the Corporate Governance Code, the Rules of the Shareholders’ General Meeting, the Rules of the Board of Directors and the Rules of the Board Supporting Committees. The System is also made up by the standards of internal conduct contained in the Code of Conduct of BBVA, the Code of Conduct in the Securities Market and Code of Conduct for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing set out in the postulates that govern the actions of their senior management, members of the Board of Directors, administrators and employees. Additionally, the Corporate Governance System of BBVA Colombia is conceived as a dynamic process in permanent review, with a focus toward improvement and adaptability to the new realities of the Bank and its affiliates, taking as reference the regulations and recommendations produced with regard to the best practices of Corporate Governance. The Corporate Governance System de BBVA Colombia, has the following organizational structure Board of Directors Supporting Committees 228 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Implementation report of the New Country Code for 2018 On January 26, 2018, BBVA Colombia completed and transmitted to to the Financial Superintendence of Colombia (SFC) the Report of Implementation of Best Corporate Practices-New Country Code for year 2018, available at the Bank’s Website: https://www.bbva.com.co/content/dam/public-web/colombia/documents/ home/prefooter/gobierno-corporativo/encuesta-codigo-pais/DO-08-Reporte-codigo-pais-2018.pdf The report shows the same structure of the New Country Code that is divided into five areas: 1) Equal treatment of shareholders and protection of their rights; 2) Shareholders’ General Meeting; 3) Board of Directors; 4) Control architecture; 5) Transparency and Financial and non-financial information. It has 33 measures, developed in 148 recommendations that may be adopted by the issuers of securities. The report methodology was based upon the principle “complies or explain”. In response to this principle, the Bank answered “Yes” when the recommendation was adopted and indicating the supports where the respective recommendation was recorded; if replied “No” in those cases in which for the 2016 period the recommendation was not implemented, however it was explained, when appropriate, that the Shareholders General Assembly and the Board of Directors had approved its implementation. Once the Bank answers were validated and reviewed in the Country Code survey, the Financial Superintendence of Colombia highlighted the adoption of those recommendations by the Bank, through the modification of its internal regulations, thus strengthening the best practices of Corporate Governance. Recognition to IR Issuers (Investor Relations) For the sixth consecutive time BBVA Colombia has received the Issuers Recognition IR (Investor Relations) granted by the Colombia Stock Exchange to issuers that certify the compliance with best practices in terms of: i) Relation with investors, ii) Disclosure of information to investors and to the market in general, and iii) Corporate Governance. 229 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 This recognition indicates that BBVA Colombia has the direct communication channel with investors as stakeholders that positions the Bank as the major foreign bank of the country and reiterates its commitment with the implementation of good practices on regard to the disclosure of information and Corporate Governance, strengthening the security, confidence and credibility among the national and international investing community. Structure of the Ownership of BBVA Colombia Capital and structure of the ownership of BBVA Colombia BBVA Colombia has an authorized capital of COP $645,000,000,000.oo divided into 103,365,384,615 shares, from which 88,977,695,544 are in reserve and 14,387,689,071 outstanding. From those outstanding shares, 13,907,929,071 are common shares and 479,760,000 are preferred dividend shares. At the cut-off date December 31, 2018 BBVA Colombia registered 65,304 shareholders. Composición accionaria BBVA Colombia No. de shares with Name No. common shares Participation % preferential dividend Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria S.A. 10,766,099,008 196,857,652 76.20% BBV América SL. 2,511,124,962 256,150,000 19.23% Otros 630,705,101 26,752,348 4.57% Total 13,907,929,071 479,760,000 100.00% BBVA Colombia has registered a situation of control and group with respect to its affiliates BBVA Asset Management S.A. Sociedad Fiduciaria, and BBVA Valores Colombia S.A. Comisionista de Bolsa, with the following ownership structure: 230 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Information of shares owned by members of the Board of Directors The members of the Board of Directors are not shareholders of BBVA Colombia. Family, commercial, contractual or corporate relations between the holders of major interests and BBVA Colombia Main shareholders of BBVA Colombia are Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A. and BBV America, SL. Details of the commercial and/or contractual relations of the mentioned shareholders with the Bank is in Note to the Financial Statements under “Transactions with related parties”. 231 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Negotiation of shares owned by members of the Board of Directors and Senior Management In year 2018 there were no negotiations of shares issued by the Senior Management of BBVA Colombia. With regard to the members of the Board of Directors of the Bank, it is indicated that they are not holders of shares of BBVA Colombia. BBVA Colombia´s own shares BBVA Colombia does not have own shares. Structure of the administration of BBVA Colombia Composition of the Board of Directors (Directory) The composition of the Board of Directors of BBVA Colombia is one of the key elements of their Corporate Governance system. In accordance with the Recruiting, Appointment and Succession of the Board of Directors Policy, it is sought the adequate balance in its composition among the different origins of the members of the Board of Directors (hereinafter “members of the Board of Directors” or “Directors”), being majority those executives with equity and independent origin. Additionally, in compliance with Law 964 of 2005, minimum 25% of the Directors should have independent origin, meaning the people defined in paragraph 2, article 44 of the aforementioned law. Similarly, the Board of Directors and its Supporting Committees should have an adequate and diverse composition, including people with experience and knowledge of BBVA Group, its businesses and the financial sector in general, training, competencies, knowledge and experience in fields and sectors that allow its adequate balance in the composition for the best performance of their functions. Additionally, the convenience to perform an ordered renewal of the Board of Directors on the basis of the 232 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION adequate rotation of their members, will be considered in order to achieve the objectives provided in the mentioned Policy and supplement and increase the gender diversity, knowledge and experiences, all which may contribute to the best exercise of their functions. For the year 2018, the Board of Directors was formed by 5 Directors, 2 of independent origin, 2 equity and 1 executive, as follows: Director Origin Position Carlos Eduardo Caballero Argáez Independent Chairman of the Board of Directors First Vice-president of the Board of Juan Eugenio Rogero González Equity Directors Second Vice-president of the Board of Ana María Ibáñez Londoño Independent Directors Xavier Queralt Blanch Equity Member of the Board of Directors Óscar Cabrera Izquierdo Executive CEO Carlos Eduardo Caballero Argáez Chairman of the Board of Directors Independent Member of the Board of Directors since March 17, 2005 Civil Engineer from Universidad de los Andes, Master in Science from California University in Berkeley, in Public Affairs from Princeton University and in History from Universidad de los Andes. More than 40 years’ experience working in the public sector, he has served as Ministry of Mines and Energy, Executive Director of Fedesarrollo, Technical Executive Director and Chairman of the Asociación Bancaria de Colombia, Chairman and Member of the Board of Directors of Banco de la República, Director of the Fund for the Export Promotion (Proexpo), CEO of Bancoldex and President of Bolsa de Valores de Bogotá. In June, 2006 he was appointed first Director of Escuela de Gobierno Alberto Lleras Camargo of Universidad de los Andes, position that holds currently. Mr. Caballero is also member of the Boards of Directors of Promigas S.A., Pedro Gómez y Cía, Centro Colombo Americano, Mineros S.A., and Interconexión Eléctrica S.A. E.S.P. ISA– 233 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Juan Eugenio Rogero González República, Advisor to the Ministry of Environment, First Vice-president of the Board of Directors Consultant to the Research and Social Protection Equity Member of the Board of Directors since Departments for Latin America of the World Bank in March 17, 2016 Washington D.C., Associate Investigator of Degree in Business Administration from the Fedesarrollo, Dean of the School of Economy and University of Pais Vasco, Bilbao, Technical Systems Director of CEDE (Center for the Studies about Engineer from the University of Deusto Bilbao. Economic Development) of Universidad de Los Andes. He served as Executive Vice President of Corporate Bank and Risk Officer at BBVA Puerto Rico, Currently, she performs as Full Professor of the Corporate Director of Wholesale Risks for Mexico School of Economics of Universidad de Los Andes, as and South America, Corporate Director of Wholesale Visiting Professor of MacMillan Center at Yale Policies and Portfolios, Commercial Director of University, Member of the Advisor Team of the Bancaseguros for America, Director of Risks and Commission on Global Poverty of the World Bank and member of the Management Committee of BBVA main and independent member of the Board of Frances. Directors of Exito Group, position held since March 2014. Ana María Ibáñez Londoño Second ViceXavier Queralt Blanch Member of the Board of president of the Board of Directors Directors Independent Member of the Board of Directors Equity Member of the Board of Directors since May since February 28, 2017 30, 2018 Graduate in Economy from Universidad de los Law Degree from the Central University of Barcelona Andes, Master in Agricultural and Natural Resources with studies in a Senior Executive Program in Economics from the same university, and PhD in Strategy for Financial Sector of the London Business Agricultural Natural Resources Economics from School, and advanced Leadership programs in Maryland University in College Park, USA. Axialent and INSEAD. She has performed as investigator of Banco de la In BBVA S.A., he has held management positions in 234 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION the Corporate Banking of Spain and Portugal; Director of Productivity, Organization and Compliance; and Territorial Director Catalonia. He has also held positions as Managing Director of UNNIM Banc and the Bank Catalunya Caixa. He chaired the Board of Directors of the insurance companies UNNIM Vida and CX Vida. Oscar Cabrera Izquierdo CEO Executive Member of the Board of Directors since March 26, 2008 Graduate in Economics and Business Administration from Universidad Complutense de Madrid. The current Executive Chairman of BBVA Colombia began his career in 1989 in the firm Arthur Andersen as Financial Auditor and subsequently acted as General Controller in Caja Postal S.A. He was General Deputy Director of Accounting and Consolidation in Argentaria until 1998 when he joined the BBVA Group as Corporate Director of Strategic Planning. In 2003 he was appointed Chief Financial Officer in BBVA Bancomer (Mexico D.F.) acting as member of the Boards of Directors of Afore Bancomer and Seguros Bancomer Diversity of the Board of Directors Another distinctive element of the composition of the Board of Directors de BBVA Colombia is its diversity. In this regard, the Board of Directors has a diverse composition that combines profiles with experience and knowledge of the Bank and its affiliates, business and the financial sector, in general. In year 2018, and due to the resignation of one of the members of the Board of Directors and in accordance with the Selection, Appointment and Succession Policy of the Board of Directors, the Good Governance Committee analyzed its composition, as well as the need that its members have diversity in knowledge, competencies, experience and gender that allow development of their functions and the reelection of other Directors and nominations to cover the vacancies. For such purpose, the Committee evaluated the balance between knowledge, competencies, and experience, as well as any other condition to be met by the candidates and the time dedication for the adequate performance of their functions, pursuant to the needs of the Board of Directors. The Committee valued Dr. Ana Maria Ibañez’ CV, profile, academic and professional background, in accordance 235 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 with the structure, size and composition of the Board of Directors, as well as with the Selection, Appointment and Succession and Gender Diversity Policy. The Board regarded her nomination appropriate and presented it to the Shareholders’ General Assembly. Dr. Ibañez has a wide education and experience, both national and international, in economics and finance fields, and also has the time required, meeting the appropriateness and independence requirements. Director Gender Citizenship Title Carlos Eduardo Caballero Argáez Male Colombian Civil Engineer Juan Eugenio Rogero González Male Spanish Lawyer Ana María Ibáñez Londoño Female Colombian Economist Xavier Queralt Blanch Male Spanish Lawyer Óscar Cabrera Izquierdo Male Colombian Economist Composition of the Support Committee of the Board of Directors Óscar Carlos Ana María Xavier Juan Eugenio Committee Cabrera Caballero Ibáñez Queralt Rogero Executive Independent Independent Equity Equity Audit PTE √ √ Risks PTE √ √ Good Governance PTE √ √ Appointments and Compensation PTE √ √ Changes in the Board of Directors during 2018 In accordance with article 32 of the company’s bylaws, on 21 March 2018 the Board of Directors, elected at the Shareholders’ General Meeting on 12 March 2018, was installed. Subsequently, at the extraordinary meeting of the Assembly, held on May 30, 2018, the resignation of Dr. Juan Rafael Escudero, Equity member, was accepted and Dr. Xavier Queralt Blanch, whose appointment was authorized to replace him by the Superintendence of Finance of Colombia on July 11, 2018. 236 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Members of the Board of Directors of BBVA Colombia who sit on the Boards of Directors of the affiliates or who hold executive positions in these affiliates BBVA Colombia Directors are not part of the Boards of Directors or executive positions in the subsidiaries. Process for appointing Directors BBVA Colombia has the Selection, Appointment and Succession and Gender Diversity Policy, approved by the Shareholders’ General Meeting held on the ordinary meeting on March 17, 2016. This Policy provides that the Board of Directors is made up by a number of Directors who, within the framework set by the Law and the Bylaws, are determined at the General Meeting of Shareholders. The designation shall correspond to the highest body of the administration and should meet the suitable requirements to perform the position, have the proper knowledge and experience to perform their duties; avoid situations of conflict of interest and fulfill the non-compatibility and limitations regime. BBVA Colombia encourages participation of Shareholders in the proposal of the lists presented for consideration by the Shareholders’ Assembly, and guarantees that the selection process of the members of the Board of Directors follows the law, policies and strategies of BBVA Colombia. The proposals for appointment or reelection of Directors and the nominations to fill the vacancies are presented for the consideration of the Good Governance Committee that supports the Board of Directors to perform their decision-making functions associated to the appointment of members to the Board of Directors. This Committee evaluates the balance of knowledge, competencies and experience in the Board of Directors, as well as the conditions that the candidates to the vacancies should meet, evaluating the time devoted deemed necessary for the adequate performance of their function as member of the Board of Directors. 237 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 To perform its functions, the aforementioned Committee may refer to contracting outsourcing services for recruiting potential candidates whenever deemed convenient. Similarly, the Good Governance Committee may take into consideration the requests formulated by the members of the Board of Directors and shareholders about the potential candidates to fill the vacancies that could have arisen. The information related to the candidates, as well as the report that for such purpose is made by the Good Governance Committee, which will include the evaluation of legal incompatibilities and incapacities and the compliance with the requirements to become a member of the Board should be available to the shareholders previous to holding the Shareholders’ General Assembly together with all material necessary to facilitate an informed decision making process at the time of voting. Finally, for the election of Directors the electoral quotient will be applied in conformity with law and Articles of Association and will be made by the Shareholders’ General Meeting in a single voting round provided that the lists presented have the minimum number of independent Directors required by law. Otherwise, there should be two voting rounds, one of them for independent Directors required legally and the other for the remaining Directors. Remuneration policy of the Board of Directors BBVA Colombia has a Remuneration Policy for the Board of Directors approved by the Shareholders’ General Meeting on March 17, 2016. This Policy differentiates between the remuneration system of the executive and non-executive Directors, as follows: The remuneration of an Executive Director, i.e. the legal representative involved in the ordinary course of the Bank businesses and in turn, member of the Board of Directors, is ruled by the same principles applicable to the collective of employees of senior management which professional activities have a significant impact on the risk profile of the Group or exercise control functions, as explained below: 238 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For the remuneration of senior management, BBVA follows these criteria: i) the level of responsibility of their functions, and ii) that the remuneration is competitive with regard to the functions equivalent to peer financial institutions in the local market; therefore, the executive origin Director is not recognized with an additional remuneration to their income as employee of BBVA Colombia for their performance as member of the Board of Directors. With regard to non-Executive Directors (independent and equity) the remuneration system is based upon responsibility, dedication, and incapacities and incompatibilities criteria inherent to their position. This system comprises: i) Fixed monthly remuneration in cash for membership and attendance to the Board of Directors and the different supporting committees to the Board; ii) Remuneration in kind which is made up by the life and accident insurance policies for directors and administrators. In addition to the foregoing, the equity Directors domiciled abroad receive a remuneration in kind as allowances and emoluments necessary for the attendance to the meetings that require being present. As to the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, based upon the scope of their specific functions and the greater time devoted, could have a higher fixed remuneration within the margins managed by peer financial institutions of the local market. Finally, in conformity with the Articles of Association, the Shareholders’ General Meeting is in charge to set the annual remuneration for the Bank Directors. Remuneration of the Board of Directors and Senior Management The Shareholders’ General Meeting held on March 12, 2018 the Board of Directors approved to maintain as fees for non-executive Directors the sum of eight million pesos ($8,000,000) per month for membership and attendance at meetings of the Board of Directors and Committees, and for the President of the Board of Directors, Carlos Eduardo Caballero Argaez, approved the sum of ten million pesos ($10,000,000) per month. Consequently, the General Meeting of Shareholders agreed to set for the payment of fees approved as well as for 239 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 any other expenses required by it for its operation the annual allocation of five hundred seventy-five million Colombian pesos ($575,000,000). Based on the foregoing, the Good Governance Committee verified the observance of the Remuneration Policy of the Board of Directors as well as the appropriations approved for the 2018 fiscal year, determining that BBVA Colombia paid the Board of Directors the total amount of compensation for the Board of Directors. five hundred twenty-two million two hundred and ninety-eight thousand three hundred and forty-six Colombian pesos (COP $ 522,298,346) classified as follows: Item COP$ Total Fixed compensation $ 410,100,000 Compensation in kind (insurance) 656,424 Compensation in kind (allowances) 111,539,922 Total $ 522,296,346 The details of compensation to Directors, as well as to the Senior Management, has been disclosed in the Note 43 called “Transactions with related parties” to the Financial Statements. Attendance and quorum of the Board of Directors During 2018 the Board of Directors met 13 times, complying with the schedule established prior call in which the agenda was indicated. The sessions of the Board of Directors and Committees were attended by 100% of its members. The following are the meetings held during 2018 and the level of attendance of its members: Meeting No. of Meetings Attendance Board of Directors 13 100% Audit Committee 5 100% Risk Committees 5 100% Good Governance Committee 5 100% Appointments and Compensations Committee 5 100% 240 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Additionally, in conformity with the Regulation, the Board of Directors deliberates and decides lawfully with the presence and votes of the majority of members. Chairman of the Board of Directors (functions and key issues) At the meeting held on March 27, 2017 the Board of Directors performed the installation of the Directory and the election of dignitaries, appointing Mr. Carlos Caballero Argáez as Chairman. The functions of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and their responsibilities are incorporated into the Bylaws of the entity (article 43) and the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors (numeral 11A), documents that can be consulted on the Bank web page at: • https://www.bbva.com.co/meta/atencion-al-inversionista/estatutos-sociales/ • https://www.bbva.com.co/content/dam/public-web/colombia/documents/home/prefooter/gobiernocorporativo/junta-directiva/DO-01-REGLAMENTO_JUNTA_DIRECTIVA_2018.pdf Secretary of the Board of Directors (functions and key issues) In accordance with the Articles of Association (article 43 Bis), the Bank has an official acting as Vice-president of Legal Services General Secretary, appointed by the Board of Directors and who also acts as its Secretary. In this regard, the Board of Directors at the meeting held on March 21, 2018 re-elected Mr. Ulises Canosa Suárez, Legal Services Vice-president General Secretary, as the General Secretary of the Board of Directors of BBVA Colombia. Their functions are incorporated in the Internal Regulations of the Board of Directors (numeral 11B), a document that can be accessed on the Bank website at the following link: • https://www.bbva.com.co/content/dam/public-web/colombia/documents/home/prefooter/gobiernocorporativo/junta-directiva/DO-01-REGLAMENTO_JUNTA_DIRECTIVA_2018.pdf 241 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Relationships of the Board of Directors with the Statutory Auditor During 2018, the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee provided an interaction space with the Statutory Audit, KPMG S.A.S., which has provided d direct information to them at the meetings. The Audit Committee has known and agreed to the Work Plan 2018 of the Statutory Auditor, has followed the evolution of the work in progress, the recommendations made and the plans adopted by the Entity for its implementation. As well, the Committee has supervised the Fiscal Review services throughout the year, verifying that they were executed with quality, independence and effectiveness. This verification materialized in the completion of the evaluation by the members of the Audit Committee, whose unanimous result was the highest score of satisfaction, highlighting the professionalism of the teams and being a great ally for the governing bodies and management in its function of supervision of the effectiveness of internal control and systems of risk management and compliance. Management of the information of the Board of Directors For the right exercise of their functions, in accordance with the provisions of numeral 10.4 of the Internal Regulations of the Board of Directors, Directors have access to information related to the sessions, with a minimum five (5) calendar) days in advance to the respective session. The information is available to the Directors through a restricted access net resource hosted in the Bank servers for a safe and adequate management of the confidential information and to which the Directors have access from any place and device by using the assigned user and password. The foregoing allows the Directors to make informed decisions by having safe, permanent and timely accessibility to the reports. Activities of the committees of the Board of Directors For best performance of its management and control functions and to have an adequate decision-making process, the Board of Directors has set up four Committees with functions assigned in its Regulations, and which assist the Board in the matters of its competence. 242 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION The four Committees (Audit, Risks, Good Governance, and Appointments and Compensation) are headed by independent Directors, made up exclusively by non-executive Directors. The Audit Committee and Good Governance Committee are made up mostly by independent Directors. The Committees have extensive powers and full autonomy in their management, being able to call meetings as required, participate to prepare the agenda and have the attendance of external experts when deemed appropriate, and in addition, add the direct access to the executives of the Bank who frequently report to both the Committees and the Board of Directors. In this way, the Corporate Governance System of BBVA Colombia allows the Directors to control the proposals, implement and develop those issues approved by the Board, supporting for such purpose fundamentally on the work done in the Committees. In compliance with their respective Rules, the Committees prepare their annual Management Report which includes the activities made during the period. These reports are available on the web site at: • https://www.bbva.com.co/personas/atencion-al-inversionista/gobierno-corporativo/asambleaaccionistas.html Information about the evaluation processes by the Board of Directors and Senior Management Self-evaluation of the Board of Directors In conformity with article 38 numeral 7 of the Articles of Association of BBVA Colombia, the Board of Directors is responsible for the organization of the annual evaluation process of the Directory pursuant to the methodologies generally accepted about self-evaluation or evaluation that may consider the involvement of independent advisors. For 2018, the Board of Directors approved to implement the self-evaluation methodology that consists of a questionnaire to know the Directors’ perception about the functioning of the Board of Directors and of the 243 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Support Committees as a collegiate body and the Directors individually considered, among other aspects. Self-evaluations were completed by each Director and based upon them, the Good Governance Committee, within the framework of its functions, prepared the respective report to review the results of the process and formulate suggestions to improve the operation of the Board of Directors. The questionnaire was structured with a five-point scale, where “5” means fully agree and “1” fully disagree, and evaluated two axes, namely: Ejes de evaluación The result of the evaluation was positive and allowed to verify that the Board of Directors has fulfilled its functions in an adequate manner. It is highlighted that the Committees supported the decision making by the Board of Directors and that in the meetings all the topics of their competence were addressed, dedicating the necessary time to the debate of the topics included in the agenda of each session or those presented in extraordinary manner. 244 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Transactions with related parties: With regard to the operations with related parties, the Board of Directors made a monthly follow up directly and also with the support of the Audit Committee, determining that in all cases and for all effects and in any type of operations, whether derivatives or any other active operation with the Parent company, affiliates or related parties, the compliance with the standards about the limits to the delivery of the credit or the maximum debt limit or risk concentration, in force on the date of approval of the operations would have been verified. Additionally, it was confirmed that the operations would have been made in general market conditions in force for similar transactions with third parties, except for those cases of loans for education, housing, transportation and health to Bank officials, which were made in accordance to the entity policies in conformity with the permitted expressly by the legal provisions that govern the matter. The detail of transactions with related parties can be found in the Financial Statements in the Note “Transactions with Related Parties”. On the other hand, the Compliance area performed the tracking through direct verification and taking into consideration the information received from the members of the Board of Directors about the actions and operations made on their own in the Securities Market and similar, without events as to privileged information or other aspects. Furthermore, the Compliance Area was attentive on any situation of the conflict of interest in which could be eventually immersed members of the Board of Directors and legal representatives. Risk Management Systems: The general model of risk management and control that includes the Risk Policy, its application and materialization of risks, as well as the response and supervision plans of the main risks are detailed in this Management Report, subheading Risk Report. With regard to the Internal Control System, its model and any other aspects related, are detailed also in this Management Report, subheading Internal Control Model which have been adopted by the Board of Directors, posted on the website of the Bank. 245 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Information and communication to Shareholders The Bank has an exclusive office to its shareholders that is in turn, the link with the governance bodies and which purpose is to deliver clear and objective information related to the Bank and other issues for informed decision making purposes. Additionally, in Compliance with Annex 49 of the Single Circular Letter of the Colombian Securities Exchange, denominated “Accreditation of the adoption of best practices of the issuers recognition IR”, an agenda is prepared to schedule the delivery of quarterly and annual results and inform the business performance. Also, the shareholders and investors have a space with thorough and sufficient information on the Bank web page through the link “Atención al inversionista” (Investor assistance). In this same section the shareholders receive all the information which is posted in the SFC portal; i) Information about programs to issue current bonds; ii) Financial information; iii) information about shares; iv) Agenda of corporate events and related documents; v) FAQs session; vi) Ratings. General Shareholders’ Meeting During 2018, BBVA Colombia, on March 12, 2018, held the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting and a extraordinary meeting on May 30, 2018. Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting On March 12, 2018, the ordinary Shareholders’ meeting was held, which was carried out in accordance with the provisions of current regulation, the Bylaws and the Shareholders’ Meeting Rules of BBVA Colombia. 246 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Attendance data of the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting Issue Date On January 30, 2018, on La República newspaper and web page of Post of the Notice BBVA Colombia Right of inspection As of February 16, 2018 Post of information related to the General BBVA Colombia Web page 15 days in advance of the meeting Meeting agenda Deliberation and decision making Quorum 95.728% Live transmission via streaming and post of decisions on web page Post of the General Meeting and in RNVE Sending copy of the Minutes to SFC April 5, 2018 Sending the Minutes to the SFC by the Statutory Within 15 business days after the General Meeting of Shareholders Auditor Within following month from the General Meeting of Shareholders the general purpose financial statements, compared versus previous Post of Financial Statements year, their notes and the Statutory Audit report were posted on the web page Main agreements from the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting 2018 The following documents and proposals were presented and approved at the Meeting: •• Annual report of the Executive Chairman and Board of Directors • Individual and consolidated financial statements and unqualified Statutory Auditor report. • Earnings Distribution Project 2017 that amounted to $457,466,488,264, as follows: 49.9932% to increase the Legal Reserve and 50.0068% in cash dividends. Also, it was approved the compromise to allocate el 47.5% of earnings of the year in course to increase the legal reserve at the year-end, in order to strengthen the solvency since in this way they are added in the additional equity. • Allocation of 1% of the earnings of year 2017 for Corporate Responsibility activities. • Election of the Board of Directors and approve their respective remuneration. 247 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 • Approval of appropriations and fees for the Statutory Auditor 2018-2019. • Election of the Ombudsman of the Financial Consumer and the substitute and approval of fees. Extraordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting On May 30, 2018, the extraordinary general shareholders’ meeting was held, which was carried out in accordance with the provision of the current regulation, the Bylaws and the Shareholders’ Meeting Rules of BBVA Colombia. Attendance data of the Extraordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting Issue Date May 11, 2018 on La República newspaper and web page of BBVA Post of the notice Colombia. Post of information related to the General On May 11, 2018 on BBVA Colombia Web page. Meeting agenda Deliberation and decision making Quorum 95.46% Within 15 business days after the General Extraordinary Meeting of Sending the Minutes by the Statutory Auditor Shareholders The following documents and proposals were presented and approved at the Meeting: • Acceptance of the resignation of Mr. Juan Rafael Escudero Gómez, equity member of the Board of Directors • Election of Xavier Queralt Blanch as equity member of the Board of Directors for the remaining statutory period (June 2018 -March 2020). • Partial reform of the Bank’s Corporate Bylaws, in order to improve Corporate Governance and to accept recommendations from the New Country Code of the Financial Superintendence of Colombia. • Reform to the Rules of the General Shareholders’ Meeting and Board of Directors. • Reform to the Corporate Governance Code. 248 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION The partial reform of the Bylaws was carried out as follows: Corporate governance code: The adjustments made in the Bylaws, are replicated in order to harmonize both regulations and the name of the Code is specified, which is: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE. Rules of the Shareholders’ General Meeting: Paragraph 11 of this regulation is adjusted in accordance to the recommendation 22.1 of Code of Best Corporate Practices of Colombia – Country Code, with the purpose of distinguishing the valuation stages, approval and disclosure with the procedure, applicable to the transactions with related parties. Rules of the Board of Directors: The procedure for the delivery of information to the Board of Directors is updated and specified through the exclusive network access resource, besides making the clarification regarding the nature of the terms of the call, which are counted as common days. 249 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Guidelines for preparation of the report GRI-102-54 • GRI-102-55 GRI-102-56 Information Criteria and Standards • Profile, Scope, Relevance, Materiality and Coverage of the report • Basic references and international standards • Rigor and verification • Independent Review Criteria • GRI Indicators Profile, Scope, Relevance, Materiality and Coverage of the report This report has been prepared in conformity with GRI standards: basic option for presentation to the Shareholders’ General Assembly. The use of such methodologies allows the Bank to consolidate in a single document, the Management Report and the Corporate Responsibility, improve the quality of information, promote a more coherent and efficient approach to communicate the factors that affect the creation of value of the Bank, improve accountability and inform stakeholders about the effect of the Bank activity in environment, social and economic fields, among others. This information corresponds to Banco BBVA Colombia as defined in the Annual Report 2017 that contains comparison data with regard to 2016 stating their perimeter. To facilitate the comparability of the information, if said data have undergone any modification with regard to previous year, is due to an improvement in quantification and measurement methods of those affected variables or used criteria. 250 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For determining the relevance and materiality of the contents to be included, special attention has been given to the major stakeholders with continuity in the consultation processes pursuant to the recommendations established in the guideline Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), to prepare the sustainability reports. In this line, a specific analysis has been conducted with the public and available information in BBVA Colombia, to assess the validity and relevance of such matters within the current context. This report is completed with the Annual Report 2016 and other information available on the web page (www.bbva.com.co). Basic references and international standards As indicated, this report has been prepared in accordance with the best practices and most recognized international standards and complies with the GRI methodology with the basic option. Similarly, it reports about those actions related to the United Nations Millennium Development Goals and responds to the Progress Report with regard to the compliance with the principles of the UN Global Compact following the GRI and Global Compact Guideline making the connection. Rigor and verification BBVA Colombia has several instruments to ensure quality. During such process several areas are involved that supply information and that are subject also to the oversight, verification and audit methods in the Bank. Secondly, the reports about Corporate Responsibility are sent to the Group through the information management system that assures their quality and scope. The responsibility to collect the information falls in the Communication and Image Division of the Bank. The verification of this report is performed by KPMG Advisory, Tax & Legal S.A.S. 251 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 GRI Indicators Contenidos básicos generales External Indicator Response Page Audit Perfil de la Organización GRI-102-1 Report Name of the Organization. BBVA Colombia Profile 12 GRI-102-2 Report Activities, brands, BBVA Colombia Profile 12 products and services. GRI-102-3 Report Location of Headquarters. Cra. 9 No. 72 21 Bogotá, Colombia GRI-102-4 Report of the number of countries where the Company operates and the name of the countries where the Company has BBVA Group currently operates in 32 important operations or that are relevant for countries, included Colombia the sustainability issues addressed in the report. GRI-102-5 Nature of the ownership and legal BBVA Colombia Profile 12 form GRI-102-6 Markets served (Including Organizational chart and business geographical breakdown, sectors supplied and 13 structure types of clients). GRI-102-7 Report Scale of the Organization, including: BBVA Colombia Profile, financial √ Number of employees. 12, 65, 158 performance, Team Number of operations. Net sales or revenues. GRI-102-8 Report Labor information: √ Headcount by type of contract and gender. Team 161, 163 GRI-102-9 Describes the Organization’s Responsible procurement 193 suppliers chain. GRI-102-10 Significant changes during the During 2018 there were no significant period covered by the report in the size, changes in the size, structure, ownership √ structure, or in the organization’s suppliers or to the organization’s suppliers chain. chain. GRI-102-11 Description of how the organization has adopted a precautionary Corporate Governance System 164 approach or principle. 252 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION External Indicator Response Page Audit Organizational Profile GRI-102-12 Social, environmental and economic principles or programs, externally Governance Systems – Subscribed 26, 164, developed, as well as any initiative that the international commitments. 228 organization subscribes to or support. GRI-102-13 Main associations to which it Asobancaria belongs (such as sectorial associations) and/ Asobolsa or national or international entities, which the Asofiduciaria organization supports. Strategy and analysis GRI-102-14 Statement from the organization’s senior decision-maker about Letter from the President 6 the relevance of the sustainability for the organization. GRI-102-15 Description of the key impacts, Vision and aspiration 30 risks and opportunities. Ethics and Integrity GRI-102-16 Describes values, principles, Vision and aspiration, Progress in the standards and norms of behavior of the 30,32-42, transformation of BBVA Colombia, Model organization, such as codes of behavior and 61 of responsible banking. code of ethics. Gobernance GRI-102-18 The governance structure of the organization, including the committees of the highest governance body. Identify if there is a Governance Systems 164, 228 committee responsible for the oversight of economic, social and environmental issues. Stakeholders Engagement GRI-102-40 List of stakeholders groups with Analysis of materiality 51-60 which the organization is related. GRI-102-41 Report of the Percentage of √ employees covered by collective bargaining Team 162 agreements. GRI-102-42 Explains the process to define the content of the report and the aspects to be Analysis of materiality 51-60 reported. GRI-102-43 Approach to stakeholders Analysis of materiality 51-60 relationship. 253 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 External Indicator Response Page Audit Stakeholders Engagement GRI-102-44 main concerns and matters of interest that have arisen through the discussions with the stakeholders and the way in which the organization has responded to Analysis of materiality 51-60 these matters in the preparation of the report. Report of the stakeholders and the matters identified as relevant. Report elaboration practices GRI-102-45 List the entities included in the consolidated Financial Statements and report 12, 218 if there are any of those institutions that have not been included in the sustainability report. GRI-102-46 Approaches adopted for discussion with stakeholders, including the frequency of their participation by type of √ Analysis of materiality 51-60 stakeholder, indicate if any of the discussions was carried out as part of the report preparation process. GRI-102-47 List all the material aspects identified in the process to define the content Analysis of materiality 51-60 √ of the report. GRI-102-48 Description of the effect that the reinstatement of information concerning previous reports may have, along with the Economic value generated 218 reasons that have motivated such reinstatement. During 2018, there were no changes in the GRI-102-49 Significant changes regarding valuation methods applied to CO2 previous periods in the scope, coverage or emissions reported by the Bank. The valuation methods applied in the report. method used was that one sent by Corporate BBVA. GRI-102-50 Period covered by the 2018 information included in the report. GRI-102-51 Most recent date of the previous 2017 report. GRI-102-52 Report cycle (Annual-Biannual). Annual GRI-102-53 Point of contact for questions Cra. 9 No. 72 21, Piso 10 Bogotá, regarding the report or its contents. Colombia Report elaboration practices 254 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION External Indicator Response Page Audit GRI-102-54 • GRI-102-55 • GRI-102-56 Report the option according to the GRI methodology, selected by the organization Guideline for reporting 250 √ (Core-Comprehensive). Report the GRI table of contents. Management approach GRI-103-1 For each material aspect, report if it Analysis of materiality 51-60 is outside the organization. GRI-103-2 Management approach and its Analysis of materiality 51-60 components Presence in the market Revenues are presented net, and therefore, the distributed direct value as GRI-201-1 Direct economic value generated interests, is being reported net and not √ 219 and distributed. separately in interests income (in the generated direct value) and the expenses (in the distributed direct value) GRI-202-1 Ratio of standard entry level wage Percentage of senior management hired 160 √ by gender compared to local minimum wage from the local community Indirect economic impacts GRI-203-1 Infrastructure investments and Financing of sustainable development and 213 supported services. infrastructure projects GRI-203-2 Significant indirect economic indirect economic impacts 219 impacts Procurement practices GRI-204-1 Proportion of spending on local Percentage of expenditures in local 194 √ suppliers. suppliers was 77.18% Anticorruption GRI-205-1 Operations assessed for risks 100% of the Bank’s operation is evaluated 166 related to corruption. against risks related to corruption. √ 100% of the members of the Board of Directors were informed about anticorruption issues. As of December 2018, GRI-205-2 Communication and training √ the training is in execution, therefore, this 166 about anti-corruption policies and procedures information cannot be consolidated for this report. Is is expected to be included in the 2019 report Anti-corruption 255 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 External Indicator Response Page Audit During the period between January 1, 2018 and December 31 of the same year, there GRI-205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption were no corruption cases, therefore, there √ 167 and actions taken were no disciplinary measures, contract terminations or judicial proceedings related to this issue. Anti-competitive behavior GRI-206-1 Legal actions related to antiDuring 2018 there were no legal actions √ competitive behavior, anti-trust, and related to anti-competitive behavior monopoly practices Materials GRI-301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Main consumption indicators 204 GRI-301-2 Recycled inputs Main consumption indicators 204 √ Energy The estimation of energy consumption is made based on the protocol and GRI-302-1 Reduction of energy consumption 204 √ methodology for obtaining the Bank’s environmental indicators Emissions La estimación de extracción de consumo de agua se realiza con base en el protocolo GRI-303-1 Extracción de agua por fuente 204 √ y metodología de obtención de indicadores ambientales del Banco Emissions Consulted sources: F2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. Volume 2: Energy. Table 2.4 IPCC Fifth Assessment Report. WGI The physical science basis. Appendix 8.A. GRI-305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 100-year time horizon Global Warming 204 √ Potential IEA density Annex 3. The factor used is 2.7 kl of CO2 per liter, likewise the Bank does not have biogenic emissions due to its corporate purpose. 256 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION External Indicator Response Page Audit Emissions Consulted source: IEA “CO2 emissions from fuel combustion 2017”. GRI-305-2 indirect GHG emissions when The factor used is 0.268 klg of CO2 per 204 √ generating energy (Scope 2) KWH, likewise the Bank does not have biogenic emissions due to its corporate purpose. Consulted source: DEFRA Greenhouse gas reporting: conversion factors 2017. GRI-305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions The factors used are 0.298; 0.183 and 204 (scope 3) √ 0.213 kl of CO2 per KM, likewise the Bank does not have biogenic emissions due to its corporate purpose. Effluents and waste GRI-306-1 Water discharge by quality and The Bank makes water discharge to the 204 √ destination sewage system and not to bodies of water The information provided regarding weight GRI-306-2 Waste by type and disposal or units of waste is originated by the 204 √ method supplier contracted by the Bank for its collection and final disposal. Environmental compliance During 2018, BBVA Colombia did not have GRI-307-1 Non-compliance with √ significant fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations environmental regulations. Employment GRI-401-1 New employee hires and employee √ Team 159 turnover GRI-401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary Team 160 √ or part-time employees 257 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 External Indicator Response Page Audit Occupational health and safety There is a occupational safety and health committee, which was elected at the national level in May 2018, it is a legal committee formed in a bipartite way. The process was performed with all workers GRI-403-1 Workers representation in formal nationwide, dividing the country in four joint management-worker health and safety √ zones, which were informed so that each committees of them would subscribe one candidate and a substitute. The the election is made among people from different parts of the country, ensuring representation of all employees. GRI-403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, The Bank does not report OHSMS details occupational diseases, lost days, and of figures by gender, region and absenteeism, and number of work-related contractors, since they are not 162 √ fatalities representative for the information management GRI-403-4 Health and safety topics covered in Team 152-163 formal agreements with trade unions Training and education GRI-404-1 Average hours of training per year Team 161 √ per employee GRI-404-2 Programs for enhancing employee Team 152-163 skills and transition assistance programs 100% of employees receive performance and career development evaluation. This GRI-404-3 Percentage of employees number excludes employees which do not receiving regular performance and career √ meet the requirements to be evaluated, as development reviews well as those who recently entered, and those under permanent union leave. Diversity and equal opportunity GRI-405-1 Diversity in governance bodies and Team 159 √ employees GRI-405-2 Ratio of basic salary and Team 160 √ remuneration of women to men 258 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION External Indicator Response Page Audit No discrimination GRI-406-1 Incidents of discrimination and In 2018, there were no complains at BBVA corrective actions taken for issues concerning discrimination √ Health and safety of clients GRI-416-1 Evaluation of health and safety 0% and we are working to implement this impacts of the products or services categories type of evaluations in the coming years. GRI-416-2 Non-compliance cases related to During 2018, there were no cases related health and safety impacts of the products or to health impacts services categories Marketing and labeling The Bank’s procedures require to provide the following information about its services and products: The nature of the product GRI-4171 Requirements for information and Benefits of the consumption or use of the √ 136 labeling of products and services product Conditions of product consumption The scope of the Bank’s processes includes those services described in page 136 of the report GRI-417-2 Non-compliance cases related to During 2018 there were no significant fines information and labeling of products and for non-compliance with the regulations services During 2018, there were no incidents as a result of non-compliance with regulations GRI-417-3 No-compliance cases related to related to marketing communications, √ marketing communications including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. Customer privacy The data presented on page 140 GRI-418-1 Claims based on violations of √ correspond to the claims made by the 140 customer privacy and loss of customer data clients during 2018. Socio-economic compliance During 2018, there were no significant GRI-419-1 Failure to comply with laws and fines for non-compliance with the regulations in the social and economic fields √ regulations 259 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 External Indicator Response Page Audit Supplementary sector BBVA has a specialized financing policy, with specific components in social and environmental issues. These policies are corporate guidelines, so this policy allows us to know how to evaluate projects the FS-1 Policies with specific social and Bank may finance and how to mitigate 198, 202, environmental components applied to social and environmental risks. Similarly, 213 business lines. the Principles of Ecuador procedure, whose objective is the Bank to commit itself to implementing them in its internal environmental and social policies for the financing of projects. The Bank has three documents which FS-2 Procedures for assessing and protecting establish procedures to identify business lines regarding environmental and environmental and social risks in its social risks. projects in any area of the BBVA business. FS-4 Processes for improving staff competency to implement the environmental TCR Communication 135 and social policies and procedures applied to business lines FS-7 Monetary value of products and services The information reported does not mention designed to deliver a specific social benefit for the monetary value of products that each business line broken down by purpose. provide a social benefit. FS-8 Monetary value of products and service Currently the amount reported is not designed to deliver a specific environmental available and is not broken down by benefit for each business line broken down by product line nor by purpose. It is expected purpose. to report these details in later years. Active ownership management FS-13 Accessibility in areas of low population No number nor percentage is reported for 144 density or disadvantaged places. disadvantaged places FS-14 Initiatives to improve access to financial Support to Retail banking segment with 210-212 services for disadvantaged people. specific needs 260 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION External Indicator Response Page Audit Own indicators BBVA-1 Own indicator. Number of beneficiaries of Financial Education program Investment in social programs 218-225 “Adelante con tu Futuro” BBVA-2 Own indicator. Number of SMEs Support to SMEs 208 clients. BBVA-3 Own indicator. Number of SMEs Support to SMEs 208 clients financed. BBVA-4 Own indicator. Value corresponding to 2017 disbursements to finance sustainable 2018 213 development and infrastructure projects and energy efficiency. BBVA-5 Own indicator. Value of credits Financing of sustainable development and 213 granted to finance agro-industrial projects. infrastructure projects BBVA-6. Own indicator. Time to resolve Agro-industrial credit lines 213 claims BBVA-7 Own indicator. Percentage of claims Complaints and claims management 140-144 resolved on time BBVA-8 Own indicator. Percentage of C and Complaints and claims management 140-144 C managed by SPC. BBVA-9 Own indicator. Operations through Omni-channel model 145 channels. BBVA-10 Own indicator. Percentage of Environmental Management System employees in buildings certified according to 202 (EMS) ISO 14001 and LEED. BBVA-11 Own indicator. Number of BBVA’s Team 163 volunteers. BBVA-12 Own indicator. Number of people benefited by education support programs Investment in social programs 222 (backpacks with school supplies and educational scholarships). 261 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Independent Review Report 262 BBVA COLOMBIA SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 263
