COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by Communication on Progress (COP) From: 1/11/18 To: 30/5/19 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER June 2019 Progress report Stakeholders / Reporting Team United Nations Global Compact 685 Third Avenue, FL 12, New York, NY 10017 2018 saw FOS (Consortium) Pty Ltd complete its full integration of the United Nations – Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) into all of its activities but also prides itself in seeking to apply the SDG principles into the project / initiatives of its clients . The complete integration of SDG principles has seen the realisation of corporate benefits. In the second half of 2018, FOS reviewed its strategic plan and moved to enhance its potential with a number of government and business interests within New Zealand and Asia. It became very obvious that SDG compliance had become a major driver in these markets and those not actively integrating SDG principles were not recognising its potential. Late in 2018, FOS was also approached by interests within Eastern Europe regarding the potential of becoming involved in a number of activities. The integration by FOS of SDG principles was being seen as a major advantage in the European Market where SDG compliance was widely understood. The Directors undertook market investigation studies and initial visits to the region to assess the potential expansion opportunities. The potential clients were keen to have the ability to obtain SDG compliance data from its project reports and to demonstrate national commitments to SDG compliance. FOS commenced xpanding its operations into the eastern European market in 2019 with the creation of permanent regional offices in key locations, which has proven to be a corporate success. Alex McLeod CEO Finding Other Solutions Consortium / Finding Other solutions Group. 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights : adoption of basic human rights, equality and equity are manadated in our activiities and supported by our work practices and management standards. The right to health, education and fair work conditions is monitored thru our work practices and involvement with stakeholders and communities that we work in. Labour : HR engagement processes include recognition of equity and equality standards as well as recognising the basic requirements for a focus on local area participation and fairness and safe work practices. Skills development opportunities are also encouraged thru work practices. Environment : all procurement systems used on projects now state the need for compliance with all environmental guidelines and practices and are supported by comprehensive Environmental Management Plan for all activitities. Anti-Corruption: All procurement systems now contain clauses relating to use of fair equitable practices. Compliance with all anti-corruption legisalation and practices is mandated. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES measurement of our compliance with sustability is measured thru: staff surveys / supplier and subcontractor satisfaction feedback and client feedback (incl future work provisions)
