ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL & GOVERNANCE (ESG) PROGRESS REPORT 2018 CONTENTS 4 LETTER FROM OUR CEO This is the Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) Progress Report 5 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 2018 of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., which is known 12 GRI/SASB DISCLOSURES as MSD outside the U.S. and Canada. This report is a supplement to our 67 GRI AND SASB INDICES comprehensive online report, available at MSDresponsibility.com. ESG Report 2018 OUR PURPOSE Operating responsibly as a business is at the very heart of our ability to deliver sustainable impact — d ​ riving long-term value for our company and society. For more than a century, we have been inventing antibiotic-resistant infection and Alzheimer’s disease, medicines and vaccines for many of the world’s most and we are on the front lines in the fight against challenging diseases and we have built a company with emerging global pandemics, such as Ebola. the talent, tenacity and strength to take on some of the biggest threats to human and animal health. Our approach to corporate responsibility is about the health, economic, social and environmental impact Our core product categories include diabetes, cancer, we have on individuals and communities around the vaccines and hospital acute care. We continue to world. We hold ourselves accountable to our many focus our research on conditions that represent some stakeholders, including patients, employees, customers of today’s most significant health challenges — ​like and shareholders, whose perspectives help to define cancer, HIV, HPV, hepatitis C, cardio-metabolic disease, our corporate responsibility priorities. 3 ESG Report 2018 LETTER FROM OUR CEO celebrate this year. However, it takes the infrastructure world, empowers women to make informed choices; of a company like MSD to translate invention into equips health care providers; and strengthens health a product that can help millions of people every day. care systems. Working with more than 160 partners, Operating responsibly as a business is at the very our programs have improved access to quality care and heart of our ability to do so. modern contraception for more than nine million women in 48 countries. Our 2018/2019 Corporate Responsibility Report reviews our progress against our four key areas of I am proud that our investigational vaccine is being corporate responsibility: Access to Health, Employees, delivered and having an impact in areas of Central Environmental Sustainability, and Ethics & Values. Africa affected by the Ebola virus. Some may say that It represents our commitment to widely recognized investing to develop an Ebola vaccine doesn’t make reporting frameworks that reflect key environmental, good business sense, but I believe this is the kind of social and governance (ESG) issues, and our support challenge that MSD was designed to tackle. for the 10 universally accepted principles of the UN Global Compact. Corporate responsibility initiatives like MSD for Mothers and our investigative Ebola vaccine make us an attractive Our industry is facing some challenging headwinds, but employer for people who want to change the world. our commitment to corporate responsibility will not And it adds to the sense of purpose that keeps us going. waiver. The number of health care and drug pricing reforms being considered is possibly at an all-time high. That purpose was captured by our modern-day founder, At MSD, we have been committed to our mission of Health care costs, especially a patient’s out-of-pocket George W. Merck, who said, “Medicine is for the saving and improving lives for nearly 130 years. costs, need to be addressed. We want to help find a people, not for the profits.” For me, only two metrics Over that time, we have been responsible for some sustainable solution, and we will continue to work with truly matter — h ​ ow many people you help, and how of the most significant scientific advancements stakeholders and be transparent about our efforts. much help you give those people. and improvements in public health. We have a history of responsible pricing and publicly disclose information about our prices in the United Promoting enduring social good and securing business Any one individual can make the scientific breakthrough States. This includes our pledge not to increase our success are inextricably linked. While there is always needed to discover a new medicine. I’m reminded average net prices across our portfolio by more than more to do, I would like to thank all our employees, our of our esteemed former colleague, Maurice Hilleman, the rate of inflation annually. suppliers and our partners for the work they do every the father of modern vaccines, whose centenary we day toward these goals. The activities highlighted in this Whatever may come, we remain steadfast in our focus report are a testament to the incredible impact they Our mission of saving and on following the science to see where we can have the are having all around the world. greatest impact on patients’ lives. After all, R&D is improving lives means we the main source of the biopharmaceutical industry’s value to society. As we look to the future, we’re making Sincerely, have an important role to investments in our pipeline and manufacturing capability to help protect one billion more lives by 2030. play in achieving the UN We have a legacy of tackling urgent global health Sustainable Development challenges. For example, MSD for Mothers, our global Kenneth C. Frazier initiative to reduce maternal mortality around the Goals (SDGs) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 4 ESG Report 2018 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 14% 100% MSD for Mothers has reached more than 9 million women in 48 countries of our purchased electricity score on the Human Rights comes from renewables Campaign’s Corporate by 2040, TIME magazine named Equality Index Ken Frazier, our company’s 100% will come from renewable sources Chairman and CEO, to the $2.8B total giving in 2018 2018 TIME100 41% of management roles FTSE4Good index FINANCIAL INFORMATION Sales ($M) 2018 $42,294 are held by women constituent since 2008 Pharmaceutical ($M) $37,689 Animal Health ($M) $4,212 Other ($M) $393 $2.1B spent in 2018 15% reduction of R&D expenses ($M)1 Number of employees (approx.) $9,752 69,000 with diverse suppliers water use since 2015 1 Excludes restructuring and merger-related expenses. 5 ESG Report 2018 OUR FOCUS AREAS 01 Access to Health We aspire to improve access to health by discovering, developing and providing innovative products and services that save and improve lives. Reflecting our commitment to managing environmental, social and governance (ESG) 02 Environmental Sustainability A healthy planet is essential to human health and the sustainability of our business. issues, we continue to focus our approach to corporate 03 responsibility in four primary areas that are of greatest relevance to our business Employees We recognize that our ability to excel and society. depends on the integrity, knowledge, imagination, skill, diversity and teamwork of our employees. 04 Ethics & Values Through our unwavering commitment to transparency, we earn the trust and confidence of our stakeholders. 6 ESG Report 2018 We think globally, but we have to act globally, too. 140 357M $1.4B markets around the world people reached by our in product donations programs and partnerships outside the U.S. Note: The 357 million people reached by our major programs and partnerships represent investments by our Office of Social Business Innovation, including our Office of Corporate Responsibility, MSD for Mothers and our company’s Foundation. 7 ESG Report 2018 We work to deliver vaccines, medications, and animal health products that can help millions around the world. 8 ESG Report 2018 River blindness has now been eliminated For 32 years we have been in Colombia, Ecuador, Guatemala and fighting river blindness. Mexico, and several countries in Africa are close to elimination. 9 ESG Report 2018 Our efforts support the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through the promotion of health and well-being, gender equality, clean water, climate change and renewable energy, diversity and inclusion, and responsible consumption, among others. 10 ESG Report 2018 We are driven by our purpose to invent. Because patients are waiting. 11 ESG Report 2018 GRI/SASB DISCLOSURES GENERAL DISCLOSURES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102-1 Organization name (Core) GRI 102-2 Primary brands, products, and services (Core) GRI 102-3 Headquarters location (Core) GRI 102-4 Location of operations (Core) GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form (Core) GRI 102-6 Markets served (Core) This is the Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) Progress Report 2018 of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., which is known as MSD outside the U.S. and Canada. We are a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through our prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies and animal health products. Our operations are principally managed on a products basis and include four operating segments, which are the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Healthcare Services and Alliances segments. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. We sell these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. 12 ESG Report 2018 Human health vaccine products consist of preventive manufacturing plants or other properties in Japan, pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily Singapore, South Africa, and other countries in Western administered at physician offices. We sell these human Europe, Central and South America, and Asia. health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The principal market for trading of our Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, MRK. As of January 31, 2019, there were approximately manufactures and markets animal health products, 115,320 shareholders of record of the company’s including pharmaceutical and vaccine products, for the Common Stock. prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major livestock and companion animal species, which we sell to For more information, please see our 2018 Form 10-K veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. (pages 1–3). The Healthcare Services segment provides services and solutions that focus on engagement, health analytics and clinical services to improve the value of care delivered to patients. The Alliances segment primarily includes results from the company’s relationship with AstraZeneca LP-related sales of Nexium and Prilosec, which concluded in 2018. Our U.S. commercial operations are headquartered in Upper Gwynedd, Pennsylvania. The company’s U.S. pharmaceutical business is conducted through divisional headquarters located in Upper Gwynedd, Pennsylvania and Kenilworth, New Jersey. Our vaccines business is conducted through divisional headquarters located in Upper Gwynedd, Pennsylvania. Our Animal Health headquarters is located in Madison, New Jersey. Principal U.S. research facilities are located in Rahway and Kenilworth, New Jersey, West Point, Pennsylvania, Palo Alto, California, Boston, Massachusetts, South San Francisco, California and Elkhorn, Nebraska (Animal Health). Principal research facilities outside the United States are located in Switzerland and China. Our manufacturing operations are headquartered in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey. We also have production facilities for human health products at nine locations in the United States and Puerto Rico. Outside the United States, through subsidiaries, we own or have an interest in 13 ESG Report 2018 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization (Core) EMPLOYEES BY REGION GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers (Core) SASB 000.A Patients treated (#) For more information on our global impact, please Europe (Western) and Canada visit the Social Investments page on our Corporate 29.3% Responsibility website. Japan U.S. Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa 5.1% 35.1% 4.4% Asia-Pacific Latin America 18.2% 7.9% WORKFORCE 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Number of employees as of December 31, 2018 (approximate) 70,000 68,000 68,000 69,000 69,000 People reached through major programs & partnerships (in millions)1 267 188 293 311 357 1 Represents investments by our Office of Social Business Innovation, including our Office of Corporate Responsibility, MSD for Mothers and our company’s Foundation. 14 ESG Report 2018 GRI 102-9 Supply chain (Core) SASB 260a.1 Methods and technologies used to maintain traceability of products throughout the supply chain We manufacture, package and distribute products to more than 140 markets around the world. Our facilities, along with our external contractors, suppliers and partners, make up an integrated, interdependent global manufacturing network that is committed to delivering compliant, reliable supply to customers and patients on time, all the time, and every time. Today we have 144 external manufacturing sites, 35 Corporate Alliances and 98 Regional Alliances that we engage with to provide access to our products. In 2018, we manufactured approximately 8,000 SKUs (stock keeping units), approximately 213.7 million doses of Human Health vaccines and approximately 102 billion doses of Animal Health vaccines. Through “End-to-End Supply Planning,” we conduct efficient and balanced planning decisions to maximize business results and deliver medicines and vaccines to Serialization Supplier Selection customers, which include hospitals and retail outlets, and patients when and where they need them. We Serialization — adding a 2D barcode with a unique We maintain strict quality standards no matter where partner with distributors, warehouses and freight identification number on each package that goes to our products are manufactured. forwarders on air, land and cold-chain supply methods. market — is one of the tools we are investing in to secure our supply chain and prevent counterfeiting. Once we have decided to engage an external A serial number on individual packages will enable manufacturer, that manufacturer is required to comply Product & Supply Chain Security with our business requirements set forth in the anyone along the supply chain — from a distributor We carefully manage our supply chain through strict to a pharmacist to a patient — to scan the code and contract, regardless of geography. policies and procedures designed to keep the legitimate authenticate it as a genuine product of our company. drug distribution system safe and secure. In the We conduct audits of every potential new supplier U.S., for example, we require customers to purchase Serialization adds a robust layer to the company’s of active pharmaceutical ingredients or formulated our products directly from our company or from product-security platform. When associated with products and sterile products, to determine its distributors authorized by our company. In addition, a regulatory mandate that specifies effective acceptability and compliance with Current Good we publish the names of authorized distributors on our implementation and reporting to a national database, Manufacturing Practices (CGMPs). We review the corporate website. this method of product tracking can become a more systems that the potential supplier uses to purchase meaningful product-security tool. materials in order to ensure the quality of the products the supplier hopes to provide to us. 15 ESG Report 2018 Only if a supplier meets our stringent criteria, We go to great lengths to ensure that our products Human Rights which include a review of the company’s regulatory are designed, made and used in a safe, effective and Our company believes in the dignity of every human inspection and outcome history, will we then negotiate environmentally sound manner. We deliver on this being and recognizes the international human rights a commercial agreement. These agreements include commitment by maintaining a highly trained and capable principles embodied in the United Nations Global detailed provisions relating to the quality standards scientific staff and by actively pursuing manufacturing Compact and as defined in the United Nations Universal we require suppliers to uphold in order for them to process improvements that minimize environmental Declaration of Human Rights and its subsequent manufacture a product for our use. impacts. We have set environmental sustainability goals changes, the International Covenant on Economic, to demonstrate this commitment with concrete targets For more information on our supply chain, please Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant and timelines. To ensure that our knowledge stays visit the Manufacturing & Supply, Quality & Safety on Civil and Political Rights, the Organization for current with that of thought leaders and experts in the Standards, Vaccines, Oncology, Women’s Health, and Economic Cooperation and Development Guidelines for industry, we also collaborate with external resources Sourcing & Supplier Relations pages on our Corporate Multinational Enterprises and the core labor standards and industry groups, such as the American Chemical Responsibility website. set out by the International Labor Organization. Society and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Supply Chain GRI 102-10 Organizational changes during For more information, please visit the Product We expect appropriate standards of conduct and the reporting period (Core) Stewardship section on our Corporate Responsibility respect for human rights, consistent with our own, website. from our suppliers, contractors, vendors and external None partners. Our human rights practices are informed and guided by the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain GRI 102-12 External initiatives (Core) Initiative’s (PSCI’s) Pharmaceutical Industry Principles GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle (Core) for Responsible Supply Chain Management, which set Though not an exhaustive list, below are examples of the standard for ethics, labor, health, safety and the We take a precautionary approach when evaluating third-party principles and initiatives we have endorsed. environment for our industry. potential human exposures and environmental impacts resulting from our manufacturing processes. Water Diversity & Inclusion Conservative assumptions are made when data are We have endorsed the UN CEO Water Mandate, a public In July 2018, we became a signatory to Paradigm for limited, and safety factors are added to address commitment to adopt and implement a comprehensive Parity®, a coalition of business leaders dedicated to uncertainty and variability in our assessments. approach to water management, and we have aligned addressing the corporate leadership gender gap. The This type of approach is particularly relevant to our our water program with its principles. CEO Water goal of the coalition is to achieve full gender parity by work in toxicology, industrial hygiene and environmental Mandate endorsers have a responsibility to make 2030, with a near-term goal of women holding at least protection. water-resource management a priority and to work 30 percent of senior roles. with governments, UN agencies, nongovernmental By using more efficient and innovative processing organizations, local communities and other interested We are a member of the ILO Global Business and methods and technologies, we are reducing the amount parties to address global water challenges. We are Disability Network, a partnership of multinational of energy, water and raw materials we use to make our working to identify partnerships that will help us companies, national employers’ organizations, business products, thereby minimizing the amount of waste we advance our water stewardship priorities in the areas networks and advocacy groups working in collaboration generate and lowering our production costs. in which we operate. These projects also support the to promote the inclusion of persons with disabilities in goals of SDG 15, which strives to “protect, restore and the workplace. promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems.” 16 ESG Report 2018 In 2009, we signed onto the United Nations Women’s GRI 102-13 Membership associations (Core) Empowerment Principles. These principles reflect seven Through our top three trade associations (listed areas of focus designed to promote gender equality We engage with stakeholders through membership in below), we engaged on the following policy issues in business. numerous organizations. Within these groups, we aim in 2018: to inform relevant debates in ways that are constructive PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND Animal Health and that ultimately foster improved patient access to MANUFACTURERS OF AMERICA (PhRMA) medicines and vaccines globally. We encourage proactive vaccination of animals to Defend the Medicare Part D program, Defend prevent disease and support the responsible use of Our company is a member of numerous industry and the Medicare Part B program, the 340 Drug antibiotics to treat and improve the health of animals. trade groups. We work with these groups because they Discount Program, Defend Intellectual Property As a global animal health company, we support the represent the pharmaceutical industry and business Rights and government pricing reforms in Japan “Antibiotic Commitment” established by the animal community in debates led by governments and other and Canada health industry. stakeholders, and because they help the industry reach U.S. CHAMBER OF COMMERCE consensus on policy issues. Defend Intellectual Property Rights Privacy When our trade associations actively lobby on our core We are a member of the International Pharmaceutical BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY business issues, we seek to align their positions with our Privacy Consortium (IPPC), an association of researchORGANIZATION (BIO) own. There are times, however, when we may not share based pharmaceutical companies formed in 2002 Defend the Medicare Part D program, Defend the views of our peers or associations — both on issues that has worldwide responsibility for the protection of the Medicare Part B program, the 340 Drug that are central to our business and on those that, while personal health information and other types of personal Discount Program and Defend Intellectual important, are not directly material to our mission. data. We have been actively involved in the IPPC since Property Rights With representatives on the boards and committees 2006, in order to engage in a constructive dialogue of industry groups and trade associations, we can voice with European data-protection authorities and other questions or concerns we may have about policy or regulators on privacy standards for biomedical research. For more information, please visit the Public Policy page related activities. We may even recuse ourselves from on our Corporate Responsibility website. related trade association or industry group activities For more information, please visit the Reporting when appropriate. Frameworks, Key Initiatives, Water, Global Diversity & Inclusion, Direct-to-Consumer Advertising, Engaging For a list of industry and trade groups of which we are a STRATEGY with Health Care Professionals, Sales & Marketing member, and our trade association dues (those greater Practices, Sourcing & Supplier Relations, Ensuring than $25,000) that are used for political purposes, GRI 102-14 CEO letter (Core) Ethical Business Practices, and Human Rights pages on please visit our corporate website. our Corporate Responsibility website. Please see the letter from our Chairman and CEO on page 4. 17 ESG Report 2018 ETHICS & INTEGRITY As part of our long-standing commitment to ethics Engaging with Health Care Professionals and good corporate citizenship, we adopt policies and Ethical relationships with health care professionals are GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, procedures that facilitate compliance with the laws and critical to our shared mission and vision to save and and norms of behavior (Core) regulations that govern the way we market and sell our improve lives around the world. medicines, vaccines and other products. GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and An important part of achieving our mission is ensuring concerns about ethics We have a well-established global ethics and compliance that health care professionals have balanced and program that is consistent with the International accurate information about our products. All of SASB 510a.2 Code of ethics governing Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & our sales and marketing activities are conducted in interactions with health care Associations (IFPMA) Code of Practice requirements, accordance with our Guiding Principles for Ethical professionals as well as with other applicable regional or country Business Practices Involving the Medical and Scientific industry codes of conduct, including those issued by Community. These principles are aligned with national Our company’s Board of Directors and senior the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of regulations and worldwide industry codes, including management, including the company’s chief ethics America (PhRMA) and the European Federation of the International Federation of Pharmaceutical and compliance officer and the Corporate Compliance Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Manufacturers & Associations Code of Practice and Committee, oversee our company’s ethics and the World Health Organization’s Ethical Criteria for Our company’s Office of Ethics is responsible for compliance program. Our compliance program is Medicinal Drug Promotion. ensuring that employees are aware of and trained on the designed to maintain a culture that promotes the Code of Conduct and company policies. prevention, detection and resolution of potential The guiding principles serve as a bridge between violations of law or company policies. The program is The Office of Ethics serves as a channel for the receipt countries’ laws and regulations, industry guidelines, dynamic, involving regular assessments to ensure that and investigation of ethics and compliance-related and our own Code of Conduct, enabling us to interact it is responsive to the company’s evolving business and concerns. Employees are encouraged to raise their with the medical and scientific communities, to meet associated compliance risks. concerns to their management, Human Resources, our ethical and legal obligations and to contribute to Compliance, Legal, or the Office of Ethics. Throughout improvements in human health. The Ethics and Compliance Office is led by the senior 2018 and 2019, the Office of Ethics enhanced its global vice president and chief ethics and compliance officer, For more information on our approach to ethics, ethics program, including the implementation of an who reports directly to the chief executive officer please visit the Corporate Governance, Code of improved reporting tool operated by an independent and provides regular quarterly updates to the Audit Conduct, Engaging with Health Care Professionals third party, named Speak Up at msdethics.com. Speak Committee of the Board of Directors on the state of and Compliance pages on our Corporate Up (formerly theadviceline.com) is available 24/7 and ethics and compliance at the company. This reporting Responsibility website. allows employees and suppliers to raise concerns or ask structure supports open communications with questions confidentially (where permitted by law) in senior leadership and the Board regarding important their preferred language via phone or internet. developments that relate to ethics and compliance. In alignment with our priority to protect and enhance our company’s reputation through safe, ethical and compliant behaviors, the Office of Ethics added three Regional Ethics Officers to their team and established a network of site-based volunteer Ethics Ambassadors outside of the United States. 18 ESG Report 2018 GOVERNANCE The Board Governance Committee has responsibility GRI 102-21 Access to the board for overseeing the company’s corporate responsibility and public policy issues. Additional information on the The Board of Directors welcomes input from GRI 102-18 Governance structure of the Governance Committee’s responsibilities can be found in shareholders and other interested parties, and has organization (Core) our company’s 2019 Proxy Statement (page 22) or in the established a process to receive these communications. charter for the Governance Committee available on our Shareholders and interested parties may communicate We believe good governance is integral to achieving corporate website. directly with the Board, the independent Lead Director, long-term shareholder value. the non-management or independent Directors as a For more information on our governance structure, group, or other members of the Board by writing to the We are committed to governance policies and please visit the Corporate Governance page on our following address: practices that serve the interests of our company and Corporate Responsibility website. its many stakeholders. In exercising our fiduciary duty Board of Directors to our shareholders, we take a long-term perspective on Merck & Co., Inc. shareholder value that takes into account our company’s GRI 102-19 Delegation of responsibility 2000 Galloping Hill Road, K1-4157 relationship with society as a whole and the interests of Kenilworth, NJ 07033 U.S.A. GRI 102-20 High-level accountability for our many diverse stakeholders. sustainability topics The primary mission of our Board is to represent and GRI 102-22 Composition of the board and its protect the long-term interests of our company’s The Office of Corporate Responsibility committees shareholders. The Board meets, at minimum, six times per year to provide strategic direction and to review our The Office of Corporate Responsibility is responsible progress on a wide variety of measures. Please see GRI 102-18. for raising the visibility of corporate responsibility issues and activities across the company and fosters In overseeing the affairs of the company, including connections across business units and functional areas our governance, the Board has established four GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governance to integrate corporate responsibility principles into committees, each of which is composed solely of body business policies, strategies and practices, including independent directors. The four committees are: the enterprise risk management (ERM) process, and brings the voice of external stakeholders into decisionKen Frazier, our company’s chairman of the Board, • Audit Committee making processes. president and chief executive officer, is the only • Compensation and Benefits Committee company executive serving on the Board. Leslie A. • Governance Committee The Office of Corporate Responsibility also coordinates Brun serves as the Board’s independent lead director. the development, implementation and communication As lead director, Mr. Brun confers with management • Research Committee of our global approach and, with strategic guidance from on matters involving the Board and serves as a liaison All of our standing committees are governed by the Public Policy and Responsibility Council (PPRC), to shareholders on investor matters. Mr. Frazier is Board-approved charters, which are available on our Executive Committee and the Board Governance not a member of any of the Board’s committees; only corporate website. Information on our company’s board Committee, is responsible for publishing the annual independent directors serve on those committees. committees can be found in our company’s 2019 Proxy Corporate Responsibility report. Statement (pages 20–22). The Board believes that the company and its shareholders are well-served by the Board’s current leadership structure. The independent lead director 19 ESG Report 2018 is appointed by the Board of Directors to a three-year a formal diversity policy. The policy reflects the Board’s In addition to the Governance Committee, other term. Having an independent lead director vested with long-standing commitment to ensure that directors Board committees oversee issues indirectly related to key duties and responsibilities and four independent represent diverse perspectives and areas of expertise corporate responsibility, such as audit and compliance, Board committees chaired by independent directors important to fostering the company’s business success. executive compensation and research. promotes strong independent oversight of the Our new diversity policy provides that the Board does chairman and chief executive officer and the rest of our not discriminate against potential directors on the basis For more information on our Board of Directors, please management team. of gender, race, age, sexual orientation or ethnic and visit our 2019 Proxy Statement, the Leadership page national background and further provides that having a on our corporate website, as well as the Corporate For additional details on our Board’s leadership board composed of diverse individuals is an important Governance page on our Corporate Responsibility site. structure, please see our company’s 2019 Proxy contributor to the Board’s overall effectiveness. Statement (pages 15–16). From time to time and including in 2018, the Governance GRI 102-29 Board identification of ESG Committee has retained independent search firms impacts, risks, and opportunities GRI 102-24 Board nomination and to assist in identifying candidates that reflect its selection processes director succession priorities, including these diversity GRI 102-30 Board ESG review of risk objectives. At present, we have two members on our management processes GRI 102-25 Board conflicts of interest Board who represent members of underrepresented GRI 102-32 Report review ethnic groups. GRI 102-26 Board and executive roles The Governance Committee also considers The Governance Committee oversees the company’s Our Board of Directors possesses broad expertise, skills, recommendations for director candidates made by corporate governance, including the practices, policies experience and perspectives that facilitate the strong shareholders and evaluates them using the same criteria and procedures of the Board and its committees. The oversight and strategic direction required to govern the as for other candidates. The Board, along with the primary functions of this committee include: company’s business and strengthen and support senior Governance Committee, takes into account, among management. other things, the needs of the Board and the company • Coordinate an annual evaluation of Board in light of the overall composition of the Board, with a performance, and review Board compensation, In its regular discussions regarding Board composition — ​ view toward achieving a balance of the skills, experience related person transactions, and D&O indemnity and especially in conjunction with the annual Board and and attributes that are essential to the Board’s and fiduciary liability insurance coverage for the committee evaluations — ​the Governance Committee oversight role. company’s officers and non-employee Directors works with the Board to determine the appropriate • Review the company’s Good Manufacturing Practice mix of professional experience, expertise, educational Six independent directors constitute our company’s compliance, including internal and external audits; background and other qualifications that are particularly Board Governance Committee. Chaired by Leslie A. our Environmental, Health and Safety practices; our desirable for our directors to possess in light of our Brun, the company’s lead independent director, the supply chain manufacturing strategy and governance, current and future business strategies. The Governance committee is responsible for advising the company’s as well as our third-party sourcing program; our Committee uses this input in its planning and director Board of Directors and management on company business continuity plans; and our privacy policies search process. policies and practices that pertain to the company’s and practices responsibilities as a global corporate citizen, its special The Governance Committee considers diversity as • Review social, political and economic trends that obligations as a health care company whose products an important factor when identifying prospective affect our business; review the positions and and services affect health and quality of life around the nominees for our Board. In 2019, the Governance strategies we pursue to influence public policy world, and its commitment to the highest standards of Committee recommended, and the full Board adopted, ethics and integrity in all of its dealings. • Monitor and evaluate our corporate citizenship programs and activities, including the support of 20 ESG Report 2018 charitable, political and educational organizations and The goal of the ERM process is to provide an ongoing STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT political candidates and causes review, implemented across the company and aligned • Review legislative, regulatory, privacy and other to company values and ethics, to identify and assess GRI 102-40 Stakeholder engagement (Core) matters that could impact our shareholders, customers, risk, and to monitor risk and agreed-upon mitigating employees and the communities in which we operate action. Furthermore, if a risk transforms into an GRI 102-41 Union representation (Core) incident, the ERM process is utilized to provide an The Board has two primary methods of overseeing effective response and business continuity plans are GRI 102-42 Stakeholder identification (Core) risk. The first method is through its Enterprise Risk in place. If the ERM process identifies a material risk, GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Management (ERM) process, which allows for full it will be elevated through our CEO and our company’s engagement (Core) Board oversight of the most significant risks facing the Executive Committee to the full Board of Directors for company. The second is through the functioning of the its consideration. Board committees. Operating responsibly is fundamental to our longFor additional details on risk management, please see term success as a global biopharmaceutical company. our company’s 2019 Proxy Statement (pages 19-20). It is also increasingly important to our stakeholders as expectations for how companies conduct themselves Management has established an ERM process and contribute to society continue to rise. to ensure a complete companywide approach to evaluating risk over six distinct but overlapping GRI 102-33 Board communication We engage with a diverse group of stakeholders to more core areas: fully understand their needs and expectations, and to Please see GRI 102-21 on page 19. gain insights that can inform our efforts to improve 1. RESPONSIBILITY AND REPUTATION access to health care and foster progress toward Risks that may impact the well-being of the solutions that benefit society and support our business. company, its employees, customers, patients, GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies for the communities or reputation board and senior executives Patients and caregivers 2. STRATEGY GRI 102-36 Process for determining We embrace the opportunity to engage with Macro risks that may impact our ability to achieve remuneration individual patients, patient advocacy organizations, long-term business objectives GRI 102-37 Remuneration shareholder and caregivers to better understand their health care 3. OPERATIONS resolutions journeys, expected outcomes and decision-making Risks in operations and cybersecurity that may considerations. For more information on our work with impact our ability to achieve business objectives patient groups, please visit the Patient Engagement For information on our remuneration policies and page on our Corporate Responsibility website. 4. COMPLIANCE practices for Board members and senior executives, Risks related to compliance with laws, regulations please visit our 2019 Proxy Statement (pages 37–41). Health care professionals and company values, ethics and policies We are committed to providing appropriate and 5. REPORTING GRI 102-38 CEO/employee pay ratio balanced information to physicians and other health Risks to maintaining accurate financial statements care providers about our medicines, vaccines and and timely, complete financial disclosures For information on our CEO compensation, please visit ongoing research. For more information, please visit the our 2019 Proxy Statement (page 60). Engaging with Health Care Professionals page on our 6. SAFETY Corporate Responsibility website. Risks to employee, patient or community health and safety 21 ESG Report 2018 Payers We work with payers worldwide to inform their understanding of the relationship between the prices of our products and the true value they deliver to patients and health care systems. To learn more, please visit the Product Pricing page on our Corporate Responsibility website. Governments, multilateral organizations and regulators We work with policy makers, legislators, multilateral organizations, and governments worldwide to ensure that policy and regulatory environments globally, nationally, and locally foster patient access to medicines and vaccines, and that they are conducive to ethical business practices, science and innovation. To learn more, please visit the Public Policy page on our Corporate Responsibility website. Shareholders We strive to create shareholder value by identifying opportunities to meet customer needs and by managing Local communities Employees our business responsibly to achieve superior financial We work toward developing culturally appropriate We strive to foster a positive and inclusive working results over the long term. To learn more, please visit mechanisms to engage and build relationships with our environment for our employees by providing the Stakeholder Engagement page on our Corporate local community stakeholders. To learn more, please resources to improve their health and that of their Responsibility website. visit the Supporting Our Communities page on our families, opportunities to further their professional Corporate Responsibility website. development, and ways to get more involved in the International and local organizations communities where they live. To learn more, please visit We work hard to identify the best organizations and Environmental stakeholders the Engaging Our Employees page on our Corporate individuals to collaborate with in order to address Responsibility website. We work to reduce the environmental effects of our societal challenges and to inform debate on pressing operations and products and to promote sustainable As part of our mission to maintain a satisfying and issues. To learn more, please visit the Key Initiatives environmental practices within the company, among productive work environment, we routinely survey all page on our Corporate Responsibility website. our partners, and throughout our supply chain. To learn employees to learn about their perspectives on the more, please visit the Environmental Sustainability page business and on how we are responding to the needs of on our Corporate Responsibility website. our global workforce. The Voice Survey, our company’s all-employee opinion survey, is our flagship employee feedback mechanism, and conducted on a biennial basis. 22 ESG Report 2018 EMPLOYEE SURVEY GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised (Core) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 We interact with our stakeholders through a variety Response rate to Voice Survey 78% NA 85% NA 86% of communication channels and conduct stakeholder engagement at both the corporate and the local level, Engagement Index (favorable response rate)1 79% NA 82% NA 83% depending on the issue. Culture Index (favorable response rate)2 69% NA 72% NA 74% We engage with industry, governments, policy makers, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), opinion NA: Not Administered; the Voice Survey is conducted on a biennial basis. leaders, patient groups, academic organizations, our employees and others to inform our policies, our 1 The Engagement Index is a composite that averages scores measured from three aspects: “Engaged,” “Enabled” and “Energized.” practices and the development of our products. 2 The Culture Index is a composite that averages scores measured from three aspects: “Customer Focus,” “Reputation and Trust” and “Innovation.” Our intention is to build lasting relationships with our stakeholders; to understand their objectives, their expectations of our company and the potential UNION MEMBERSHIP for collaboration; and to enhance mutual trust and understanding. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 We strive to exchange information, views and Percentage of employees worldwide represented by an recommendations; to share activities and progress independent trade union or covered by a collective toward key goals; and to work in partnership toward bargaining agreement (approximate) 31% 32% 29% 29% 30% common objectives. Engagement may take the form of one-on-one meetings, expert-input forums, roundtable discussions, Suppliers and business partners Trade and industry associations industry coalitions or formal partnerships. We strive to engage a diverse supplier base and to We engage with stakeholders through membership in In 2018, as part of our materiality assessment, we encourage responsible approaches on the part of numerous organizations. Within these groups, we aim queried stakeholders on the topics that they felt were suppliers regarding labor, employment, human rights, to inform relevant debates in ways that are constructive the most important for our company to be addressing health and safety, ethics, diversity, and protection and that ultimately foster improved patient access going forward. A list of these topics can be found under of the environment. To learn more, please visit the to medicines and vaccines globally. To learn more, GRI 102-47 on page 24. Sourcing & Supplier Relations page on our Corporate please visit the Public Policy page on our Corporate Responsibility website. Responsibility website. 23 ESG Report 2018 REPORTING PRACTICE In 2018, in response to external expectations for Most recently, we have engaged with our Enterprise increased levels of transparency in our reporting, we Risk Management (ERM) team to integrate our CR GRI 102-45 Entities included in financial leveraged Datamaran’s Materiality Analysis tool — ​ materiality process with the ERM approach with the statements (Core) a business intelligence tool that uses big data and goal to further integrate corporate responsibility into artificial intelligence to conduct real-time materiality the overall business strategy. assessments. All of our company’s global operations, including those The materiality matrix shown below represents the of subsidiaries, fall within the scope of this report unless The corporate responsibility materiality assessment environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues that stated otherwise. This includes activities at all facilities, process provided us an opportunity to listen and engage internal and external stakeholders have identified as owned and leased, over which we have operational our many stakeholders, helping us improve as an having significant financial, operational or reputational control, unless otherwise noted. organization and providing insight into future trends and impact on the company and illustrates where our potential business risks and opportunities that influence company can have a significant impact on society and The basis for reporting on other matters specific to the our ability to create value. the environment. operations of our business — including joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and other entities that can affect comparability from period to period — can be found in our 2018 Form 10-K, which is filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and is also available in the “Financial Our Prioritized ESG Issues Reports” section of our corporate website. HIGHER Ethics and compliance Data privacy and information security Access to health There have been no significant changes from Product quality and safety previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or Occupational health and safety Intellectual property measurement methods applied in this report. Data Research and Clinical trials development regarding employees who are part of underrepresented Labor relations ethnic groups are provided for the U.S. only. Responsible sales and marketing Transparency Importance to Stakeholders and reporting Patient and caregiver engagement Product stewardship Responsible pricing GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Governance Diverse and inclusive workplace boundaries (Core) Disease awareness and education Water use and management Waste management GRI 102-47 Material aspects included (Core) Antimicrobial stewardship Supply chain responsibility Human rights Understanding and prioritizing the corporate Climate change responsibility (CR) issues that matter most to our Talent recruitment, retention and development business and stakeholders enables us to focus on Bioethics Employee wellbeing the right issues and report on them effectively and Community support and development Digital innovation transparently. Energy efficiency Counterfeit drugs Biodiversity and land stewardship Employment practices HIGHER Importance to Business Success 24 ESG Report 2018 The following topics were identified as being the most GRI 102-50 Reporting period (Core) GRI 102-56 External assurance (Core) material corporate responsibility topics for our company: GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report (Core) WSP conducted an independent third-party review • Access to health GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle (Core) of our 2018 greenhouse gas and water inventories • Data privacy and information security and provided limited assurance for the data that we • Diversity and inclusive workplace submit to CDP and for inclusion in the Corporate We report on our corporate responsibility initiatives and • Ethics and compliance Responsibility report. progress annually. These disclosures cover the prior • Intellectual property calendar year, from January 1 to December 31, 2018. While we did not obtain external verification for the • Occupational health and safety To ensure that readers have the most up-to-date full report, we did speak with numerous external information, some of the narrative in the report is about stakeholders, representing a variety of constituencies, • Patient and caregiver engagement decisions and initiatives that took place in early 2019. about the company’s planned approach to reporting, • Product quality and safety Our last report was published in September 2018. our corporate responsibility materiality assessment • Research and development process and the broad material areas upon which we Our comprehensive 2018/2019 Corporate Responsibility • Responsible pricing planned to report. The company reflects these report is available at MSDresponsibility.com. • Responsible sales and marketing consultations, where feasible and appropriate, on our website, and will use the insights gained through All of the topics above are within the boundaries of these and continuing discussions with stakeholders GRI 102-53 Report contact (Core) our responsibility. For more information, please visit to inform future reporting. the Corporate Responsibility Materiality page on our Corporate Responsibility website. We welcome your feedback on our Corporate To view WSP’s limited assurance letter for our Responsibility report, as well as any other environmental data, please visit the Reporting page on comments or questions you may have. You may our Corporate Responsibility website. GRI 102-48 Restatements (Core) contact us at the address below, or email us at corporate_responsibility@merck.com. Any restatements of information are included in the Office of Corporate Responsibility footnotes beneath the specific performance data tables. Merck & Co., Inc. 2000 Galloping Hill Road Kenilworth, NJ 07033 U.S.A. GRI 102-49 Reporting changes (Core) 908-740-4000 There were no significant changes from previous reporting periods. However, we updated our Corporate GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance Responsibility materiality analysis this past year, which is with the GRI Standards (Core) outlined in GRI 102-47. GRI 102-55 GRI content index (Core) Our company’s online Corporate Responsibility report was developed in alignment with the GRI Standards at the Core level. 25 ESG Report 2018 ECONOMIC FINANCIAL INFORMATION 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sales (in millions) $42,237 $39,498 $39,807 $40,122 $42,294 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated Research and development expenses (in millions)1 $7,290 $6,796 $10,261 $10,339 $9,752 and distributed Number of employees (approximate) 70,000 68,000 68,000 69,000 69,000 We believe that corporate responsibility is critical Number of stockholders of record 142,000 135,500 129,500 121,700 115,800 to our business success and can provide us with new opportunities to create shared, or integrated, Annual cash dividend paid per share $1.77 $1.81 $1.85 $1.89 $1.99 value — that is, addressing social issues through business solutions. At the most basic level of delivering integrated value, our principal economic contribution Global tax expense as reported on income to society is made through the discovery, development, statement (in millions) $5,349 $942 $718 $4,103 $2,508 manufacturing and marketing of our products, which directly improve and maintain the health of individuals 1 Excludes restructuring and merger-related expenses. and communities around the world, helping them to lead more productive lives. The effective income tax rates of 28.8 percent in 2018, health ecosystem and attracting additional capital 62.9 percent in 2017 and 15.4 percent in 2016 reflect and partners. the impacts of acquisition and divestiture-related costs, restructuring costs and the beneficial impact Impact investing is led by our Office of Social Business of foreign earnings. Innovation with guidance from the Impact Investing Committee. Established in 2019, the Impact Investing For additional information about our business and Committee is a cross-functional team of senior company economic performance, please visit our Form 10-K for leaders that reviews and approves new investments the year ended December 31, 2018. in line with established policies and guidelines and monitors the financial and social returns of the impact Impact investing portfolio. We are also members of the Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN), through which we can One of our growing innovative approaches is impact contribute to and benefit from the growing body of investing, through which we are advancing sustainable expertise in the impact investing ecosystem. global health solutions in line with our company’s overall objectives. Through impact investing, we are able to For more information, please visit the Social deploy financial resources in ways that may generate Investments page on our Corporate Responsibility not only improved access to health care for underserved website. populations, but also financial returns and commercial opportunities — all while growing a sustainable global 26 ESG Report 2018 GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other GRI 201-3 Benefit plan coverage INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS risks and opportunities due to climate change Worldwide, our company offers retirement benefits (CR material topics: Responsible pricing, that are competitive with those of our peers and intellectual property) As a global biopharmaceutical company, we recognize the general industry in each market we serve. In the the important role we play in identifying, adapting and U.S., for example, we offer a defined benefit pension MANAGEMENT APPROACH responding to the public health risks associated with plan as well as a 401(k) plan with company matching We are working to bring our medicines and vaccines climate change, such as threats to clean air and water, contributions. to more people around the world in ways that are as insufficient food supplies and the spread of disease. To assist in financial decision making, we offer all U.S. accessible and affordable as possible for the patients We believe our long-standing support of stronger health employees comprehensive financial education and who need them. systems in underserved areas is even more important given the evidence that certain disease patterns are guidance through Ernst & Young at no cost. U.S.-based We strive to commercialize our products in a way that associated with changing climate conditions. employees who are at least age 55, and those who have both develops our business and meets local needs in a at least 10 years of service after age 401, are eligible for responsible, accessible and efficient manner. We have made it a priority to reduce our demand subsidized medical benefits at retirement. for energy and have established internal policies and While each individual situation varies based on factual practices focused on reducing energy use at all of our Outside the U.S., we have more than 80 pension plans circumstances and market dynamics, generally, sites and minimizing GHG generation throughout (including defined benefit, cash balance, and defined we consider: the company. By taking these steps, we are not only contribution plans) in over 40 countries. These plans minimizing GHG emissions but also reducing our often supplement government-sponsored social • Value provided to patients operating costs and mitigating the business impacts security pension benefits to improve employees’ • Value provided to health care systems expected to be associated with future climate change financial security through added retirement income. While benefits may vary by region and country, we • Unmet need requirements. offer health, life and injury, disability and business travel • Access Energy-efficiency and demand-reduction projects insurance, along with retirement income benefits. In • R&D sustainability will continue to contribute to lowering our energy addition, in many countries, where legally permitted, • Competition consumption and reducing our direct GHG emissions. including the U.S., we extend health care and various In addition, we will continue to optimize systems, insurance benefits to employees’ domestic partners and We have a long history of making our medicines and consolidate excess facility space when possible, shift their partners’ eligible dependent children. vaccines accessible and affordable through responsible power supplies to combined heat and power systems pricing practices and industry-leading patient access and utilize renewable energy sources. For more information, please visit the Financial Wellprograms. We are proud of the progress we have Being page on our Corporate Responsibility website, or made to date and remain focused on responsible and In 2019, we have over 100 projects in progress, that our 2018 Form 10-K (pages 110–116).­ sustainable pricing of our medicines moving forward. when completed will reduce carbon dioxide emissions from our facilities by over 30,000 metric tons. For more information, please visit the Climate Change & Energy Use page on our Corporate Responsibility website, our response to the CDP Climate questionnaire, as well as our 2018 Form 10-K (page 19). 1 For certain employees, service before 40 also counts. 27 ESG Report 2018 As health care systems in many developed markets are governments, we have had a long-standing general donating our medicines and vaccines through organized moving to a value-based care model, we are working policy of not filing for patents for our products in these programs, as appropriate. The primary programs with payers and other stakeholders to find flexible markets, and currently do not file in any low-income involving donations of our products are: our Medical approaches to pricing. These include the use of qualitycountry defined as such by the World Bank in its Outreach Program, the MECTIZAN® (ivermectin) and performance-based contracts where payment is Country and Lending Groups classifications. Donation Program and our U.S.-based Patient linked to quality metrics or improved health outcomes. Assistance Programs. For more information, please visit the Key Initiatives, Product Registration and Product Pricing pages on our For more information, please visit the Social Intellectual property and access to medicines in Corporate Responsibility website. Investments page on our Corporate Responsibility low-income countries website. As a global health care company, our primary role is to discover and develop innovative medicines and SASB 240b.2 Percentage change in: (1) average vaccines that treat unmet medical needs and prevent list price and (2) average net price GRI 203-2 Indirect economic impacts illness around the world. For many decades, intellectual across U.S. product portfolio property protection has promoted an environment compared to previous year SASB 240a.1 Access to health care for priority conducive to research and development in the diseases and in priority countries pharmaceutical arena. SASB 240b.3 Ratio of weighted average rate of net price increases (for all SASB 240a.2 Products on WHO’s List of Although alternative approaches for incentivizing products) to the annual increase in Prequalified Medicinal Products innovation and investment in medical R&D are the U.S. Consumer Price Index. advocated by some, none of these approaches has Pricing and access in lowand middleyet demonstrated the capacity to generate enough As part of our commitment to transparency, in 2017 income countries sustained investment necessary to discover and develop we started disclosing information on our Corporate new medicines. While we are interested in new ideas Responsibility website about the price of medicines In many countries, patients are able to obtain health and proposals, it would not be in the best interests of across our portfolio in the U.S. through our U.S. Pricing care and medicines at competitive prices through patients to advance unproven alternatives that would Transparency Report. public and private health insurance plans that negotiate fail to incentivize and sustain the large investments significant rebates and discounts with pharmaceutical necessary to develop and bring forth new medicines. manufacturers. GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and We also recognize that we have a role to play in In lowand middle-income countries, however, we services supported helping to ensure that our products are accessible and recognize that access to and funding for health care can affordable to patients in need. We are committed to be limited. While major public health programs in these pursuing approaches to foster access to high quality While we are committed to addressing underlying countries that focus on health priorities such as HIV/ health care and critical medicines. While our company barriers to access through social investments, we AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and routine immunization files for patents in commercially significant markets to recognize there are patients who need access now. are heavily subsidized by the government through provide the continued incentive to support innovation, To complement our philanthropic giving and impact international organizations and private funding, health given the challenges that many people in low-income investing that target long-term improvements in the insurance programs often do not exist or are limited. countries face to afford certain medicines and the health ecosystem, we operate programs to provide As a result, patients in these countries frequently must very substantial resource constraints facing their direct access to our medicines and vaccines to patients pay the price of medicines out of pocket, a particularly in need now and where market-based solutions are inadequate or unavailable. We remain committed to 28 ESG Report 2018 daunting task for families living near or below the PRODUCT PRICING poverty line. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Therefore, we develop and support various sustainable strategies to improve access in lowand middle-income Number of products that are supported with countries, including directing differential pricing differential pricing1, 2 35 35 40 42 42 to patient sub-segments, either directly through national or local programs or indirectly through thirdNumber of countries where interand/or intra-country party health care funding sources that demonstrate pricing has been implemented3 114 121 123 125 128 reasonable and secure product distribution to intended patient segments and subject to applicable legal Investment in patientand provider-education requirements. programs (in millions) $52 $80 $80 $90 $115 Currently, we have differential pricing for 42 of our NOTE: Year-over-year differential pricing performance metrics can be impacted based on the timing of local-market or third-party products, and 128 countries have implemented interor contract renewals and/or product life-cycle introductions or deletions. Therefore, increases or decreases in these pricing metrics intra-country pricing for at least one of our products. should not be interpreted as anticipating the level of trend growth in future years. This notable increase of differentiated prices in both the scope of our products and eligible countries is the result 1 Differential pricing intended to facilitate access for the at-need population. of several initiatives, including expanding innovative 2 Products include HIV treatments, vaccines and other patented products. concession program offers for our hepatitis C virus and 3 Countries as defined by the World Bank 2017 GNI Classification, including UN-defined Least Developed Countries. women’s health product portfolios in lowand middleincome markets and the continuation of HIV and vaccine GRANTS AND CONTRIBUTIONS access pricing for Gavi-eligible and Gavi-graduated countries, as well as enabling expanded access through 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 reduced vaccine pricing with UNICEF. Grants and contributions (total cash, in-kind and product) One important way to achieve the Sustainable (in millions) $1,543 $1,820 $2,238 $2,722 $2,793 Development Goal of improving health and wellbeing globally is through donations of medicines and Cash grants and contributions (in millions) $111 $133 $117 $94 $84 vaccines that address specific health needs, whether in communities with a fundamental lack of access Product donations through U.S. Patient Assistance to health care and services or in acute or protracted Programs (in millions) $433 $567 $798 $1,112 $1,242 humanitarian crises. Our product donation programs and initiatives include Product donations for ex-U.S. programs and U.S. disaster our MECTIZAN® (ivermectin) Donation Program, MSD relief (in millions)1 $997 $1,117 $1,320 $1,513 $1,464 Medical Outreach Program (MMOP), Product Pricing, and our U.S. Patient Assistance Programs. Valuation of employee volunteer time (in-kind, in millions)2 $2.2 $2.9 $2.6 $3.2 $3.1 1 Includes our Medical Outreach Program (including U.S. disaster relief), the African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnerships (2014–2016 only), the MECTIZAN® Donation Program, the GARDASIL® Access Program (2014 only), and MSD division and subsidiary donations. 2 Includes valuation of volunteer time for only those employees who participated in the MSD Fellowship for Global Health program and our company’s Pro Bono Legal and other skills-based volunteer programs. 29 ESG Report 2018 Product registration INTERNATIONAL DATE OF PRODUCT NONPROPRIETARY NAME PREQUALIFICATION An important goal for our company is to reduce the historic gap in product introduction between highFAMILY PLANNING income and lower-income countries. MARVELON 28® Ethinylestradiol + Desogestrel October 2010 In addition to having our medicines and vaccines approved by stringent regulatory authorities, when EXLUTON® Lynestrenol June 2010 relevant to enhancing access in lowand middle-income countries, we also work to have certain medicines IMPLANON NXT® Etonogestrel May 2013 and vaccines prequalified through the World Health Organization (WHO) prequalification process. VACCINES In order to make our products available to the people MMR-II® Measles, Mumps, Rubella Virus Vaccine Live December 2008 who need them throughout the world, we registered 124 products and devices in 2018. The majority of these ROTATEQ® Rotavirus Vaccine, Live, Oral, Pentavalent October 2008 products were registered in lowand middle-income countries in the Asia-Pacific, Central and Eastern GARDASIL® Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, May 2009 Europe, Middle East and Africa, and Americas regions. Recombinant (including a VVM) The table to the right is a list of products that have been GARDASIL® Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, October 2014 prequalified by WHO as of March 31, 2019. Recombinant (two-dose regimen to support its programmatic feasibility in developing countries) To learn more, please visit the Product Registration page on our Corporate Responsibility website. GARDASIL® Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, May 2016 Recombinant (compatibility for use in a controlled temperature chain to facilitate its administration in high-temperature, low-cold-chain infrastructure areas of developing countries) GARDASIL®9 Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, February 2018 Recombinant (including a two-dose-regimen variation) VARIVAX® Varicella Virus Vaccine Live (first varicella vaccine to receive February 2018 WHO prequalification) HIV/AIDS TREATMENTS STOCRIN® Efavirenz (600mg tablet, Oral Solution 30mg) May 23, 2006 Efavirenz (50mg tablet, 200mg tablet) May 14, 2008 CRIXIVAN® Indinavir Sulfate May 23, 2006 30 ESG Report 2018 U.S. Patient Assistance Programs PATIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS SUMMARY We believe that no one should go without the medicines 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 or vaccines they need. Patients utilizing our U.S. Patient Assistance Programs More than 57 years ago, our company created our (in thousands)1 301 293 306 244 233 first U.S. patient assistance program (PAP) to keep affordable medicines within patients’ reach. 30-day prescriptions filled (in millions) 1.6 1.6 1.7 2.1 2.1 That is why our company’s U.S. patient assistance program, a separately incorporated nonprofit charitable 1 Totals represent 2014–2018 volumes of our U.S. Patient Assistance Programs. organization, provides certain medicines and adult vaccines for free to eligible people who do not have prescription drug or health insurance coverage and who, without our assistance, cannot afford our medicines ANTI-CORRUPTION Training on our Code of Conduct is designed as an and vaccines. annual training series that is assigned to all employees (CR material topic: Ethics and compliance) worldwide. The series is focused on our core values: This approach is consistent with our company’s Patients First, Ethics & Integrity, Respect for People, commitment to improve access to our medicines and and Innovation & Scientific Excellence. MANAGEMENT APPROACH adult vaccines for people who need them. An important component of our corporate ethics and The 2018 series consisted of five modules including Code Through these programs, we have provided more compliance program is our annual ethics and policy of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption, Adverse than 41.6 million free prescriptions and adult vaccines, certification. The annual review process requires Event Reporting, Data Privacy (including General representing a total value (at wholesale acquisition cost) selected company employees to certify adherence to Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)) and Preventing of more than $7 billion. corporate policies on preventing bribery and corruption, Discrimination and Harassment. antitrust-law compliance, and conflict-of-interest and To learn more, please visit the U.S. Patient Assistance insider trading. These employees are also expected to Ethics and compliance content is also integrated into Programs page on our Corporate Responsibility website. regulate their outside activities to avoid any conflicts business and leadership development courses for of interest, and to certify, in writing, whether actual or managers and senior leaders on an ongoing basis. Ethics potential conflicts of interest exist. and integrity are key leadership competencies that are assessed as part of annual performance reviews and play an integral role in our decisions about employee GRI 205-2 Communications and training on advancement within the company. anti-corruption Ethics and compliance training is an important part of creating a strong culture, and our program is reflective of the Code of Conduct and corporate policies tailored to meet the needs of different groups of employees within the organization. All employees are required to complete the assigned ethics and compliance courses. 31 ESG Report 2018 OFFICE OF ETHICS • Our employees and others speaking on behalf of the company may give presentations specifically designed 2015 2016 2017 2018 to provide the type of information that practicing health care professionals have indicated is needed Employees trained on the Code of Conduct training series 99% 100% 100% 99% and most useful in the treatment of their patients, in accordance with U.S. Food and Drug Administration Employees who responded to the disclosure statement on the (FDA) regulations and the regulations of other Conflicts of Interest form 100% 100% 100% 100% countries in which the presentations or discussions are taking place. • A company representative may offer occasional We abide by strict ethical standards in our own Our ethics and compliance program seeks to address modest meals to health care professionals in operations, and we insist on equivalent standards from and prevent inappropriate practices, and we evaluate connection with an informational presentation; our suppliers. Our Business Partner Code of Conduct our policies and practices as appropriate. Our practices however, such meals must be in accordance with local is based on our own Code of Conduct, as well as on are monitored, and compliance is enforced to ensure codes and regulations. the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative’s (PSCI’s) that our interactions with customers and consumers Pharmaceutical Industry Principles and the Ten help inform their decisions accurately and in a balanced Our sales representatives must provide truthful, Principles of the UN Global Compact. manner. We believe that compliance with all policies non-misleading information in their interactions governing scientific, business and promotion-related with the medical and scientific community. Our For more information, please visit the Code of Conduct, activities, in letter and spirit, is a corporate and compliance program is consistent with applicable laws Compliance, Engaging with Health Care Professionals, individual responsibility of the highest order. Through and regulations, and is aligned with the International and Sourcing & Supplier Relations pages on our our ethical behavior, we strive to ensure that scientific Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Corporate Responsibility website. information predominates in prescribing decisions. Associations (IFPMA) Code of Pharmaceutical Marketing Practices, as well as with regional and Our Guiding Principles for Ethical Business Practices country industry codes, such as the Pharmaceutical ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR Involving the Medical and Scientific Community include Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) the following: Code and the Compliance Program Guidance for (CR material topic: Responsible sales and marketing) Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, published by the Office • We provide current, accurate and balanced of the Inspector General, U.S. Department of Health information about our products; we share sound MANAGEMENT APPROACH and Human Services. scientific and educational information; and we support We adhere to strict ethical sales and marketing medical research and education. For more information, please visit the Sales & Marketing practices in all our businesses, whether • Our employees are prohibited from offering health Practices page on our Corporate Responsibility website. pharmaceuticals, vaccines or animal health. care professionals items of personal benefit, such as Our interactions with providers, other customers and tickets to sporting events, support for office social consumers are governed by laws and regulations, and by events or gift certificates for stores or golf outings. GRI 206-1 Anti-competitive behavior our long-standing global Code of Conduct, Our Values Where permitted, we may occasionally provide health & Standards. care professionals with approved educational items We try to help consumers achieve better health that are not of substantial monetary value and that outcomes by delivering accurate, relevant and We enforce these external and internal standards are intended primarily for educational purposes. Such understandable information on disease prevention, through our ethics and compliance program. materials may include medical textbooks, medical identification and potential treatment. To remain journals and anatomical models. true to this goal, we adhere to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations and guidelines 32 ESG Report 2018 governing DTC promotion, meet or exceed all Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America ENVIRONMENTAL human health products. PMI represents the number of kilograms of raw materials (including water) used (PhRMA) guidelines on DTC advertising, and follow a to produce one kilogram of an active pharmaceutical comprehensive set of internal policies and practices ingredient (API) or biologic. PMI indicates how when engaging in DTC advertising within the U.S. MATERIALS efficiently we convert raw materials into final products. We use this metric internally to compare different Our company has a long-standing policy of voluntarily manufacturing methods, identify process improvement Developing innovative, cost-efficient manufacturing submitting new U.S.-based DTC advertising campaigns opportunities and track our progress. processes with low environmental impact aligns with to the FDA for its review and comment before running our company’s environmental sustainability strategy. them. Under our DTC policies and practices, the Packaging information provided in our DTC advertising must: Our integrated strategy involves several stages and aims to provide innovative solutions rather than We have adopted “Design for Environment” guidelines • Contain appropriate product benefit and risk that help our engineers design new product packages incremental improvements to historical practices. information that are better for the environment by minimizing We see science and innovation as critical enablers • Be appropriately balanced, consistent with FDA to developing sustainable, low-cost manufacturing package sizes and using more environmentally friendly regulations, and use appropriate “taste and tone” processes that provide both environmental and materials, where possible. • Be approved by our company’s Promotion Review economic benefits over the life cycles of our products. Team, a governing body consisting of a team of reviewers (including the job owner, an attorney, By using more efficient and innovative processing GOAL a physician, a representative from the Office of methods and technologies, we are reducing the amount 100 percent of the packaging for our new Promotion and Advertising Review and a product of energy, water and raw materials we use to make our human health products will be reviewed for scientific specialist) who ensure that promotional products, thereby minimizing the amount of waste we environmental impact and improvement. material is clinically and scientifically accurate, generate and lowering our production costs. compliant with applicable laws and regulations, and 2018 PROGRESS compliant with company policy 100 percent of products launched in 2018 GOAL We inform and educate health care professionals about By 2020, at least 90 percent of our new human our products before we advertise them to consumers. health active pharmaceutical ingredient To help us evaluate the differences in environmental We implement comprehensive programs to educate processes will meet internal sustainability impacts between packaging options, we use a simplified physicians and other prescribers about a new product targets at launch. life-cycle assessment (LCA) tool that provides for an appropriate period of time before starting product-specific DTC broadcast advertising in the U.S. information on the environmental impacts generated 2018 PROGRESS by the materials used in our packaging. The tool helps On track to establish and meet targets that These principles and our practices are reflected in the us to make informed decisions as to which materials are will drive improvements in the material PhRMA Guiding Principles on Direct-to-Consumer better for the environment. efficiency of our new products Advertisements about Prescription Medicines. For more information, please visit the Direct-toPharmaceuticals in the environment Consumer Advertising page on our Corporate We conduct environmental risk assessments on our As part of our Green & Sustainable Science program, Responsibility website. products, from the development phase through we calculate the Process Mass Intensity (PMI) of our product launch, to understand and manage product 33 ESG Report 2018 impacts from manufacturing and patient use. We SOLVENT USE (MT) assess products in a manner consistent with the most stringent applicable global regulations, including the 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 regulatory review processes of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the European Medicines Agency. Fresh solvents used 24,000 15,000 20,000 19,000 18,560 Product environmental safety profiles are reassessed during periodic renewals of product filings, and riskRecovered solvents used 11,000 7,000 8,000 7,300 6,553 mitigation actions are implemented when needed. Total 35,000 22,000 28,000 26,300 25,113 For more information, please visit the Materials & Packaging, Waste Management, Product Stewardship, NOTE: Previously reported data have been restated per our methodology, which includes adding facilities that have been acquired Pharmaceuticals in the Environment and Nanotechnology and removing facilities that have been sold as operating sites. pages on our Corporate Responsibility website. For more information, please visit the Product Stewardship page on our Corporate Responsibility website. GRI 301-3 Reclaimed materials Solvents play a key role in the manufacturing of our products, as well as in equipment cleaning. Because 26% of their significance to our business and the life-cycle impact they represent, we focus on designing our processes to minimize or avoid their use where practical. Where we do use solvents, we maximize efficiency, and control them in our emissions, effluents and waste. In 2018, we used recovered solvents We have an active Green & Sustainable Science program to design our new processes using fewer for more than a quarter of our solvents and other hazardous materials, and to reuse and recycle more of the solvents we do use. For cleaning manufacturing and cleaning needs. our manufacturing equipment, we use water-based methods where they are effective as solvents. At each of our manufacturing sites, we have engineers who are responsible for identifying and driving processimprovement projects. When it is not practical to reuse regenerated solvents in our own production processes, we either work with suppliers who recover the spent solvents for resale to other industries, or safely burn them as a source of energy. Any used solvents that leave our site as hazardous waste are managed at offsite facilities that are on our list of approved waste management sites. 34 ESG Report 2018 ENERGY We have made it a priority to reduce our demand We have established an Energy Capital Fund of up for energy and have established internal policies and to $12 million per year in order to transition to more Our energy strategy aligns with the United Nations practices focused on reducing energy use at all of our energy-efficient technology and to better position the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by striving sites and minimizing GHG generation throughout company to respond to energy demands in the future. to increase our use of renewable electricity sources, the company. By taking these steps, we are not only The Energy Capital Fund supports the implementation making energy efficiency improvements and supporting minimizing GHG emissions but also reducing our of projects with a simple four-year payback averaged science-based reductions of our greenhouse gas operating costs and mitigating the business impacts over the entire portfolio. In 2018, we allocated (GHG) emissions. expected to be associated with future climate change approximately $9.8 million to energy projects. The requirements. completed projects will result in $1.65 million in annual savings and a reduction of more than 6,000 metric tons Our Energy Center of Excellence (CoE) identifies, shares of carbon dioxide from our facilities. GOAL and standardizes best practices, and prioritizes the By 2025, at least 50 percent of our purchased funding of energy projects to reduce energy use across For more information on our initiatives, policies electricity will come from renewable sources. By the company. Our manufacturing facilities, warehouses, and accomplishments, please visit the Climate 2040, 100 percent of our purchased electricity laboratories, major offices and vehicle fleet are the Change & Energy Use page on our Corporate will come from renewable sources.1 primary targets of our energy-demand-reduction Responsibility website. programs, as they represent the majority of our energy 2018 PROGRESS consumption. 14.1 percent of our purchased electricity comes from renewables. 1 We have defined “purchased electricity” as electricity sourced from external suppliers as well as renewable electricity that was generated and utilized onsite where we retained the renewable attributes or where we have obtained renewable attributes through contract. 35 ESG Report 2018 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization (Scopes 1 + 2) ENERGY USE SUMMARY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total energy use (GJ) 21,926,200 21,217,200 20,851,700 19,252,800 19,113,300 SCOPE 1 & LOCATION-BASED SCOPE 2 ENERGY USE (% OF TOTAL)1 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Natural gas (Scope 1) 60% 60% 61% 59% 62% Purchased electricity (Scope 2)2, 3 23% 24% 23% 23% 22% Fleet fuel (Scope 1) 12% 11% 12% 13% 10% Purchased steam (Scope 2) 3% 3% 2% 3% 3% Fuel oil (Scope 1) 2% 2% 2% 2% 2% Spent solvents (Scope 1) 0.2% 0.1% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% Coal (Scope 1) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Bio-fuel (Scope 1) 0.3% 0.3% 0.4% 0.6% 0.6% Renewable energy generated and used onsite4 0.0% 0.01% 0.04% 0.04% 0.05% 1 May not add to 100 percent due to rounding. 2 Reported using Scope 2 location-based value in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 3 Includes solar, wind and other renewables generated onsite where renewable energy credits (RECs) have been sold. 4 Includes solar, wind and other renewables generated onsite where renewable energy credits or guarantees of origin have been retained or retired. 36 ESG Report 2018 SCOPE 1 & MARKET-BASED SCOPE 2 ENERGY USE (% OF TOTAL)1 GRI 302-4 Energy reductions 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 From 2017 to 2018, we reduced our year-overyear Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based GHG Natural gas (Scope 1) 60% 60% 61% 59% 62% emissions by 7 percent due to our continued focus on energy efficiency and an increased utilization of Purchased electricity (Scope 2)2, 3 23% 24% 22% 22% 19% renewable energy. Fleet fuel (Scope 1) 12% 11% 12% 13% 10% We have analyzed and reported our Scope 3 impacts using primary operating data, accepted emission Renewable energy generated and used onsite or factors, and an economic input-output model based purchased4 0.0% 0.01% 0.3% 1.1% 3.2% on our third-party spend. In 2018, our Scope 3 GHG emissions remained roughly the same as in 2017. Purchased steam (Scope 2) 3% 3% 2% 3% 3% Our analysis shows that our Scope 3 GHG emissions impacts are nearly three times greater than our Fuel oil (Scope 1) 2% 2% 2% 2% 2% combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. We are working to reduce those impacts through activities Bio-fuel (Scope 1) 0.3% 0.3% 0.4% 0.6% 0.6% such as reducing waste in our operations, reducing fuel use and looking for opportunities to shift from air Spent solvents (Scope 1) 0.2% 0.1% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% shipping to ocean transport when practical. We are also starting to engage with our strategic suppliers to Coal (Scope 1) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% identify ways to reduce GHG emissions in our supply chain. These actions not only reduce our environmental 1 May not add to 100 percent due to rounding. impact but benefit the business by reducing costs. 2 Reported using Scope 2 market-based value in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 3 Includes solar, wind and other renewables generated onsite where renewable energy credits (RECs) have been sold. For more information, please visit the Climate Change & Energy Use page on our Corporate Responsibility 4 Includes solar, wind and other renewables generated onsite where renewable energy credits or guarantees of origin have been retained or retired. website, as well as our CDP Climate Change Questionnaire. 37 ESG Report 2018 WATER In 2018, we operated 11 manufacturing and/or research GOAL facilities in areas with “extremely high” Baseline Water As we strive to meet the health needs of our patients, Stress, according to the WRI’s Aqueduct tool. Our By 2025, we will maintain global water use at or we are increasingly operating in regions of the world manufacturing facilities that use the most water are below 2015 levels. where access to clean water and proper sanitation is located in areas of “medium to high” or “high” Baseline under great pressure. Even in established markets, our 2018 PROGRESS Water Stress and are located in the U.S. business faces water-related risks. 3.5 million cubic meters below 2015 levels We are assessing our facilities located in areas of (15 percent reduction) Our global water strategy aims to achieve sustainable “extremely high” and “high” Baseline Water Stress to water management within our operations and our determine if more extensive water management plans supply chain, which supports Sustainable Development are needed. We are also working to identify “hot spots” Goal (SDG) 6, “Clean Water and Sanitation.” To achieve We use the World Resources Institute’s (WRI’s) of water use within our supply chain so that we can these strategic objectives, we are focusing on the Aqueduct water-risk-assessment tool to measure and engage with our suppliers on the issue of water risk. following commitments: map our water risks. Sites are categorized using the “Baseline Water Stress” indicator, which is the ratio For more information, please visit the Water and • Ensuring that our wastewater discharges comply of total annual water withdrawals to total available Sourcing & Supplier Relations pages on our Corporate with local and national standards, as well as internal annual renewable supply, and accounts for upstream Responsibility website, or review our disclosures to the company requirements consumptive use. Higher stress values indicate more CDP Water Questionnaire. • Understanding and controlling our operational competition among water users. water footprint • Managing water risk at our facilities and in our supply chain GRI 303-1 Water withdrawals by source • Reporting publicly on our water use and goals GRI 303-2 Water sources affected by withdrawals GOAL WATER USE BY SOURCE (MILLION M3)1 By 2020, we will develop water conservation 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 plans for sites in “high water risk” locations. 2018 PROGRESS Pumped water (surface water and groundwater) 18.9 16.2 13.6 13.0 12.8 On track Purchased water 7.9 7.8 7.1 6.6 7.7 Total 26.9 24.0 20.7 19.6 20.5 1 In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, prior-year data have been adjusted to add or remove facilities that have been acquired and sold. Adjustments also reflect changes in methodology to ensure consistency from year to year. 38 ESG Report 2018 GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused “implemented a range of actions to manage climate GHG EMISSIONS change, both in our own operations and beyond.” Our sites employ a variety of technologies and techniques aimed at reducing our water footprint and improving operational performance. Closed-loop cooling GOAL systems, which reduce freshwater use, are employed By 2025, we will reduce global Scope 1 and at more than half of our facilities worldwide. Reverse market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions by at osmosis (RO) “reject water” is reused for non-potable least 40 percent from 2015 levels. and non-process applications such as cooling-tower feed water and fire water. In all, more than one million cubic 2018 PROGRESS meters of water are recovered, reused or recycled at our 19.6 percent reduction facilities, which is equivalent to six percent of the total water that is withdrawn. Our water-use-reduction initiatives include: This goal is designed to meet the science-based criteria to limit the global temperature increase to below 2°C. • Consideration of water use in process design We have submitted our goal to be evaluated by the • Cooling-system optimization Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi), and joined SCOPE 1 783,500 MT CO2e • Prompt repairs and maintenance of steamWe Mean Business to emphasize our commitment. SCOPE 2 389,700 MT CO2e distribution systems and traps SCOPE 3 6,231,700 MT CO2e We realize that in order to make a truly meaningful • Recovery and reuse of steam condensate and reduction in our overall environmental impact, we must “reject water” engage with our suppliers to drive positive change. • Process-water purification system optimization NOTE: Scope 2 is the market-based value in We have set a goal that includes a three-phase process: • Avoiding the use of water in mechanical seals, such accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. • Throughout 2018, we collected GHG emissions data as those in pumps from 93 percent of our strategic suppliers with the For more information, please visit the Water page on highest environmental impacts to help us better As a global biopharmaceutical company, we recognize our Corporate Responsibility website. understand the GHG emissions associated with our the important role we play in identifying, adapting and supply chain. responding to the public health risks associated with climate change, such as threats to clean air and water, • By 2020, we will engage with those suppliers and EMISSIONS insufficient food supplies, and the spread of disease. request them to identify GHG emission reduction We believe our longstanding support of stronger health opportunities. Scientific data support that climate change is occurring, systems in underserved areas is even more important • By 2025, at least 90 percent of our strategic suppliers and we are taking action to reduce the economic and given the evidence that certain disease patterns are with the highest environmental impacts will set their public health risks associated with a changing climate. associated with changing climate conditions. own GHG emission reduction targets. We report our GHG emissions as required by regulations For more information on our initiatives, policies and in certain countries and annually through CDP (formerly accomplishments, please visit the Climate Change & Carbon Disclosure Project). In 2018, for the second Energy Use and Sourcing & Supplier Relations pages year in a row, the CDP graded our disclosure with on our Corporate Responsibility website. an A“leadership” rating, indicating that we have 39 ESG Report 2018 GRI 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) GRI 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) GHG SUMMARY1 (MT CO2e) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2 1,532,400 1,416,400 1,363,300 1,254,700 1,208,100 Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 1,532,400 1,458,500 1,400,000 1,267,000 1,173,200 Scope 3 5,760,000 5,586,300 7,975,100 6,586,100 6,231,700 1 In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, prior-year data have been adjusted to add or remove facilities that have been acquired or sold. Adjustments also reflect changes in methodology to ensure consistency from year to year. 40 ESG Report 2018 GRI 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) SCOPE 3 GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) DETAILS (MT CO2e) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Purchased goods and services1 4,437,700 3,864,900 6,204,000 4,997,600 4,615,400 Capital goods1, 2 NA 112,700 224,000 192,900 229,200 GHG emissions from fuel and energy-related activities not included in Scopes 1 & 2 3, 4 309,500 276,200 304,500 262,100 243,400 Upstream transportation and distribution1 258,000 222,200 255,500 267,100 271,600 Waste generated in operations (excluding recycled & composted waste)5, 6 23,500 20,600 16,800 16,000 18,200 GHG emissions related to employee business travel7, 8 182,600 283,300 265,400 218,200 301,100 Employee commuting 320,700 302,400 301,500 262,200 239,000 Downstream transportation and distribution9 NA 211,000 118,000 121,900 120,800 GHG emissions from use of sold products10 228,000 255,000 248,400 205,800 148,100 End-of-life treatment of sold products11 NA 38,000 37,000 42,200 44,900 Total 5,760,000 5,586,300 7,975,100 6,586,100 6,231,700 Note: Limited Data Assurance was granted for emissions calculated from primary travel vendor data and employee reimbursable travel mileage data. The total reported here includes non-primary travel vendor data emissions which were based on our 2018 third-party spend data and an economic input-output model performed by Climate Earth, Inc. NA: Not Available. 1 Based on third-party spend data and an economic input-output model performed by Climate Earth, Inc. 2 Data not available before 2015. 3 Emission factors from Argonne National Laboratory’s GREET Model (https://greet.es.anl.gov/) were used in conjunction with primary fuel and energy-use data. 4 Data as reported historically, not baseline adjusted. 5 Primary-waste data were used with the U.S. EPA’s WARM Model (https://www.epa.gov/warm). 6 Including recycled and composted waste in these calculations would result in negative emissions in 2014 (-39,900 MT CO2e), 2015 (-40,200 MT CO2e), 2016 (-60,200 MT CO2e), 2017 (-41,200 MT CO2e) and 2018 (-43,700 MT CO2e). 7 Based on primary travel vendor data, employee-reimbursable mileage and UK Defra factors (https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/government-conversion-factors-for-companyreporting#conversion-factors-2015). 8 Beginning in 2014, emissions are based on primary vendor data, where available, and economic input-output modelling performed by Climate Earth, Inc., using spend data. 9 Emissions were calculated using our “Upstream transportation and distribution” spend data as a worst-case estimate entered into the WRI Quantis tool. We assumed that all “downstream” material would first have been stored, transported and handled “upstream.” 10 Assumes that all HFC-containing devices shipped for sale were consumed. The amount and identity of HFC in each product is calculated and multiplied by the appropriate global warming potential (GWP) to determine the CO2e released as a result of product use. 11 Calculated assuming that all primary, secondary and tertiary packaging purchased was disposed of by our customers. Packaging material data was used with the U.S. EPA’s WARM Model. 41 ESG Report 2018 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GHG INTENSITY From 2017 to 2018, we reduced our year-overyear Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based GHG 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 emissions by 7 percent due to our continued focus on energy efficiency and an increased utilization of Scope 1 + 2 GHG Emissions (MT CO2e) 1,532,400 1,416,400 1,400,000 1,267,000 1,173,200 renewable energy. Revenue (in millions) $42,200 $39,498 $39,807 $40,122 $42,294 We have analyzed and reported our Scope 3 impacts using primary operating data, accepted emission GHG Intensity (MT CO2e/revenue) 0.0000363 0.0000358 0.0000352 0.0000316 0.0000277 factors, and an economic input-output model based on our third-party spend. In 2018, our Scope 3 GHG Note: Scope 2 is the market-based value in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Additionally, the intensity figures have emissions remained roughly the same as in 2017. been adjusted to add or remove facilities that have been acquired or sold. Adjustments also reflect changes in methodology to ensure consistency from year to year. Our analysis shows that our Scope 3 GHG emissions impacts are nearly three times greater than our For more information, please see our response to the CDP Climate Change Questionnaire. combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. We are working to reduce those impacts through activities such as reducing waste in our operations, reducing fuel use and looking for opportunities to shift from air shipping to ocean transport when practical. We are also starting to engage with our strategic suppliers to identify ways to reduce GHG emissions in our supply chain. These actions not only reduce our environmental impact but benefit the business by reducing costs. 42 ESG Report 2018 GRI 305-6 Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) GRI 305-7 NOx, SOx and other emissions AIR POLLUTANT EMISSIONS BY TYPE (MT)1 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 515 494 454 480 494 Sulfur oxides (SOx) 49 48 37 37 30 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 512 455 440 380 404 Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 1.5 0.1 0.7 0.1 0.3 Note: Previously reported data have been restated per our methodology, which includes adding facilities that have been acquired and removing facilities that have been sold as operating sites. 1 Data are estimated using conservative assumptions and factors, not measured or weighed. Our NOx emissions increased slightly from 2017 to 2018 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) are due to the need to burn more fuel during the cold winter the result of non-routine releases from temperaturemonths and the use of emergency generators at our control and fire-suppression systems and can vary from Puerto Rico facility during an extended power outage year to year. caused by Hurricane Maria. For more information, please visit the Air Emissions Even though our use of solvents in manufacturing page on our Corporate Responsibility website. operations has declined over time, our VOC emissions increased from 2017 to 2018 due to the adoption of more accurate emission-tracking methods. The decrease in SOx emissions from 2017 to 2018 can be attributed to the use of fuel with a lower sulfur content and our energy-conservation programs. 43 ESG Report 2018 EFFLUENTS & WASTE GRI 306-1 Water discharge To minimize our environmental footprint, we look for WATER DISCHARGE opportunities to avoid the use of hazardous materials, to reuse or recycle materials, and to prevent the 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 generation of waste. When prevention, reuse and recycling are not practical, we apply controls and Total water discharge (megaliters/year) 22,775 19,312 16,939 16,642 18,126 treatment technologies to prevent human health impacts and minimize environmental impacts. The amount of waste we generate reflects the efficiency of Our reported water discharge includes the amount Discharge totals in 2017 may have been impacted by our manufacturing processes. that is measured and monitored (i.e., all of our global interruptions to our operations that occurred due to a manufacturing and research sites, plus our large office cyber event. The difference attributable to this event We continuously strive to reduce the amount of buildings): 17,594 megaliters; and the estimated amount has not been determined. We expect that our water operational waste we generate and to maximize the discharged from our small offices and leased facilities, discharge will increase due to growth in our internal use of environmentally beneficial disposal methods like which is calculated based on employee headcount data manufacturing network in the coming years. recycling, composting and waste-to-energy. and applying standard assumptions for water use and discharge: 532 megaliters. For more information, please see our response to the CDP Water Questionnaire. GOAL By 2025, no more than 20 percent of our global operational waste will be sent to landfills and incinerators. 2018 PROGRESS 33 percent to landfills and incinerators GOAL By 2025, at least 50 percent of sites will send zero waste to landfill. 2018 PROGRESS 38 percent of sites 44 ESG Report 2018 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method SASB 250a.4 Amount of product accepted for takeback, reuse, or disposal GLOBAL OPERATIONAL WASTE 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Landfill 10% 15% 10% 10% 9% Incineration (without energy recovery) 14% 13% 20% 19% 24% TOTAL 24% 28% 30% 29% 33% HAZARDOUS WASTE (MT) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Incinerated (without heat recovery) 9,724 7,928 13,186 13,462 17,639 Landfilled 1,628 1,652 1,492 745 731 Recycled 12,196 5,944 6,135 7,979 6,827 Energy recovery 15,773 11,089 9,871 9,538 10,300 Reused 2,408 1,428 2,132 1,505 695 Composted 4 5 5 0 0 Other 2,387 2,299 2,425 2,423 2,221 TOTAL 44,120 30,345 35,246 35,652 38,413 45 ESG Report 2018 NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE (MT) The amount of hazardous waste sent offsite for incineration rose from 2017 to 2018, mainly due to an 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 increase in production at one of our manufacturing sites. The percentage of operational waste sent to landfill Incinerated (without heat recovery) 788 1,243 1,361 426 374 and incinerators increased from 29 percent in 2017 to 33 percent in 2018. This was mainly due to an increase Landfilled 6,349 8,459 5,826 6,633 5,684 in production volumes at one of our manufacturing facilities that sends waste offsite for incineration. Recycled 16,952 15,811 14,636 15,188 12,975 For more information, please visit the Energy recovery 10,405 9,706 10,342 8,576 9,273 Waste Management page on our Corporate Responsibility website. Reused 782 970 972 1,071 2,204 GRI 306-3 Significant spills Composted 4,094 3,018 3,771 4,668 4,798 Other 242 304 445 212 209 A “significant environmental event” is defined as an environmental release that results in environmental harm to humans, aquatic organisms or wildlife, or any TOTAL 39,612 39,511 37,353 36,774 35,517 environmental release that requires reporting to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. HAZARDOUS + NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE (MT) We experienced no significant environmental events in 2018. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Landfill + incineration 18,489 19,282 21,865 21,265 24,428 Landfill 7,977 10,111 7,318 7,378 6,415 Incineration 10,512 9,171 14,547 13,887 18,013 Recycled, energy recovery, reused or composted 62,614 47,971 47,864 48,525 47,072 Other 2,629 2,603 2,870 2,635 2,430 TOTAL 83,732 69,856 72,599 72,426 73,930 46 ESG Report 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE EHS governance and metrics, as well as other material issues. The VP of GSE partners with business leaders to establish longOur commitment to the environment and employee Our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) and short-term goals and performance metrics to drive health and safety begins with the company’s Executive Management System is based on the “Plan, Do, Check, EHS excellence. Committee, which has established the corporate Act” model, which allows us to assess and continually Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) Council. The Safety and environmental performance targets are improve our practices over time. EHS Council is composed of senior-level executives included in divisional management objectives. In representing all business units, and is responsible for addition, all employees are eligible for special recognition The model is implemented globally through a set overall EHS governance, as well as for leading and for innovative ideas and projects related to improving of interwoven business processes that span the driving enterprise-wide excellence in EHS management EHS aspects of our operations. corporation: and performance. • Our planning process includes developing goals, For more information on our initiatives, policies and The vice president (VP) of global safety and the accomplishments, please visit the EHS Management objectives and metrics based on a review of our environment (GSE) is responsible for communicating to & Compliance page on our Corporate Responsibility company’s performance, EHS programs, applicable the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee and website, or our 2018 Form 10-K (pages 107–108). regulations and external factors that may impact our the EHS Council regarding progress on goals, objectives business [PLAN] • Activities are performed by using standards, guidelines and tools that are integrated into the EHS Management System and include GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations specific expectations for sites and operating organizations [DO] NOTICES OF VIOLATIONS (NOVs) & CITATIONS • Governance committees, from the executive2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 level EHS Council through site-based compliance committees, review business unit performance Environmental 17 16 12 5 6 and progress against objectives throughout the year [CHECK] Safety 11 2 2 3 1 • Corrective actions and continuous-improvement initiatives are established to resolve EHS concerns that have surfaced during periodic assessments, FINES audits and routine surveillance of the regulatory landscape [ACT] 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Our corporate EHS management system is generally Environmental fines paid $81,600 $92,270 $33,906 $0 $0 aligned with the requirements of the International Standards Organization (ISO), but we do not pursue Number of environmental fines 4 6 2 0 0 certification under the Environmental (ISO 14001) or Safety (ISO 45001) frameworks at the global level. Safety fines paid $1,000 $0 $0 $0 $0 Some of our facilities have individually achieved ISO 14001 certification to meet customer requirements. Number of safety fines 1 0 0 0 0 For more information, please see our 2018 Form 10-K (pages 107–108). 47 ESG Report 2018 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL The external manufacturers we contract with are periodically reassessed using a risk-based approach; ASSESSMENT higher-risk external manufacturers are subject to more frequent onsite assessments. We expect that GRI 308-1 New suppliers screened using observations made during the audit process will environmental criteria be remediated by our external manufacturers, and we monitor and track corrective actions through Prospective external manufacturers of active completion. pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products are screened for environmental, health and safety (EHS) We continue to support the Pharmaceutical Industry compliance, in addition to quality, and supply and Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management technical competence requirements. The EHS screening (the Principles). The Principles outline industry includes a survey covering such topics as regulatory expectations for external manufacturers and licensees compliance, fatalities and major incidents. with regard to labor, health, safety, environment, ethics and management systems. The external manufacturers Based on the screening results and activities undertaken with which we contract are expected to understand and by the supplier, certain external manufacturers are align with the Principles. subject to a more detailed onsite assessment conducted by a multidisciplinary team, which may include our For more information, please visit the Sourcing & Supplier company’s Quality, Environmental, Health & Safety, Relations page on our Corporate Responsibility website. Global Technical Operations and Global Sourcing & Procurement representatives. EXTERNAL MANUFACTURING EHS ASSESSMENTS 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Prospective external manufacturers 48 50 34 37 65 Current external manufacturers 68 69 85 53 61 TOTAL 116 119 119 90 126 48 ESG Report 2018 SOCIAL Only when our employees feel their best, in all aspects of their lives, can they perform at their highest level. GRI 401-1 New employee hires and turnover We believe that well-being is a holistic approach that SASB 330a.1 Talent recruitment and retention includes physical, emotional and financial well-being, as efforts for R&D personnel EMPLOYMENT well as safety to employees and their family members at SASB 330a.2 (1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary all life stages. We are working hard to advance a culture turnover rate for: (a) executives We recognize that our ability to excel depends on the of well-being to make the healthy choice the easy choice and senior managers, (b) midlevel integrity, knowledge, imagination, skill, diversity and and the valued choice within our organization. managers, (c) professionals, and teamwork of our employees. (d) all others We are actively collaborating in and integrating A positive, inclusive and high-performing work programs and policies to improve employee health and environment is essential for employees to feel safety, reduce injury and illness and improve workforce The talent of our scientists, combined with scientific welcomed and valued, and to fully achieve their business productivity. These goals include increasing physical and technological advances that enable the rapid objectives. movement/activity, expanding access to healthier invention of expanding classes of therapeutics and foods, enhancing policies to eliminate tobacco within higher resolution translational medicine studies, are Harnessing the knowledge and insights of a globally our campuses, providing education and tools to help transforming the way we conduct research. diverse workforce requires leadership, a corporate mitigate the effects of stress, and collaborating with our culture of respect and full engagement, and a thoughtful Environmental, Health & Safety teams to build a culture We have strategically located discovery centers in and strategic approach to workplace inclusion and of health in addition to our long-standing commitment regions with active biomedical research communities employee development and well-being — p ​ hysical, to a culture of safety. including South San Francisco, California, Boston and emotional, social and financial. Cambridge, Massachusetts and London, UK. These In addition, we foster an environment where centers allow us to recruit talented local scientists and We are: employees feel safe to speak up. If an employee sees facilitate collaboration with local academic institutions or suspects improper, unethical or illegal activity, and companies. These discovery sites complement and • Committed to fostering development and they are encouraged to talk to their manager, another connect with our strong research and development rewarding talent company resource (e.g., Compliance, Legal or Human capabilities and expertise based at our New Jersey and • Dedicated to diversity and inclusion at every level of Resources) or, where permitted by law, “Speak Up” at Pennsylvania sites. the organization msdethics.com to address their questions or concerns confidentially without fear of retaliation. For more information on our R&D talent efforts, please • Adept at recognizing unique skill sets and nurturing visit the MRL Postdoctoral Research Fellow Program employees’ talents For more information on our initiatives, policies and page on our corporate website. accomplishments, please visit the Employees, Employee Well-Being, Compliance, Engaging Our Employees, Global Diversity & Inclusion, Human Rights, and Learning & Development pages on our Corporate Responsibility website. 49 ESG Report 2018 TURNOVER 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 , Overall turnover rate1 2 18.8% 14.8% 11.1% 10.7% 11.8% Voluntary turnover rate 8.0% 7.4% 6.3% 6.5% 6.8% Avoidable voluntary turnover rate 6.2% 6.0% 4.8% 5.0% 5.2% Involuntary termination rate 10.8% 7.4% 4.9% 4.2% 5.0% 1 Includes all types of turnover, including restructuring. 2 2014 turnover rates are restated by incorporating the retroactive transactions. 2018 TURNOVER BY GENDER & REGION Female Male Overall 49% 51% Asia Pacific 51% 49% EEMEA (Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa) 54% 46% Latin America 47% 53% EUCAN (Europe and Canada) 53% 47% Japan 12% 88% U.S. 54% 46% 2018 TURNOVER BY REGION Asia Pacific Latin America EEMEA Japan EUCAN U.S. Overall turnover rate1 21.65% 10.91% 13.30% 13.76% 7.20% 10.35% Voluntary turnover rate 16.38% 4.22% 10.22% 1.47% 4.56% 4.76% Avoidable voluntary turnover rate 15.05% 2.86% 8.75% 1.22% 2.57% 3.06% Involuntary termination rate 5.28% 6.69% 3.08% 12.29% 2.64% 5.58% 1 Includes all types of turnover, including restructuring. 50 ESG Report 2018 EMPLOYEE HIRES BY REGION 2015 2016 2017 2018 ASIA PACIFIC Number of hires 2,104 1,732 1,909 3,071 Hire rate1 17.70% 14.79% 16.14% 24.38% EEMEA (EASTERN EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA) Number of hires 384 382 378 505 Hire rate1 12.84% 13.49% 13.69% 16.67% LATIN AMERICA Number of hires 509 380 1,246 714 Hire rate1 9.80% 8.01% 23.82% 13.13% EUCAN (EUROPE AND CANADA) Number of hires 1,427 1,636 1,865 2,495 Hire rate1 7.81% 8.90% 9.80% 12.34% JAPAN Number of hires 101 196 109 153 Hire rate1 2.66% 5.04% 2.80% 4.32% U.S. Number of hires 1,909 1,937 2,173 3,019 Hire rate1 8.28% 8.33% 9.12% 12.41% 1 Percentage of new hires in the total onboard head count; regular employees only. 51 ESG Report 2018 GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees myTotalRewards is an online personalized resource that provides U.S. employees We recognize that our employees are critical to our with a simple, consolidated view of their mission to save and improve lives. One way in which we total compensation and financial rewards do this is to provide a valuable suite of compensation and at our company. For most active employees benefit programs, as well as resources to support our (certain groups are excluded, such as those employees’ professional achievements. Together, we call that are subject to collective bargaining), these “Total Rewards.” myTotalRewards contains the following detailed information: Total Rewards include compensation and financial rewards, health and insurance benefits, opportunities MONEY for employees to develop their skills and grow their Annual pay, cash incentives and our company’s careers and programs that help meet the demands estimated contribution to pension, 401(k), of managing employees’ professional and personal insurance and other benefits well-being. Our philosophy behind these programs is HEALTH BENEFITS rooted in maintaining our competitive position in the The value of the key health benefits in which an market while providing a comprehensive and valuable employee participates, including medical, dental package of rewards to attract and retain a talented and and vision coverage diverse workforce. RETIREMENT & LONG-TERM INCENTIVES In the U.S., we generally offer health, life, disability and Retirement benefits and long-term business travel insurance as well as retirement income incentives — ​and how they’ve performed benefits to all employees, including those who work over time part-time. Employees also can opt to contribute to tax-free Flexible Spending Accounts for reimbursement OTHER REWARDS of certain health spending and/or dependent care costs. Other benefits available, such as educational assistance, K–12 educational guidance and financial planning 52 ESG Report 2018 Outside the U.S., while benefits may vary by region and Emotional and Social Well-Being GRI 401-3 Parental leave country, we offer health, life and injury, disability and We have developed comprehensive, innovative business travel insurance, along with retirement income We provide employees up to six weeks of paid parental emotional and social support programs that meet benefits. In addition, in many countries, where legally time off for the birth, adoption or foster placement of a the needs of our talent and appeal to employees at all permitted, including the U.S., we extend health care child. Paid parental time off is available to both birth and stages of life. We offer an environment intended to and various insurance benefits to employees’ domestic non-birth parents. support employee engagement and team cohesiveness, partners and their partners’ eligible dependent children. which leads to reduced absenteeism and increased In addition to parental leave, employees receive productivity. Other programs to support well-being (U.S.) separate, unpaid, job-protected leave to care for a We take a balanced approach to improve employees’ newborn child, adopted child or child placed in Our company offers many programs to help foster care within six months (182 days) following the emotional and mental health. To raise awareness make it easier for employees to balance their child’s birth, adoption or foster-care placement. of mental health and our company’s resources and various responsibilities. The following is a reduce the stigma often associated with it, we began non-exhaustive sampling: offering Mental Health First Aid training in 2018 to our • Transportation services employees. Once trained, employees become Mind Well Champions whose mission is to create an inclusive • Backup dependent care and supportive work environment that values overall • Child-care support employee health, focusing on emotional well-being and • K–12 educational guidance mental health. • Special-needs counseling • Adoption assistance Global flexible work arrangements We believe flexible work arrangements offer a different For U.S.-based employees who are subject to a way of working and have the potential to enhance collective bargaining agreement, work-life benefits employees’ commitment to the company, increase may be offered in accordance with the agreement. productivity and make employee teams more For employees based outside the U.S., the work-life competitive. The company has had a flexible work benefits offered differ by location and may be subject arrangement policy globally since 2008. to a collective bargaining agreement or local legal requirements. Employees and managers work together to assess the opportunities and challenges of a proposed arrangement. While the overall process should be collaborative, managers are accountable for making the final decision in light of business requirements, recognizing that some positions may not lend themselves to a flexible work arrangement. For more information, please visit the Employee WellBeing and Emotional & Social Well-Being pages on our Corporate Responsibility website. 53 ESG Report 2018 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY We address the following areas in our approach to employee and contractor safety: -23% (CR material topic: Occupational health and safety) • Process safety • Non-routine hazardous work MANAGEMENT APPROACH • Industrial hygiene We are committed to providing a safe and healthy • Biological safety workplace for our employees and contractors, and to complying with all applicable safety laws and • Motor-vehicle safety In 2018, our lost-time injury regulations. In addition, we aim for Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) performance that is among the • Ergonomics rate declined 23 percent • Emergency preparedness and response best in the pharmaceutical industry. • Loss prevention from 2017. We seek to eliminate work-related injuries, illnesses • Capital projects construction safety and unplanned events from our operations through • Safety for non-company personnel comprehensive safety programs that are part of our EHS management system. We also work to minimize For consistency across the company, and to enable the frequency and severity of safety and environmental us to compare our injury rates with those of other incidents by focusing on proper facility design, process multinational companies, we use the U.S.-based controls, operation and maintenance procedures, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) protection systems and emergency response record-keeping criteria for recording and tracking workcapabilities. related injuries and illnesses. We require all injuries, illnesses and incidents involving our employees to be Our global safety program is designed to drive reported and investigated to determine their cause. We a proactive safety culture and reinforce the link also require that actions be taken to prevent recurrence. between our leadership behaviors and our safety and environmental objectives. We believe that through Our injury and illness data are consolidated into a visible management, leadership and employee central system, enabling us to analyze trends and focus engagement, we can increase the awareness of hazards our efforts to continually improve. We communicate and help employees make the right choices when it significant incidents, near-miss events and workplace comes to safety, health and the environment — both on conditions that could represent risks to our operations and off the job. and sites around the world. We also proactively share corrective and preventive actions across our operating locations to allow all sites to learn from the improvements we make. For more information on our initiatives, policies and accomplishments, please visit the Employee Safety and Environmental Health & Safety pages on our Corporate Responsibility website. 54 ESG Report 2018 GRI 403-2 Rates of injury, occupational GLOBAL SAFETY PERFORMANCE disease, lost days, absenteeism, and work-related fatalities 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 WORKPLACE SAFETY We have worked steadily to drive down our workplace injury rates. Recordable Injury Rate (RIR) 0.58 0.48 0.35 0.33 0.30 In 2018, our lost-time injury rate was 0.10, a 23 percent RIR percentage change -6% -17% -27% -6% -9% reduction from 2017. Our recordable injury rate was 0.30, down 9 percent from the prior year. This is the Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.20 0.22 0.13 0.13 0.10 seventh consecutive year of global injury reduction and our second consecutive year in the first quartile when Fatalities1 1 1 0 0 2 compared against our pharmaceutical industry peers. MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY We regret to report that we lost two of our employees in 2018. One was fatally injured while performing work Collisions per million miles (CPMM)2 13.40 12.41 9.48 7.29 6.93 on a chiller unit at one of our locations in Japan. Another , CAPITAL PROJECTS CONSTRUCTION SAFETY3 4 employee perished in a motor vehicle incident in China. RIR 0.96 0.87 0.53 0.59 0.73 For more information, please visit the Employee Safety page on our Corporate Responsibility website. DART5 0.44 0.38 0.26 0.32 0.28 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 FACILITY MANAGEMENT CONTRACTOR SAFETY6 RIR NA NA NA NA 0.71 LTIR NA NA NA NA 0.47 Fatalities NA NA NA NA 0 Note: Injury rates are subject to change over time, as new cases are added, and case classifications change in accordance with our own requirements and applicable regulatory requirements. NA: Not Available. 1 All fatalities were transportation-related, except for one high-risk work fatality in 2018. 2 CPMM: Reflects both personal and business use of company-owned or -leased vehicles. 3 LTIR/RIR: Calculated per OSHA methodology. 4 Primarily reflects capital projects over $100,000 managed by our global engineering group. 5 DART: days away, reassigned or transferred calculated per OSHA 300 methodology. 6 Injury rates for IFM Partners; reporting initiated in 2018. 55 ESG Report 2018 RECORDABLE INJURIES BY CAUSAL FACTORS (2018) CASES BY BUSINESS AREA (#) Lost-Time Cases Recordable Cases Facility Management 2 12 Global Human Health (GHH) 31 73 Global Support Functions (Legal, HR, IT, S&E, et al.) 5 11 Animal Health 1 8 Manufacturing (MMD) 29 92 Research (MRL) 9 32 TOTAL 77 228 Slips-Trips-Fall 32.5% Struck-Caught 21.5% Ergonomic 16.7% 2018 LOST-TIME INJURIES BY BUSINESS AREA Motor Vehicle 12.7% (TOTAL: 77) Non-Ergonomic 4.8% Other 3.9% Chemical Exposure 3.5% Phys/Env Exposure 2.6% Biological Exposure 1.8% Sales & Marketing 40.3% Manufacturing 37.7% Research 11.7% Global Support Functions 6.5% Facilities Management 2.6% Animal Health 1.3% 56 ESG Report 2018 GRI 403-3 Workers with high risk of diseases Biological Safety TRAINING & EDUCATION related to their occupation Our Biological Safety Organization works to protect our employees, customers, and neighboring communities To support our global employee base, we build by systematically identifying, assessing, and controlling workforce capability to accelerate talent, improve Industrial Hygiene performance and mitigate risk through relevant biological risks associated with the research, Our Industrial Hygiene program protects employee development, and manufacture of our vaccines and continuous learning experiences. This includes, but is health throughout all stages of research and therapeutic proteins. not limited to, building leadership and management manufacturing by identifying chemical, physical and skills, as well as providing technical and functional biological hazards, assessing exposures and properly Our biological risk management program drives safety training to all employees. controlling risks using the hierarchy of controls starting by setting industry-leading performance expectations with prevention, then substitution, engineering for governance, controls, strategy, planning, Our current talent management system supports controls, administrative controls and personal management, reporting, policies, processes and companywide performance management, talent protective equipment. corporate culture. review, succession planning and associated employee performance and development processes for critical For new processes and facilities, we design for safety by Our company’s commitment to protect human health talent data. It helps ensure that our workforce eliminating risks, substituting less hazardous processes and the environment extends to every aspect of our continues to stay aligned with company objectives. The or materials and installing effective engineering biological safety program, including: system keeps track of employee development plans, and operational controls. We also confirm the initial performance objectives and performance ratings, and ongoing effectiveness of these controls after • Biosafety (preventing accidental biological release) career aspirations, experience, language proficiency, installation through a robust monitoring program. • Biosecurity (preventing intentional biological release) certifications and education. • Bioethics (promoting responsible use of biological For more information on our initiatives, policies For existing processes, we first seek to eliminate or find materials and technologies) and accomplishments, please visit the Learning & a substitute for a hazardous material or process. When it is not possible to do so, we evaluate the feasibility • Sustainability (reducing our environmental footprint) Development page on our Corporate Responsibility of engineering controls based on the hazard and • Product stewardship (reducing website. risk. Where engineering controls are not feasible, we environmental hazards) establish effective work practice controls and require the use of appropriate personal protective equipment. As a global organization, our company has numerous operating divisions and work assignments — each with its own requirements. Particular work assignments may involve potential exposure to one or more occupational hazards, such as noise, mixtures of chemicals, or hazardous biological compounds. Our company maintains a concerted effort to assess and control workplace hazards (chemical, biological and physical) and to make sure that each employee’s work assignment is safe and consistent with his or her evaluated capabilities. For more information, please visit the Employee Safety page on our Corporate Responsibility website. 57 ESG Report 2018 GRI 404-1 Average hours of employee training TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 2017 2018 Total course completions for all employees (in millions) 4.2 5.3 4.4 Hours of training for all employees (in millions)1 2.1 2.6 2.2 Course completions per employee 60 48 43 1 Based on average of 30 minutes per course. GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Our Leadership Development Center is a website that features videos, articles, program announcements and resources for leaders and managers. Resources are aligned to our leadership behaviors, professional competencies and functional competencies, and are available in the following formats: “on-demand” web-based modules, classroom programs, articles, books (including audio books), webcasts and suggestions for “on-the-job” development activities. 58 ESG Report 2018 GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews PERFORMANCE REVIEWS 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Executives1 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Middle management 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Line supervisors 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Non-managers2 93% 94% 94% 93% 94% 1 “Executives” refers to the first two levels below the chief executive officer. 2 All “non-managers” (previously “individual contributors”) including those who are subject to a collective bargaining agreement (unions). DIVERSITY & EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Diversity and inclusion are fundamental to how we • We are proud of the improvements achieved in operate, how we engage employees, and how we representation on the senior management team (CR material topic: Diverse and inclusive workplace) drive competitive advantage to support our mission of of Black/African-American, Hispanic/Latino and developing innovative medicines and vaccines to save Pan-Asian employees and have a plan in place — with and improve lives. dedicated resources — to address areas within which MANAGEMENT APPROACH ethnic groups are underrepresented (also known as From fostering innovation through a culture of inclusion • We have unparalleled commitment from our CEO underrepresented ethnic groups or “UEGs”). that instills a sense of belonging for all, to investing and senior leaders, we challenge ourselves to • We create enterprisewide engagement for diversity in the creation of a gender-balanced and globally continuously raise the performance bar for GD&I and inclusion through more than 14,000 Employee diverse team of passionate and results-oriented goals, and we approach these goals with a progressive Business Resource Group (EBRG) members, leaders, our people represent our greatest asset. They growth mindset — always focused on learning and through educational programs to further the operate at the leading edge of science where medical improving results. career advancement, leadership development and breakthroughs have the potential to save and improve • We understand that true innovation is achieved managerial skills of employees, and through external the lives of millions. through the powerful intersection of ideas from partnerships that advance talent management goals employees across a range of diverse backgrounds: and strengthen our connections to the community. We regard Global Diversity & Inclusion (GD&I) as a age, race, gender, ethnicity, culture, nationality, sexual key business strategy to inspire, develop and unleash orientation, gender expression, gender identity, For more information on our initiatives, policies and the potential of our people — h ​ olding ourselves to the religion, faith and veteran and disability status. accomplishments, please visit the Global Diversity & highest standards of accountability for gender parity • We resolve to achieve gender equality and empower Inclusion page on our Corporate Responsibility website. established by the United Nations — ​and knowing that progress for women will stall without sustained, all women and girls as evidenced by improvements in proactive intervention. the representation of women in our workforce, on the senior management team, and in management roles. 59 ESG Report 2018 GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees GENDER & ETHNICITY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Women in the workforce 48% 48% 48% 48% 49% Women on the Board 17% 21% 23% 23% 23% Women in executive roles1 31% 34% 31% 32% 32% Women on the senior management team2 31% 34% 36% 39% 41% Women in management roles3 37% 38% 39% 40% 41% Members of underrepresented ethnic groups on the Board 25% 21% 23% 23% 23% Members of underrepresented ethnic groups in executive roles (U.S.) 20% 20% 23% 23% 21% Members of underrepresented ethnic groups on the senior management team (U.S.) 15% 18% 18% 17% 19% Members of underrepresented ethnic groups in the workforce (U.S.) 24% 26% 26% 26% 27% Members of underrepresented ethnic groups in management roles (U.S.) 20% 23% 23% 23% 25% New hires that were female 49% 50% 51% 49% 51% New hires that were members of underrepresented ethnic groups (U.S.) 22% 33% 37% 36% 36% Note: Our company has publicly disclosed EEO-1 information since 1999. Our 2018 data is available on the Global Diversity & Inclusion page on our Corporate Responsibility website. 1 “Executive” is defined as the chief executive officer and two structural levels below. 2 “Senior management team” is defined as the fourth structural level below the CEO. 3 “Management role” is defined as all other managers with direct reports not reflected in notes 1 or 2. 60 ESG Report 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT Due Diligence Responsible Sourcing Conducting appropriate due diligence and determining Implementing procedures to ensure responsible GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject the risks — including those related to human rights, sourcing of minerals. As stated in our Conflict Minerals to human rights reviews prior to entering a business relationship with a Policy, we endeavor to avoid the purchase of minerals supplier — t​ o determine that they can meet all our (e.g., tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold) that directly GRI 412-3 Investment agreements and company’s expectations. or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups or contracts that include human perpetrators of serious human rights abuses. rights clauses or underwent screening Contracts Prior to contracting, all new direct suppliers (as well Seeking commitment from suppliers to respect and as certain new indirect and research suppliers in We expect appropriate standards of conduct and abide by the principles set forth in our company’s certain geographies) are required to complete and respect for human rights, consistent with our own, Business Partner Code of Conduct through our return a Supplier Self-Assessment Questionnaire from our suppliers, contractors, vendors and external contracts and agreements. Our standard contract (SAQ) for Ethics & Compliance. Pre-existing external partners. We are committed to doing business with templates contain an ethical business practice manufacturing suppliers and contract manufacturing those that share our commitment to human rights and compliance clause. organizations also complete SAQs. to the principles outlined in our Business Partner Code of Conduct. Our SAQ requires suppliers to answer a series of Auditing labor and human rights questions covering a range of Our practices are informed and guided by the Performing Labor & Human Rights (LHR) Audits and subjects, including freely chosen employment, child Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative’s (PSCI’s) Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) Audits at selected labor, employment practices, employee disclosures, fair Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible supplier facilities to verify their compliance with our treatment, wages, benefits and working hours. Supply Chain Management, which set the standard for company’s expectations, and by working with them ethics, labor, health, safety and the environment for to address identified compliance gaps in a responsible Each supplier’s responses are used to judge whether our industry. manner. In 2018, we performed over 90 LHR Audits. or not that supplier has programs and/or procedures in place to address potential risks for labor and human Within our supply chain, we work to meet our rights related deficiencies. responsibility to respect human rights by: Managing & Monitoring Managing and monitoring suppliers to ensure that they Since implementing the Labor and Human Rights continue to meet our company’s expectations. We program in 2015, we have conducted over 200 onsite Selection hold them accountable for meeting their contractual audits in countries identified as high risk for potential Selecting suppliers that are socially responsible and obligations and take appropriate action to address human rights violations. No critical observations have who share our company’s commitment to ethics and those that do not. Termination clauses are included been found. We track audit-related corrective and integrity. We strive to obtain the goods and services in contracts. preventative actions to completion. we need to further our mission in a way that is lawful, efficient and fair. Additionally, we maintain a “Speak Up” tool (msdethics. Governance com) for any employee, supplier or business partner to Using our Third-Party Risk Committee to oversee report concerns, including those related to labor and Expectations the management of risks presented by suppliers. The human rights issues. Setting and communicating our expectations of Committee is chaired by our senior vice president suppliers. We use our Business Partner Code of Conduct For more information, please visit the Human Rights for Procurement and is composed of management to communicate our expectations for Human Rights, and Sourcing & Supplier Relations pages on our representatives from multiple functions, including Labor & Employment, Health, Safety & Environment Corporate Responsibility website. Human Resources, Health & Safety, Corporate and Ethical Business Practices. We make it available in Responsibility, Procurement and Compliance. 26 languages. 61 ESG Report 2018 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT Our Global Quality Compliance organization is GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance responsible for establishing the requisite standards concerning the health and safety GRI 414-1 New suppliers screened using to ensure that all of our company’s products are impacts of products and services social criteria manufactured, tested, released and distributed in full compliance with regulatory requirements. SASB 210a.1 Management process for ensuring quality and patient safety during Please see GRI 412-1 and GRI 412-3 on page 61. We continuously strive to improve these standards clinical trials globally in order to enhance procedures and ensure ongoing compliance with Current Good Manufacturing SASB 210a.2 FDA Sponsor Inspections related PUBLIC POLICY Practices (CGMPs). to clinical trial management and pharmacovigilance that resulted GRI 415-1 Political contributions Our company’s medicines and vaccines are widely tested in: (1) Voluntary Action Indicated before they are approved for marketing. This testing is (VAI) and (2) Official Action Where permitted by law in the U.S., Canada, Japan governed by a comprehensive regulatory scheme and Indicated (OAI) and Australia, our company makes corporate political by our research policies. We assess the safety of our contributions. products in rigorous nonclinical and clinical trials prior to SASB 250a.1 Products listed in the FDA’s seeking regulatory approval. Following approval of our MedWatch Safety Alerts for To view a listing of our corporate and PAC contributions drugs, vaccines or devices, the company continues to Human Medical Products database made within the U.S. during 2018, please visit the Public monitor their safety profiles. Policy page on our Corporate Responsibility website. SASB 250a.2 Fatalities associated with Our company’s chief medical officer holds overall products as reported in the FDA responsibility for the benefit/risk of our pipeline and Adverse Event Reporting System CUSTOMER HEALTH & SAFETY marketed products, provides medical oversight for SASB 250a.3 Recalls issued, and total units all clinical programs, supervises the development and recalled (CR material topic: Product quality and safety) implementation of medical policies (including those related to data transparency and the sharing of clinical data), and has responsibility for the design, execution Using the results of our scientific studies, we determine MANAGEMENT APPROACH hazard ratings for all of our chemical compounds, and and implementation of pre-registration expanded Our quality strategy is focused on ensuring reliable, access (“compassionate use”) programs. default to more conservative exposure limits when compliant supply to our customers, assuring that our we have limited health hazard information. We use a products are there when people need them, and having Our company’s Global Clinical Safety and rigorous and data-driven review process and re-evaluate an engaged and capable workforce to ensure and sustain Pharmacovigilance (GCSP) function manages a hazard ratings as new data become available. future success. global system for the collection, review and reporting of adverse experience (AE) reports received by our Our Industrial Hygiene Risk Assessments require Patient safety is at the forefront of what we do. We are company worldwide, and for the continuous assessment evaluation of the effectiveness of control measures. using and exploring new technological advancements of product safety. Our company’s chief safety Risk-based exposure monitoring is also conducted such as integrated IT tools, artificial intelligence (AI) and officer holds overall responsibility for the safety of to verify the effectiveness of installed engineering streamlined digital platforms to further enhance how our products. controls, and improvements are made as needed. we manufacture high-quality products. To learn more, please visit the Product & Patient Safety We use conservative safety factors to set low de We apply and adhere to a strict set of quality standards, and Quality & Safety Standards pages on our Corporate minimis levels for environmental releases until we have and we have policies and procedures in place to identify, Responsibility website. sufficient data to fully understand their impacts on measure, control and sustain product-quality excellence. aquatic organisms. Levels are reviewed and updated as new data become available. 62 ESG Report 2018 QUALITY & PRODUCT SAFETY In accordance with our public policy position statement, all investigational studies in human subjects are 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 conducted in a manner consistent with laws, regulations and guidelines for the protection of human subjects, Number of product recalls in the United States1, 2 3 3 1 0 2 including those issued by the International Council for Harmonisation Good Clinical Practice (ICH GCP). Annual percentage of units manufactured/sold and However, individual country regulations and guidelines recalled during a given year (our global recall rate)1, 2 0.22% 0.07% 0.01% 0.01% 0.14% should remain the primary determinant of specific requirements for the conduct of medical research. 1 Definition of Recall Classifications: http://www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm049070. htm#RecallClassifications. We have a commitment, where appropriate, to the study of diverse patient populations, including 2 Beginning in 2014, product recalls include data from our Animal Health business. minorities, women and children, in our clinical trials in all regions of the world. In keeping with the trend in the Please visit the U.S. Food & Drug Administration’s We comply with all applicable laws and regulations pharmaceutical industry, more than half of the patients (FDA) MedWatch website for more information associated with the registration of clinical trials in participating in our clinical trials are enrolled outside the on product safety alerts. You may visit the FDA’s publicly accessible registries and subsequent posting U.S., in more than 50 countries. Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) website for of the results from these trials. We have put into place up-to-date information on fatalities associated with the processes necessary for compliance with the Food Clinical trial site monitoring, design, conduct product use. and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 and oversight and the European clinical trial Directive 2001/20/EC, Our company has long been committed to sharing the In addition to complying with our company’s global including those related to clinical trial registration and results of our clinical trials, regardless of their outcome, standards, the conduct of our clinical trials adheres posting results. in a timely manner. If a clinical trial of a marketed to the International Council for Harmonisation Good product is terminated early for safety reasons, we will For those who analyze, report or publish the results Clinical Practice (ICH GCP) standards and to the promptly disclose medically important information of clinical trials, a clinical trial registry also provides principles that have their origin in the Declaration to regulatory authorities and the public, update information on trials in progress and the ability to of Helsinki. the status on clinicaltrials.gov within 30 days, and track such trials over the course of development. When appropriate, an internal standing data-monitoring submit a manuscript to a journal (or post a summary We register clinical trials at trial initiation in patients committee (DMC) comprising our research laboratories’ online) within 12 months after the last patient’s last of investigational and marketed products, in which senior managers reviews unblinded data from ongoing visit occurs. If the trial was terminated for efficacy treatment is assigned, that we sponsor and conduct on trials in a pre-specified, scientifically acceptable manner. reasons, the results will be disclosed within 12 months www.clinicaltrials.gov, www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu and The goals of the DMC are to protect the safety of after the last patient’s last visit occurs. Summaries of www.encepp.eu. trial participants and assess whether the risk-benefit terminated trials will provide information about patient profile is favorable. The DMC’s recommendations are disposition, safety and adverse experiences, as well as communicated internally to relevant scientists and can an explanation as to why the trial was terminated early. be distributed externally to clinical investigators, review boards or regulatory agencies, as appropriate. 63 ESG Report 2018 GCP/PV INSPECTIONS1 SASB 270a.2 Code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 GCP/PV inspections by regulatory agencies of the company We know that health care providers and patients look to or clinical trial investigators that led to significant fines, us to provide accurate and balanced information about penalties, warning letters or product seizures 0 0 – 0 0 our products and services. We believe that our marketing, sales and advertising 1 Complete response letter received for Sugammadex (MK-8616) in 2013; complete response letter received for Januvia (sitagliptin; MK-0431) in 2016. activities make an important contribution to medicine by informing our customers of treatment options based For more information on our clinical trials, please visit the Clinical Trials, Product & Patient Safety and Quality & on the most recent scientific information and findings Safety Standards pages on our Corporate Responsibility website, as well as our Clinical Trials website. from rigorous clinical studies. Our sales and marketing practices are governed by SASB 260a.2 Process for alerting customers Collaboration and information-sharing in order to raise external laws and regulations and industry codes of and business partners of potential public and stakeholder awareness of the issue and risks conduct, and by our own global Code of Conduct, our or known risks associated with are a crucial focus of our anti-counterfeiting program. corporate policies and procedures, and our ethics and counterfeit products Through active partnerships with other pharmaceutical compliance program. companies, and with organizations focused on security, The labels in our product packaging contain information Our efforts in the area of advocacy, engagement patient safety and public health, we provide effective on possible side effects and, if appropriate, how to avoid and awareness involve raising public and stakeholder advocacy on high-priority anti-counterfeiting policy some potential health problems. We include contact awareness of the risks posed by counterfeits, and initiatives. details on our corporate website for patients, caregivers advocate for increased enforcement to shape relevant and health professionals to report adverse experiences For more information, please visit the Anti-Counterfeiting regulatory requirements. In 2018, we continued our in the United States. Outside the United States, adverse page on our Corporate Responsibility website. commitment to increasing our focus in this area and events are reported in accordance with any additional have strategically enhanced our ability to make a local country laws and practices. long-term impact on patient safety through various MARKETING & LABELING education campaigns. Depending on label changes and their context, we may determine, in consultation with regulatory authorities, We are committed to cooperating with relevant GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and that more extensive communications are appropriate. government agencies, other pharmaceutical service information and labeling In such cases, we work with regulatory authorities to manufacturers, wholesalers, distributors, health contact health care professionals in a timely manner, so GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance professionals, consumer groups and key related that they can communicate these findings to patients concerning product and service organizations in fighting the problem of counterfeit through appropriate mechanisms. Contacting health information and labeling pharmaceutical products and in educating the public care professionals might include “Dear Health Care about the risks of counterfeit products and how to GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance Provider” letters and media statements. protect against them. concerning marketing communications Product Label Reviews This effort includes a multipronged approach to communicating the threat that counterfeit medicines SASB 270a.1 Monetary losses as a result of The ongoing oversight and monitoring of our product pose and to mitigating this threat as effectively as legal proceedings associated with labels are a major focus of our safety efforts. Our label possible, while recognizing that it cannot be entirely false marketing claims review teams monitor information on our products and eliminated. 64 ESG Report 2018 work with our product RMS teams to develop or update SALES & MARKETING product labeling. We regularly communicate relevant information to regulatory authorities worldwide. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Innovation in Medical Evidence Development Number of warning letters or untitled letters from OPDP1 and Surveillance (IMEDS) or APLB2 in the U.S. 0 0 0 0 0 The IMEDS program is a public-private partnership 1 OPDP: Since September 2011, the Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising and Communication (DDMAC) is now the Office of within the Reagan-Udall Foundation for the Food and Prescription Drug Promotion (OPDP). Drug Administration (FDA). The aims of IMEDS are to 2 APLB: Advertising and Promotional Labeling Branch (APLB) of the FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research. advance the science and tools necessary to support post-marketing evidence generation on regulated products, including safety surveillance and evaluations, For more information, please visit the Product & Patient Over the past 18 years, we have developed and and to facilitate the utilization of a robust secondary Safety, Health Literacy and Sales & Marketing pages on continually improved a comprehensive global privacy electronic health care data platform for generating our Corporate Responsibility website. program that promotes organizational accountability better evidence on the safety and effectiveness of for privacy, data governance and data protection regulated products in post-market settings. Partners across our business and with our collaborative partners in IMEDS include the FDA, pharmaceutical companies, CUSTOMER PRIVACY and suppliers. academia and patient organizations. (CR material topic: Data privacy and information Protecting personal health information Health literacy security) We are a member of the International Pharmaceutical There are many examples of health literacy in action Privacy Consortium (IPPC), an association of researchacross our company’s product lifecycle, including our MANAGEMENT APPROACH based pharmaceutical companies formed in 2002 earliest clinical trials, informed consent, diversity in In all that we do, we strive to be good data stewards to that has worldwide responsibility for the protection of trials, patient labeling, instructions for use, packaging balance our data needs with our responsibilities to the personal health information and other types of personal and patient education. people and communities we serve. data. We have been actively involved in the IPPC since 2006, in order to engage in a constructive dialogue The FDA approved our sixth health literate patient label Information about our company, products and people is with European data-protection authorities and other developed with iterative patient input, and we were one of our most valuable assets. We are committed to regulators on privacy standards for biomedical research. recognized as the second runner-up for the Healthcare ethical use, management and protection of information. Compliance Packaging Council’s “package of the year” for our antiviral medicine used to help prevent Our commitment applies not only to our company’s Information security & privacy cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection after a stem cell (bone information, but also to the information entrusted We also have established a set of privacy values to guide marrow) transplant from a donor. to us by others. Our tools, processes and procedures all of our privacy, data stewardship, and data protection ensure that we appropriately use and safeguard decisions. These core tenets serve as the foundational In 2018, our product labeling team developed a information throughout its life cycle to ensure integrity ethical framework for our comprehensive Global Privacy Standard Operating Process (SOP) for new molecules, of information and to prevent unauthorized access Program and our compliance with the continually and currently human health marketing is developing a and disclosure. We have developed and continue to evolving legal and regulatory standards for privacy and process to integrate health literacy principles into all improve upon a comprehensive, global, state of the art data protection. new or updated patient materials. information security and cyber resiliency program to enable our company to fulfill its mission: inventing for life. 65 ESG Report 2018 Cyberattacks against our IT systems could result in GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of exposure of confidential information, the modification customer data of critical data, and/or the failure of critical operations. Misuse of these IT systems could result in the disclosure GLOBAL PRIVACY PROGRAM of sensitive personal information or the theft of trade secrets, intellectual property or other confidential 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 business information. We continue to leverage new and innovative technologies across the enterprise to Number of countries in which we conduct privacy improve the efficacy and efficiency of its business compliance verification and risk assessment 137 137 137 137 137 processes, the use of which can create new risks. Number of concerns regarding privacy practices, Given the exponential rise in cybersecurity threats breaches of privacy and losses of personal data that and complexity of those threats, and the increasing were substantiated1, 3, 4 151 143 227 123 315 dependency on trusted partners to conduct our company’s business, as a critical component of the Percentage of reported concerns regarding privacy IT transformation, we have consolidated information practices, breaches of privacy and losses of personal security and cyber resiliency activities across IT data that were substantiated2 18% 96% 98% 98% 97% under the leadership of Chief Information Security Officer (CISO). Number of privacy breaches requiring notification by The Audit Committee periodically reviews the Enterprise Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., to individuals Risk Management (ERM) process to ensure that it is or government authorities 1 0 1 0 2 robust and functioning effectively. The Audit Committee oversees our company’s risk management program Number of privacy breaches requiring notification by relating to cybersecurity; however, the full Board third parties working for Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, participates in periodic reviews and discussions dedicated N.J., U.S.A., to individuals or government authorities 1 3 0 1 1 to our company’s cyber risks, threats and protections. 1 Privacy concerns include all concerns about our privacy practices escalated to our company’s Privacy Office. Substantiated For more information, please visit the Information concerns are those that are determined to be consistent with our own privacy standards or that involve loss of, theft or Security & Privacy and Clinical Trials pages on our unauthorized access to personal data. Corporate Responsibility website. 2 In 2015, because of the scope of lost or stolen devices known to be encrypted, we ceased inclusion of lost or stolen MSD devices in our incident metrics. 3 Reporting in 2017 was impacted by cyber-incident. 4 Increase in substantiated concerns in 2018 due to changes in reporting practices stemming from new requirements in the EU (GDPR). 66 ESG Report 2018 GRI INDEX The GRI Standards represent global best practices for reporting publicly on a range of economic, environmental and social impacts. In conjunction with our Corporate Responsibility website, found at MSDresponsibility.com, our disclosures constitute a Core level GRI report. The table below summarizes where these disclosures can be found throughout this report, and subsequently online. General Disclosures GRI 102: Organizational Profile 102-1 Organization name Page 12 102-2 Primary brands, products, and services Page 12 102-3 Headquarters location Page 12 102-4 Location of operations Page 12 102-5 Ownership and legal form Page 12 102-6 Markets served Page 12 102-7 Scale of the organization Page 14 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Page 14 102-9 Supply chain Page 15 102-10 Organizational changes during the reporting period Page 16 102-11 Precautionary principle Page 16 102-12 External initiatives Page 16 102-13 Membership associations Page 17 GRI 102: Strategy 102-14 CEO letter Page 17 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Not reported 67 ESG Report 2018 GRI 102: Ethics & Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Page 18 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Page 18 GRI 102: Governance 102-18 Governance structure of the organization Page 19 102-19 Delegation of responsibility for sustainability topics Page 19 102-20 High-level accountability for sustainability topics Page 19 102-21 Access to the board Page 19 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Page 19 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Page 19 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Page 20 102-25 Board conflicts of interest Page 20 102-26 Board and executive roles Page 20 102-27 Board ESG knowledge Not reported 102-28 Board performance Not reported 102-29 Board identification of ESG impacts, risks, and opportunities Page 20 102-30 Board ESG review of risk management process Page 20 102-31 Frequency of board review Not reported 102-32 Report review Page 20 102-33 Board communication Page 21 102-34 Concerns communicated to the board Not reported 102-35 Remuneration policies Page 21 68 ESG Report 2018 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Page 21 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Page 21 102-38 CEO/employee pay ratio Page 21 102-39 CEO/employee pay increase ratio Not reported GRI 102: Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 Stakeholder engagement Page 21 102-41 Union representation Page 21 102-42 Stakeholder identification Page 21 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Page 21 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Page 23 GRI 102: Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in financial statements Page 24 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Page 24 102-47 Material aspects included Page 24 102-48 Restatements Page 25 102-49 Reporting changes Page 25 102-50 Reporting period Page 25 102-51 Date of most recent report Page 25 102-52 Reporting cycle Page 25 102-53 Report contact Page 25 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Page 25 102-55 GRI content index Page 25 69 ESG Report 2018 102-56 External assurance Page 25 Economic GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 26 201-2 Financial implications due to climate change Page 27 201-3 Benefit plan coverage Page 27 201-4 Financial assistance from the government Not reported GRI 202: Market Presence 202-1 Ratio of entry-level wage, by gender, to local minimum wage Not reported 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community Not reported GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness Approach of the company’s strategy. Page 27 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Page 28 203-2 Indirect economic impacts Page 28 GRI 204: Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Not reported GRI 205: Anti-Corruption Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the Approach effectiveness of the company’s strategy. Page 31 205-1 Risks related to corruption Not reported 205-2 Communications and training on anti-corruption Page 31 70 ESG Report 2018 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption Not reported GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness Approach of the company’s strategy. Page 32 206-1 Anti-competitive behavior Page 32 Environmental GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Not reported 301-2 Recycled inputs Not reported 301-3 Reclaimed materials Page 34 GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization (Scopes 1 + 2) Page 36 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization (Scope 3) Not reported 302-3 Energy intensity Not reported 302-4 Energy reductions Page 37 302-5 Energy reductions in products and services Not applicable GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawals by source Page 38 303-2 Water sources affected by withdrawals Page 38 303-3 Water recycled and reused Page 39 GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-1 Sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Not reported 71 ESG Report 2018 304-2 Impacts on biodiversity Not reported 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Not reported 304-4 IUCN Red List species Not reported GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Page 40 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Page 40 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Page 41 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Page 42 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Page 42 305-6 Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Page 43 305-7 NOx, SOx and other emissions Page 43 GRI 306: Effluents & Waste 306-1 Water discharge Page 44 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Page 45 306-3 Significant spills Page 46 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Not reported 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Not reported GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Page 47 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers screened using environmental criteria Page 48 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain Not reported 72 ESG Report 2018 Social GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and turnover Page 49 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Page 52 401-3 Parental leave Page 53 GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Notice periods regarding operational changes Not reported GRI 403: Occupational Health & Safety Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness Approach of the company’s strategy. Page 54 403-1 Workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees Not reported 403-2 Rates of injury, occupational disease, lost days, absenteeism, and work-related fatalities Page 55 403-3 Workers with high risk of diseases related to their occupation Page 57 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in agreements with trade unions Not reported GRI 404: Training & Education 404-1 Average hours of employee training Page 58 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Page 58 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews Page 59 GRI 405: Diversity & Equal Opportunity Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness Approach of the company’s strategy. Page 59 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Page 60 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Not reported 73 ESG Report 2018 GRI 406: Non-Discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken Not reported GRI 407: Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association may be at risk Not reported GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1 Significant risk of child labor in operations and suppliers Not reported GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Not reported GRI 410: Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies Not reported GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Not reported GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Page 61 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies and procedures Not reported 412-3 Investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or underwent screening Page 61 GRI 413: Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessment, and development programs Not reported 413-2 Operations with significant potential and actual negative impacts on local communities Not reported GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers screened using social criteria Page 62 414-2 Negative social impacts on society in the supply chain, and actions taken Not reported 74 ESG Report 2018 GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Page 62 GRI 416: Customer Health & Safety Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness Approach of the company’s strategy. Page 62 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Not reported 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services Page 62 GRI 417: Marketing & Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Page 64 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling Page 64 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications Page 64 GRI 418: Customer Privacy Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness Page 65 Approach of the company’s strategy. 418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Page 66 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Performance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Not reported 75 ESG Report 2018 SASB INDEX The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is dedicated to improving the effectiveness and comparability of corporate disclosure on environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors. The table below cross-references the SASB Standards for the Health Care sector, and Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals industry, with where that information can be found in conjunction with GRI disclosures throughout this report. Safety of Clinical Trial Participants 210a.1 Management process for ensuring quality and patient safety during clinical trials globally Page 62 210a.2 FDA Sponsor Inspections related to clinical trial management and pharmacovigilance that resulted in: (1) Voluntary Action Indicated (VAI) and (2) Official Action Indicated (OAI) Page 62 210a.3 Monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with clinical trials in developing countries Not reported Access to Medicines 240a.1 Access to health care for priority diseases and in priority countries Page 28 240a.2 Products on WHO’s List of Prequalified Medicinal Products Page 28 Affordability & Pricing 240b.1 Settlements of Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) litigation that involved payments and/or provisions to delay bringing an authorized generic product to market Not reported 240b.2 Percentage change in: (1) average list price and (2) average net price across U.S. product portfolio compared to previous year Page 28 240b.3 Percentage change in: (1) list price and (2) net price of product with largest increase compared to previous year Page 28 Drug Safety 250a.1 Products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products database Not reported Please visit the FAERS MedWatch page for more information. 250a.2 Fatalities associated with products as reported in the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System Not reported Please visit the FAERS MedWatch page for more information. 76 ESG Report 2018 250a.3 Recalls issued, and total units recalled Page 62 250a.4 Amount of product accepted for takeback, reuse, or disposal Not reported 250a.5 FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) Not reported Counterfeit Drugs 260a.1 Methods and technologies used to maintain traceability of products throughout the supply chain Page 15 260a.2 Process for alerting customers and business partners of potential or known risks associated with counterfeit products Page 64 260a.3 Actions that led to raids, seizure, arrests, and/or filing of criminal charges related to counterfeit products Not reported Ethical Marketing 270a.1 Monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims Page 64 270a.2 Code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products Page 64 Employee Recruitment, Development, and Retention 330a.1 Talent recruitment and retention efforts for R&D personnel Page 49 330a.2 (1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for: (a) executives and senior managers, (b) midlevel managers, (c) professionals, and Page 49 (d) all others Supply Chain Management 430a.1 Facilities and Tier I suppliers participating in the Rx-360 International Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Consortium audit program, or equivalent Not reported Business Ethics 510a.1 Monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with corruption and bribery Not reported 510a.2 Code of ethics governing interactions with health care professionals Page 18 Activity Metrics 000.A Patients treated (#) Page 14 000.B Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and (2) in R&D (Phases 1-3) Corporate website 77 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT This communication of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. (the “company”) includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company’s management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that the products will receive the necessary regulatory approvals or that they will prove to be commercially successful. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general industry conditions and competition; general economic factors, including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; the impact of pharmaceutical industry regulation and health care legislation in the United States and internationally; global trends toward health care cost containment; technological advances, new products and patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent in new product development, including obtaining regulatory approval; the company’s ability to accurately predict future market conditions; manufacturing difficulties or delays; financial instability of international economies and sovereign risk; dependence on the effectiveness of the company’s patents and other protections for innovative products; and the exposure to litigation, including patent litigation, and/or regulatory actions. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) available at the SEC’s Internet site (sec.gov). The Office of Corporate Responsibility Copyright © 2019 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., 2000 Galloping Hill Road (K1-3181) a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. U.S.A. All rights reserved. MSDresponsibility.com Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., is known as MSD outside the United States and Canada.
