2018 Annual report ﻿ Interactive content Use the index as the navigation menu. About this report From anywhere in the report, click the heading to return to the index. In the GRI Summary navigate to the content by clicking on the pages indicated in the “pages and/or links” The online report is available at column. votorantim.com/annualreport By clicking on an external link, the indicated site will open automatically in your browser. For the eighth consecutive year, ●● Votorantim Cimentos the United Nations Sustainable investment holding company ●● Nexa Resources Development Goals (SDGs). Votorantim S.A. (Votorantim) ●● Companhia Brasileira de 102-50 | 102-52 | 102-54 publishes its Annual Report for Alumínio (CBA) PwC limitedly assured this stakeholders, showcasing its ●● Votorantim Energia report, which does not contain operating model, initiatives, ●● Acerías Paz del Río changes to scope and limitation. advances, challenges, and ●● Acerbrag The online and complete version social, environmental and ●● Citrosuco of this document is available operating performance, as well ●● Banco Votorantim on a microsite, and includes as consolidated economic and The practices and results the Consolidated Financial financial results as audited by presented herein reflect only Statements and GRI Content PwC. This report also addresses part of the results reported by Index. Comments about this Votorantim’s influence on its each investee; for further details, report can be forwarded to investees. please read their respective relatoriovsa@votorantim.com. Economic and financial Annual Reports. 102-45 | 102-56 102-48 | 102-49 | 102-51 | 102-53 | information, and the social, 102-55 This document refers to fiscal environmental and operating year 2018, except for Citrosuco, performance reported herein whose data is relative to the consolidate the results of season beginning July 2017 and the following investees in ending June 2018. This report Votorantim’s portfolio: adopts the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, Core option. It has also been prepared based on guidance by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), and on VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 1 ﻿ ﻿ Materiality 102-21 | 102-32 | 102-40 | 102-42 | 102-43 | 102-46 Materiality is the process used to identify the material themes for the company to report on. Materiality assessment is a 1 2 3 process to identify relevant Analysis of internal documents Comprehensive interviews with Analysis of data and information Four topics were identified as Materiality was approved by topics that substantively of different departments and of the following: collected from documents and material for Votorantim and Votorantim’s Executive Board, influence the assessments and the investees. ●● Votorantim executives. interviews. investees: Strategy and results, and the identified topics provide decisions of stakeholders, so ●● Members of sustainability Environment, Governance, and the basis for this report’s these are included and discussed and governance teams of the Given the diversity of the Social issues, in addition to content and the GRI indicators in further detail in the Annual investees. business portfolio, the topics specific topics. 102-47 | 102-44 reported on. Report. Revision of material ●● Finance and sustainability were structured as follows: topics was conducted in 2018 specialists. (a) material for both Votorantim and investees, and (b) specifically by an external advisor in three Governance ●● Scholar specialists. stages: ●● Local and international material for each business in the Ethics and compliance market investors. portfolio. Tailings dams Energy use Best corporate governance practices and tailings dams Corporate risk management Strategy Energy use New investments and results Material for Long-term vision Votorantim and investees Specifically material Capital allocation Energy use Financial performance Social issues Health and safety Land use Environment Community relations Biodiversity and pesticides and deforestation Climate change Innovation Water resources and customer relations 2 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 3 2018 Highlights 102-10 Celebration of Development of Net revenue of Net income of 100 years of history innovation projects R$31.9 billion, R$2.0 billion, at the Center of Excellence (CoE) up 19% year-on-year up 141% year-on-year Economic & People Social & Questões Economic & People Social & Corporate financial management environmental Corporate sociais financial management environmental issues issues Incorporation of long Acquisition steel operations in Brazil by of Companhia ArcelorMittal Energética Adjusted EBITDA of Leverage of de São Paulo R$6.9 billion, 1.91x (Cesp) up 47% year-on-year net debt/adjusted EBITDA Business combination of Fibria and Suzano Votorantim Partnership for Education (PVE) expanded to 104 Brazilian cities, over twice as many as Reinforcement of the in the previous year Internship Program Reservas Votorantim Legado das Águas’ started operating the project for the Statutory Nature Reserve genetic mapping Compensation business of Atlantic Forest plants Economic & People Social & Questões Economic & People Social & Questões Corporate financial management environmental sociais Corporate financial management environmental sociais issues issues For the first time, the company Vototalks Festival offered Legado Verdes do “Voter's Guide” was included in the Best 20 online lectures, Cerrado’s launch: Workplaces survey conducted by which together attained nearly Agroforestry 184,000 app Great Place to Work 10,000 views project downloads 4 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 5 ﻿ Contents 1 About this report 23 I NNOVAT I ON AND 45 PEO PL E 69 PO RTFO L IO T EC HNOLOGY 2 Materiality 46 Human and Organizational 70 Portfolio transformation 24 Established innovation ecosystem Development (DHO) 4 2018 Highlights 71 Real estate investments 25 Center of Excellence (CoE) 47 Attractiveness, engagement and 8 Message from the Board of Directors 72 Votorantim Cimentos communication 10 Message from the Executive Board 74 Nexa 49 Development 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND R I S K M ANAGEM ENT 76 CBA 50 Votorantim Academy 1 3 PR O F IL E 78 Votorantim Energia 30 Governance model 52 Remuneration and benefits 14 The investment holding company 80 Long Steel: Acerbrag and Acerías Paz del Río 34 Compliance Program 15 Votorantim DNA 82 Citrosuco 37 Risk management 55 SO CIA L DEVELO PMENT 16 Strategy and management 84 Banco Votorantim 56 Social commitment 17 Votorantim’s identity 39 ENV I R ONM ENTAL 57 Votorantim Institute DEV ELOP M ENT 86 Assurance Report 18 Portfolio 20 Recognition 40 Environmental conservation 63 ECO NO MIC A ND 88 GRI DISCLOSURE S 21 Centennial year 41 Management of environmental assets FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 43 Innovation in biodiversity 64 Investor Relations 106 GRI Summary 65 2018 Results 122 CO NSO L IDAT E D FINA NCIA L STAT E ME N T S 286 Credits 6 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 7 Me ssage Me ssage Message Message from the Board of Directors 102-14 Left to right: Marcelo Medeiros, Luis Ermírio de Moraes, Cláudio Ermírio de Moraes, Raul Calfat, José Roberto Ermírio de Moraes, Pedro Wongtschowski, and Oscar Bernardes. 2018 was a very special After four consecutive years of When it comes to the Capital allocation decisions were The way we are, and how In Brazil, we are about to see an year for us at Votorantim. downturn in the Brazilian cement transformation of our portfolio, made in a turbulent scenario of we operate and manage our agenda of important reforms In addition to celebrating our industry, Votorantim Cimentos we focused on reducing our uncertainty in Brazil. We operate investees—based on the for the country, focusing on 100th anniversary, which is reported positive operating exposure to cyclical commodities, in capital intensive industries, values of the family controlling government debt sustainability, uncommon for a company not results. Our investees Nexa, and increased our exposure to and make long-term investment shareholder—are also key consistent economic growth, only in Brazil but globally, we CBA and Citrosuco benefited sectors that have a more stable decisions. to the businesses, which are and job creation. In this scenario, made important changes to our from the increase in average cash generation. Examples of ethically conducted and rely Votorantim has started 2019 Our corporate governance— portfolio. At the same time, our commodity prices, combined changes in our portfolio were the on compliance processes with its companies adjusted in which is in line with listed investees’ performance led us to with the appreciation of the business combination of Fibria and internal controls. We are terms of capital structure, which companies in terms report more robust consolidated dollar against the Brazilian and Suzano, and the acquisition committed to adhering to our will enable it to focus even more of transparency, risk results than in the previous real. Better selling prices for of Companhia Energética de principles while continually on value creation. management, and stakeholder year—net revenue rose 19% to long steel in Argentina and São Paulo (Cesp), company that evolving our governance— communication—also contributes Raul Calfat R$31.9 billion, adjusted EBTIDA Colombia contributed to the owns three hydroelectric power necessary in an ever-changing to our business model. We Chairman of the Board of went up by 47% to R$6.9 billion, results of this business. In plants—the primary plant is Porto business environment. influence our investees into Directors, Votorantim and net income increased by the electric power business, Primavera, with installed capacity following this same model, We will continue to evolve and 141% to R$2.0 billion. we expanded our capacity in of 1.5 gigawatt, and whose therefore developing constructive secure the continuity of our a sector that offers different concession period ends in 2048. relations with markets, business, but at the same time investment opportunities in communities, and society. we will be looking for investment Brazil, and we created a platform opportunities by transforming for investments in renewable our current portfolio in different energy with the Canada Pension regions. Not only that, but Plan Investment Board (CPPIB). we will be evaluating existing Banco Votorantim increased its businesses, and new initiatives. operational efficiency, diversified sources of revenue, and invested in its digital transformation. 8 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 9 Me ssage Me ssage Message from the Executive Board 102-14 Left to right, standing: João Schmidt, João Miranda, and Sergio Malacrida; sitting: Luiz Caruso, and Luiz Marcelo Fins. 2018 was a year of We have always been committed In 2018, we made important The year of general elections Such a conviction about This is an environment where political and economic to working towards our changes to our portfolio. in Brazil, marked with an helping build a better Brazil we will have to remain prudent uncertainty in Brazil, and businesses’ evolution and, We announced the business important renewal in elected also translates into the when allocating capital, and firm we at Votorantim once more recently, to increasing combination of Fibria and Suzano officials and parties, coincided different social investments we in our belief in doing business again overcame the challenge the autonomy of our investees and completed the incorporation with our centennial. Votorantim make; one highlight was the the right way, by acting ethically of doing business and creating and supporting them in their of Votorantim Siderurgia by has always been absolutely expansion of the Votorantim and consistently, which has value in this scenario. We were strategies. We have been ArcellorMittal’s operations in certain of its role as a socially Partnership for Education (PVE) always permeated our strategic prudent in our activities, but successful in such commitments, Brazil; both Fibria and Votorantim responsible business, reason why to over 100 municipalities. and operating decisions. We made significant advances in and our yearly results reflect that. Siderurgia had been in our it has promoted an advertising This initiative promotes better will continue to actively build a our portfolio transformation. portfolio for many years, and we campaign for voter awareness. quality public education, which favorable environment for doing We faced the year with 2018 was also the year when deeply admire them. Another Taking advantage of the fact positively reflects in indicators, business, and contribute to a courage, which is proven by all we celebrated Votorantim’s achievement regarding the that “Votorantim” carries the including the Basic Education more inclusive and sustainable our corporate actions. With centennial, which was very transformation of our portfolio word “voto” (Portuguese word Development Index (IDEB). future in Brazil. courage, we came out of the meaningful for us. The history was the acquisition of the for vote), we created the motto Brazilian recession stronger; We started 2019 with the same João Miranda of business in Brazil has few controlling stock of Companhia “Eu voto” (I vote), and used it our companies better prepared, courage that has always marked CEO, Votorantim corporate centenarians, and Energética de São Paulo (Cesp) in themes that are key for the with their capital structures our history. Today we can reaching such a milestone is through the joint venture country, such as education, adjusted, and leaders motivated expect the economy to recover, something to be extremely between Votorantim Energia nature, and people. In addition for future challenges. In another especially in Brazil. Globally, the proud of. This milestone was and the Canada Pension Plan to the advertising campaign, we courageous move, we have sentiment is of caution—the built not only by us, but also by Investment Board (CPPIB). The created the “Voter’s Guide”, a allocated over R$10 billion to year started with doubts over our clients, suppliers, employees, joint venture currently manages mobile app that encourages the investments in our companies or interest rates in the United investors, and several other 2.2 gigawatts of installed exercise of citizenship. to acquisitions for the last three States, and the escalation of stakeholders. capacity, including the wind farms years, despite the crisis. tariff wars with China. in northeastern Brazil. 10 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 11 Transforming opportunities into great businesses that create value. Value for shareholders, employees, and society. Profile P rofile P rofile Va lu es The investment holding company Votorantim DNA 102-16 Va lue s Va es Va lu Be lue lie s es fs Va lu Be lie lie es fs fs lu Be Va lie fs fs Be li e Be sh ip pil s fs lar p il Votorantim is a Brazilian Votorantim also has a Center and develop solutions to meet s la r li e Be family-owned, longip of Excellence (CoE), which technological demands and Ste sh wa ard rd term investment holding in 2018 consolidated the increase its own productivity and St ew company with 100 years operations of the Shared that of the investees. s Stewardship pillars ar of history. The portfolio Solutions, Real Estate Solutions, ill p The way Votorantim manages Votorantim also owns two ip companies operate out of 20 and Information Technology Beliefs its businesses, comprising the environmental reserves, totaling countries in five continents, Proficiency centers. The CoE ●● Cultivating talent following themes: 62,000 hectares equally divided in seven businesses in the has a team of 773 employees Expressed in a document ●● Meritocracy into Legado das Águas—the ●● Financial stewardship: segments of building materials, working in São Paulo, and gathering the practices ●● Excellence largest private Atlantic Forest Ensures financial discipline to metals and mining, aluminum, Curitiba (Brazil), and in Lima Votorantim has adopted for its ●● Pragmatism reserve in Brazil, located in the enable the desired risk-return long steel, electric power, orange (Peru). businesses over the century, ●● Open dialogue State of São Paulo—and Legado profile. juice, and finance. 102-1 | 102-2 | the Votorantim DNA governs ●● Alliance Considering all of its investees, Verdes do Cerrado—the only ●● Value creation: Sets out 102-3 | 102-4 | 102-5 | 102-6 the holding company’s and the ●● Sense of ownership Votorantim has over 36,000 private reserve for sustainable Votorantim’s vision, and investees’ way of being, and how Cultivating Talents With headquarters located in direct employees and 6,000 development in Brazil’s Midwest, identifies the business’s São Paulo, the holding company indirect employees in 485 located in the State of Goiás. they operate and are managed. cy cra potential value, translating it rito has a team of 125 professionals operating and administrative Ex cel Me Votorantim reported len ce into concrete plans that align working in the Human and units. 102-8 Values consolidated net revenue of Pragmatism and mobilize the company. Organizational Development ●● Operational excellence: A high-performance culture R$31.9 billion and consolidated log ue Dia (Human Resources); Investor Op en All Seeks to continually improve Sense of Ownership permeates Votorantim’s adjusted EBITDA of R$6.9 billion Soundness: Pursuing sustainable ian ce Relations; Communications; processes through practices activities, focused on investment for 2018, up 19% and 47% knowledge that creates value. Legal; Governance, Risks, and key synergies among the decisions and portfolio year-on-year. 102-7 and Compliance; Financial Ethics: Acting responsibly and companies. transformation, translating Management; and Corporate transparently. Governance principles ●● People and company: Votorantim’s influence on its Development departments. The way Votorantim manages its Preserves Votorantim’s investees with the purpose Respect: Respecting people, and of enhancing the businesses’ day-to-day activities, through culture through leadership being willing to learn. value creation and ensuring guidelines that lay the basis for that incorporates its values their continuity. At the CoE, the Entrepreneurism: Growing with its corporate governance model. and beliefs. high-performance culture joins the courage to make, innovate, ●● Image and reputation: forces with innovation, helping and invest. Protects and promotes the Center to better identify Votorantim’s image Unity: The whole is stronger and reputation with its than its parts. stakeholders. 14 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 15 P rofile P rofile Strategy and management Votorantim’s Identity At the right time: The right time is the one we do not miss. As a permanently capitalized Votorantim expects its investees Everyday, we remember the decisions we make today will drive future investment holding company with to preserve their capacity results, and that we have to think fast and act in a structured, strategic and a long-term investment horizon, to invest in order to secure assertive manner. Our mindset is innovative—we are always looking ahead. Votorantim seeks to deliver their continuity; to maintain But when we look to the future we have to be ready for challenging what happens now. We also have to be prepared to respond to changes in superior financial returns with a an adequate capital structure different sectors (and countries) where we operate. positive social and environmental that enables growth and the impact. This goal translates into payment of dividends; to The right way: For us, there is only one way of doing it—the right the way it manages its investees, foster innovation, including to one. Our corporate DNA carries our unique way of behaving and reflects its purpose of transform the business model; and operating. We treat our investees, employees, and ensuring profitable businesses and to always be concerned society with respect, and we act ethically. We have great to shareholders that also about the impacts of their expertise in investments and the necessary knowledge benefit society. operations. to always perform better and responsibly. With the right people: We have made a firm commitment: We will invest in our people because we believe in them and in what Patient capital, unnegotiable purpose they are capable of delivering. We are always moving forward, towards what is new. We positively influPreserving the capacity Capital structure Diversification: Financial and to invest that enables • Sectors. strategic ence our people through our growth and • Geographies. flexibility to inspired leaders. dividends • Risk factors. make significant Leveraging changes innovation to transform their For investees For the portfolio Meeting the business models shareholders’ investment Preserving the Capital goals Votorantim DNA allocation strategy goals For shareholders Maximizing total Votorantim’s returns for shareholders continuity 16 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 17 P rofile P rofile Portfolio ●● Ownership: 100% ●● Industry: Building materials ●● Employees1: 11,932 ●● Units2: 264 ●● Ownership: 50% ●● Operations in 12 countries ●● Industry: Finance ●● Social investment: R$13.73 million ●● Employees1: 3,972 ●● Company funds: R$9.75 million ●● Units2: 87 ●● Votorantim Institute: R$3.98 million ●● Operations in 2 countries ●● Ownership: 64% ●● Industry: Metals and mining ●● Employees1: 5,771 ●● Units2: 15 ●● Operations in 6 countries ●● Social investment: R$31.38 million ●● Company funds: R$23.26 million ●● Votorantim Institute: R$8.12 million Long steel ●● Ownership: 100% ●● Ownership: 100% ●● Ownership: 100% of Acerbrag, and 82% ●● Ownership: 50% ●● Industry: Aluminum ●● Industry: Electric power of Acerías Paz del Río ●● Industry: Orange juice ●● Employees1: 5,029 ●● Employees1: 485 ●● Industry: Long steel ●● Employees1: 5,331 ●● Units2: 13 ●● Units2: 57 ●● Employees1: 2,138 ●● Units2: 46 ●● Operations in 1 country ●● Operations in 1 country ●● Units2: 3 ●● Operations in 7 countries ●● Social investment: R$4.95 million ●● Social investment: R$8.19 million ●● Operations in 2 countries ●● Social investment: R$2.28 million ●● Company funds: R$3.77 million ●● Company funds: R$3.94 million ●● Social investment: R$2.35 million ●● Company funds: R$2.24 million ●● Votorantim Institute: R$1.18 million ●● Votorantim Institute: R$4.25 million ●● Company funds: R$1.72 million ●● Votorantim Institute: R$0.04 million ●● Votorantim Institute: R$0.63 million 1 Includes company employees, interns, and apprentices 2 Includes offices, plants, distribution centers, and other units Unit locations according to bullet colors 18 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 19 P rofile P rofile Centennial year Recognition Votorantim’s Great Place To Work’s Best 50 most loved companies in Votorantim carried out several actions in celebration Votorantim’s history and how the company is helping operations—in their Workplaces – For the first time, Brazil – For the third consecutive of its 100th anniversary. As the centennial coincided transform that district. (See the Portfolio chapter for economic and financial, the company was included in year, Votorantim has been included with the year of general elections in Brazil, the further details) social, governance, the survey, in the Medium-sized in Love Mondays’ ranking, which company decided to reaffirm its commitment In another event, employees from all companies in the and environmental Multinational category. has a platform for employees to to acting as a socially responsible business and portfolio, both in Brazil and abroad, simultaneously dimensions—have been evaluate how satisfied they are supported voter awareness through the “Voter’s Guia Você S/A’s 150 Best celebrated the centennial with a symbolic cake. The recognized by different awards, with their salary and benefits, Guide” platform. This includes a book on the election Workplaces – For the third “Votorantim Cake” recipe was developed in the late process and the functions of each elective office, and including the following: career opportunities, corporate 1930’s and included in a book published by the consecutive year, Votorantim a website and application to foster—in an ideologically culture, and quality of life. company, containing recipes that used the Primus HSM Management Leadership – has been included in the ranking neutral and non-partisan way—voters’ reflection and cooking oil, which used to be made by Votorantim In its first edition, Votorantim’s organized by Você S/A magazine; Abrasca Annual Report Award awareness when choosing their candidates. (See the from the seeds of the cotton supplied to the textile Executive Board and Board of this year, it ranked 55th in the – Votorantim ranked first Social Development chapter for further details). factory the company owned at the time. Directors were granted the general ranking and 6th in Other among Group 1 Privately-Held In education, the Votorantim Partnership for award by HSM Management, Services. Companies (net revenue above Votorantim also launched an institutional campaign Education (PVE)—initiative in partnership with local which recognized the corporate R$1 billion), for the second year in the media to publicize the initiatives undertaken Guia Você S/A’s best Companies governments—was expanded to more than 100 leaders that are transforming in a row; the award is granted throughout the centennial year. Taking advantage of municipalities, focusing on better quality public to Start a Career – For the third the fact that the company’s name carries the word organizations and Brazil. by the Brazilian Association of education and better scores in the country’s official consecutive year, Votorantim “voto” (Portuguese word for vote), the campaign Publicly-Held Companies. education rankings. (See the Social Development Entrepreneur of the Year – The has been included in the ranking, publicized Votorantim’s commitments through the chapter for further details). 21st edition of EY’s award, which also organized by Você S/A Highlights of the year: Aberje phrases “I vote for nature,” “I vote for education,” “I recognizes Brazilian professionals magazine, this time in the 30th Awards – In the 44th edition Centennial celebrations also included a reception at vote for people,” “I vote for citizenship”. The campaign with prominent careers, was position. of the event organized by the Arca, a historic warehouse building located in the Vila also emphasized the company’s commitment to the given to the Ermírio de Moraes Brazilian Association of Corporate Leopoldina district in São Paulo that used to house future, through the concept that “someone who family, in the Family Business Communications, Votorantim Votorantim’s Metalúrgica Atlas smelting factory. The loves their country helps build it”. category. received the Special Award for company has restored the building and transformed into an event venue. A small-format exhibition being the company with the was prepared for the reception, with photos, best corporate communication objects, pieces of equipment, and videos showing practices in Brazil. 20 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 21 Innovation and technology Looking to the future, encouraging the businesses to evolve and innovate in order to remain relevant. I nnovation and technolo g y I nnovation and technolo g y Established innovation ecosystem Center of Excellence (CoE) The concept of The concept of innovation goes beyond technology: it is in the company’s mindset The company formed an innovation team at the CoE with 25 professionals from innovation is in and is fostered in the investees. The investees have autonomy to adopt different different areas, dedicated to improving knowledge, bringing business areas closer the company’s solutions, and Votorantim supports them so they remain competitive, grow, and to the innovation ecosystem, and spreading the theme on different business mindset and is develop their own business models—goals that heavily rely on innovation. fronts. Nearly 300 people also received training in São Paulo and Curitiba (Brazil), fostered in the and in Lima (Peru). During the year, the Innovation Program was launched in One of Votorantim’s initiatives to foster innovation is 18.18, a transformational investees. Lima, gathering a multidisciplinary team of ten employees from the Peruvian and program that seeks to deepen the connection between individuals and new trends Brazilian offices. that will impact businesses in the future, challenging them to rethink their activities for the company’s next 100 years. (See the People chapter for further details). In partnership with investees, Votorantim has implemented several solutions (See on the next page), some of which have already yielded important and scalable Also, the Center of Excellence’s (CoE) innovation program involves the investees results. These initiatives aim at sharing practices among companies and startups, and is governed by three development goals: and fostering the innovation theme among employees of the holding company and ●● Transforming people and culture. of the investees. ●● Creating value for clients and the company. The Center of Excellence (CoE) ●● Creating more demands and services. offers services in: Information Technology Finance Human Resources Accounting and Taxes Real Estate Loss Prevention Analytics 24 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 25 I nnovation and technolo g y I nnovation and technology Co-creation Loss prevention New products using applied Acceleration: Avaliei startup Innovation Day In order to operate in an Under the digital services geoprocessing With the goal of transforming increasingly digital scenario, concept, the loss prevention Using internally-developed the real estate appraisal market, Votorantim invests in new project seeks solutions to algorithms, the CoE has CoE-accelerated startup Avaliei technologies, encouraging support the compliance expanded its services portfolio will provide tools for companies reinvention. With that in mind, process. The tool monitors through the smart use of that need appraisal reports—a the CoE has been working the companies’ transactions, images captured by drones or formal document specifying the with the investees to build processes and standards in real other high-resolution sources market value of a property. differentiated solutions for time. Combining data, it detects to generate cartographic Given the lack of technology, the businesses. One example potential fraud, operational information. This methodology low reliability, high costs, and is the project for Nexa, which errors, or deficiencies, is more agile, safer, and costs long terms that prevail in uses artificial intelligence and passes them onto the less than the conventional conventional property appraisal and advanced analytics to relative departments for the topography process. For practices, Avaliei’s real estate develop a virtual assistant necessary corrections to be example, it enables the The event, held for the first time in São Paulo and the second in intelligence platform addresses that is able to reduce the time made. Votorantim Cimentos measurement of inventory and Curitiba, enabled participants to experience innovation through three key aspects: spent on research of new and Votorantim Energia are mine extraction levels, updating panels with market professionals, workshops, and by interacting mineral reserves, and increase already using this tool, which of the land use and occupation ●● Pricing, through the input of with projects and prototypes presented by startups. the effectiveness of mineral can be adapted to different base, and inspection of parameters such as physical Several market professionals and executives from Votorantim exploration-related decisions. risk management needs or properties, facilities, and pieces aspects, type, and location to investees discussed highly relevant themes such as digital businesses. of equipment. get price references. transformation and innovation, venture capital, business redesign, ●● Valued opinion, where the and urban mobility. user can request a more detailed appraisal of the The event also showcased innovative solutions, such as the call property based on a choice recording software used in Banco Votorantim’s call center. In of analytic parameters on the 2018, the bank was the first to implement an artificial intelligence tool to identify the content of the calls and forward them to the platform. Ombudsman. ●● Appraisal report, including sharing, collection of physical Another case was the Green Code initiative of Legado das Águas, data through an integrated which tracks the production in the tree nursery, so that all the way network of appraisers, from the Atlantic Forest to when they are sold, all plants produced and an algorithm for value in the nursery have their quality and origin assured. (See the calculation. Environmental Development chapter for further details). 26 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 27 Corporate governance Ethical conduct. One of Votorantim’s values that, added to transparency and dialogue with all stakeholders, governs the way the company does business: the right way. and risk management C orporate g overnance and ri s k mana g ement C orporate g overnance and ri s k mana g ement Governance model 102-18 | 102-19 | 102-20 | 102-31 1 Hejoassu 2 Family Board 3 Board of Directors Created in 2000 and constantly evolving, Votorantim’s Votorantim Reservas Institute Votorantim governance model excels in transparency, which includes an honest dialogue with stakeholders, and in ethical conduct—one of the company’s Executive Board core values, supported by compliance processes and internal controls, and by dissemination activities. CEO The Votorantim DNA—which establishes the company’s way of being, operating and managing its businesses, and sets the pillars to achieve this—is widely disseminated among the company’s teams and the investees, CFO Chief Compliance Corporate Chief and Investor Officer and Development Legal through their Boards of Directors or training sessions for employees. This is Relations of the Center Officer Officer Officer of Excellence how Votorantim seeks to perpetuate its principles and values, regardless of changes in the market, business portfolio, or organizational structure. Votorantim’s corporate governance model has three spheres: 1. Ownership, represented by the Board of Hejoassu, the holding company Votorantim Nexa Votorantim that owns Votorantim. CBA Cimentos Resources Energia 2. Family, represented by the Family Board. 3. Businesses, conducted and represented by the Board of Directors and Acerbrag and Banco Executive Board of Votorantim and its investees companies. Acerías Paz del Río Citrosuco Votorantim 30 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 31 C orporate g overnance and ri s k mana g ement C orporate g overnance and ri s k mana g ement The term-of-office for the Hejoassu’s Board currently in the sixth generation Board of Directors Votorantim, Hejoassu, and It is responsible for transferring and has 152 members, including This is responsible for defining the strategic planning and orienting Family Boards is three years. The its financial aspiration, macro36 shareholders. its execution, in addition to making capital allocation decisions. It Hejoassu and Family Boards are vision, and risk appetite periodically assesses the performance of the investees’ Boards of independent from Votorantim, to Votorantim, therefore Directors, whose members are appointed by Votorantim’s Board. Family Board 102-24 | 102-26 | and they interact through a establishing the appropriate 102-27 The Board has seven members—three are family shareholders, three formal schedule of meetings. spheres for the development The Family Board has a formal are independent members, and one chairman who is not a family of the strategy. It is also The investees have their statute and its mission is to keep member. responsible for maintaining the own Boards of Directors and the family united in their values, company’s culture, DNA, talents, Executive Boards to discuss preserving their legacy. Board members 102-22 | 102-23 and purposes, so as to ensure and resolve on their strategies, Raul Calfat – Chairman the continuity of the family The Family Board is also business management, risks, Luis Ermírio de Moraes – Deputy Chairman business. responsible for developing investments, opportunities, and Cláudio Ermírio de Moraes – Board member responsible shareholders and sustainability. 102-19 | 102-20 | The Board has 12 José Roberto Ermírio de Moraes – Board member leaders for succession both in 102-29 shareholders—three Marcelo Medeiros – Independent board member the family and in businesses, representing each of the four Oscar Bernardes – Independent board member facilitating communication family holding companies. Pedro Wongtschowski – Independent board member among family members, building The fourth and fifth family family unity, and caring for the generation members made family’s and company’s legacy, Executive Board decisions together. The family is inspiring through its history. This is responsible for managing the businesses according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines. Family values Board members 102-22 | 102-23 INTEGRITY Being whole, ethical, honoring João Miranda – Chief Executive Officer our history, and helping build João Schmidt – Corporate Development Officer the future with respect. Luiz Caruso – Chief Compliance Officer and of the Center of Excellence GENEROSITY Being generous with Luiz Marcelo Fins – Chief Legal Officer oneself, the family, and society. Sergio Malacrida – Chief Financial and Investor Relations Officer COURAGE Being determined, always willing to learn and evolve, and believing everything is possible. UNITY Honoring the history that unites us, valuing our collective Power, and being at the forefront of our Legacy. IMPACT Dedicated, achievement-focused work, driven by the power to innovate and transform. PASSION Having the freedom and motivation to find and pursue one’s passions. 32 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 33 C orporate g overnance and ri s k mana g ement C orporate g overnance and ri s k mana g ement Ethics Line Compliance Program 102-17 | 102-25 Phone number: 0800 89 11 729 Website: votorantim.com/linhaetica Created in 2013, Votorantim’s Compliance Program is based on Compliance-related themes are widely disseminated among employees through seven pillars, according to the image below. policies, and training on the key aspects of each pillar. Votorantim’s Code of Conduct is also part of the program, and it contains the key elements governing the relations between the holding company, the investees, and stakeholders. This document sets out the expected behavior in the workplace, when dealing with external stakeholders, using company resources, and complying with the Brazilian Anti-corruption Law. It also encourages the reporting of any illicit acts to the Ethics Line. The Ethics Line ensures information confidentiality, preserves the identity Pillars of the people involved, and can also be contacted should any doubt arise relating to Functions Instruments the interpretation of the Code of Conduct. This platform is available for all investees PERMITS, AUTHORIZATIONS & CERTIFICATIONS in different languages. Reports are forwarded to the Conduct Committee, which is Capturing Laws Regulatory and Standards Framework responsible for analyzing them, determining which disciplinary action is necessary, and ensuring such action is duly taken. Managing Policies and Critical Documents Proceedings FAIR COMPETITION / ANTITRUST LOSS AND FRAUD PREVENTION The structure surrounding ethical conduct is supported by the Anti-corruption Policy, CONTRACTS & AGREEMENTS Education and Acculturation Training LAWS AND REGULATIONS which encompasses all investees. Not only does this document comply with current Effective Communication Brazilian Laws, but it also takes into consideration anti-corruption-related governance EXTERNAL REPORTS Ombudsman ANTI-CORRUPTION Lines practices adopted in Brazil and internationally. The purpose is to ensure the highest Internal Monitoring Obligations of Obligations System integrity, process transparency, and business sustainability standards. Votorantim Managing Guidance and also has an Anti-corruption Manual for employee orientation, first published in 2017. Consequences Disciplinary Measures 34 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 35 C orporate g overnance and ri s k mana g ement C orporate governance and ris k management The influence of compliance developed among the investees The process to monitor the Risk on investees The investees have Audit that sell products abroad. employees’ relations with competitors and government management 102-9 | 102-11 | 102-30 Committees that monitor agents has also been enhanced Institutional relations compliance practices, and through the analysis of potential transparency a compliance work group conflicts of interest identified in In 2018, the company reinforced that addresses new legal monitoring reports. the recording of all interactions requirements. The work group with the government, ensuring gathers the compliance teams transparency in all transactions of all companies, and it has between employees and technical knowledge to help the government agencies. Leveraged companies adopt processes by Votorantim, this process and procedures in line with best has become stronger among market practices. This is what investees. happened in 2018 concerning trade compliance, a theme Through the investees’ Audit Committees, Votorantim evaluates whether their residual risk has a significant impact on the risk appetite established by the holding company. Votorantim also influences the investees’ risk management process, which has evolved for the past few years: from conceptual discussions about inherent risks, Compliance Week to understanding business risks and their impacts on the value of each investee. Votorantim held the Filho; Guilherme Alfredo de way. Speakers also addressed Investees are responsible for identifying, quantifying, and treating strategic, Compliance Week for the Moraes Nostre, PhD in criminal management’s civil liability, environmental, social, regulatory, and financial risks. Their classification in terms second consecutive year law; and Maria Cecília Mello, referring to the image of the of probability and impact follows the same parameters established for the holding in December, the month magistrate of the 3rd Region whole company. company’s risk appetite, which evaluates these impacts on the portfolio. when International AntiFederal Court of Appeals (TRFCompliance Week has also Corruption Day is celebrated. 3) were the speakers at the carried out regional events in Risk appetite is analyzed using two methodologies: (1) qualitative, which determines The event is an opportunity for opening ceremony, in São Paulo. Curitiba, and in Lima (Peru); and the different risk spheres; and (2) quantitative, based on the maximum risk Votorantim the executives of Votorantim Ethics, moral, and values at all investees, with specific is willing to assume globally. Risk tolerance percentages are established based on this and its investees to discuss were themes addressed from themes for each company, compliance-related legislation analysis, and the Boards of Directors and Committees are involved whenever such limits are an individual responsibility including lectures, training and, most of all, the importance reached. perspective, including the sessions, and case studies. of compliance practices for responsibility of maintaining businesses, processes, and dayVotorantim’s unequivocal vision to-day relations. Philosopher that there is only one way and professor Clóvis de Barros of doing business—the right 36 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 37 Environmental development Excellence in eco-efficiency and mitigation of risks are Votorantim’s key environmental guidelines. E nvironmental development E nvironmental development Environmental conservation Management of environmental assets Learn more at legadodasaguas.com.br Votorantim’s commitment to environmental conservation translates Reservas Votorantim The goals are to At Legado das Águas, a closer (Reservas) manages the create shared value, relationship with the São Paulo into its influencing the investees so that they are always concerned about environmental assets of the and maintain the Forestry Foundation resulted in the impacts of their activities. This commitment is also seen as Votorantim investees, whose purpose is to the preparation of a plan for the conservation of fosters internal and external stakeholders awareness about the need to secure a create shared value, meaning Jurupará Park, which will create territories and water sustainable future for the next generations. the generation of revenue in the resources. opportunities in research and production chain through the ecotourism. Moreover, the works Therefore, investees adopt initiatives to measure and reduce the use of natural conservation of territories and to enhance tourism stewardship resources, such as water and electric power, waste generation, and the emission water resources, and community have benefited the cities In 2018, Reservas started of greenhouse gases. They also work closely with their supply chain, monitoring development. surrounding the park, and two operating the Statutory Nature of them already hold the title of the negative impacts caused by suppliers and helping them adopt best practices. It currently manages 62,000 Reserve Compensation business tourist city. (See the Portfolio chapter for further details on the investees’ initiatives) hectares equally divided into: for farmers, some of which Legado das Águas—the largest already have contracts in place. private Atlantic Forest reserve It has also promoted these in Brazil, located in the cities of services during agricultural Juquiá, Miracatu, and Tapiraí, trade fairs. in the State of São Paulo—and Legado Verdes do Cerrado—a private reserve for sustainable development, located in the city of Niquelândia, in the State of Goiás. 40 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 41 E nvironmental development E nvironmental development Innovation in biodiversity Legado das Águas has Another collaborative innovation An agroforestry project was Legado Verdes do Cerrado developed a project for initiative was the development introduced in the Cerrado for the genetic mapping of of the Green Code system planting several species with Legado Verdes do Cerrado was Legado has also started doing In addition to all these practices, created in 2017 in partnership research in partnership with replicated from the experience Atlantic Forest plants for to track the tree nursery’s different life cycles (vegetables, with the government of the State the Brazilian Forestry Service acquired at Legado das Águas, the potential development of production. Innovative in the fruits, wood, etc) on the same of Goiás. One of its projects (SFB), and the Federal University Legado Verdes do Cerrado bioproducts. Using cuttingmarket, the software identifies piece of land, with production is the reforestation of water of Goiás (UFG), to accurately has an additional initiative: edge tools, the DNA of over all plants that are native to a throughout the whole year. sources located in farmers’ calculate how much carbon is soybean farming in part of the 50 species was sequenced to location, so potential buyers can This project is conducted in properties, which has increased sequestered in an area of high area that used to be dedicated find raw materials that can be use a QR-Code on their mobile partnership with the Tiradentes the demand for saplings, leading concentration of trees owned by to eucalyptus farming. In the used in the pharmaceuticals phones to track the seed’s origin Institute and involves six the tree nursery to expand Legado Verdes do Cerrado, to be 2017/2018 season, 1,000 and cosmetics industries. Over and how the production process hectares of syntropic farming, its capacity from 40,000 used as a sample of the Cerrado hectares were used, yielding the last three years, the project was conducted. If any problem showing great potential for to nearly 300,000 saplings. area. 55,000 sacks of soybeans. created a rainforest database, occurs in a landscaping project, income generation for local Some of the saplings are used This work is expected to last two called “Digital Forest”. it can be quickly solved because farmers. in a reforestation project in years, and is already ongoing in the whole useful life of the plant partnership with the Goiás an area of 31,000 hectares. It is monitored. This project has Agriculture Federation (Faeg) and was designed to be extremely won the Brazilian Automation small farmers. Legado donates precise. Association (GS1 Brasil) award. the saplings, and together with farmers and Faeg, does the planting. This initiative has already resulted in the recovery of four water sources in the region of Niquelândia. 42 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 43 Fostering the best in each one to achieve the best of everyone. People P eople P eople Human and Organizational Attractiveness, engagement Development (DHO) and communication Visit linkedin.com/company/votorantim Votorantim’s DHO department is structured on three fronts: In 2018, Votorantim With the same goal of attracting The CoE has also developed, redesigned its program for young talents, CoE’s Internship since 2010, the “Melhor Idade, ●● Attractiveness, engagement and communication. young talents to enter the Program is carried out every Melhor Emprego” (MIME) ●● Development. company. Votorantim formally six months. In 2018, 56 interns program for people older than ●● Remuneration and benefits. structured its Internship were selected out of 3,234 45, or retirees, to carry out Program and received 812 applications. The program operations projects. The goal is DHO’s goal is to provide an environment for people to genuinely develop their applications for 11 available focuses on enhancing soft to provide them with a source talents and abilities. positions. This program offers skills, offering training sessions of additional income from exclusive development activities on themes such as creativity, more analytical activities, which By the end of the year, the initiatives had reached 918 employees at the holding and performance evaluations empathy, and problem solving. demand specific knowledge. company, the CoE, Votorantim Institute, and Reservas, including 349 men and in connection with the intern’s With no specific hiring cycle, this The CoE has also created 569 women. In order to develop specific practices for these different stakeholders daily work. Three of the 11 initiative closed 2018 with 13 the Young Talents Program, and businesses, the DHO department has two dedicated and independent teams: interns were hired by Votorantim participants. dedicated to attracting recent or one of its investees by the one for the management of CoE employees in Brazil (São Paulo and Curitiba), and graduates from areas that end of the program. in Peru, and another for the management of employees in the holding company’s help further develop its digital transformation strategy. Seven office in São Paulo, in the Institute, and in Reservas. 102-8 young talents were hired in 2018 by the Business Consulting, Analytics, and Innovation departments. All young talents undergo a mentoring and soft skills development program, visit Votorantim’s investees, and come into contact with the talents network of these companies. 46 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 47 P eople P eople Two other programs that help Votorantim attract talents The Alumni program seeks to maintain former employees In order to keep employees updated on key company Development at the holding company close to Votorantim, and events, Votorantim publishes are the Ambassadors, and does so by inviting them to newsletters and electronic Alumni programs. Nearly 60 participate in company initiatives bulletins, and holds events employees volunteered for the and informing them of job dedicated to discussing themes Ambassadors program in 2018, opportunities. that are strategic for the and became spokespeople for company, such as Encontro Votorantim measures the the company in 19 activities, Votorantim (Votorantim engagement level of its representing Votorantim in Meeting), and Diálogo employees every year. In 2018, events and trade fairs, classes (Dialogue), which are held by the 96% of the staff participated and lectures at universities. CoE every quarter. Votorantim in the engagement survey at interacts with its investees The Ambassadors are also the holding company, Hejoassu, through the Encontro de The Votorantim Development DHO’s goal is to make the The program had 77 participants responsible for welcoming Votorantim Institute, and Lideranças (Leadership Meeting), System (SDV) gathers a series of evaluation process smoother and in the latest round, including groups of students when they Reservas Votorantim. The held every year. 102-8 actions to foster and accelerate more in line with labor market all leaders and a group of visit the company, such as Engagement Index was 4.15 (on professional careers. Through practices, meaning it has to employees that are currently during the Votorantim Finance a scale ranging from 0 to 5.00), this system, the company understand individual challenges not in a managerial position, but Tour event organized for and the Leadership Index was has conducted an individual and how the employees can add have shown potential for it. The members of the Financial Market 75% (on a scale ranging from 0 assessment of its employees, value to the work developed by themes addressed in the latest University Leagues. In order to to 100%). The CoE also carries identifying their profile and their departments. This includes round included self-awareness play this important role, the out an engagement survey, and behavior traits, strengths, self-awareness activities, and and tools to support time and Ambassadors receive training in 2018 its engagement index types of potential and skills, permanently fostering dialogue. routine management. and are encouraged to advocate was 4.02 (on a scale ranging and other characteristics. for the company’s edges and from 0 to 5.00). The CoE has two main The second program is Mês Each individual, based on such hear the demands from external development programs. One Desenvolva, which has two information and supported by stakeholders. is Líder Mais, whose goal is annual editions and fosters their manager and the DHO to carry out activities which personal development and department, determines short keep managers aligned with empowerment so employees and long-term opportunities for Votorantim’s businesses and are able to manage their own their professional development strategies, enable them to lead careers. In 2018, over 400 in their unique Individual innovation, engage their teams, employees participated in Development Plan (PDI). and respond to challenges in activities involving the following a VUCA scenario (Volatility, subjects: customer experience, Uncertainty, Complexity, and emerging technologies, Ambiguity). This program lasts a statistics, the future of work, year and a half. and a feedback workshop. 48 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 49 P eople P eople Votorantim Academy Visit Visit vototalks.com.br votorantim1818.com.br The Development pillar also The Academy also organized The Vototalks collaborative The Votorantim Academy is The program’s website is Potenciar is another Votorantim includes the Votorantim the Vototalks Festival in 2018, platform is part of Votorantim’s also a hub supporting the available to the public, and Academy program. It was created Academy, whose activities are including 20 online lectures, strategy of fostering the 18.18 program for investees. contains articles, podcasts, and in 2012 and recognizes, promotes divided into three fronts— which together attained nearly creation of multiple tools for This transformational videos that help increase the and invests in Votorantim’s Inspiration & Stimulation, 10,000 views. The speakers inspiration, education, and program seeks to broaden connection with trends that talents, accelerating their Personal Journey, and the shared knowledge, techniques, dialogue for internal and external the connection between may impact organizations in learning through technical and Votorantim DNA. The programs and the paths followed in stakeholders, with the goal of individuals and new trends the future. The online assets behavioral training. The training are enhanced by experiences transformational processes. The stimulating reflection and action that will impact businesses in also help engage Votorantim’s framework has been redesigned, and are extended to the lectures also addressed themes when it comes to projecting the the future, challenging them leaders in implementing models and now places employees investees. This approach resulted such as collaborative innovation, future. to be innovative. The program compatible with new market at the forefront of their own in an increase of 20% in the the future of education, is based on high-performance demands, systematically align development. In 2018, the number of participants in events the creation of startups by culture, new standards and the company’s purpose and initiative had seven participants promoted by the Votorantim centenarian companies, industry emerging technologies, business vision of the future, and foster from the holding company and Academy in 2018. 4.0, and circular economy. [re]design, transformation environments, behaviors, and the Votorantim Institute, and The online event also featured awareness, and global mindset. processes that bolster collective 11 from the CoE. The program podcasts with panels on various Aligned with this initiative, all intelligence, considering each lasted 12 months and was subjects. A total of 15 hours investees and Votorantim itself of Votorantim’s businesses’ divided into three sections: “Me”, of training were offered on the have been challenged to seek scenarios. focusing on self-awareness; “Us”, event’s online platform. innovation. where participants gain deeper knowledge about the business model, the companies’ strategy, and global trends; and “Everyone”, which addresses the impacts, and the value the Votorantim portfolio adds to society. 50 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 51 P eople P eople Remuneration and benefits In 2018, the holding company In addition to benefits The 2018 edition included first Benefits offered restructured its Performance established by the law, such as aid training, extended massage to employees Committee in order to make meal and public transportation hours, a program to encourage ● Health insurance a 100% qualitative evaluation vouchers, Votorantim offers physical exercise (+Movimento), ● Dental insurance by the managers. All managers further benefits, listed on the lectures and a guide on healthy participated in this process, next page. eating, emotional health ● Life insurance including employees responsible activities, and medical care. ● Private pension through Fundação The CoE also offers for mentoring and training Senador José Ermírio de Moraes reimbursements for school interns. After learning about the (Funsejem) supplies and pharmacy basic concepts of remuneration, expenses, and childcare ● Christmas Card all of them received an allowance for men and women. ● Christmas toy voucher for employees with kids evaluation from each of their team members in order to Votorantim also carries ● Medical care facilitate and guide the formal out exclusive activities for ● Executive health check-up feedback process. employees. Semana +Vida ●A program for pregnant employees (+Life Week) is held every year, and offers medical exams, and ● Flu vaccines fosters a healthy life through ● Fruits different initiatives. ● Massage ● Gym reimbursement ● Supporting Program for Employees (PAE), in partnership with Alelo, including psychological, financial, and family support ● Partnership with Commerce Social Service (Sesc) units 52 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 53 The importance of social engagement in the business model. Before entering a new territory, the investees analyze the local context and the impact caused by their operations, and create Social development a plan to generate positive social results. Social development Social development Social commitment Votorantim Institute Learn more at institutovotorantim.org.br Throughout their history, Votorantim’s investees have always In 2018, nearly 200 social The Votorantim Partnership for Education, and income generation developed a respectful relationship with the communities in order actions were implemented Education (PVE), ReDes, and are subjects the to build a positive social legacy. When the investees enter a new territory, they by the Votorantim Institute Public Stewardship Support Votorantim Institute allocate professionals to map the characteristics, needs, and potentialities of the in 160 municipalities in Brazil, (AGP) are programs structured prioritizes when communities, and identify the impacts caused by the operations in order to design Peru, Argentina, and Colombia. by the Votorantim Institute engaging with action plans to support sustainable development and better quality of life. These actions are designed and they account for nearly communities, in line according to the needs of each 80% of the Institute’s projects. with the territorial Votorantim influences the investees to commit to both the creation of opporinvestee and enable economies Other ongoing initiatives include development strategy. tunities and the development of the community. The Votorantim Institute helps of scale. Priority is given to Corporate Volunteering, the the companies design and implement their social strategies, focusing on each projects in the segments of Qualification Program for business. education, and creation of jobs Organizations, Supporting and income, from a perspective Program for Children’s and of productive inclusion which Adolescents’ Rights, and the translates into citizenship. Community Forums Program. 56 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 57 Social development Social development Votorantim Partnership for Moreover, by considering In 2018, with the theme Education (PVE) different realities and “Stewardship focused on understanding that each learning”, the PVE helped PVE at a glance experience creates value for managers analyze results 104 municipalities building a quality education and improve follow-up and Over 1,000 schools network, PVE helps transform formation routines, so that 360,000 students directly and indirectly impacted individual practices and structure students learn more, better, 2,000+ public managers from social networks that work with and at the appropriate pace. In local departments of education education. early 2019, the Program’s name trained in the program was changed to Partnership for 770+ school principals and Valuing Education. coordinators engaged Created ten years ago, PVE was expanded in the centennial Social engagement stages year, and its activities reached 104 municipalities in Brazil, Prioritizing the locations: The Social agenda: Defining what the Portfolio management: Ongoing up from the 51 cities in the locations in which the social work actions will focus on, based on initiatives are monitored to previous year. Dedicated to will focus on are chosen based on the location’s characteristics. The ensure the intended advances improving education and school business strategy, the company’s social plan is then elaborated for are made, and that investments stewardship, the initiative impacts, and the key social issues the medium and long terms, and are assertive; it also allows for engages managers, families, of the municipalities where includes the goals that have been new risks and opportunities to employees of Votorantim operations are carried out. set, the expected results, and the be identified, and any necessary investees, and other segments paths to be pursued. adjustments to be made. Determining the location’s of society that are able to characteristics: Includes an Investment plans: These include . help leverage the quality of in-depth analysis of the local the programs and projects that education. context and of the business to will enable the achievement of identify social challenges and the goals set in the plan, and opportunities. provide further details about budget and schedule for the activities. For locations and stakeholders, this is the most visible part of the work. 58 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 59 Social development Social development ReDes Program The BNDES invests the same Public Stewardship Support Voter’s Guide Via Solidária Volunteering Challenge amount as the investees, at a (AGP) ReDes at a glance Voter’s Guide at a glance Via Solidária at a glance Volunteering Challenge at a 1:1 ratio, in collective projects glance R$2.3 million directly invested in AGP at a glance Potential to reach 17 million R$651,000 in donations projects for income generation. One people 4,000 participants R$2.7 million invested 13 benefited projects 33 inclusive businesses example is the Nossa Senhora 1,500 copies of the book 9,000 activities 25 supported projects supported da Conceição Association, from 184,000 app downloads 16 municipalities in nine states The Via Solidária campaign 22 municipalities in 12 states the city of Sobral, in the State 7,000 comments on social stimulates the employees of The Volunteering Challenge and the Federal District of Ceará, whose associates make networks Sectors: agriculture, fishing, Given their nationwide footprint, Votorantim and of its investees engages employees of oil out of babassu coconut; the dairy production, floriculture, Votorantim’s investees operate This project fosters voter to make donations to projects Votorantim, its investees, and handcrafting, baking, costume waste from the production is out of many remote areas, awareness through a reflection dedicated to ensuring children’s outsourced labor on social jewelry, and sewing used as biomass in Votorantim and in municipalities that are on politics and ethics, and on and adolescents’ rights. In 2018, activities with organizations Cimentos’s furnaces. This activity ReDes was created in 2010 in not always well-equipped. how important it is for everyone donations totaled R$651,000, and schools chosen by the is a source of income for the partnership with the Brazilian Specifically in these territories, to participate in building amount eight times higher than participants. The teams score local community from the sale of Development Bank (BNDES), AGP offers technical support the future of the country. It in 2017. Donations can be points that are computed by oil and waste and helps reduce and is also supported by the for local governments to involved the publication of a made through direct payment or an online platform and, by the emissions and petcoke costs, Multilateral Investment Fund improve their stewardship book—“Voter’s Guide”, written deducted from the employee’s end of the campaign, the most the key fuel used in the cement (MIF) of the Inter-American processes and tools, together by political scientist Humberto salary, including in installments. engaged volunteers and the production process. Development Bank (IDB). with urban planning guidelines Dantas—about the Brazilian Donations are also income-tax institution of their choice are and instruments. This program elections system, and the deductible for donors that choose awarded a prize. focuses on municipalities with functions of each elective to file a complete tax return. In 2018, the number of a low Human Development office, with answers to voters’ The projects benefiting from participants in the campaign and Index and population of 50,000 most frequent questions. The the campaign are appointed the number of activities were inhabitants or less. In 2018, book’s content was adapted to and approved by City or all-time records—4,000 and also in partnership with the an e-book and mobile app, the State Councils on Children’s 9,000, respectively. The PVE was BNDES, the program supported latter including quizzes about and Adolescents’ Rights, and also engaged on the activities. 25 projects in two areas— the elections and exercises for supported by Votorantim’s stewardship modernization, and voters to give their opinion on investees, which provide spatial planning, empowering subjects discussed by Congress resources and technical local governments as the agents in order to identify the parties qualification. of local development. that vote according to their beliefs. Visit guiadovoto.org.br 60 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 61 Prudent capital allocation. Economic and financial performance E conomic and financial performance E conomic and financial performance Investor Relations 2018 Results Changes in net revenue (R$ MILLION) 19% 31,948 Visit 26,799 votorantim.com/ir 20171 2018 By segment (%) Long Steel Votrantim Even though Votorantim is a privately-held company, it has several channels Operating results 6 Cimentos Votorantim 38 and carries out different activities to communicate with the financial market. In a scenario of political and economic uncertainty in 2018, Energia 13 The company discloses yearly and quarterly results on its Investor Relations (IR) Votorantim remained prudent when executing the portfolio 16 CBA website and to the press, followed by conference calls with investors and financial transformation, but at the same time the performance of its 27 market analysts. Votorantim also publishes material facts whenever a material investees led to more robust consolidated results than in the Nexa event occurs at the company or its investees. previous year. Changes in adjusted EBITDA (R$ MILLION) The company has carried out the Votorantim Day in São Paulo for the past 14 Votorantim’s consolidated net revenue totaled R$31.9 47% years, and in New York for the last eight years. The goal of these events is to build billion in 2018, an increase of 19% year-on-year chiefly due 6,933 a closer relationship with banks and investors, and to discuss the macroeconomic to better results from the Brazilian cement operations, and 4,717 scenario, as well as the company’s strategies and results. the depreciation of the Brazilian currency against the U.S. dollar, which had a positive impact on the consolidation of In 2018, Votorantim redesigned its IR website both in English and Portuguese. foreign operations. A higher sales volume of zinc by smelters 20171 2018 Integrated to the company’s institutional website and offering a better user and higher aluminum prices also had a positive impact on By segment (%) experience, the new layout follows brand repositioning guidelines established the result. Other Votrantim in 2018. 11 Cimentos Long Steel 38 6 Adjusted EBITDA rose 47% year-on-year to R$6.9 billion, Votorantim 2 Energia also driven by better results from cement operations in Brazil CBA 12 and the depreciation of the Brazilian real against the dollar. 31 Nexa ¹ Restated value 64 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 65 E conomic and financial performance E conomic and financial performance Changes in net income (R$ MILLION) Cash flow (R$ MILLION) 446 (928) 416 6,933 (2,236) The effect of the subsidiaries Capex Changes in gross debt (R$ BILLION) 1,280 (70) 1,954 excluded from consolidation Capex totaled R$2.6 billion, 24.6 (1.9) 2.7 24.5 (614) (1.4) 1.4 (0.9) (2,576) represents the total debt of down 17% year-on-year. 810 1,507 225 (1,342) the Ventos do Piauí wind farm, Expansion projects represented (850) 860 400 which is now recognized at 24% of investments. 2017 2018 the level of the joint venture Operating Equity Financial Income tax and Discontinued Votorantim Cimentos’s projects Adjusted Working capital/ Operating Taxes CAPEX Investments/ Financial Dividends FX cash Free cash result 12/31/2017 Borrowings/ Interest Interest Effect of FX/ 12/31/2018 result social security effect between Votorantim Energia investments operations result other divestments flow 2018 represented 34% of all payment provision subsidiaries EBITDA 2018 other contribution cash flow 2018 amortizations excluded from and CPPIB, and is therefore consolidation investments in expansion. no longer consolidated in Net debt (R$ BILLION) Votorantim’s result. Nexa represented 56% of total Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA Net income and The income tax and social Free cash flow totaled R$400 investments in expansion; 14.8 15.3 Cash, cash equivalents and 13.6 13.2 12.4 cash generation security contribution loss of million, down R$2.5 billion it continued to deepen the 2.71x financial investments totaled 2.62x 2.59x 2.60x Net income totaled R$2.0 billion R$928 million was mainly driven compared to 2017, driven by the Vazante mine in the State of 1.91x R$11.0 billion, 42% of which are in 2018, compared to net by the higher deferred tax loss proceeds from Nexa’s IPO and Minas Gerais, in Brazil, and also denominated in Brazilian currency. income of R$810 million referring to the impact of the the sale of non-core assets by invested in other expansion Dec/171 Mar/181 Jun/181 Sep/181 Dec/18 in 2017. corporate reorganization at Votorantim Cimentos in 2017. Votorantim and Votorantim projects. At the Vazante mine, ¹ Restated value Votorantim Cimentos. Cimentos have two revolving the goal is to extend the mine’s Debt by type The increase in operating and currency credit facilities amounting to useful life to 2027, securing its (%) result mostly reflected a higher Discontinued operations mostly Liquidity and indebtedness Bank loans 13 US$700 million and expiring zinc supply. 67 adjusted EBITDA. refer to the recognition of assets By the end of 2018, Export Bonds in 2023; along with cash, credit in India as available for sale by consolidated debt totaled Votorantim Energia’s wind 3 3 12 Other Income from equity investments the liquidity position totals 5 Euro Votorantim Cimentos in 2018. R$24.5 billion, down farm—Ventos do Piauí I— BNDES increased by R$416 million, R$13.7 billion. 22 63 1% compared to 2017. accounted for 10% of total Real Dollar driven by the higher net income In 2018, operating cash flow 12 Notwithstanding the prepayment Net debt totaled R$13.2 billion, investments in expansion; Debentures from investees recognized by the amounted to R$1.5 billion, an of debt amounting to R$1.9 an increase of 7% year-onthe funds were allocated to equity method, especially Fibria increase of 121% year-on-year, billion, mostly by Votorantim year, chiefly driven by the complete the project’s financial and Banco Votorantim. driven by a higher adjusted Cimentos, the debt reduction depreciation of the Brazilian real execution, early in the year. CAPEX (R$ MILLION) EBITDA and lower Capex. The financial result increased by was offset by the depreciation against the dollar. Leverage (net 3,112 R$446 million, chiefly due to the of the Brazilian real against debt/adjusted EBITDA) reached 50% 2,567 non-cash effect of the rise of the dollar (from R$/US$ 3.31 1.91x, down 0.71x compared 24% R$417 million in the fair value in Dec/17 to R$/US$ 3.87 in to December 2017 and 0.69x 76% 50% of derivatives used to convert Dec/18). compared to September 2018. Expansion dollar-denominated bilateral Non-expansion loans to the Brazilian real. 2017 2018 Expansion projects (%) Votorantim Votorantim Energia Cimentos 10 34 Nexa 56 66 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 67 A permanently capitalized investment holding company with a long-term horizon, Portfolio Votorantim seeks to deliver superior financial returns with a positive social and environmental impact. P ortfolio P ortfolio Portfolio transformation 102-10 | 102-15 Real estate investments ARCA: PIU: arcaspaces.com piuleopoldina.com.br Instagram: @arcaspaces In 2018, Votorantim made important changes to its portfolio. The The Real Estate Investments business was created to develop Votorantim’s real estate incorporation of Votorantim Long Steel operations in Brazil by ArcelorMittal Brasil assets. In 2018, the business advanced in several development initiatives, including properties was approved by the Brazilian Antitrust Authority (CADE) in February. Following located in the Vila Leopoldina district, in the western region of São Paulo. the transaction, Votorantim now holds a 15% ownership in ArcelorMittal Brasil’s One of the projects was the retrofitting of a historic warehouse building owned by the company and located long steel business. in Vila Leopoldina, which used to house the Metalúrgica Atlas smelting factory and has now become the In March, controlling shareholders of Fibria and of Suzano entered into an newest event venue in the city. In partnership with a business group, the building, which used to be an agreement to combine both companies’ operations; this transaction was completed industrial warehouse surrounded by walls, became a commercial venue with active curation. Named ARCA, the in January 2019, after the necessary regulatory approvals were obtained in Brazil 9,000 m2 venue was inaugurated in October with one of the city’s most important events, part of the city’s and abroad. Votorantim now holds a 5.5% minority interest in Suzano. official calendar—the São Paulo Fashion Week. ARCA was also the chosen venue for Votorantim’s Centennial celebration, among other events. In October, the joint venture between Votorantim Energia and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB) won the bidding to acquire the controlling stock Votorantim has also restored a second warehouse building on the same lot. The first stage of the restoration of Companhia Energética de São Paulo (Cesp). This transaction was completed in works was completed in March 2019, and delivered 6,500 m². This is now an office space, and it maintained December and is aligned with the joint venture’s growth targets for electric power the active curation that contributes to the district’s development. generation from renewable sources in Brazil. Votorantim and other private institutions have also advanced on the Vila Leopoldina – Villa Lobos Urban Restructuring Project (PIU) presented to the São Paulo City Administration. The project aims to create conditions for a positive transformation in the whole region through a comprehensive program of actions in the public interest. The PIU is an instrument established by the Master Plan for São Paulo, enacted in 2014 and regulated in 2016. The new plan sets a number of guidelines for urban organization and restructuring in underutilized areas that can be potentially transformed. 70 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 71 Portfolio In Brazil, the most important moves to replace fossil fuels is a global strategy were the foundation of Juntos Somos of Votorantim Cimentos, which has sigMais, a company dedicated to customer nificantly been expanded in other geogloyalty and retail services; the acquisition raphies in projects to increase the use of a shipping terminal in Manaus (State of these materials in Spain, Turkey, and of Amazonas), marking the company’s Tunisia. The gradual recovery of the Brazilian economy—at a lower-than-exdebut in a new region; and the growth Aware of sustainability issues, the pected pace after the truck drivers’ strike and the uncertainty of election-year of other products, especially agricultural company has become the vice-president politics—impacted cement sales in Brazil in 2018, which fell 1.2% year-on-year limestone. of the Cement Sustainability Initiative, a according to the Brazilian Cement Association (SNIC). Initiatives adopted in logistics have global sustainable development effort also supported the businesses’ evolugathering the 24 largest manufacturDespite the slowdown in the ceyear-on-year. Excluding non-recurring tion on three fronts: ers of this industry. By the end of 2018, ment market in Brazil, Votoranevents, the increase was of 18%. By the 1. Increased share of railway and wathe initiative was transferred to the tim Cimentos reported positive end of the year, Votorantim approved terway transportation. Global Cement and Concrete Association results both in the couna capital increase for the amount of 2. Technology and modernization of (GCCA); Votorantim Cimentos is a foundtry and internationalR$2.0 billion with the purpose of acceloperations, enabled by the Freight ing member of this association. ly compared to the preerating the deleveraging process, which Intelligence model. By the end of 2018, the company vious year. Consolidathad already been ongoing due to bet3. Collaborative businesses, including announced that Walter Dissinger, Global ed net revenue totaled ter operating results. After the capital the automation of the inventory CEO, has decided to take on new chalR$12.6 billion in increase, completed in January 2019, supply process, and the repositionlenges after leading the company for 2018, an increase the company reached a pro forma net ing of distribution centers. more than five years. Marcelo Castelli, of 15% year-onleverage ratio of 2.8x. Other advances were made in co-proan executive who started working at year; and conIn addition to outstanding results, cessing, led by the Alternative Fuel and Votorantim in 1997 and has held differsolidated adanother highlight was the compleRaw Materials (AFR) area. Energy is genent executive positions at the company, justed EBITDA tion of the project to expand the erated through the appropriate disposal is Votorantim’s new CEO. Castelli is now a m o u n te d Charlevoix unit, in the United States, of industrial, commercial, and agriculresponsible for leading the company on to R$2.6 which added 0.6 million tons of capactural waste, which is co-processed at its continued growth path. billion, ity. One milestone was the foundation Votorantim Cimentos’s units. This area’s up 51% of a non-operating holding company businesses focus on competitiveness in Luxembourg to consolidate interna(reduction of the cement production tional investments, which will enable a marginal cost), revenue generation (sale more efficient cash and debt allocation of services), and sustainability (reducin different geographies. In 2018, the tion of CO2 emissions and of the amount company completed the divestment of of waste that used to be disposed of at projects in Peru, and is almost comlandfill sites). A leader in co-processpleting the divestment of operations ing in Brazil, the company closed 2018 in India, moving forward with the stratwith more than 700,000 tons of proegy of rationalizing its asset portfolio cessed waste, and the replacement of and focusing on countries with bet28% of fossil fuels for fuels from renewter value creation perspectives. able sources. The increased use of AFR 72 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 73 Portfolio Portfolio In 2018, Nexa Resources delivered positive results in the first full 2018. The winning projects focused year following its IPO in New York, United States, and Toronto, on cost reduction and environmental and social gains, such as reducCanada, compared to the production guidance disclosed to the market. In ing atmospheric emissions as a result addition to meeting this target, he company continued to focus on updating of energy efficiency and renewable mineral reserves and resources, obtained approval for the construction of its key energy projects, and fostering income greenfield project Aripuanã, located in the State of Mato Grosso, and enhanced its generation, benefiting the commumining and smelter management practices. nities surrounding Nexa’s operations. Leveraging such projects is key for In 2018, Nexa’s zinc equivalent approval from the Minas Gerais State incorporating the best innovation metal production totaled 556,000 Environmental Policy Council (Copam) initiatives in the market at a faster tons in its mining units, and metallic for the implementation of dry stackpace, while adapting them to the zinc sales by smelters reached 617,000 ing tailings at the mine, replacing constrategic needs of the company tons. Net revenue totaled US$2.5 bilventional tailings dams. The dry system and the industry. lion (an increase of 2% year-on-year), is safer for surrounding communities, In this context, based on and adjusted EBITDA was US$605 milprevents environmental damage, and two strategic lines (Growth lion in 2018. reduces water use. Other highlights and Operational ExcelThe company’s commitment to are the operational integration of the lence), Nexa has contingrowth and operating excellence has Pasco complex to optimize the operaued to leverage its opalso reflected on several fronts. The tions of the Atacocha and El Porvenir erations in the mining granting of the installation license mines; advances in the project for the and metals indusenabled the beginning of the construcconversion of the Cajamarquilla smelttry based on safetion of the Aripuanã Project, an underer’s process to jarosite, increasing the ty, efficiency, susground zinc polymetallic mine containplant’s zinc extraction rate; and stabilitainability, and ing zinc, copper, lead, silver and gold, zation of the production at Cerro Lindo smarter soluas well as a processing facility, both after several mine development initiations, createxpected to be operational by 2021. tives were carried out in 2018. ing value for Average production is estimated at Nexa’s commitment to innovaall stake120,000 tons of zinc equivalent per tion was also one of the highlights of holders. year. A total of US$392 million will be the year. The Mining Lab program— invested in the project. created in 2016 to support startAmong brownfield projects, the comups that develop innovative projpany continued to deepen the Vazante ects for the mining industry—had mine (zinc). The project has received 186 subscriptions and nine winners in 74 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 75 Portfolio Portfolio In 2018, CBA made consistent advances in its transformation following the “green aluminum” trend. be carried out for the Alumínio process, started four years ago after the revision of its business strategy. “Green aluminum” production is cerand Niquelândia units. tified by the Aluminium Stewardship During the year, the comOne of the key factors of this change is the strengthening and evolution of the Initiative (ASI), a global entity dedipany also disclosed its new cultural program, which involves leaders and that has been disseminated to all cated to setting standards and certilogo, reflecting the transcompany levels. fying the sustainability and custody formation CBA has been traceability of the aluminum chain. CBA going through. Even though it is still ongoing, this and services through co-creation and is a member of the ASI and in 2018 it process has already positioned CBA co-engineering in partnership with conducted a thorough evaluation of its among the top 10% of companies with customers in the transportation and processes against global standards, in the best organizational climate perforpackaging segments. Exports to strapreparation for its certification. mances, according to the Korn Ferrytegic customers in the United States CBA has two water dams and four HayGroup methodology. With a rate of increased in the period. tailings dams, distributed among its 81% of favorable responses by 96% of In the Primary products businesses, units located in Alumínio (State of São the professionals that voluntarily parthe company focused on operating Paulo), Itamarati de Minas and Miraí ticipated in the survey, the company efficiency and cost optimization. One (State of Minas Gerais), and Niquelândia reached the 90 percentile, becoming a of the highlights was the implementa(State of Goiás). All dams are in commarket benchmark. tion of projects to increase the operpliance with the Integrated Dam SafeAnother important step was the ating performance in line with envity Management System (SIGBAR), adimplementation of the Process to ronmental gains, such as in the Green opted by CBA to ensure the physical inAccelerate Value Capture, which Soderberg project for the setting up of tegrity of its dams; and all of them have included over 800 initiatives across 24 pilot furnaces using more advanced a Dam Safety Plan (PSB) and an Emerareas with the participation of nearly technology compared to the 12 units gency Plan (PAE) in place. In order to 10% of CBA’s employees. There were that were installed in 2017. This operimprove even further its safety system, important gains in adjusted EBITDA, ation not only enables the automatic by the end of 2018 CBA implemented a and in the development of managesupply of electrolytic cells with alumina, communication project, as part of the ment towards competitiveness. The but reduces greenhouse gas (GHG) Emergency Plan, in the Miraí and Itacompany reported net revenue of emissions and increases the safety of marati units. This project includes R$5.4 billion, and adjusted EBITDA of operations. Another solution, whose meetings with government auR$832 million in 2018. implementation began in 2018, is the thorities and community leadWhen it comes to strategy, in biomass steam boiler used in alumina ers to foster an open dialogue 2018, CBA consolidated its positionoperations. With capacity to produce with strategic stakeholding in the Transformed products mar160 tons/hour of steam, it will increase ers and the community. ket as a provider of aluminum solutions CBA’s energy matrix diversification, These activities will also 76 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 77 P ortfolio Portfolio 2018 was marked with investment opportunities that create value. Such an increase is enabled by differVotorantim Energia’s consolidated Several achievements were enabled by a strategy of: entials such as stability, present on the results include the energy trading and certainty that the company will honor its services business for the whole year, and ●● Growing in renewable energy transaction to form the joint venture contractual commitments, and the relathe power generation business up to May generation through new acquiwith the Canada Pension Plan Invest­ tionship it has built with over 300 custom2018, when the joint venture with CPPIB sitions or developing company ment Board (CPPIB)—a Canadian peners. The company offers energy managewas established, and generation results projects. sion fund that is one of the ten largest in ment and trading services. In 2018 alone, started being recognized by the equity ●● Expanding the trading’s the world—to invest in renewable energy these services translated into revenue of method. Within this scenario, Votorantim customer base. in Brazil, aiming to leverage this sector in nearly R$200 million for its customers. Energia closed 2018 with net revenue of ●● Continually improvthe country. The joint venture now owns All these achievements follow a restrucR$4.5 billion, an increase of 8% year-oning the company’s infrathe Ventos do Piauí I and Ventos do Ararturing in the sales area to leverage innovayear; and adjusted EBITDA of R$157 milstructure, with engaged ipe III wind farms, located in the States tion in order to identify services that add lion, an increase of R$230 million compersonnel and effiof Piauí and Ceará, which together have more value to customers. pared to 2017. The joint venture reported cient processes and an installed capacity of 564 megawatts. Additionally, Votorantim Energia net revenue of R$440 million, and adjusted systems. The highlight of the year was the acquiinvested in the development of solutions EBITDA of R$322 million, including the An important sition, by the joint venture, of Companhia for the power plants owned by Votorantim’s results for the year of Ventos do Piauí I and a c h i e v e­m e n t Energética de São Paulo (Cesp), the cominvestees and for wind farms, focusing on Ventos do Araripe III as of June 2018, date in the year was pany that owns the concession of three automation, new operating and mainteof the acquisition of the wind farm by the the complehydroelectric power plants in the State nance processes to improve efficiency and joint venture. tion of the of São Paulo—the primary plant is Porto performance, reducing operating costs. At Primavera, whose concession period the same time, the company has started ends in 2048. This acquisition increased negotiating with startups for the developthe joint venture’s installed capacity to ment of smart grid projects; some start2.2 gigawatts (GW), raising Votorantim ups have already developed, with the comEnergia to a new level in terms of renewpany, efficient and low-cost solutions for able energy generation. the execution of the projects. On the trading front, in a highly competThe company has also improved its coritive scenario, the sales volume increased porate governance practices; one of the to 2.3 average GW, including free market major steps was the election of the first transactions with Votorantim investees independent member of the company’s and other customers, and in the regulated Board of Directors. With vast experience market. In the energy trading segment, in the electric power sector, the new memVotorantim Energia closed 2018 as the ber will help leverage the company’s posisecond-largest energy trader in Brazil tioning in the market. in terms of sales volume. 78 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 79 Portfolio Portfolio Long steel This new model was conducted in such a way that both companies would to the scenario of uncertainty ahead of presidential elections in Colombia. be able to maintain standardized On the other hand, internaIn 2018, Votorantim’s long steel businesses in Colombia, operated and autonomous operations abroad, tional steel prices rebounded, posiby Acerias Paz del Río, and in Argentina, operated by Acerbrag, startaligned with the Votorantim DNA. tively impacting the domestic market. In Colombia, Acerías Paz del Río inThis scenario has helped mitigate the ed being managed by Votorantim’s International Steel area, which was created vested approximately R$20 million in decrease in demand. following the incorporation of Votorantim’s long steel operations in Brazil by the structural renovation of its blast In Argentina, Acerbrag was faced ArcelorMittal Brasil. This incorporation was completed in March. furnace to increase operating stability with a challenging context. Because and leverage productivity gains. The loof the measures taken by the governcal steel market deceleratment in the second half of the year, due ed, driven by a lower to the commitment made with the Incivil constructernational Monetary Fund (IMF), the tion activcountry’s economy sharply contracted, ity, due reflecting the lower demand for steel during the year. Even with this political and economic crisis, the operation remained stable, with customer default and costs under control, granting the company the capacity to overcome such hard times. Within this scenario, the long steel business reported net revenue of R$2.1 billion and adjusted EBITDA of R$383 million for 2018, up 27% and 41% year-on-year. 80 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 81 Portfolio Portfolio Citrosuco is one of the global leaders in orange juice production. SAI Platform, a global initiative for the The company preserves nearly 17,000 Orange juice is part of people’s daily nutrition routine; with nutritional content development of sustainable agriculture hectares of the Atlantic Forest and the company is a member of. All these Cerrado biomes. In these areas, seeds that is similar to that of the fruit, it is a convenient alternative to the regular initiatives in partnership with groware collected for native species nursconsumption of fruit and vegetables. ers resulted in over 100 farms having eries that supply saplings in support of The company produces natural adoption of industry 4.0 technologies. been independently assured against Citrosuco’s internal and external reforingredients by processing the entire Financial investment is aligned sustainable agriculture standards by at estation initiatives. orange, supporting a global trend to with the company’s innovation proleast one of the Sustainable Agriculture In this context, the company reafreplace non-renewable for renewable cess, based on three pillars: Innovation Initiative (SAI) Platform, the Rainforest firms its commitment to operating reraw materials. The products are supculture, External opportunities, and Alliance, or the Fairtrade Foundation. sponsibly and to striving for efficienplied to different industries, such as Strategic alignment. Activities to disStriving for continually improving cy and environmental conservation. cosmetics, cleaning, and health, for seminate an innovative culture were eco-efficiency processes, during the Using the whole of the fruit, offerexample. carried out in the period, leveraging season the company consolidated the ing products that meet the current In the 2017-2018 season, Citrosuco open innovation by startups, research production of biomass from removed and future needs of society, and leconsolidated the results of its evoluinstitutions, universities and customorange trees, which has become a new veraging social and environmention and reported the best operational ers, making sure the initiatives are strarenewable source of energy for the tal development are the factors performance results of its history. tegically aligned with the business. business. Other groundbreaking initiagoverning Citrosuco’s strateProduction of Not From Concentrate Employee and supplier training was tives are the use of biological agents to gic vision. (NFC) juice hit a record high, with an improved in themes relating to the combat pest and citrus diseases, and increase of 51% year-on-year. Net revintegrity standards of the company, the project that demonstrated the viaenue totaled US$1.3 billion and EBITDA compliance, and safety, among others, bility of converting the diesel fleet to amounted to US$294 million, up 6% totaling 170,000 hours of training in flex vehicles (diesel and natural gas) and 39% respectively year-over-year. the 2017-2018 season. The company used in juice transportation. This will The company invested US$148 milcontinued to develop its fruit growers, reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emislion in research and development of new emphasizing productivity and sustainsions and cut diesel consumption by up products, in its digital transformation, able production, totaling more than to 12%. and in its biggest NFC juice expansion 8,000 hours of training in the last five The company’s commitment to project, beginning a new investment seasons. environmental conservation transcycle. Important advances were also An industry leader in Rainforest lates into its Biodiversity Plan, which made in product research and develAlliance certified orange, Citrosuco fosincludes initiatives such as maintainopment to better use oranges, and in ters the adoption of sustainable farming statutory nature reserves and prothe digital transformation of processes ing practices by growers and is one of tected areas, controlling protected and and operations, which will enable a the first companies to have 100% of its restored habitats, responsible land use, more efficient use of resources and the own fruit production assured using the and adopting best farming practices. 82 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 83 Portfolio Portfolio of the global benchmarks of the financial indusand welfare procedures. In the second half of the try. At the same time, it has emphasized an innoyear, the bank created a private equity fund to invest vation culture, reinforcing its purpose of improvin the startups it finds promising. BV has already ing the customer experience. In retail channels, for agreed on a partnership with an artificial intelligence example, digital platforms are accessed by over 2 fintech for advances against receivables, expanding In a year marked with the gradual recovery of the million people on a monthly basis. Other examples the bank’s presence in the small to medium sized Brazilian economy at a lower-than-expected pace, of BV’s digital transformation are the implementabusiness segment and focusing on funding the suption of facial recognition for fraud control; the infraply chain of its Wholesale customer portfolio. given the uncertainties surrounding domestic politics structure of micro-services that enable a fast and BV also inaugurated its Innovation Lab (BV Lab) and the global scenario, Banco Votorantim’s (BV) main effective credit decisions on digital channels; and the to connect with startups able to supply technology business—consumer finance—rebounded, especially in the automatic reading of legal opinions, to better alloand have the bank as a client, or to bring business second half of the year. Auto loans origination rose 8.2% cate resources in civil lawsuits. partnerships to the institution. The BV Lab has year-on-year to R$17.0 billion in 2018; 89% of that BV also launched relationship platforms in 2018. absorbed the Center of Excellence for Design and For customers, in addition to providing a better expeCustomer Experience, in order to make sure that amount correspond to used light vehicles, segment in rience in retail physical stores with a new layout and most of what BV strives for—in terms of innovation which BV has a history of leadership and recognized ambiance, the BV credit card mobile app has underfrom the outside in—is aligned with the goal of competence. gone significant changes, recording 70% of recurring improving customer experience. Ranking sixth among the largest private banks access. Another app has been developed to faciliAll internal advances have reflected on operain Brazil according to the Central Bank, BV retate the formalization of car loan proposals, which tions, whose diversification, started in the previous ported net income of R$1.1 billion for 2018, an is already integrated with the sales force platforms year, produced results in 2018. BV reported over increase of 82% year-on-year, reflecting the and available to all of the nearly 18,000 multi-brand 4,000 student loan customers, nearly doubling this evolution process it has been through for the car dealerships BV has a relationship with. As a result segment’s operations from the first to the second past three years. This process is driven by of this investment, the average time for stores to fill half of the year. With regard to loans for solar energy three strategic pillars: out a proposal was cut by 35%. solutions, also comparing the first and the second ●● Improving the businesses’ profitThe revision of the organizational culture serves halves of the year, operations increased fivefold, an ability through the proper managethe same purpose. Based on teamwork, similar to expansion pace that is expected to be maintained in ment of product and service lines. startups that have a higher level of autonomy, decithe next fiscal year. ●● Increasing operational efficiensions have become more agile and assertive, transcy, by equalizing the relation belating into the offer of new services, the measuretween expenses and revenues. ment of their results in terms of scale, adjustments, ●● Diversifying sources of revand delivery, in shorter cycles and with effective and enue through new businesses predetermined governance. The work to reposition and new trade partnerships. the brand adds to the achievement of a higher cusSince BV started its digtomer reliability level, meaning customers are able to ital transformation prodiversify their operations with the institution. cess in 2014, it has triInnovation is also applied to external solutions. pled investments in BV agreed on several partnerships in 2018 with the technology to levpurpose of leveraging business diversification and els close to those digital transformation, and offering loans for health 84 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 85 A SS U R A N C E R E P O R T A SS U R A N C E R E P O R T (A free translation of the original in Portuguese) a) Planning the work, taking into Scope and limitations The preparation and presentation Independent auditor’s limited assurance report consideration the materiality and The procedures applied in a of the sustainability indicators were the volume of quantitative and limited assurance engagement are performed pursuant to the criteria on information related to sustainability included in the 2018 Annual Report qualitative information and the substantially less detailed than those of the GRI-Standards and, therefore, operating and internal control applied in a reasonable assurance do not aim to provide assurance systems that were used to engagement, the objective of with regard to the compliance with prepare the information included which is the issuance of an opinion social, economic, environmental or in the 2018 Annual Report of on the sustainability information engineering laws and regulations. Votorantim. included in the 2018 Annual Report. However, the aforementioned To the Board of Directors and Independent auditor’s Moreover, the aforementioned Consequently, we were not able to standards establish the presentation Stockholders responsibilities standards require that the work be b) Understanding the calculation obtain reasonable assurance that we and disclosure of possible cases of Votorantim S.A. Our responsibility is to express a planned and performed to obtain methodology and the procedures would become aware of all significant non-compliance with such regulations São Paulo SP conclusion on the information included limited assurance that the information adopted for the compilation of matters that might be identified in an when sanctions or significant fines are in the 2018 Annual Report based on included in the 2018 Annual Report, indicators through interviews with assurance engagement, the objective applied. Our limited assurance report our limited assurance engagement taken as a whole, is free from material the managers responsible for the of which is the issue of an opinion. Had should be read and understood in carried out in accordance with the misstatement. preparation of the information. we performed an engagement with this context, which is inherent to the Technical Communication CTO 01, the objective of issuing an opinion, we criteria selected (GRI Standards). Introduction “Issuance of an Assurance Report A limited assurance engagement c) Applying analytical procedures might have identified other matters We have been engaged by Votorantim related to Sustainability and Social conducted in accordance with the to quantitative information and and possible misstatements in the S.A. (‘’Votorantim’’ or “Company”) to Responsibility”, issued by the Federal Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000 and making inquiries regarding the information related to sustainability Conclusion present our limited assurance report Accounting Council (CFC), based ISAE 3000 mainly consists of making qualitative information and its included in the 2018 Annual Report. Based on the procedures performed, on the compilation of the information on the Brazilian standard NBC TO inquiries of management and other correlation with the indicators Therefore, we do not express an described herein, no matter has related to sustainability included in the 3000, “Assurance Engagements professionals of the entity involved in disclosed in the information opinion on this information. come to our attention that causes 2018 Annual Report of Votorantim for Other than Audit and Review”, also the preparation of the sustainability included in the 2018 Annual us to believe that the information the year ended December 31, 2018. issued by the CFC, which is equivalent information, as well as applying analytical Report. Non-financial data are subject to more included in the 2018 Annual Report to the international standard ISAE procedures to obtain evidence that inherent limitations than financial data, of Votorantim S.A. has not been 3000, “Assurance engagements enables the issue of a limited assurance d) Comparing the financial indicators due to the nature and diversity of the compiled, in all material respects, in Responsibilities of the other than audits or reviews of conclusion on the information taken as a with the financial statements and/ methods used to determine, calculate accordance with the Global Reporting Company’s management historical financial information”, whole. A limited assurance engagement or accounting records. and estimate these data. Qualitative Initiative (GRI Standards). The management of Votorantim is issued by the International Auditing also requires the performance of interpretations of the relevance, responsible for the preparation and and Assurance Standards Board additional procedures when the The limited assurance engagement materiality, and accuracy of the data São Paulo, March 22, 2019 fair presentation of the information (IAASB). Those standards require independent auditor becomes aware of also included the application of are subject to individual assumptions included in the 2018 Annual Report, in that we comply with ethical and matters that lead the auditor to believe procedures to assess compliance with and judgments. Furthermore, we did PricewaterhouseCoopers accordance with the Global Reporting independence requirements, and other that the information taken as a whole the guidelines and criteria of the Global not carry out any work on the data Contadores Públicos Ltda. Initiative (GRI Standards) and for such responsibilities, including in relation might present significant misstatements. Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards) reported for prior periods, nor future CRC 2SP023.173/O-4 internal control as it determines is to the application of the Brazilian applied in the preparation of the projections and goals. necessary to enable the preparation Standard on Quality Control (NBC PA The procedures selected are based information related to sustainability Eliane Kihara of information free from material 01) and, therefore, the maintenance on our understanding of the aspects included in the 2018 Annual Report. Contadora CRC 1SP212496/O-5 misstatement, whether due to fraud of a comprehensive quality control related to the compilation and or error. system, including documented presentation of the information We believe that the evidence we have policies and procedures regarding the included in the 2018 Annual obtained is sufficient and appropriate compliance with the applicable ethical Report, other circumstances of to provide a basis for our limited requirements, professional standards the engagement and our analysis assurance conclusion. and legal and regulatory requirements. of the areas in which significant misstatements might exist. The following procedures were adopted: 86 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 87 GRI Disclosures G R I D isclosures G R I D isclosures GENERAL DISCLOSURES ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES Information on employees and other workers |GRI 102Energy consumption within the organization (GJ) |GRI 8| 302-1| 2018 2017 2018 Region Total fuel consumption from nonrenewable sources 110,765,249 117,926,384 Brazil Other countries Total Total fuel consumption from Own Employees renewable sources 150,510,896 29,664,142 Monthly salary contracts 20,147 8,892 29,039 Total energy consumption within the organization 264,170,043 183,185,779 Hourly wage contracts 4,776 359 5,135 Trainees 0 0 0 NOTE: Total 24,923 9,251 34,174 • This indicator is not reported by Votorantim S.A., Banco Votorantim and Reservas Votorantim. Interns and Apprentices Energy intensity (GJ/t) |GRI 302-3| Interns and summer students 690 85 775 Company Main products 2016 2017 2018 Apprentices 570 57 627 Total 1,260 142 1,402 Nexa Zinc equivalent 13.610 14.490 14.330 Votorantim Cimentos Cement 3.170 2.660 2.686 Total of direct employees 26,183 9,393 35,576 Aggregates 0.028 0.031 0.027 Concrete 0.145 0.143 0.129 Contractors Mortar 0.070 0.074 0.069 Contractors (Permanent contract) 1,229 4,947 6,176 Limes and agricultural inputs 2.187 Total 1,229 4,947 6,176 Clinker 3.350 3.533 CBA Aluminum 78.620 4.192 3.810 Total workforce 27,412 14,340 41,752 Processed bauxite 0.048 0.072 0.001 Nickel carbonate 26.720 113.477 Electrolytic nickel 29.270 57.380 Collective bargaining agreements |GRI 102-41| Molten aluminum 81.910 83.690 2017 2018 Long steel Steel (rolled) 1.840 1.340 Steel (bar) 2.920 2.860 58.000 92.0% 85.0% Mineral (iron, limestone, carbon) 0.071 NOTE: NOTE: • Votorantim Cimentos only measures this indicator for its operations in Brazil. This indicator is not reported by Citrosuco, Votorantim S.A. and Banco Votorantim. Data includes renewable and non-renewable energy and operations inside and outside of the company. Not applicable for Votorantim Energia.. 90 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 91 G R I D isclosures G R I D isclosures Water withdrawal by source |GRI 303-1| Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (tCO2eq) |GRI 305-1| Total water use by source 2016 2017 2018 Gases Gases Gases included included included Surface water (rivers, lakes, in the in the in the wetlands, oceans) 64,603,511.9 222,401,322.0 60,680,105.1 Company calculation 2016 calculation 2017 calculation 2018 Ground water 116,992,500.9 106,930,958.5 122,617,573.1 Long steel CO2-CH4Rainwater collected directly and N20-HFCsstored by the company 11,913,401.9 8,524,679.7 9,614,774.6 CO2PFCs-SF6CO2Waste water from another CH4-N20 1,501,904.0 NF3 1,503,440.0 CH4-N20 926,126.0 organization 4,620,554.0 Citrosuco CO2CO2CO2Water utilities 524.132,3 827.914,0 828,710.2 CH4-N20 457,053.0 CH4-N20 431,964.0 CH4-N20 470,687.0 Total 194,033,547.0 338,684,874.2 198,361,716.9 Nexa CO2CO2-CH4CO2CH4-N20 189,143.0 N20-CF4 165,354.0 CH4-N20 201,024.0 NOTE: Votorantim Cimentos CO2CO2CO2This indicator is not reported by Votorantim S.A. CH4-N20 22,679,560.0 CH4-N20 21,883,318.0 CH4-N20 22,568,591.7 CBA CO2-CH4CO2-CH4CO2-CH4N20-HFCsN20-HFCsHabitats protected or restored 2018 |GRI 304-3| N20-PFCs 1,524,979.0 PFCs-SF6 1,387,085.0 PFCs-SF6 1,370,377.5 Votorantim Energia CO2-CH4Areas where the success of restoration N20-HFCsmeasures was approved by independent SF6 29,092.5 external professionals, or that comply with Biome Total area (km²) external standards/protocols Total 26,352,639.0 25,371,161.0 25,565,898.6 Amazon 28.7 28.7 NOTE: Caatinga 3.7 3.7 This indicator is not reported by Votorantim S.A., Banco Votorantim and Reservas Votorantim. Savanna (Cerrado) 454.3 93.8 Total greenhouse gas emissions in this Report were based on preliminary data. The final data of the investees will be available on Atlantic Forest 499.4 394.0 the Public Emissions Registry platform (https://bit.ly/2UAmgBL). Tropical wetland (Pantanal) 1.7 1.7 Pampa 4.2 4.2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions (tCO2eq) Other 0.4 0.1 |GRI 305-2| Total 992.5 526.2 Company Gases included in the calculation 2018 Total area by company (km²) 2016 2017 2018 Long steel CO2-CH4 164,022.4 Long steel 1,796.8 1,848.2 0.1 Nexa CO2 609,040.0 Citrosuco 175.4 175.3 134.8 Votorantim Cimentos CO2 866,637.3 Nexa 14,056.0 58.4 56.2 CBA CO2 21,115.2 Reservas Votorantim 308.0 308.0 299.4 Votorantim Energia CO2 69.2 CBA 236.5 351.6 331.5 Total 1,660,884.0 Votorantim Cimentos 117.2 117.2 113.6 NOTE: Votorantim Energia 43.5 57.8 57.0 This indicator is not reported by Citrosuco, Votorantim S.A., Long steel, CBA, Banco Votorantim and Reservas Votorantim. Total 16,733.4 2,916.5 992.5 NOTE: •H abitats protected or restored are located in Brazil (states of Ceará, Distrito Federal, Espírito Santo, Goiás, Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso do Sul, Mato Grosso, Paraná, Pernambuco, Rio de Janeiro, Rondônia, Santa Catarina, Sergipe, São Paulo, Tocantins) and Colombia (Boyacá province). This indicator is not reported by Banco Votorantim. 92 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 93 G R I D isclosures G R I D isclosures Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2eq) Other significant atmosphere emissions (t) |GRI 305-7| |GRI 305-3| Category 2017 2018 Company Gases included in the calculation 2018 NOX 64,092.0 52,616.2 SOX 18,985.0 24,450.4 Nexa CO2 47,287.0 Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP) 0.0 0.1 Votorantim Cimentos CO2-CH4-N20 610,800.8 Volatile Organic Compounds (COV) 1,502.0 1,176.7 Votorantim Energia CO2-CH4-N20 667.9 Hazardous Atmospheric Pollutants Total 658,755.7 (HAP) 0.0 0.0 NOTE: Particulate Matterl (MP) 6,917.0 4,407.9 This indicator is not reported by Citrosuco, Votorantim S.A., Long steel, CBA, Banco Votorantim and Reservas Votorantim. Other standard categories of air emissions identified in regulations 89.0 29,996.7 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions (GEE) NOTE: (tCO2eq/t) |GRI 305-4| This indicator is not reported by Citrosuco, Banco Votorantim, Reservas Votorantim and Votorantim S.A. Company Main Product 2016 2017 2018 Total water discharge (m³) |GRI 306-1| Votorantim Cimentos Cement 0.633 0.633 0.622 Aggregates 0.001 0.002 0.001 Total water discharge 2016 2017 2018 Concrete 0.010 0.010 0.009 Total discharged volume 321,117,049.0 319,043,106.6 152,557,874.6 Mortar 0.070 0.074 0.002 NOTE: Limes 0.088 0.487 This indicator is not reported by Votorantim S.A. Nexa Zinc equivalent 0.779 0.820 0.822 Long steel Steel (bar) 1.094 1.020 3.070 Bars 0.696 Waste by type and disposal method (t) |GRI 306-2| Wires 13.298 Non-hazardous waste 2016 2017 2018 Wire rod 1.567 Composting 58,264.0 56,981.0 80,626.3 Construction mesh 6.621 Reuse 543,179.0 989,736.0 113,417.0 CBA Aluminum 0.229 0.219 Recycling 205,652.0 852,786.0 65,482.8 Processed bauxite 0.003 0.004 0.003 Recovery, including energy recovery 16,210.0 4,272.0 3,830.4 Nickel carbonate 8.478 6.515 Incineration (mass burn) 30.0 440.0 2,074.3 Electrolytic nickel 2.585 1.688 Landfill 25,302.0 257,663.0 50,440.5 Molten aluminum 4.991 3.714 3.905 Deep well injection 0.0 NOTE: On-site storage 191,464.0 161,995.0 52,273.4 This indicator is not reported by Citrosuco, Votorantim Energia, Banco Votorantim, Reservas Votorantim and Votorantim S.A. Other 722,467.0 1,852,468.0 1,623,509.2 Data includes renewable and non-renewable energy and operations inside and outside of the company. Total 1,762,568.0 4,176,341.0 1,991,653.9 94 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 95 G R I D isclosures G R I D isclosures Hazardous waste Composting 2016 2017 2018 SOCIAL DISCLOSURES Reuse 2,191.0 2,645.0 8,904.5 Recycling 23,183.0 19,373.0 2,265.4 Recovery, including energy recovery 416.0 15,170.0 9,437.6 Incineration (mass burn) 443.0 2,430.0 606.5 New employee hires and employee turnover |GRI 401-1| Landfill 10,407.0 12,762.0 7,920.0 Deep well injection Gender Age Range On-site storage 805.0 60,832.0 134.6 Under 30 30-50 years Over 50 2018 Men Women years old old years old Other 23,704.0 13,365.0 2,717.6 Total 61,149.0 126,577.0 31,986.1 New hires 4,303 1,520 2,977 2,437 409 Employees 27,849 6,139 6,535 22,085 5,368 NOTE: Termination of employment 4,644 1,398 2,078 3,022 942 Indicator not reported by Votorantim S.A. Percentage of new hires 15.5% 24.8% 45.6% 11.0% 7.6% Votorantim Cimentos reports the consolidated Reuse and Recycling values in the Reuse category. Turnover 16.7% 22.8% 31.8% 13.7% 17.6% Banco Votorantim reports only the amount of waste sent for recycling and generated on construction site. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Occupational health and safety indicators |GRI 403-2| using environmental criteria |GRI 308-1| 2016 New suppliers that Own employees Contractors were screened using Occupational health and environmental criteria 2016 2017 2018 safety Global Brazil Global Brazil Total number of new suppliers 4,559 10,244 8,286 Hours/men worked 21,160,298 79,147,034 Total number of new suppliers Number of injuries 283 442 screened using environmental Number of fatalities 0 4 5 3 criteria 669 1,544 379 Number of lost days 2,426 11,478 Percentage of new suppliers screened 14.7% 15.1% 4.6% 2017 Own employees Contractors Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain Health and safety indicators Global Brazil Global Brasil and actions taken |GRI 309-1| Hours/men worked 35,588,531 105,320,651 Number of injuries 117 431 2016 2017 2018 Number of fatalities 3 0 6 10 Total number of suppliers 78,990 99,284 27,641 Number of lost days 2,517 5,775 Total number of suppliers assessed for environmental impacts 4,299 7,120 1,155 2018 Percentage of suppliers assessed for Own employees Contractors environmental impacts 5.4% 7.2% 4.2% Health and safety indicators Global Brazil Global Brazil NOTE: Assessments informed by audits, contractual reviews, two-way engagement, and complaint and grievance mechanisms. Hours/men worked 18,974,315 63,193,343 Number of injuries 32 74 Number of fatalities 0 1 0 4 Number of lost days 1,597 3,095 96 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 97 G R I D isclosures G R I D isclosures Average hours of training per year per employee Employees in each category |GRI 405-1| |GRI 404-1| Age Group % Employee category Gender 2016 2017 2018 30 to 50 Senior management Women 6.2 9.2 0.0 Position -30 years years +50 years Men % Women % Men 9.0 8.0 5.2 Senior management 0.0 45.8 54.2 83.2 16.8 Middle management Women 5.5 11.4 17.4 Middle management 1.2 78.8 20.0 67.3 32.7 Men 8.5 15.7 24.2 Coordinators/Advisers 10.2 75.9 13.9 70.7 29.3 Coordinator/Adviser Women 5.1 15.7 26.7 Technicians/Analysts/Supervisors 20.2 68.8 11.2 68.4 31.6 Men 7.4 16.8 27.5 Trainee 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 Technicians/Analysts/Supervisors Women 0.7 25.4 21.6 Men 2.3 24.2 29.8 Operational 20.6 62.5 17.0 86.3 13.7 Trainee Women 0.0 0.0 Interns 99.0 1.0 0.0 48.3 51.7 Men 0.0 0.0 Apprentices 99.4 0.6 0.0 61.6 38.4 Operational Women 0.1 9.2 17.6 Total 22.4 62.4 15.2 80.0 20.0 Men 0.2 12.3 17.2 Interns Women 0.0 45.2 Men 0.0 83.6 New suppliers that were screened using social Apprentices Women 0.0 23.6 criteria |GRI 414-1| Men 0.0 27.2 2016 2017 2018 NOTE: Labor practices In 2018, the data refer only to Votorantim S.A. and Center of Excellence (CoE). Total number of new suppliers 4,559 10,244 8,286 New suppliers screened using Diversity of governance bodies |GRI 405-1| criteria relative to labor practices 1,653 2,601 434 Percentage of new suppliers Company’s minority groups 2016 2017 2018 screened 36.3% 25.4% 5.2% Employees over 50 years old 6,660 6,174 5,370 Impacts on society Women 7,872 7,710 7,092 Total number of new suppliers 4,559 10,244 8,286 New suppliers screened using Governance members criteria relative to impacts on society 728 1,097 198 gender 2016 2017 2018 Percentage of new suppliers screened 16.0% 10.7% 2.4% Men 112 134 89 Human rights Women 6 12 18 Total number of new suppliers 4,559 10,244 8,286 Governance members age 2016 2017 2018 New suppliers screened using human rights criteria 1,490 1,261 1,567 Under 30 years old 0 0 0 Percentage of new suppliers 30 and 50 years old 50 61 49 screened 32.7% 12.3% 18.9% Over 50 years old 68 85 58 NOTE: NOTE: This indicator is not recorded by Reservas Votorantim. Assumptions for data reported in 2017 were adjusted to ensure comparability. 98 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 99 G R I D isclosures G R I D isclosures Negative social impacts in the supply chain and Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions action taken |GRI 414-2| taken |GRI 406-1| 2016 2017 2018 Discrimination cases 2016 2017 2018 Labor practices Harassment and abuse of power 15 53 51 Total number of suppliers 78,990 99,284 27,641 Other incidents (race, age and nationality) 12 12 6 Suppliers assessed for labor practices 4,065 6,646 5,212 Other incidents (discrimination and retaliation) 49 118 89 Percentage of suppliers assessed 5.1% 6.7% 18.9% Total number of discrimination cases 76 183 146 Impacts on society Total number of suppliers 78,990 99,284 27,641 Incidents of discrimination 2016 2017 2018 Suppliers assessed for impacts on society 3,963 5,827 271 Complaints received by the Ombudsman 76 183 92 Percentage of suppliers assessed 5.0% 5.9% 1.0% Complaints with grounds 64 67 54 Human rights Total number of suppliers 78,990 99,284 27,641 Suppliers assessed for human rights Operations and suppliers at significant risk for issues 5,582 19,535 13,034 incidents of child labor |GRI 408-1| Percentage of suppliers submitted assessed 7.1% 19.7% 47.2% Operations and suppliers considered to have NOTE: significant risk for incidents This indicator is not reported by Reservas Votorantim. of child labor and/ or young workers exposed to hazardous work 2016 2017 2018 Operations with local community engagement, impact Votorantim S.A. (Banco Votorantim, assessments and development programs |GRI 413-1| CBA, Citrosuco, Nexa, Reservas Votorantim, Long steel, Votorantim 2016 2017 2018 Cimentos, Votorantim Energia and the investment holding company) 0 0 0 Total operations 565 436 357 Operations with community engagement 93 142 142 Percentage of operations with local community engagement 16.5% 32.6% 39.8% NOTE: This indicator is not reported by Banco Votorantim. 100 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 101 G R I D isclosures G R I D isclosures Operations and suppliers with significant risk for incidentes of forced or compulsory labor |GRI 409-1| ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES Number of operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 2016 2017 2018 Votorantim S.A. (CBA, Citrosuco, Nexa, Reservas Votorantim, Long Direct economic value generated and distributed steel, Votorantim Cimentos, |GRI 201-1| Votorantim Energia and the investment holding company) 0 0 0 Value added breakdown (R$/million) 2016 2017 2018 Banco Votorantim 2018 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE Number of operations with GENERATED significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 297 Revenues Number of suppliers with significant Sales of products and services 30,383 31,362 36,510 risk for incidents of forced or Other operating income (expense), compulsory labor 141 net 581 (553) 550 NOTE: Estimated loss on doubtful accounts (4) (15) Banco Votorantim considered the number of clients that entered the flow in 2018 with socio-environmental risk analysis in 2018. Total Revenues 30,960 30,809 37,045 The bank reported the total number of clients analyzed in 2018 by the socio-environmental risk area and had activities under sectors Inputs acquired from third parties with risks of engaging in forced labor. Cost of goods sold and services provided (17,738) (17,573) (22,065) Operations that have been subject to human rights Impairment of assets (2,151) 23 52 reviews or impact assessments |GRI 412-1| Gross value added 11,071 13,259 15,032 Depreciation, amortization and 2016 2017 2018 depletion (2,603) (2,325) (2,470) Total number of operations (Brazil Net value added generated by the and abroad) 565 413 383 Company 8,468 10,934 12,562 Operations subject to reviews 74 73 65 Value added received through Percentage of operations subject to transfers reviews 13.1% 17.7% 17.0% Equity in the results of investees 768 1,219 1,634 Finance income and foreign Banco Votorantim 2017 2018 exchange losses 5,097 2,277 5,204 Total number of operations (Brazil Total value added received through and abroad) 3,434 1,390 transfers 5,865 3,496 6,838 Operations subject to reviews 1,034 717 Total value added to distribute 14,333 14,430 19,400 Percentage of operations subject to reviews 30.1% 51.6% NOTE: Banco Votorantim considered the number of clients that entered the flow in 2018 with socio-environmental risk analysis in 2018. The bank reported the total number of clients analyzed in 2018 by the socio-environmental risk area and had activities under sectors with risks of engaging in forced labor. 102 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 103 G R I D isclosures G R I D isclosures Value added breakdown Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions (R$/million) 2016 2017 2018 taken |GRI 205-3| DISTRIBUTION OF VALUE ADDED 2016 2017 2018 Personnel and payroll charges Total number of confirmed incidents Direct compensation 2,553 2,469 2,951 of corruption 8 0 0 Benefits 597 600 709 Employees dismissed or disciplined 3 2 0 Social charges 1,023 947 1,040 Termination or non-renewal of Total personnel and payroll contracts with business partners 4 0 0 charges 4,173 4,016 4,700 Taxes and contributions Federal 2,217 2,491 2,277 Lawsuits brought on by unfair competition, trust State 2,904 2,604 2,220 and monopoly practices |GRI 206-1| Municipal 18 13 15 2016 2017 2018 Deferred taxes (870) (586) 608 Nexa Resources 0 0 0 Total taxes and contributions 4,269 4,522 5,120 Citrosuco 0 0 0 Third-party capital remuneration Votorantim Energia 0 0 0 Finance costs and foreign exchange Votorantim Cimentos 0 35 36 losses 6,814 4,766 7,247 Long steel 0 0 0 Rentals 328 316 379 CBA1 0 Total third-party capital remuneration 7,142 5,082 7,626 Banco Votorantim1 0 Own capital remuneration Reservas Votorantim1 0 Dividends 89 499 1,265 Votorantim S.A.1 0 Non-controlling interest 45 220 208 NOTE: Reinvested profits (offset losses) (1,085) 239 699 1 These companies did not report this indicator in 2016 and 2017. Loss on discontinued operations (300) (148) (218) Total Own capital remuneration (1,251) 810 1,954 Value added distributed 14,333 14,430 19,400 104 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 105 G R I S u m m ar y G R I S u m m ar y GRI Summary GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link Global compact SDGs OECD Assurance GRI 102: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 Organizational profile 102-1 N  ame of the organization The invetment holding company, p. 14 102-2 A  ctivities, brands, products, and The invetment holding company, p. 14 services 102-3 L  ocation of headquarters The invetment holding company, p. 14 102-4 L  ocation of operations The invetment holding company, p. 14 102-5 O  wnership and legal form The invetment holding company, p. 14 102-6 M  arkets served The invetment holding company, p. 14 102-7 S  cale of the organization The invetment holding company, p. 14 102-8 I nformation on employees and other The invetment holding company, p. 14; workers Human and Organizational Development (DHO), p. 46; General Disclosures, p. 70 102-9 S  upply chain Risk management, p. 37 102-10 S  ignificant changes to the Portfolio transformation, p. 70 organization and its supply chain 102-11 P  recautionary Principle or approach Risk management, p. 37 102-12 E  xternal initiatives We have been, since 2011, signatories to the United Nations Global Compact initiative, which mobilizes businesses worldwide to adopt fundamental and globally accepted values on human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. Information on each investee’s external initiatives can be found on their own reports. 102-13 M  embership of associations Ana Paula de Medeiros Carracedo: Deputy Chair of Amcham’s Compliance and Risk Management Committee; member UN Global Compact’s Advisory Council and Anti-Corruption Work Group; Member of the Corporate Governance Congress Commission of the IBGC (Corporate Governance Brazilian Institute) and of the Global AntiCorruption and Corporate Responsibility Commission of the ICC (International Chamber of Commerce). David Canassa: Member of São Paulo Federation of Industries (Fiesp) Superior Council for the Environment (COSEMA) Strategy 102-14 S  tatement from senior decisionMessage from the Board of Directors, p. 8 maker 102-15 M  ain impacts, risks, and Portfolio transformation, p. 70 opportunities 106 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 107 G R I S u m m ar y G R I S u m m ar y GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link Global compact SDGs OECD Assurance Ethics and integrity 102-16 V alues, principles, standards, and Votorantim DNA, p. 15 norms of behavior 102-17 M echanisms for advice and concerns Compliance Program, p. 34 about ethics Governance 102-18 G overnance structure Governance model, p. 30 102-19 D elegating authority Governance model, p. 30 102-20 E xecutive-level responsibility for Governance model, p. 30 economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 C onsulting stakeholders on Materiality, p. 2 economic, environmental, and social topics 102-22 C omposition of the highest Board of Directors, p. 33 governance body and its committees 102-23 C hair of the highest governance Board of Directors, p. 33 body 102-24 N ominating and selecting the Board of Directors, p. 33 highest governance body 102-25 C onflicts of interest Compliance Program, p. 34 102-26 R ole of highest governance body in Family Board, p. 32 setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 C ollective knowledge of highest Family Board, p. 32 governance body 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, Governance model, p. 30 environmental, and social impacts 102-30 E ffectiveness of risk management Risk management, p. 37 processes 102-31 R eview of economic, environmental, Risk management, p. 37 and social topics 102-32 H ighest governance body’s role in Materiality, p. 2 sustainability reporting Stakeholder engagement 102-40 L ist of stakeholder groups Materiality, p. 2 102-41 C ollective bargaining agreements General Disclosures, p. 70 102-42 B asis for identifying and selecting Materiality, p. 2 stakeholders with whom to engage 102-43 A  pproach to stakeholder Materiality, p. 2 engagement 102-44 K  ey topics and concerns raised Materiality, p. 2 through stakeholder engagement 108 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 109 G R I S u m m ar y G R I S u m m ar y GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link Global compact SDGs OECD Assurance Reporting practice 102-45 E  ntities included in the consolidated About this report, p. 1 financial statements 102-46 D  efining report content and topic Materiality, p. 2 boundaries 102-47 L  ist of material topics Materiality, p. 2 102-48 R  estatements of information In the indicator 405-1, governance composition by age group was changed from 12, 994 and 361 to 0, 49 and 58, respectively. 102-49 C  hanges in the list of material topics About this report, p. 1 and topic boundaries 102-50 R  eporting period About this report, p. 1 102-51 D  ate of most recent previous report 2017, published in March 2018. 102-52 R  eporting cycle About this report, p. 1 102-53 C  ontact point for questions About this report, p. 1 regarding the report 102-54 C  laims of reporting in accordance About this report, p. 1 with the GRI Standards 102-55 G  RI content index About this report, p. 1 102-56 E  xternal assurance Assurance report, p. 86 Omission Part ExplaGlobal AssuGRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link omitted Reason nation Compact SDGs OECD rance Material topics GRI 200 Standards Economic Series Economic Performance GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E  xplanation of the material topic and 2018 Results, p. 65 2016 its boundary 103-2 T  he management approach and its 2018 Results, p. 65 components 103-3 E  valuation of the management 2018 Results, p. 65 approach GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1 D  irect economic value generated and Economic Disclosures, p. 103 Yes 2016 distributed Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E  xplanation of the material topic and Compliance Program, p. 34 2016 its boundary 103-2 T  he management approach and its Compliance Program, p. 34 components 103-3 E  valuation of the management Compliance Program, p. 34 approach GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-3 C  onfirmed incidents of corruption Economic Disclosures, p. 103 P. 10 VII. Combating bribery, bribe solicitation and Yes and actions taken extortion 110 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 111 G R I S u m m ar y G R I S u m m ar y Omission Part ExplaGlobal AssuGRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link omitted Reason nation Compact SDGs OECD rance Anti-competitive behavior GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E xplanation of the material topic and Compliance Program, p. 34 2016 its boundary 103-2 T he management approach and its Compliance Program, p. 34 components 103-3 E valuation of the management Compliance Program, p. 34 approach GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior 206-1 L egal actions for anti-competitive Economic Disclosures, p. 105 16 X. Competition Yes 2016 behavior, antitrust, and monopoly XI. Taxation practices GRI 300 Standards Environmental series Energy GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E xplanation of the material topic and 2016 its boundary The report consolidates the consumption and 103-2 T he management approach and its energy intensity of each invested company. For components more detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports for each investee. 103-3 E valuation of the management approach GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 E  nergy consumption Environmental Disclosures, p. 91 7, 8, 12, 13, Yes within the organization 14, 15 302-3 E nergy intensity Environmental Disclosures, p. 91 P. 7, P.8, P.9 7, 8 VI. Environment Water GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E xplanation of the material topic and 2016 its boundary The report consolidates the consumption and 103-2 T he management approach and its energy intensity of each invested company. For components more detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports for each investee. 103-3 E valuation of the management approach GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 W ater withdrawal by source Environmental Disclosures, p. 92 6 Yes Biodiversity GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E xplanation of the material topic and Innovation in biodiversity, p. 43 2016 its boundary 103-2 T he management approach and its Innovation in biodiversity, p. 43 components 103-3 E valuation of the management Innovation in biodiversity, p. 43 approach GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-3 H abitats protected or restored Environmental Disclosures, p. 92 P.7, P.8, P.9 6, 13, 14, 15 VI. Environment Yes 112 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 113 G R I S u m m ar y G R I S u m m ar y Omission Part ExplaGlobal AssuGRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link omitted Reason nation Compact SDGs OECD rance Emissions GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E  xplanation of the material topic and The report consolidates the consumption and energy 2016 its boundary intensity of each invested company. For more detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports for 103-2 T  he management approach and its each investee. components 103-3 E  valuation of the management approach GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 D  irect (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental Disclosures, p. 93 3, 12, 13, 14, Yes 15 305-2 E  nergy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Environmental Disclosures, p. 93 3, 12, 13, 14, emissions 15 305-3 O  ther indirect (Scope 3) GHG Environmental Disclosures, p. 94 3, 12, 13, 14, emissions 15 305-4 G  HG emissions intensity Environmental Disclosures, p. 94 P.7, P.8, P.9 13, 14, 15 VI. Environment 305-7 N  Ox, SOx, and other significant air Environmental Disclosures, p. 95 3, 13, 14, 15 Yes emissions Waste and effluents GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E  xplanation of the material topic and The report consolidates the consumption and energy 2016 its boundary intensity of each invested company. For more detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports for 103-2 T  he management approach and its each investee. components 103-3 E  valuation of the management approach GRI 306: Waste and effluents 2016 306-1 W  ater discharge by quality and Environmental Disclosures, p. 95 3, 6, 12 Yes destination 306-2 W  aste by type and disposal method Environmental Disclosures, p. 95 3, 6, 12 Yes Supplier environmental assessment GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E  xplanation of the material topic and The report consolidates the consumption and energy 2016 its boundary intensity of each invested company. For more detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports for 103-2 T  he management approach and its each investee. components 103-3 E  valuation of the management approach GRI 308: Supplier Environmental 308-1 N  ew suppliers that were screened Environmental Disclosures, p. 96 P.7, P.8, P.9 Yes Assesment 2016 using environmental criteria 308-2 N  egative environmental impacts in Environmental Disclosures, p. 96 P.7, P.8, P.9 VI. Environment Yes the supply chain and actions taken 114 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 115 G R I S u m m ar y G R I S u m m ar y Omission Part ExplaGlobal AssuGRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link omitted Reason nation Compact SDGs OECD rance GRI 400 Standards Série Social Employment GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E  xplanation of the material topic and Human and Organizational Development (DHO), p. 46 2016 its boundary 103-2 T  he management approach and its Human and Organizational Development (DHO), p. 46 components 103-3 E  valuation of the management Human and Organizational Development (DHO), p. 46 approach GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 N  ew employee hires and employee Social Disclosures, p. 97 P.3, P.6 8 V. Employment and industrial relations turnover Occupational health and safety GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E  xplanation of the material topic and The report consolidates the consumption and energy 2016 its boundary intensity of each invested company. For more detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports for 103-2 T  he management approach and its each investee. components 103-3 E  valuation of the management approach GRI 403: Occupational health and 403-2 T  ypes of injury and rates of injury, Social Disclosures, p. 97 P.3, P.6 3 V. Employment and industrial relations Yes safety 2016 occupational diseases, lost days, and VI. Environment absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities Training and Education GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E  xplanation of the material topic and Development, p. 49; Votorantim Academy, p. 50 2016 its boundary 103-2 T  he management approach and its Development, p. 49; Votorantim Academy, p. 50 components 103-3 E  valuation of the management Development, p. 49; Votorantim Academy, p. 50 approach GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 v  erage hours of training per year per Social Disclosures, p. 98 P.3, P.6 4, 5, 8 V. Employment and industrial relations 2016 employee VI. Environment GRI 400 Standards Social Series Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E  xplanation of the material topic and Human and Organizational Development (DHO), p. 46 2016 its boundary 103-2 T  he management approach and its Human and Organizational Development (DHO), p. 46 components 103-3 E  valuation of the management Human and Organizational Development (DHO), p. 46 approach GRI 405: Diversity and equal 405-1 D  iversity of governance bodies and Social Disclosures, p. 98 P.3, P.6 5, 8 V. Employment and industrial relations opportunity 2016 employees 116 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 117 G R I S u m m ar y G R I S u m m ar y Omission Part ExplaGlobal AssuGRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link omitted Reason nation Compact SDGs OECD rance Non-discrimination GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E xplanation of the material topic and The report consolidates the consumption and energy 2016 its boundary intensity of each invested company. For more detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports for 103-2 T he management approach and its each investee. components 103-3 E valuation of the management approach GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and Social Disclosures, p. 101 P.1, P.2, P.6 5, 16 IV. Human rights Yes corrective actions taken V. Employment and industrial relations Child labor GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E xplanation of the material topic and The report consolidates the consumption and energy 2016 its boundary intensity of each invested company. For more detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports for 103-2 T he management approach and its each investee. components 103-3 E valuation of the management approach GRI 408: Child labor 2016 408-1 O perations and suppliers at Social Disclosures, p. 101 P.1, P.2, P.5 8, 16 IV. Human rights Yes significant risk for incidents of child V. Employment and industrial relations labor Forced or compulsory labor GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E xplanation of the material topic and The report consolidates the consumption and energy 2016 its boundary intensity of each invested company. For more detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports for 103-2 T he management approach and its each investee. components 103-3 E valuation of the management approach GRI 409: Forced or compulsory 409-1 O perations and suppliers at Social Disclosures, p. 102 P.1, P.2, P.4 8 IV. Human rights Yes labor 2016 significant risk for incidents of forced V. Employment and industrial relations or compulsory labor Human rights assessment GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E xplanation of the material topic and The report consolidates the consumption and energy 2016 its boundary intensity of each invested company. For more detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports for 103-2 T he management approach and its each investee. components 103-3 E valuation of the management approach GRI 412: Human rights assessment 412-1 O  perations that have been subject Social Disclosures, p. 102 P.1, P.2 IV. Human rights Yes 2016 to human rights reviews or impact assessments 118 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 119 G R I S u m m ar y G R I D isclosures Omission Part ExplaGlobal AssuGRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link omitted Reason nation Compact SDGs OECD rance Local communities GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E  xplanation of the material topic and Social commitment, p. 56; Votorantim Institute, p. 57 2016 its boundary 103-2 T  he management approach and its Social commitment, p. 56; Votorantim Institute, p. 57 components 103-3 E  valuation of the management Social commitment, p. 56; Votorantim Institute, p. 57 approach GRI 413: Local communities 2016 413-1 O  perations with local community Social Disclosures, p. 100 P.1, P.2, P.4 V. Employment and industrial relations Yes engagement, impact assessments, VI. Environment and development programs Supplier social assessment GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E  xplanation of the material topic and The report consolidates the consumption and energy 2016 its boundary intensity of each invested company. For more detailed information, see the annual and sustainability reports for 103-2 T  he management approach and its each investee. components 103-3 E  valuation of the management approach GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 414-1 N  ew suppliers that were screened Social Disclosures, p. 99 P.1, P.2, P.3 5, 8, 16 IV. Human rights Yes 2016 using social criteria V. Employment and industrial relations VI. Environment VII. Combating bribery, bribe solicitation and extortion X. Competition 414-2 N  egative social impacts in the supply Social Disclosures, p. 100 P.1, P.2, P.3 IV. Human rights Yes chain and actions taken V. Employment and industrial relations VI. Environment VII. Combating bribery, bribe solicitation and extortion X. Competition Public policy GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 E  xplanation of the material topic and Compliance Program, p. 34 2016 its boundary 103-2 T  he management approach and its Compliance Program, p. 34 components 103-3 E  valuation of the management Compliance Program, p. 34 approach GRI 415: Public policy 2016 415-1 P  olitical contributions There were no political contributions in the reporting P. 10 VII.Combating bribery, bribe solicitation and period. extortion 120 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 121 Consolidated financial statements I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I TO R ’ S R E P O RT I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I TO R ’ S R E P O R T (A free translation of the original in Portuguese) Key audit matters Independent auditor’s report Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the Matters context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, To the Board of Directors and Stockholders and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate Votorantim S.A. opinion on these matters. Why it is a Key Audit Our audit for the year ended December 31, 2018 was planned and performed Matter taking into consideration that the Company’s operations did not present Opinion significant changes compared to the prior year. How the In this context, the key audit matters, and our audit approach remained We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements matter was substantially in line with those from the prior year, except for the inclusion of of Votorantim S.A. (“Company”) and its subsidiaries, which comprise the addressed the matters related to the asset held forsale – Fibria Celulose S.A. and the recording consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2018 and the consolidated of the tax credits arising from the Social Integration Program (PIS) and the Social statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash Contribution on Revenues (COFINS), referring to the exclusion of the Value-added flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including Tax on Sales and Services (ICMS) from the calculation bases of these taxes. a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Votorantim S.A. and its Assessment of impairment of goodwill (Notes 16, 17 subsidiaries as at December 31, 2018, and their financial performance and and 18) cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with accounting practices WHY IT IS A KEY AUDIT MATTER The Company has goodwill based on the adopted in Brazil and with the International Financial Reporting Standards expectation of future profitability from business combinations made in prior (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). years totaling R$ 6,960 million (R$ 5,613 million recorded in Intangible assets and R$ 1,347 million recorded in Investments). Property, plant and equipment total R$ 26,180 million. Basis for opinion The Company’s management has to determine the recoverable value of the Cash-generating Units (CGUs) to which the goodwill has been ascribed. This We conducted our audit in accordance with Brazilian and International requires it to apply critical judgments to determine that value, which is the Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards higher of the fair value, net of selling expenses, and the value in use. The are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of recoverable value is sensitive to changes in assumptions related to price and the consolidated financial statements” section of our report. We are sales volume fluctuations, operating expenses, and determination of the independent of the Company and its subsidiaries in accordance with the appropriate discount rates, among other assumptions used in the calculations. ethical requirements established in the Code of Professional Ethics and Adverse economic and market conditions may significantly affect these Professional Standards issued by the Brazilian Federal Accounting Council, assumptions. and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with HOW THE MATTER WAS ADDRESSED IN THE AUDIT: In respect of this matter, these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained we obtained an understanding of the existing key controls for this area and is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. tested them. We also assessed the methodology that management uses to identify the Cash-generating units (CGUs). 124 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 125 I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I TO R ’ S R E P O RT I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I TO R ’ S R E P O R T In addition, we assessed the reasonableness of management’s main order to test the adequacy and the consistency of these realization estimates assumptions, including the discount rate used to determine the value in use in relation to those used in prior years. Finally, we assessed the disclosures or fair value net of selling and operating expenses, when applicable, and related to the recognition of these tax credits. the growth rates for prices and volumes, by comparing them with available We consider that the criteria and assumptions that management adopted to economic and industry-related estimates. Furthermore, with the support of determine the tax credits are reasonable in all material aspects in the context our experts, we tested the mathematical accuracy of the calculations and data of the financial statements. for the main assumptions used in the cash flow estimates, and to determine the discount rate. Through the sensitivity analyses of the main assumptions used, we also Provisions and contingent liabilities assessed whether the individual or cumulative changes would lead to (Note 23) impairment losses that could significantly exceed those recorded by the WHY IT IS A KEY AUDIT MATTER: At December 31, 2018, the Company and Company. its subsidiaries had recorded provisions calculated based on probable losses After performing these audit procedures, we considered that the methodology estimated in the respective proceedings. The Company and its subsidiaries used by management is consistent with the methodology adopted in prior also have tax, civil, environmental and labor proceedings in progress for which years, and that the disclosures are consistent with data and information no provisions were recorded in the financial statements because management obtained through our procedures. considered the likelihood of losses for these proceedings as possible or remote, based on the opinion of the Company’s internal and external legal advisors. Realization of deferred income tax and social Management applies critical judgments to determine the likelihood of positive contribution tax assets (Note 21) outcomes for proceedings in progress, as well as to estimate the probable WHY IT IS A KEY AUDIT MATTER: The Company and its subsidiaries losses, since these matters depend on future events that management is record deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences and income not able to control. In this context, the progress of these proceedings, at tax and social contribution losses, as well as credits from income tax and the several applicable levels, can differ from the results estimated by the social contribution recoverable. These assets were recorded to the extent management and its internal and external legal advisors, taking into account management considers that the Company will generate future taxable profit that changes in court directives or new case law may significantly affect that is sufficient for the utilization of these credits. management’s estimates. We considered this an area of focus in our audit since management’s In respect of this matter, we determined whether the procedures adopted assessment of the realization of these assets involves important and by management to calculate the provisions and the related disclosures are subjective judgments to determine the future taxable bases for the utilization in compliance with the related accounting policy. Furthermore, we obtained of these amounts. confirmation from the external legal advisors regarding the likelihood of loss for the major proceedings and the quantification of the amounts estimated HOW THE MATTER WAS ADDRESSED IN THE AUDIT: In respect of this matter, as remote, possible and probable losses. We counted on the support of we obtained an understanding of the key controls that the Company uses our tax experts to assess the reasonableness of the estimates prepared by to calculate and record tax credits, and tested these controls, as well as the management and its internal and external legal advisors for certain proceedings, model used to estimate the future taxable profits, which were approved by considering their progress and the existing case law, when applicable. the Company’s management. We consider that the criteria and assumptions used by management to We tested the calculations of tax credits and assessed the models and critical determine the provisions, and the disclosures in the related explanatory notes assumptions used by management to determine the future tax bases. We are consistent with the information received during our audit. compared these assumptions with macroeconomic information available in the market and compared the information from these projections with budgets approved by the Company’s governance bodies. In addition, we analyzed the realization periods considered in the Company’s historical data and studies in 126 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 127 I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I TO R ’ S R E P O RT I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I TO R ’ S R E P O R T Asset held for sale – Fibria Celulose S.A. (Note 34) ICMS on the calculation bases of PIS and COFINS (Notes WHY IT IS A KEY AUDIT MATTER: On March 15, 2018, the Company entered 1.1(g) and 30) into an agreement for the sale of its interest in associate Fibria Celulose S.A. WHY IT IS A KEY AUDIT MATTER: The Company recognized, in the year ended to Suzano Holding S.A., maintaining a minority interest in the new combined December 31, 2018, R$ 550 million referring to the tax credits arising from operation resulting from this transaction. the exclusion of the Value-added Tax on Sales and Services (ICMS) from the calculation bases of the Social Integration Program (PIS) and the Social Accordingly, considering that the decision to sell this operation had already Contribution on Revenues (COFINS), with projection of conversion into cash been made, the aforementioned investment is presented in the consolidated in five years. financial statements as an asset held for sale, and stated at its carrying amount on the agreement date, since the fair value of the operation exceeds We considered this an area of focus in our audit since the recording of the carrying amount of the investment. credits, as well as the assessment of their realization, required important and subjective judgments from management. We considered this as an area of focus in our audit due to the significance of the amounts that have an important impact on the financial statements, and HOW THE MATTER WAS ADDRESSED IN THE AUDIT: In response to this the judgments by management in relation to the amount to be presented as matter, we obtained the legal opinions from the Company’s external legal an asset held for sale in the consolidated financial statements. advisors, and involved our tax experts in the assessment of the risks involved in the recognition and realization of these credits. We verified, on a test basis, HOW THE MATTER WAS ADDRESSED IN THE AUDIT: We verified if the the calculations of tax credits, and the models and critical assumptions used transaction carried out was in compliance with the conditions for its by management to determine the amounts recognized. classification as a discontinued operation, and the measurement of the asset classified as held for sale at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less We consider that the criteria and assumptions used by management to selling expenses, according to the accounting standards. determine the tax credits, and the disclosures in the related explanatory notes are consistent with the information received during our audit. In our procedures, we did not identify inconsistencies in the recognition of the effects of the transaction in the financial statements and disclosures of the asset classified as a discontinued operation. 128 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 129 I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I TO R ’ S R E P O RT I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I TO R ’ S R E P O R T Other matters Responsibilities of management and those charged with governance for Statements of value added the consolidated financial statements The consolidated statement of value added for the year ended December 31, Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the 2018, prepared under the responsibility of the Company’s management and consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting practices presented as supplementary information for IFRS purposes, was submitted to adopted in Brazil and with the IFRS as issued by the International Accounting audit procedures performed in conjunction with the audit of the Company’s Standards Board (IASB), and for such internal control as management consolidated financial statements. For the purposes of forming our opinion, determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements we evaluated whether this statement was reconciled with the financial that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. statements and accounting records, as applicable, and if its form and content were in accordance with the criteria defined in Technical Pronouncement CPC In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible 09 – “Statement of Value Added”. In our opinion, this statement of value for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, added has been properly prepared in all material respects, in accordance with as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern the criteria established in the Technical Pronouncement, and is consistent basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the with the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole. Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process of the Company and its subsidiaries. Other information accompanying the consolidated financial statements Auditor’s responsibilities for the and the independent auditor’s report audit of the consolidated financial The Company’s management is responsible for the other information that comprises the Management Report, which is expected to be received after statements the date of this report. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material Management Report, and we do not express any form of audit conclusion misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report thereon. that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Brazilian and In connection with the audit of the consolidated financial statements, our International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement responsibility is to read the Management Report and, in doing so, consider when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered whether this report is materially inconsistent with the financial statements material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected or with our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these materially misstated. financial statements. If, after reading the Management Report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement in this report, we are required to report that fact. 130 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 131 I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I TO R ’ S R E P O RT I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I TO R ’ S R E P O R T As part of an audit in accordance with Brazilian and International Standards We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among on Auditing, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant skepticism throughout the audit. We also: audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, one resulting from error, as fraud could involve collusion, forgery, intentional related safeguards. omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or internal control of the Company and its subsidiaries. regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. management. Curitiba, March 8, 2019 • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a PricewaterhouseCoopers material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast Auditores Independentes significant doubt on the ability of the Company to continue as a going CRC 2SP000160/O-5 concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required Carlos Eduardo Guaraná Mendonça to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the CRC 1SP196994/O-2 consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. 132 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 133 C onsolidated f inancial state m ents C onsolidated f inancial state m ents A S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 A S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 ALL AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS OF REAIS ( A F R E E T R A N S L AT I O N O F T H E O R I G I N A L I N P O R T U G U E S E ) ( A F R E E T R A N S L AT I O N O F T H E O R I G I N A L I N P O R T U G U E S E )  ALL AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS OF REAIS Consolidated balance sheet Note 2018 2017 Note 2018 2017 Assets Liabilities and equity Current assets Current liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 9 7,667 9,177 Borrowing 19 (a) 5,291 2,573 Financial investments 10 3,390 3,345 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 (a) 166 299 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 (a) 216 52 Confirming payables 20 1,187 909 Trade receivables 11 2,546 2,421 Trade payables 4,262 3,514 Inventory 12 3,814 3,526 Salaries and payroll charges 845 895 Taxes recoverable 13 1,473 1,317 Taxes payable 490 617 Dividends receivable 14 14 148 Advances from clients 128 408 Financial instruments firm commitment 15 202 210 Dividends payable 14 482 188 Other assets 564 784 Use of public assets 24 83 76 19,886 20,980 Financial instruments firm commitment 15 19 1 Assets classified as held-for-sale 34 4,527 2,199 Deferred revenue performance obligations 22 242 246 Deferred revenue silver streaming 124 104 24,413 23,179 Other liabilities 808 643 14,127 10,473 Non-current assets Liabilities related to assets held-for-sale 34 108 1,526 Long-term receivables Financial investments 10 23 25 14,235 11,999 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 (a) 256 138 Financial instruments put option 6.1.1 (b) 744 Non-current liabilities Taxes recoverable 13 2,731 1,784 Borrowing 19 (a) 19,160 22,057 Related parties 14 271 143 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 (a) 78 83 Deferred income tax and social contribution 21 (b) 4,079 4,079 Deferred income tax and social contribution 21 (b) 2,199 1,965 Judicial deposits 23 (b) 755 765 Related parties 14 136 25 Financial instruments firm commitment 15 154 Provision 23 (a) 2,595 2,587 Other assets 685 667 Use of public assets 24 1,106 1,056 9,544 7,755 Pension plan and post-employment health care benefits 25 319 320 Financial instruments firm commitment 15 161 207 Investments 16 (c) 10,882 13,372 Deferred revenue performance obligations 22 29 272 Property, plant and equipment 17 26,180 26,223 Deferred revenue silver streaming 650 630 Intangible assets 18 13,341 12,075 Other liabilities 924 653 Biological assets 74 65 27,357 29,855 60,021 59,490 Total liabilities 41,592 41,854 Total assets 84,434 82,669 Equity Share capital 26 (a) 28,656 28,656 Revenue reserves 7,088 6,569 Carrying value adjustments 26 (c) 1,475 733 Total equity attributable to the owners of the Company 37,219 35,958 Non-controlling interests 5,623 4,857 Total equity 42,842 40,815 Total liabilities and equity 84,434 82,669 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 134 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 135 C onsolidated f inancial state m ents C onsolidated f inancial state m ents A S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 A S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 ALL AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS OF REAIS ( A F R E E T R A N S L AT I O N O F T H E O R I G I N A L I N P O R T U G U E S E ) ( A F R E E T R A N S L AT I O N O F T H E O R I G I N A L I N P O R T U G U E S E )  ALL AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS OF REAIS Consolidated statement of Consolidated statement of income comprehensive income Note 2018 2017 Note 2018 2017 Restyled (Note 2.3) Profit for the year 1,954 810 Continuing operations Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 27 31,948 26,799 Other components of comprehensive income to be subsequently Cost of products sold and services rendered 28 (25,909) (21,171) reclassified to profit or loss Gross profit 6,039 5,628 Attributable to the owners of the Company Operating income (expenses) Selling 28 (775) (701) Foreign exchange variations attributable to the owners of the General and administrative 28 (2,173) (2,013) Company 26 (c) 1,555 473 Other operating income (expenses), net 30 550 (553) Hedge accounting for net investments abroad, net of taxes 6.1.3 e 26 (c) (931) (163) (2,398) (3,267) Hedge accounting for the operations of subsidiaries 26 (c) 158 (101) Fair value of financial assets available-for-sale of the nonOperating profit before equity results and finance results 3,641 2,361 consolidated investments 26 (c) (74) 39 Realization of comprehensive income on the disposal of investments 26 (c) (4) (136) Results from equity investments Realization of comprehensive income on the sale of interest in Nexa Equity in the results of investees 16 (c) 814 1,219 Dividends received 34 (a) 820 Resources S.A. 26 (c) (419) Realization of other comprehensive income on disposal of Share in other comprehensive income of investees 26 (c) 3 investments 4 3 1,638 1,222 Attributable to non-controlling Foreign exchange variations attributable to non-controlling interests 714 94 Finance results, net 31 Hedge accounting for the operations of subsidiaries 17 Finance income 1,261 1,153 Finance costs (2,531) (2,705) Share in other comprehensive income of investees (1) 60 Result of derivative financial instruments 204 (213) 1,420 (136) Foreign exchange losses, net (977) (724) Other components of comprehensive income that will not be (2,043) (2,489) reclassified to profit or loss Profit before income tax and social contribution 3,236 1,094 Attributable to the owners of the Company Remeasurement of retirement benefits, net of tax effects 26 (c) 34 1 Income tax and social contribution 21 (a) Current (456) (722) Attributable to non-controlling Deferred (608) 586 Remeasurement of retirement benefits, net of taxes 2 (1) Profit from continuing operations 2,172 958 Other components of comprehensive income for the year 1,456 (136) Discontinued operations Loss on discontinued operations (218) (148) Comprehensive income (loss) from Profit for the year attributable to the owners of the Company 1,954 810 Continuing operations 3,628 822 Profit attributable to the owners of the Company 1,746 590 Discontinued operations (218) (148) Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 208 220 3,410 674 Profit for the year 1,954 810 Comprehensive income attributable to Weighted average number of shares thousands (to the owners of the Owners of the Company 2,487 284 Company) 18,278,789 18,278,789 Basic and diluted earnings per thousand shares, in reais 95.52 32.28 Non-controlling interests 923 390 3,410 674 From continuing operations Basic and diluted earnings per thousand shares, in reais 107.45 40.38 From discontinued operations Basic and diluted loss per thousand shares, in reais (11.93) (8.10) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 136 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 137 C onsolidated f inancial state m ents C onsolidated f inancial state m ents A S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 A S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 ALL AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS OF REAIS ( A F R E E T R A N S L AT I O N O F T H E O R I G I N A L I N P O R T U G U E S E ) ( A F R E E T R A N S L AT I O N O F T H E O R I G I N A L I N P O R T U G U E S E )  ALL AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS OF REAIS Consolidated statement of changes in equity Attributable to the owners of the Company Revenue reserves Retained Carrying NonShare Tax Profit (loss) value controlling Total Nota capital incentives Legal retention earnings adjustments Total interests equity At January 1, 2017 28,656 10 654 5,590 1,255 36,165 2,658 38,823 Profit for the year 590 590 220 810 Other comprehensive income Note (306) (306) 170 (136) Comprehensive income for the year 590 (306) 284 390 674 Increase of non-controlling shareholders Nexa dilution of interest (215) (215) 1,075 860 Increase of non-controlling shareholders Nexa sale of interest 957 957 Allocation of net income for the year Legal reserve 30 (30) Dividends (135) (140) (275) (224) (499) Profit retention 420 (420) Total contributions and distributions to shareholders 30 285 (590) (215) (490) 1,808 1,318 26 (b) At December 31, 2017 28,656 10 684 5,875 734 35,959 4,856 40,815 At January 1, 2018 28,656 10 684 5,875 734 35,959 4,856 40,815 Initial adoption of IFRS 9 (342) (342) (342) Initial application of FIPs, net of taxes Banco Votorantim S.A. (116) (116) (116) At January 1, 2018, after the impacts of the adoption of IFRS 9 and FIPs 28,656 10 684 5,875 (458) 734 35,501 4,856 40,357 Initial adoption of IAS 29 1.1 (e) 3.1.2 295 295 295 Profit for the year 1,746 1,746 208 1,954 Other comprehensive income 741 741 715 1,456 Comprehensive income (loss) for the year 1.1 (e) 1,746 741 2,487 923 3,410 Allocation of net income for the year Legal revenue 87 (87) Dividends (789) (415) (1,204) (61) (1,265) Profit retention 1,081 (1,081) Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inversiones S.L. ( VCEAA ) non-controlling interests aquisition Reversal of deliberate dividends 26 (b) 140 140 140 Share premium distribution NEXA 1.1 (b) (95) (95) Total contributions and distributions to shareholders 87 432 (1,583) (1,064) (156) (1,220) 26 (b) At December 31, 2018 1.1 (b) 28,656 10 771 6,307 1,475 37,219 5,623 42,842 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 138 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 139 C onsolidated f inancial state m ents C onsolidated f inancial state m ents A S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 A S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 ALL AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS OF REAIS ( A F R E E T R A N S L AT I O N O F T H E O R I G I N A L I N P O R T U G U E S E ) ( A F R E E T R A N S L AT I O N O F T H E O R I G I N A L I N P O R T U G U E S E )  ALL AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS OF REAIS Consolidated statement of cash flows Note 2018 2017 Note 2018 2017 Cash flow from operating activities Cash flow from investment activities Proceeds from disposals of fixed and intangible assets 177 178 Profit before income tax and social contribution 3,236 1,094 Resources from the public offering and sale of shares of Nexa 1,762 Loss on discontinued operations (218) (148) Investment sale China, California and Florida 1,937 Investment sale 1.1 (i) 419 Adjustments to items that do not represent changes in cash and Dividends received 1,085 540 cash equivalents Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment 17 (2,567) (3,108) Discontinued Operations China, California and Florida (23) Acquisitions of investments (125) Realization of other comprehensive income financial results 31 331 Increase in biological assets (9) (4) Net gain on sale of investment 30 (123) (625) Increase in intangible assets 18 (115) (174) Depreciation, amortization and depletion 28 2,470 2,325 Net cash provided by (used in) investment activities (1,135) 1,131 Equity in the results of investees 16 (c) (814) (1,219) Deliberation of interim dividends of Fibria 34 (a) (820) Cash flow from financing activities Interest, indexation and foreign exchange variations 501 2,006 New borrowing 19 (b) 3,665 5,399 Reversal for the impairment of fixed, intangible assets and Repayment of borrowing 19 (b) (5,532) (5,881) investments 16, 17, 18 (52) (23) Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 (a) (11) (561) Gain on sales of fixed and intangible assets, net 30 (42) (4) Dividends paid (789) (359) Fair value adjustment 19 (b) (28) 47 Dividends paid to non-controlling (61) Constitution (reversal) of provision 120 (278) Share premium Nexa paid (95) Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 (c) (162) (319) Net cash used in financing activities (2,823) (1,402) Financial instruments firm commitment 15 132 522 Gain in fair value in VTRM´s operation 30 (300) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (2,261) 1,840 Net gain from financial instrument put option 31 (71) Gain on debt renegotiation 31 (69) Effect of companies excluded from consolidation (109) Tax recovery 30 (498) Effect of fluctuations in exchange rates 860 391 Change in fair value of biological assets 8 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 9,177 6,946 3,262 3,694 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 7,667 9,177 Decrease (increase) in assets Financial investments 346 442 Non-cash transactions Derivative financial instruments (92) (202) Non-cash impact Special Program of Tax Regulation ( PERT ) debits (259) Trade accounts receivable (168) (420) Inventory (293) (130) Taxes recoverable (262) 12 Related parties (17) 395 Other accounts receivable and other assets 50 (358) Increase (decrease) in liabilities Trade payables 778 630 Salaries and social charges (50) 47 Use of public assets (13) (84) Taxes payable 31 160 Other obligations and other liabilities 200 171 Cash provided by operating activities 3,772 4,357 Interest paid on borrowing and use of public assets (1,461) (1,558) Income tax and social contribution paid (614) (688) Net cash provided by operating activities 1,697 2,111 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 140 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 141 C onsolidated f inancial state m ents N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S A S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 ALL AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS OF REAIS ( A F R E E T R A N S L AT I O N O F T H E O R I G I N A L I N P O R T U G U E S E ) A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D Consolidated statement of value added 1 General considerations Note 2018 2017 Revenue Votorantim S.A. (the “Company”, the “parent company”, or “VSA”), is a longSales of products and services 36,510 31,362 term Brazilian holding company. With its headquarters in the city of São Paulo, Estimated loss on doubtful accounts 11 (c) (15) Brazil, the Company’s purpose is to manage assets and companies, as well as Other operating income (expenses), net 550 (553) 37,045 30,809 to invest in other companies in order to further its objectives. Inputs acquired from third parties The Company, through its subsidiaries and associates, operates in the following Raw materials and other production inputs (21,405) (17,056) Materials, energy, outsourced services and others (660) (517) segments: construction, metals and mining, aluminum, electrical energy, long Impairment of assets 30 52 23 steel, agribusiness and finance. Gross value added 15,032 13,259 Depreciation, amortization and depletion 28 (2,470) (2,325) 1.1 Main events that occurred during the year 2018 Net value added generated by the Company 12,562 10,934 Value added received through transfers (a) Votorantim and ArcelorMittal conclude long steel operation Equity in the results of investees 1,634 1,219 Brazil Finance income and foreign exchange losses 5,204 2,277 6,838 3,496 On February 22, 2017, ArcelorMittal Brasil S.A. (“AMB”) and VSA entered into an agreement under which Votorantim Siderurgia S.A. (“VS”) will become a Total value added to distribute 19,400 14,430 subsidiary of AMB and VSA will hold a minority interest of 15% in the combined long steel business. Distribution of value added Personnel and payroll charges 29 On February 7, 2018, the Administrative Council for Economic Defense Direct remuneration 2,951 2,469 Social charges 1,040 947 (“CADE”) approved this, pursuant to Concentration Act 08700.002165/2017Benefits 709 600 97. 4,700 4,016 Taxes and contributions As at April 1, 2018, VS became a subsidiary of AMB under the corporate name Federal 2,277 2,491 of ArcellorMital Sul Fluminense S.A.. On the same date, the Company received State 2,220 2,604 15% of the combined long steel business of AMB, which, in compliance with Municipal 15 13 accounting rules, was recognized at fair value as a financial instrument, in Deferred taxes 608 (586) 5,120 4,522 accordance with CPC 48 – “Financial Instruments”. Third-party capital remuneration Votorantim’s long steel operations in Argentina (Acerbrag) and Colombia Finance costs and foreign exchange losses 7,247 4,766 Rentals 379 316 (PazdelRío) were not included in the transaction and continue to be 7,626 5,082 consolidated in the Company’s financial statements. Own capital remuneration Non-controlling interests 208 220 Dividends 1,265 499 Reinvested profits 699 239 Loss on discontinued operations 34 (c) (218) (148) 1,954 810 Value added distributed 19,400 14,430 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 142 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 143 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (b) Reimbursement of share premium Nexa Resources S.A. recognized using the equity method, as follows: On February 15, 2018, the Board of Directors approved the reimbursement of a share premium of US$ 0.60 cents per ordinary share to shareholders, Votorantim S.A of which R$ 171 was to controlling shareholders and R$ 95 was to noncontrolling shareholders of record at the close of business on March 14, 2018 100% and this was paid on March 28, 2018. Canadian Votorantim Pension Plan Geração de Investment Energia S.A. Board (CPPIB) (c) Fibria Celulose S.A. corporate reorganization 50% On March 15, 2018, the Company together with BNDES Participações SA VTRM Energia 50% BNDESPAR (jointly, the “Controlling Shareholders of Fibria”) entered into Participações S.A. an agreement with Suzano Holding SA and other controlling shareholders of Suzano Papel e Celulose SA (“Suzano”) (jointly, the” Suzano controlling shareholders”), to combine the operations and shareholding bases of Fibria The balances of the subsidiary VGE at the periods ended of operation on May and Suzano, through a corporate reorganization, (Note 34 (a)). 29, 2018 were as follows: 5/29/2018 5/29/2018 (d) Formation of joint venture with strategic investor Assets Liabilities and equity All regulatory approvals were obtained on May 29, 2018 and the compliance Current assets Current liabilities was achieved in all conditions precedent necessary to carry out the operations Cash and cash equivalents 14 Borrowing 65 set forth in the Subscription and Investment Agreement entered into by Financial investments 68 Trade payables 4 Votorantim Geração de Energia S.A. (“VGE”) and the Canadian Pension Plan Trade receivables 19 Taxes payable 2 Investment Board (“CPPIB”), and in the Share Purchase and Sale Agreement Other assets 7 Other liabilities 6 entered into by VGE, CPPIB and Salus Investment Fund for Multistrategy 108 77 Holdings, both executed on December 13, 2017. Additionally, on May 29, 2018, VGE and CPPIB resolved at an extraordinary Non-current assets Non-current liabilities shareholders’ meeting a capital increase in the investee VTRM in the amount Long-term receivables Borrowing 843 of R$ 49 and R$ 664, respectively, through issuance of 25,689 and 345,737 Liquidity Fund Reserve Account 3 Related parties 83 thousand common shares, respectively, at an issue price of R$ 1.92. This Other assets 10 Provision 21 capital increase generated a significant increase in investment, in the amount 13 Other liabilities 23 of R$ 155, which was recognized as a contra entry to the item “Other operating 970 income (expenses), net” (Note 30). After the completion of the operation, VGE ceased to have a 100% stake and Investments 713 Total liabilities 1,047 consequently control over VTRM and its subsidiaries. It came to hold joint Property, plant and control in this investment platform (“joint venture”) with CPPIB, since both equipment 1,189 investors have a 50% interest in this company and all strategic, financial and Intangible 42 Equity operational decisions must be taken unanimously. As a result of the loss of 1,944 Share capital 699 control and maintenance of shared control, VGE ceased to consolidate the Capital reserves 334 previous investment in VTRM and its subsidiaries on May 29, 2018, and Loss earnings (15) recorded the remaining portion of the investment at fair value, recognizing Total equity 1,018 a gain of R$ 147 under the item “Other operating income (expenses), net” (Note 30). After the initial registration, the investment in the joint venture was Total assets 2,065 Total liabilities and equity 2,065 144 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 145 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (e) Adjustment of Argentina’s hyperinflationary economy (f) Cementos Portland S.A. (“CEMPOR”) investment sale As at July 1, 2018, Argentina’s economy was framed by a hyperinflationary On October 4, 2018, the subsidiary Votorantim Cimentos S.A. (“VCSA”) economy, with accumulated inflation in excess of 100% in the last three years, and Cementos Bio Bio SA (“CBB”), as partners of CEMPOR, entered into a accompanied by a high degree of devaluation of the Argentine peso (“ARS”). contract for the sale of all shares representing the company’s share capital, According to IAS 29 (Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies), the in accordance with their respective shares equivalent to 50% of CEMPOR’s positive effect of the ARS devaluation was recognized in the consolidated in quotas (R$ 59), as described in Note 16 (c). the amount of R$ 250, and the positive effect of the initial inflation adjustment On October 10, 2018, the sale was concluded and the subsidiary VCSA on the investment balance was in the amount of R$ 295, recorded as a contra registered a loss related to the sale of the investment in the amount of R$ entry to “Retained earnings” in shareholders’ equity and negative effect, in 4, registered in “Other operating income (expenses), net”, as described in the amount of R$ 45, recognized in the consolidated result. Note 30, consequently, realized the write-off of R$ 4 related to the exchange variation on investments abroad, which was recognized in “Realization of Statement of income IAS 29 effect other comprehensive income of investees.” Net revenue from products sold 145 Cost ofproducts sold (88) (g) Acquisition of control of Companhia Energética de São Gross profit 57 Paulo (“CESP”) by VTRM Operating income (expenses) On October 19, 2018, the joint venture (VTRM) consortium formed by VGE and General and administrative (33) the Canadian fund CPPIB acquired a shareholding control of CESP through the (33) acquisition of 80.2% of the common shares and 13.7% of the Class B preferred shares. The consortium offered R$ 14.60 per share, corresponding to 35.6% of the total capital of CESP, representing a total offer of R$ 1.7 billion. Operating profit before equity results and finance results 24 This transaction is aligned with the growth objectives of the joint venture in renewable energy generation in Brazil, and will add 1.6 GW of installed Results from equity investments capacity to the already existing portfolio of 564 MW of installed generation Equity in the results of capacity coming from wind farms Ventos do Piauí I and Ventos do Araripe III. investees (26) (26) As foreseen in the bid announcement, after the transfer of control, a new concession of the Porto Primavera Hydroelectric Power Plant will be granted Finance result, net (28) to CESP for 30 years, upon payment of a pre-established grant in the amount of R$ 1.4 billion. Profit before income tax and social In addition, the consortium undertakes to make a public offering for the contribution (30) acquisition of Class B common and preferred shares remaining in accordance with the terms of the bid announcement, CESP’s Bylaws, current legislation Income tax and social contribution (15) and applicable CVM regulations. Loss for the year (45) On December 11, 2018, the transaction was executed based on the purchase and sale agreement recognized by the parties, in which all conditions for the conclusion of the transaction were determined. Balance sheet IAS 29 effect Cementos Avellaneda S.A. 168 (h) State Value-Added Tax on Sales and Services (“ICMS”) Acergroup S.A. 79 from the basis of calculation of the PIS and COFINS Acerholding S.A. 48 contributions 295 146 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 147 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D In the fourth quarter of 2018, based on the final decision of the Federal VCI is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the subsidiary VCSA, as well as the Regional Court (“TRF”), the subsidiaries VCSA and Nexa BR registered in the investments transferred during the process, and therefore, the corporate asset the right to recover federal tax credits in the amount of R$ 781 (Note reorganization occurred between jointly controlled companies. The assets 13), being the principal amount of R$ 438 corresponding to the principal and liabilities transferred the contribution by VCSA of all its investment registered in “Other income (expenses), net” (Note 30) and the amount of R$ and goodwill in the subsidiary Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inversiones, SL 343 corresponding to interest registered in “Net financial income” (Note 31). (“VCEAA”), and substitution of the issuer (“Substitution of the issuer”) of the debts 3.25% Senior Notes maturing in 2021, 3.50% Senior Notes maturing in 2022 and 7.25% Senior Notes maturing in 2041 from subsidiary VCSA to (i) Sale of Indirect subsidiary US Zinc Corporation VCI, for which the subsidiary VCSA became the guarantor by the effects of In December 2018, the subsidiary FinCo GmbH (“FinCo”) sold all of the the reorganization were recorded at historical cost, as previously recorded in shares of the indirect subsidiary U.S. Zinc Corporation, which operated in the the financial statements of subsidiary VCSA. There was no recording of any production and commercialization of zinc, to the investment fund Aterian goodwill or other difference between the cost of the transaction and the book Investment Partner. value, and the difference between the assets and liabilities transferred was recorded in VCI’s shareholders’ equity. The transaction between the parties ended on December 26, 2018, for the amount of R$ 449 (USD 116), corresponding to operations in the United States, China and the Netherlands Antilles. As a result of the sale, the Company (k) Reclassification of India operations for “discontinued received R$ 419 and registered a gain of R$ 126 (USD 31), recognized under operations result” “Other operating income (expenses), net” (Note 30). In November 2018, the subsidiary VCSA, with its subsidiary VCEAA, entered (j) Corporate reorganization of subsidiary VCSA into an agreement to sell all the operations in India. As a consequence, were reclassified to discontinued operations, in the statement of income During the second semester of 2018, the subsidiary VCSA undertook a for the years ended December 31, 2017 (Note 2.3) and 2018 (Note 34 corporate reorganization in order to transfer international investments directly (c)), the amounts of R$ (3) and R$ 22, respectively, referring to the result and indirectly held by the subsidiary VCSA to a holding company incorporated of the year generated by operations in India. The VCEAA registered a loss in Luxembourg, Votorantim Cimentos International S.A. (“VCI”). The corporate related to the sale of the investment in the amount of R$ (80), registered in reorganization was carried out to strengthen Votorantim Cimentos’ position “Discontinued operations result” in Note 34 (c). In addition, balances related as an international player, ensuring greater efficiency in the operation, to the subsidiary Shree Digvijay Cement Co Limited, in the net amount of R$ benefiting global governance strategies, strengthening its capital structure, 112, were classified as available for sale in the balance sheet (Note 34). maximizing growth opportunities in several regions and increasing Group access to international markets. 148 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 149 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 2 Presentation of the consolidated 2.2 Consolidation financial statements (a) Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Company. Transactions, balances and unrealized gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealized losses are also eliminated, unless 2.1 Basis of preparation the transaction provides evidence of impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of acquired subsidiaries have been changed where (a) Consolidated financial statements necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Company. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil effective up to December 31, 2018, including (b) Transactions with non-controlling interests the pronouncements issued by the Brazilian Accounting Pronouncements The Company treats transactions with non-controlling interests as Committee (“CPC”), as well as according to the International Financial Reporting transactions with equity owners of the Company. For purchases from nonStandards (“IFRS”) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the (“IASB”) and their interpretations (“IFRIC”), and show all relevant information proportion acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is pertinent to interim financial statements, which is consistent with that used recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests by the management in carrying out its duties. are also recorded directly in equity, in “Profit retention reserves”. The Company voluntarily discloses its consolidated statement of value added, according to the accounting practices adopted in Brazil, applicable to public (c) Loss of control of subsidiaries companies and presented as an integral part of these financial statements. To international practice, this statement is presented as additional information. When the Company ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value, with the change in carrying amount The preparation of these consolidated financial statements considered the recognized in profit and loss. The amounts previously recognized in carrying historical cost basis, which in the case of certain financial assets and liabilities, value adjustments are reclassified to profit and loss. including derivative instruments, is adjusted to reflect the fair value measurement. The financial statements require the use of certain critical accounting estimates. (d) Associates and joint arrangements It also requires management to exercise judgment in the process of applying the Joint operations are accounted for in the financial statements in order to Company’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgment represent the Company’s contractual rights and obligations. Therefore, or complexity or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses related to its interests in joint consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 4. operations are individually accounted for in its financial statements. (b) Approval of the financial statements Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method and are initially recognized at cost. The Board of Directors approved the consolidated financial statements for issue on March 8, 2019. The Company’s investments in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment loss. Dilution gains and losses on investments in associates and joint ventures are recognized in the statement of income. 150 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 151 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 2.3 Restatement of comparative figures 2017 In accordance with IFRS 5/CPC 31 “Non-current assets held-for-sale and ReclassiImpacts of Eliminafication Reclassidiscontinued operations”, the Company reclassified certain cement operations reclassifition of of mineral fication of Reclassifrom India, from continuing operations to discontinued operations. cation of intragroup exploration depletion fication of As prior Votorantim energy projects expenses CPC 47 / Balance presented Cimentos revenue Nexa US Zinc IFRS 15 restated Also due to the application of IFRS 15/CPC 47 – “Revenue from contracts with customers”, there were changes in accounting practices that resulted in reclassifications of the December 31, 2017 result, as described in Note 3.1. Profit before income tax and social contribution 1,086 8 1,094 2017 Income tax and social contribution ReclassiCurrent (723) 1 (722) Impacts of Eliminafication Reclassireclassifition of of mineral fication of ReclassiDeferred 592 (6) 586 cation of intragroup exploration depletion fication of Profit for the continuing As prior Votorantim energy projects expenses CPC 47 / Balance operations 955 3 958 presented Cimentos revenue Nexa US Zinc IFRS 15 restated Continuing operations Discontinued operations Net revenue from products sold Loss for the discontinued and services rendered 27,225 (176) (250) 26,799 operations (145) (3) (148) Cost of products sold and Profitfor the year attributable to services rendered (20,649) 182 250 16 (38) (932) (21,171) the owners 810 810 Gross profit (loss) profit 6,576 6 16 (38) (932) 5,628 Profit attributable to the owners of the Company 590 590 Operating income (expenses) Profit attributable to nonSelling (1,666) 4 38 923 (701) controlling interests 220 220 General and administrative (2,018) 5 (16) 16 (2,013) Profit for the year 810 810 Other operating expenses, net (536) (10) (7) (553) (4,220) (1) (16) 38 932 (3,267) Weighted average number of shares thousands (to the owners of the Company) 18,278,789 18,278,789 Operating profit before equity Basic and diluted earnings per results and finance results 2,356 5 2,361 thousand shares, in reais 32.28 32.28 Results from equity investments From continuing operations Equity in the results of Basic and diluted earnings per investees 1,219 1,219 thousand shares, in reais 40.21 0.17 40.38 Realization of other comprehensive income on From discontinued operations disposal of investments 3 3 Basic and diluted loss per thousand 1,222 1,222 shares, in reais (7.93) (0.17) (8.10) Finance results, net Finance income 1,155 (2) 1,153 Finance costs (2,710) 5 (2,705) Income from derivative financial instruments (213) (213) Foreign exchange, net (724) (724) (2,492) 3 (2,489) 152 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 153 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 2.4 Foreign currency translation Goodwill and fair value arising from the acquisition of an entity abroad are treated as assets and liabilities of the entity abroad and converted at the closing rate. (a) Functional and presentation currency of the financial statements Below are the functional currencies defined for the significant foreign The functional currency of the Company is the Brazilian Real (“R$”, “Real” subsidiaries: or “reais”). Company Country Functional currency Main activity Acerbrag S.A. Argentina Argentine Peso Steel (b) Transactions and balances St. Marys Cement Inc. St. Foreign currency transactions are translated into reais using the exchange Mary's Canada US Dollar Cement rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or the dates of valuation Acerías Paz del Río S.A. Colombia Colombian Peso Steel when items are re-measured. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting Votorantim Cimentos EAA from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at yearInversiones, S.L. VCEAA Espanha Euro Cement end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Nexa Resources Cajamarquilla currencies are recognized in the statement of income, except when deferred S.A. Peru US Dollar Zinc in equity as net investment hedges. Nexa Resources Perú S.A.A. Peru US Dollar Mining Nexa Resources S.A. Luxemburgo US Dollar Holding Votorantim Cimentos (c) Subsidiaries with a different functional currency International S.A. VCI Luxemburgo US Dollar Holding The results and financial positions of all the Company entities (none of which Votorantim FinCO GmbH Luxemburgo US Dollar Trading has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: I. Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet; II. Income and expenses for each statement of income are translated at average exchange rates; III. All resulting exchange differences are recognized as a separate component of equity, in “Carrying value adjustments”. The amounts presented in the cash flow are extracted from the translated movements of the assets, liabilities and profit or loss, as detailed above. On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowings and other foreign currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognized in equity. When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognized in the statement of income as part of the gain or loss on sale. 154 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 155 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 3 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures (ii) Impairment The Company and its subsidiaries adopted the new accounting standard as of January 1, 2018 and applied the simplified approach to recognize the expected credit loss for trade accounts receivable. The methodology for calculating the provision for losses is based on a risk matrix, which is composed 3.1 Changes in standards of historical data of losses for all aging lists and prospective data, considering the securities to be matched. 3.1.1 IFRS 9 / CPC 48 – “Financial Instruments” The initial impact of adoption was a loss in the amount of R$ 342 in the consolidated statements as from January 1, 2018, recognizing the amount in equity, which (i) Classification and measurement was substantially composed of the adoptions made by Banco Votorantim S.A., being a loss in the amount of R$ 337. The changes in accounting policies resulting from the adoption of IFRS 9 have been applied since January 1, 2018 and have not generated effects on the measurement of financial assets and liabilities of the Company and its (iii) Hedge accounting subsidiaries. The Company and its subsidiaries analyzed the economic relationship, credit risk and the hedge ratio of the current net investment hedge operations and concluded The following table presents the CPC 38 original measurement categories that they will continue to qualify for hedge accounting with the adoption of IFRS 9. versus the new CPC 48 measurement categories for securities on January 1, As this standard does not change the general principles of accounting of effective 2018: hedges, there was no impact as a result of the application of IFRS 9. Original classification New classification according according to CPC 38 2017 to CPC 48 2017 (iv) Financial liabilities The debt renegotiations presented in Note 19 (b), whose contractual terms Fair value through profit or loss Fair value through profit or loss were the subject of debt swaps which did not involve financial settlements and Financial investments 3,251 Financial investments 3,251 resulted in changes in the burden of these debts and were not substantially Derivative financial Derivative financial altered, had their values remeasured ​​ to reflect the change of accounting instruments 160 instruments 160 practice, the effect of which was a reduction of R$ 69 in loans and financing as Financial instruments Financial instruments a contra entry to the gain on the financial result, as described in Note 31. firm commitment 364 firm commitment 364 3,775 3,775 Fair value through other 3.1.2 IFRS 15 / CP 47 – “Revenue from Contracts with Available for sale comprehensive income Customers” Financial investments 68 Financial investments 68 The Company and its subsidiaries adopted the new accounting standard as 68 68 of January 1, 2018, resulting in changes in accounting practices linked to Held to maturity Amortized cost the performance obligation related to the freight delivery of products to Financial investments 51 Financial investments 51 customers and, consequently, changes in comparative balances. 51 51 According to the standard, the Company and its subsidiaries made the changes retrospectively in the balances originally presented on December 31, 2017, according to Note 2.3 Restatement of comparative figures. On December 31, 2017, the amount reclassified was R$ 932. 156 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 157 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 3.2 New standards and interpretations not yet adopted (b) Leasing term The following standards have been published and will be mandatory for The Company and its subsidiaries analyzed for all contracts the lease term accounting periods as of January 1, 2019. There was no early adoption of according to the combination of non-cancellable term, term covered by the these standards and changes in standards by the Company and its subsidiaries. option of extension, term covered by the termination option and, mainly, Management’s intention as to the term of stay in each contract. 3.2.1 IFRS 16 / CPC 06 – “Leasing” (c) Discount rate IFRS 16 establishes principles for recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure for lease agreements. The standard introduces for lessee a For initial adoption purposes, the Company and its subsidiaries adopted single model for accounting on the balance sheet, where they are required to the average cost of active debt as of December 31, 2018 for all contracts recognize a lease liability reflecting future payments and the right to use the classified in accordance with IFRS 16. leased asset. The nature of the expense related to these leases was changed For the new contracts, renewals and additions will be identified the incremental from a line operating lease expense to a depreciation expense of the right of rate for each lease. The incremental rate should reflect the acquisition cost by use and interest expense for the restatement of the lease liability. the Company and its subsidiaries of debt with characteristics similar to those This international standard changes existing lease standards, including CPC determined by the lease agreement, in terms of term, value, guarantee and 06 (IAS 17) Leasing Operations and ICPC 03 (IFRIC 4, SIC 15 and SIC 27) economic environment. “Complementary Aspects of Leasing Operations”. (i) Impacts of adoption (a) Analysis scope and assets identification The Company and its subsidiaries adopted IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019, in The Company and its subsidiaries analyzed all active drainage contracts on accordance with the simplified cumulative effect in which assets and liabilities the date of the initial adoption of the standard, when leases of machinery are recorded at the same time in the initial period without any effect on and equipment, light and heavy vehicles, real estate and land were identified. shareholders’ equity, with an impact on the amount of R$ 577 related to rights-of-use assets and liabilities under lease agreements. As permitted by the standard, the scope of the analysis was disregarded: (i) short-term leases (less than 12 months); and (ii) contracts with amounts lower than USD 5 thousand (R$ 16 thousand). When identifying the rights of use assets within the scope of identified contracts, the following were also disregarded: (i) contracts with variable payments; (ii) contracts in which the lease asset was considered as nonidentifiable; (iii) contracts in which the Company is not entitled to obtain substantially all the economic benefits arising from the use of the asset; and (iv) contracts in which the Company and its subsidiaries do not have substantial control over the definition of the use of the asset. It should be noted that the Company and its subsidiaries analyzed, but did not identify: (i) contracts that present fixed and variable payments in the same negotiation; (ii) contracts dealing with identifiable and non-identifiable assets in the same trade; or (iii) service contracts in which assets have been identified within the scope of the standard. 158 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 159 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 3.2.2 IFRIC 23 / ICP22 – “Uncertainty over Income Tax (c) Change of facts and circumstances Treatments” The interpretation defines that the entity maintains a monitoring of the facts This interpretation clarifies how to apply the recognition and measurement and circumstances that may affect: (i) its understanding of the probability requirements of CPC 32 “Taxes on Profit when there is uncertainty about that the uncertain fiscal treatment adopted by the entity will be accepted the treatment of taxes on profit, on the recognition and measurement of by the tax authorities; and (ii) the assumptions of their estimates regarding their current or deferred tax assets or liabilities, based on profit (tax loss), tax the subject. When identifying changes, effects should be accounted for as a bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates. change in the accounting estimate, applying CPC 23 “Accounting Policies, Change of Estimate and Error Rectification”, and CPC 24 “Subsequent The interpretations submitted consider that the Company and its subsidiaries Events”, if applicable. should use their judgments in determining whether the tax treatment should be treated individually or jointly, according to the method that allows a better prediction regarding the uncertainties observed. (i) Impacts of adoption The Company and its subsidiaries periodically monitor the tax treatment (a) Assumption of the examination by tax authorities adopted, as well as obtaining, where applicable, legal support in the definition of the probability that the tax authority will accept the applicability thereof. The interpretation provides as a consensus that the entity considers when The interpretation will be adopted as from the first quarter of 2019 and its accounting for an uncertain tax treatment, which affects the determination impacts are under analysis by the Company and its subsidiaries. of its taxable profit (tax loss), tax base, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, the assumption of that the tax authorities will examine the There are no other standards, changes in standards or interpretations that are amounts they are entitled to examine and that they are fully aware of all not in force that the Company and its subsidiaries expect to have a material the information related to the examination. In this way, the risk of detection impact arising from their application in its financial statements. should not be considered when applying the interpretation and the standard. (b) Probability of tax authorities accepting the tax treatment chosen The entity should consider the likelihood that the tax authority will accept the uncertain tax treatment adopted. If the entity concludes that the tax authority is likely to accept the uncertain tax treatment, the amount disclosed in a financial statement should be the same as that presented in the tax information. If the entity concludes that the entity is not likely to accept the uncertain tax treatment, the amount disclosed in the financial statements should consider the best method of measurement between the most probable and expected value. 160 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 161 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 4 Critical accounting estimates and 5 Social and environmental risk judgments management Based on assumptions, the Company and its subsidiaries make estimates The Company, through its subsidiaries and associates, operates in various regarding the future. By definition, accounting estimates and judgments segments and consequently, these activities are subject to several Brazilian are continuously reviewed and are based on historical experience and other and international environmental laws, regulations, treaties and conventions, factors, including expectations of future events, which are considered including those that regulate the discharge of materials into the environment, reasonable for the circumstances. Revisions to the estimates are recognized which establish the removal and cleaning of the contaminated environment, prospectively. or those relating to environmental protection. The violations of the environmental regulations in force expose the violator(s) to significant fines The accounting estimates will rarely be the same as the actual results. and monetary penalties, and may require technical measures or investments Estimates and assumptions that present a significant risk and are likely to to ensure the compliance with the mandatory emissions levels. cause a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for the next fiscal year are described in the respective notes below: The Company and its subsidiaries carry out periodic studies to identify any potentially affected areas and records, based on the best estimates of costs, (i) Fair value of financial instruments and derivatives (Note 6.1.1); the amounts expected to be disbursed for the investigation, treatment and (ii) Trade receivable (Note 11); cleaning of the potentially affected areas. (iii) Property, plant and equipment (Note 17); The Company and its subsidiaries believe they are in compliance with all of the applicable environmental standards in the countries in which they operate. (iv) Intangible assets (Note 18); (v) Current and deferred income and social contribution taxes (Note 21); (vi) Provision (Note 23); (vii) Pension plan (Note 25). 162 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 163 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 6 Financial risk management (a) Market risk (i) Foreign exchange risk The Company and its subsidiaries have certain investments in foreign operations, the net assets of which are exposed to foreign exchange risk. Foreign exchange exposure arising from the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ 6.1 Financial risk factors participation in foreign operations is mainly hedged by borrowings in the same The activities of the Company and its subsidiaries expose them to a variety currency of these investments, being classified as net investment hedges. of financial risks, namely: (a) market risk (including currency, commodity price Presented below are the accounting balances of assets and liabilities indexed and interest rate risk), (b) credit risk and (c) liquidity risk. to the foreign currency at the closing date of the balance sheets: A significant portion of the products sold by the Company and its subsidiaries, such as aluminum, nickel and zinc are commodities, with prices pegged to Note 2018 2017 international indexes and denominated in US Dollars. Their costs, however, are Assets denominated in foreign mainly denominated in reais, and therefore, there is a mismatch of currencies currency between revenues and costs. Additionally, the Company and its subsidiaries Cash and cash equivalents 9 6,316 6,279 have debts linked to different indexes and currencies, which may have an Financial investments 10 62 109 impact on their cash flow. Trade receivables 1,329 1,192 In order to mitigate the various effects of each market risk factor, the Company Derivative financial instruments 472 189 and its subsidiaries follow a Market Risk Management Policy, approved by Related parties 54 56 the Finance Committee, with the objective of establishing governance and Dividends 11 the overall guidelines of the process of managing these risks, as well as the 8,233 7,836 metrics for their measurement and monitoring. Liabilities denominated in foreign currency The financial risk management process aims to protect the cash flow and its Borrowing (*) 20,668 17,817 operational (revenues and costs) and financial (financial assets and liabilities) Derivative financial instruments 244 382 components against adverse market events, such as fluctuations in the prices of currencies, interest rates and commodity prices, and against adverse credit Trade payables 2,517 1,955 events. In addition, it aims to preserve liquidity. Confirming payables 20 838 761 Deferred revenue silver The following financial instruments may be taken out in order to mitigate and streaming 774 734 manage risk: conventional swaps, call options, put options, collars, currency 25,041 21,649 futures contracts and Non-Deliverable Forward contracts. Strategies that Net exposure (16,808) (13,813) include simultaneous purchases and sales of options are authorized only when they do not result in a net short position in volatility of the underlying asset. (*) Does not consider borrowing costs. The Company and its subsidiaries do not carry out transactions involving financial instruments for speculative purposes. (ii) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The interest rate risk arises from the fluctuations of each of the main indexes of interest rates from borrowing and from financial investments, which have an impact on the payments and receipts of the Company and its subsidiaries. Borrowing at fixed rates exposes the Company and its subsidiaries to fair value interest rate risk. 164 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 165 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (iii) Commodity price risk (c) Liquidity risk The Financial Policy of the Company’s operating subsidiaries establishes The following table analyzes the financial liabilities of the Company and its guidelines to mitigate the risk of fluctuations in commodity prices that have subsidiaries, by maturity, corresponding to the period remaining in the balance an impact on the cash flow of the Company’s operating subsidiaries. sheet up to the contractual maturity date. Derivative financial liabilities are included in the analysis when their contractual maturities are essential for The exposure to each commodity price considers the monthly projections of an understanding of the temporary cash flows. The amounts disclosed in the production, purchases of inputs and flows of maturities of the related hedges. table are the undiscounted contractual cash flows, these amounts may not be Hedge transactions are classified into the following categories: reconciled with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet. Fixed-price commercial transactions hedge transactions that switch, from fixed to floating, the price contracted in commercial transactions with From From From customers interested in purchasing products at a fixed price; one to three five From Up to three to five to ten ten Note one year years years years years Total Hedges for “quotation periods” hedges that set a price for the different “quotation periods” between the purchases of certain inputs (metal At December 31, 2018 concentrate) and the sale of products arising from the processing of these Borrowing (*) 6,176 5,625 7,243 9,335 4,420 32,799 inputs; Derivative financial instruments 144 69 30 243 Hedges for “costs of inputs” intended to ensure protection against volatility Confirming payables 20 1,187 1,187 in the prices/costs of its operating subsidiaries for commodities such as oil Trade payables 4,262 4,262 and natural gas; Dividends payable 14 482 482 Related parties 12 124 136 Hedges for “operating margin” intended to set the operating margin for a Use of public assets 80 123 367 357 778 1,705 portion of the production of certain operating subsidiaries. 12,343 5,941 7,640 9,692 5,198 40,814 (b) Credit risk At December 31, 2017 Derivative financial instruments and financial investments create exposure to Borrowing (*) 3,603 5,531 6,970 12,941 7,931 36,976 credit risk of counterparties and issuers. The Company and its subsidiaries Derivative financial instruments 310 63 9 382 adopt the policy of working with issuers which have, at a minimum, been Confirming payables 20 909 909 assessed by two of the following three rating agencies: Fitch Ratings, Trade payables 3,514 3,514 Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”). The minimum rating required for Dividends payable 14 188 188 the counterparties is “A” (Brazilian scale) or “BBB-” (international scale), or Related parties 19 6 25 equivalent. For financial assets where issuers do not meet the minimum credit risk ratings, criteria proposed by the Finance Committee are applied as an Use of public assets 79 170 192 591 1,637 2,669 alternative. 8,622 5,770 7,171 13,532 9,568 44,663 The credit quality of financial assets is disclosed in Note 8. The ratings (*) Does not include the recorded fair value of the debts contracted under Resolution 4131/1962. disclosed in this Note always represent the most conservative ratings of the agencies in question. The pre-settlement risk methodology is used to assess counterparty risk on derivatives transactions, determining (via Monte Carlo simulations) the likelihood of a counterparty not honoring the financial commitments defined by the contract. The use of this methodology is described in the Votorantim Financial Policy. 166 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 167 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 6.1.1 Derivatives contracted (ii) Fair value hedges With the objective of maintaining the flow of the metal businesses’ operating Accounting policy revenue pegged to LME prices, the subsidiaries enter into hedging transactions under which they convert sales at fixed prices to floating prices in commercial Initially, derivatives are recognized at fair value on the date of their transactions with customers interested in purchasing products at a fixed price. contracting and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value. The method Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair for recognizing the resulting gain or loss depends on whether or not the value hedges are recorded in “Operating income (expenses)”. derivative is designated as a hedge instrument in cases of adoption of hedge accounting. If this is the case, the method depends on the nature of the item being hedged. The Company and its subsidiaries adopt hedge accounting and (iii) Fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments designates certain derivatives such as: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in active markets is determined through the use of valuation techniques. The Company and (i) Cash flow hedge its subsidiaries use their judgment to choose among several methods and to establish assumptions that are based primarily on the market conditions With a view to ensuring a fixed operating margin in reais for a portion of the existing at the balance sheet date. production of the metal businesses, the subsidiaries enter into commodity forward contracts (zinc, aluminum and nickel) on sales of certain commodities combined with the sale of US Dollar forward contracts. These subsidiaries adopt hedge accounting for the derivative instruments entered into for this purpose. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized in equity within “Carrying value adjustments”. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized as “Operating income (expenses)”. The amounts recognized in equity are recorded in the statement of income (in the same line item affected by the transaction originally hedged) upon realization of the hedged exports and/or sales referenced to London Metal Exchange (“LME”) prices. 168 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 169 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (a) Effects of the derivative financial instruments on the balance sheet and cash flow The table below summarizes the derivative financial instruments and the underlying hedged items: Details of the main derivative operations Realized Principal Value Average term Fair value gain (loss) Fair value by maturity Purchase/ (days) of Programas 2018 2017 As per unit sale Average FWD rate maturity 2018 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Hedge Capex Collars 1,057 ton P 3.6 BRL/USD 412 (6.2) 0.4 (5.5) (1.0) (6.2) 0.4 (5.5) (1.0) Sales at a fixed price Zinc forward 10,566 2,318 ton P 2,559 USD/ton 129 (3.3) 2.1 (6.9) (3.2) (0.2) (3.3) 2.1 (6.9) (3.2) (0.2) Hedging instruments for mismatches of quotation quarter Zinc forward 153,422 281,397 ton P/S 21 2.8 (16.3) (4.5) 2.8 Silver forward 238 k oz (*) P/S 0.6 0.2 Aluminum forward 1,000 6,850 ton P/S 1 0.1 (0.2) 4.6 0.1 2.9 (15.9) 0.3 2.9 Hedging instruments for the operating margin of metals Aluminum forward 13,750 18,970 ton S 2,092 USD/ton 1 8.5 (21.9) 8.5 USD forward 29 33 USD S 3.39 BRL/USD 1 (14.1) 8.9 (14.1) (5.6) (13.0) (5.6) Hedging instruments for foreign exchange exposure USD forward 514 451 USD P 4 16 (7.6) (21.2) 8.0 (7.6) Turkish lira forward 11 26 USD P 6.10 TRY/USD 22 (4.3) 0.4 0.1 (4.3) (11.9) (20.8) 8.1 (11.9) Hedging instruments for debts TJLP floating rate vs. CDI floating rate swaps 28 BRL 1.0 1.3 LIBOR floating rate vs. CDI floating rate swaps 373 254 USD 107.47% % CDI 811 141.6 42.4 25.4 43.1 (22.0) 29.6 (13.7) 104.6 USD fixed rate vs. CDI floating rate swaps 50 USD (42.7) (49.1) LIBOR floating rate vs. COP fixed rate swaps USD Pré COP 3.3 141.6 0.7 (19.1) 43.1 (22.0) 29.6 (13.7) 104.6 117.5 (46.9) (17.6) 25.7 (27.7) 28.6 (13.7) 104.6 170 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 171 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D Details of the main derivative operations Realized Principal Value Average term Fair value gain (loss) Fair value by maturity Purchase/ (days) of Programas 2018 2017 As per unit sale Average FWD rate maturity 2018 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Hedge accounting cash flow hedge Hedging instruments for the operating margin of metals Aluminum forward 114,000 165,175 ton S 2,198 USD/ton 144 148.9 (143.2) (81.6) 148.9 USD forward 251 334 USD S 3.78 BRL/USD 143 (32.8) 0.1 (72.1) (32.8) 116.1 (143.1) (153.7) 116.1 Hedging instruments for mismatches of quotation quarter Zinc forward 36,212 58,800 ton P/S 49 (10.7) 9.9 (0.7) (10.7) Silver forward 265 k oz (*) P/S (0.2) 1.0 (10.7) 9.7 0.3 (10.7) Hedge accounting fair value hedge Sales at a fixed price Zinc forward 202 ton P USD/ton 0.1 0.1 Hedge accounting fair value hedge 0 0 Sales at a fixed price 0 0 Zinc forward ton P 0 Hedging instruments for mismatches of quotation quarter Zinc forward 71,386 93,003 ton P/S 44 5.6 (11.4) 68.5 5.6 5.6 (11.4) 68.5 5.6 111.0 (144.7) (84.9) 111.0 228.5 (191.6) (102.5) 136.7 (27.7) 28.6 (13.7) 104.6 (*) k oz– Troy Ounce (b) Derivative financial instruments – Put-option The transactions involving derivative financial instruments recognized in In the year ended December 31, 2018, the operation in which VS became “Carrying value adjustments” amounted to R$ 204 in 2018. Besides this, there a subsidiary of AMB was finalized. According to the agreement between the are hedge accounting operations, which amounted to a loss of R$ (46) in the parties, VSA became a minority stakeholder of 15% of AMB’s combined long subsidiaries not consolidated, recognized in “Carrying value adjustments”. steel business, which, in compliance with accounting rules, was recognized as a financial instrument in accordance with CPC 48 “Financial instruments”. 172 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 173 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D expected future cash disbursements, at interest rates currently available for the issue of debts with similar maturities and terms. (c) Effects of financial derivative instruments on the financial The Company discloses fair value measurements according to their level of results the following fair value measurement hierarchy: The chart below shows the impact of the financial derivative instruments in Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets the financial results of the year: and liabilities. Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are Programs Fair value Gain (loss) realized Total observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices). Hedge Capex Level 3 – Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable Collars (6.2) (6.2) market data (that is, unobservable inputs). (6.2) (6.2) As at December 31, 2018, the financial assets and liabilities carried at fair Hedging instruments for foreign exchange exposure value were classified as levels 1 and 2 in the fair value measurement hierarchy. USD forward 13.6 8.0 21.6 Turkish lira forward (4.7) 0.1 (4.6) Fair value measured based on 2018 8.9 8.1 17.0 Valuation Prices quoted supported by Hedging instruments for debts in an active observable TJLP floating rate vs. CDI market (Level prices floating rate swaps (1.0) 1.3 0.3 Note 1) (Level 2) Fair value LIBOR floating rate vs. CDI Assets floating rate swaps 99.2 25.4 124.6 Cash and cash equivalents 9 4,204 3,463 7,667 USD fixed rate vs. CDI floating rate swaps 42.7 (49.1) (6.4) Financial investments 10 1,869 1,544 3,413 LIBOR floating rate vs. COP Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 472 472 fixed rate swaps 3.3 3.3 Financial instruments firm 140.9 (19.1) 121.8 commitment 15 202 202 Intrumentos financeiros 6,073 5,681 11,754 Put option 71.0 71.0 71.0 71.0 Liabilities Effect on the finance results 214.6 (11.0) 203.6 Borrowing 19 16,413 8,072 24,485 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 244 244 Confirming payables 20 1,187 1,187 6.1.2 Fair value estimation Financial instruments firm commitment 15 180 180 The main financial assets and liabilities are described below, as well as their Deferred revenue silver valuation assumptions: streaming 774 774 16,413 10,457 26,870 Financial assets considering the nature and the terms, the amounts recorded approximate their realizable values. Financial liabilities these instruments are subject to the usual market interest rates. The market value was based on the present value of the 174 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 175 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D Fair value measured based on 2017 2018 09/07/1905 Valuation Investment Debt Investment Debt Prices quoted supported by in an active observable Nexa Resources Cajamarquilla S.A. 3,437 5,247 2,825 2,981 market (Level prices Votorantim Cement North America Note 1) (Level 2) Fair value Inc. ( VCNA ) (i) 2,170 4,219 Assets Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inversiones, S.L. ( VCEAA ) 1,092 2,490 1,723 2,263 Cash and cash equivalents 9 5,715 3,245 9,177 Financial investments 10 1,573 2,014 3,370 The foreign exchange loss on the conversion of debts, net of income tax and Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 190 190 social contribution, recognized as equity valuation adjustments on December Financial instruments firm commitment 15 364 364 31, 2018, was R$ 932 (December 31, 2017, loss of R$ 163) (Note 26 (c)). 7,288 5,813 13,101 (i) In 2018, the subsidiary VCSA designated its US Dollar debt, except for the loans of Law 4131/1962, in the amount of R$ 4,491 Liabilities (USD 1,158)(December 31, 2017, R$ 4,219 (USD 1,275)) as an Borrowing 19 15,292 10,217 25,509 investment hedging instrument in its indirect subsidiary St. Mary’s. Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 382 382 The hedge transaction was discontinued in November 2018, as a Confirming payables 20 909 909 consequence of the corporate reorganization, when the Company ceased to be the direct controlling shareholder of the investment in Financial instruments firm commitment 15 208 208 VCEAA (Note 1.1 (j)). Deferred revenue silver The Company and its subsidiaries document and evaluate the effectiveness streaming 734 734 of the investment hedge operations on a monthly basis, as required by IFRS 15,292 12,450 27,742 9 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”. 6.1.3 Hedge of net investments in foreign operations 6.1.4 Sensitivity analysis The main risk factors affecting the pricing of cash and cash equivalents, Accounting policy financial investments, loans and financing and derivative financial instruments are exposure to the fluctuation of the US Dollar, Euro, Turkish lira, New Peruvian Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly Sun, Argentine Peso and Bolivian interest rates, LIBOR, CDI, US Dollar coupon, to cash flow hedges. commodity prices and electricity purchase and sale contracts. The scenarios Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion for these factors are prepared using market sources and specialized sources, of the hedge is recognized in “Carrying value adjustments”. The gain or loss following the Company’s governance. relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in income. Gains The scenarios as at December 31, 2018 are described below: and losses accumulated in equity are included in the statement of income when the foreign operation is partially or fully disposed of or sold. Scenario I Considers a shock in the market curves and quotations at December 31, 2018, according to the base scenario defined by management Were designated as hedged investments presented in the following table for March 31, 2019; including the portion of the debt of the Company and its subsidiaries Companhia Brasileira de Aluminio (“CBA”), Nexa BR and VCSA, denominated in Scenario II considers a shock of + or 25% in the market curves at Euros and US Dollars. December 31, 2018; Scenario III considers a shock of + or 50% in the market curves at December 31, 2018. 176 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 177 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D Impacts on profit (loss) Impacts on comprehensive income Scenario I Scenarios II & III Scenario I Scenarios II & III Cash and cash equivalents Borrowing and financial and Derivative financial Changes investments related instruments/ from Results of Results of Risk factors (i) parties (i) As per unit 2018 scenario I -25% -50% +25% +50% scenario I -25% -50% +25% +50% Foreign exchange rates USD 4,724 17,031 (*) 1,470 0 USD -0.6% (7) (195) (312) 260 454 72 2,798 5,597 (2,798) (5,597) EUR 729 2,977 0.6% 3 (126) (251) 126 251 (17) 688 1,375 (688) (1,375) PEN 173 1.0% 2 (42) (85) 42 85 (1) (2) 1 2 BOB 46 469 -2.0% 8 106 212 (106) (212) TRY 62 187 -19.9% (12) (15) (31) 15 31 37 47 93 (47) (93) ARS 95 -15.0% (14) (24) (47) 24 47 5,829 20,664 1,470 (14) (378) (679) 443 821 86 3,614 7,228 (3,614) (7,228) Interest rates BRL CDI 4,678 2,829 5,573 BRL 16 bps 2 (17) (34) 18 37 5 10 (5) (10) USD LIBOR 1,577 1,295 USD -6 bps (12) (24) 12 24 2 5 (2) (5) US Dollar coupon 1,459 USD 26 bps 9 33 69 (31) (61) (1) (3) (6) 3 6 4,678 4,406 8,327 11 4 11 (1) 1 (1) 4 9 (4) (8) Price of commodities Zinc 271,586 ton 1.6% (7) 118 236 (118) (236) 2 (29) (57) 29 57 Aluminum 128,750 ton 14.8% (120) 203 406 (203) (406) 400,336 (7) 118 236 (118) (236) (118) 174 348 (174) (348) Firm commitment electric energy Sale and purchase agreements fair value 22 BRL (2) (5) 2 4 22 (2) (5) 2 4 (*) Considers baskets of currencies (i) The balances presented do not reconcile with the cash and cash equivalents, financial investments, related parties and borrowing notes, as the analysis only covers the most significant currencies and the interest rates cover only the principal value. 178 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 179 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 7 Financial instruments by category (d) Impairment of financial assets measured at cost This is measured as the difference between the book value of the assets and the present value of the estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that were not incurred), discounted at the current interest rate of financial assets. The book value of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognized in the statement of income. Accounting policy If, in a subsequent period, the impairment loss decreases and the impairment The Company and its subsidiaries classify their financial instruments can be objectively related to an event occurring after recognition of the depending on the purpose for which the financial instruments were acquired. impairment (such as an improvement in the debtor’s credit rating), the reversal Management determines the classification of financial instruments upon of the loss will be recognized in the statement of the results. initial recognition, in the following categories: Note 2018 2017 (a) Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Assets These are financial assets held for active and frequent trading. These assets At amortized cost are measured at their fair value, and the changes are recognized in the Financial investments 10 51 statement of income for the year. Trade receivables 11 2,546 2,421 Related parties 14 271 143 2,817 2,615 (b) Financial instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income Fair value through profit or loss Cash and cash equivalents 9 7,667 9,177 Financial instruments that meet the criterion of contractual terms, which give Financial investments 10 3,396 3,251 rise to cash flows that are exclusively the payment of principal and interest Derivative financial and are maintained in a business model, the objective of which is achieved instruments 6.1.1 287 160 both by obtaining contractual cash flows and by sale of financial assets. The Financial instruments instruments in this classification are measured at fair value through other firm commitment 202 364 comprehensive income. 11,552 12,952 Fair value through other comprehensive income (c) Financial instruments at amortized cost Financial investments 10 17 68 Financial instruments maintained in a business model whose purpose is to Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 185 30 obtain contractual cash flows and their contractual terms give rise to cash flows 202 98 that are exclusively the payment of principal and interest. The instruments in this classification are measured at amortized cost. 180 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 181 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D Liabilities Note 2018 2017 8 Credit quality of financial assets At amortized cost Borrowing 19 11,592 12,859 Trade payables 4,262 3,514 Related parties 14 136 25 2018 2017 Confirming payables 20 1,187 909 Local Global Local Global Use of public assets 24 1,189 1,132 rating rating Total rating rating Total 18,366 18,439 Cash and cash equivalents Fair value through profit or loss AAA 1,329 39 1,368 Borrowing 19 12,859 11,771 AA+ 4 4 376 376 Derivative financial AA 6 796 802 70 70 instruments 6.1.1 170 199 AA424 424 2,452 464 2,916 Financial instruments A+ 543 543 2,392 2,392 firm commitment 180 208 A 1 1,783 1,784 885 885 13,209 11,970 A286 286 393 393 Fair value through other comprehensive income BBB+ 759 759 411 411 Derivative financial BBB 118 118 458 458 instruments 6.1.1 74 183 BBB369 369 58 58 74 183 BB 21 21 140 140 B64 64 77 77 B+ 55 55 21 21 B 27 27 Unrated (i) 11 1,032 1,043 980 980 1,351 6,316 7,667 2,898 6,279 9,177 Financial investments AAA 3,099 3,099 AA+ 51 51 867 867 AA 166 166 30 30 AA5 5 2,315 14 2,329 A+ 19 29 48 3 9 12 A 2 2 25 25 A18 2 20 BBB+ 1 1 B30 30 50 50 Unrated (ii) 11 1 12 28 8 36 3,351 62 3,413 3,261 109 3,370 182 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 183 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D Local Global 2018 Local Global 2017 9 Cash and cash equivalents rating rating Total rating rating Total Derivative financial instruments AAA 242 242 30 30 AA+ 7 7 Accounting policy AA 1 52 53 AA5 5 69 17 86 Cash and cash equivalents include cash, bank deposits and other highly liquid A+ 134 134 11 11 short-term investments whose original maturities are less than three months, which are readily convertible into a known amount of cash and which are A 1 1 1 1 subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. Unrated (i) 37 37 55 55 285 187 472 161 29 190 4,987 6,565 11,552 6,320 6,417 12,737 (a) Breakdown Cash and cash equivalents in local currency include deposits in current bank accounts and government securities (overnight operations) or financial The local and global ratings were obtained from the ratings agencies (S&P, Moody’s and Fitch Ratings). The Company considered institutions, indexed to the interbank deposit rate. Cash equivalents in foreign the ratings of S&P and Fitch Ratings for presentation purposes and the classification as established in Financial Policies. The main currency are mainly composed of financial instruments in local currency. variations between the ratings are due to the changes in methodology performed by S & P on the Brazilian national scale in 2018. (i) Refers to values invested in offshore banks, which are not rated by any rating agency. 2018 2017 (ii) Refers to Grupo Votorantim’s exclusive investment funds (Credit Receivables Investment Funds – “FIDCs”), which are not rated by Local currency any rating agency. Cash and banks 28 14 Bank Deposit Certificates CDBs 3 534 Repurchase agreements private securities 165 Repurchase agreements public securities 1,320 2,185 1,351 2,898 Foreign currency Cash and banks 2,856 3,516 Bank Deposit Certificates CDBs 2,759 1,503 Time deposits 701 1,260 6,316 6,279 7,667 9,177 184 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 185 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 10 Financial investments 11 Trade receivables Accounting policy Accounting policy Financial investments are held for the purpose of servicing investments whose Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for merchandise sold or maturities are long-term from the date of acquisition. services performed in the ordinary course of the Company’s business. Trade receivables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured (a) Breakdown at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment of trade receivables. Receivables from customers abroad are Most financial investments have immediate liquidity, however, they are classified presented based on the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. as financial investments based on the original maturities, considering the intended allocation of funds. The investments in national currency comprise government securities or financial institutions indexed to the interbank (a) Breakdown deposit rate. Foreign currency-denominated investments consist mainly of fixed-income financial instruments in local currency (time deposits). Note 2018 2017 Trade receivables Brazil 1,308 1,296 10/07/1905 09/07/1905 Trade receivables foreign customers 1,398 1,231 Fair value through profit or loss Related parties 14 14 53 Bank Deposit Certificates CDBs 1,396 543 2,720 2,580 Financial Treasury Bills LFTs 1,763 961 Repurchase agreements public securities 106 605 Allowance for doubtful accounts (174) (159) Repurchase agreements private securities 54 1,048 (174) (159) Investment fund quotas 15 29 2,546 2,421 Financial investments in foreign currency 62 65 3,396 3,251 Fair value through other comprehensive income (b) Breakdown by currency Bank Deposit Certificates CDBs 17 68 17 68 2018 2017 Amortized cost Brazilian real 1,217 1,229 Financial Treasury Bills LFTs 7 U.S. dollar 741 620 Financial investments in foreign currency 44 Euro 102 115 51 Colombian peso 120 111 3,413 3,370 Turkish lira 88 91 Uruguayan peso 82 43 Current 3,390 3,345 Moroccan dirham 62 56 Non-current 23 25 Argentine peso 61 74 3,413 3,370 Other 73 82 2,546 2,421 186 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 187 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (c) Changes in estimated loss for doubful accounts 12 Inventory 2018 2017 Opening balance (159) (159) Additions, net (21) (17) Receivables written off as uncollectible (i) 13 13 Accounting policy Reclassification of assets classified as held-for-sale 1 4 Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is Effect of subsidiaries excluded determined using the weighted average cost method. The cost of finished from consolidation (7) goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labor, other direct Foreign exchange variations (1) costs and related production overheads. Raw materials derived from biological Closing balance (174) (159) assets are measured at fair value, less estimated point-of-sale costs at the point of harvest, when they are transferred to inventories in non-current (i) The amounts charged to the estimated loss account with bad debt are generally written off when there is no expectation of assets. recovering the funds. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less conclusion costs and selling expenses. Imports in transit are (d) Aging of trade receivables stated at the accumulated cost of each import. 2018 2017 The subsidiaries, at least once a year, carries out a physical inventory. Inventory adjustments are recorded under “Cost of goods sold and services rendered”. Current 2,184 1,975 Up to three months past due 295 326 The provision for inventory losses refers substantially to obsolete and low Three to six months past due 22 32 turnover materials. Over six months past due 219 247 2018 2017 2,720 2,580 Finished products 845 749 Semi-finished products 1,499 1,482 Raw materials 832 624 Auxiliary materials and consumables 896 856 Imports in transit 142 205 Other 82 84 Provision for inventory losses (482) (474) 3,814 3,526 188 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 189 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 13 Taxes recoverable 14 Related parties Trade receivables Dividends receivable Non-current assets Accounting policy Assets 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 The recoverable taxes are held in assets mainly for the purpose of recognizing Related companies and joint in the balance sheet of the entity the book values that will be object of future ventures recovery. Cementos Avellaneda S.A. 3 12 Cementos Granadilla S.L. 1 1 3 6 2018 2017 Banco Votorantim S.A. 9 55 Corporate Income Tax ( IRPJ ) and Cementos Especiales De Las Social Contribution on Net Income Islas, S.A. 11 ( CSLL ) 1,751 1,524 Citrosuco S.A. Agroindústria (i) 1 23 216 86 Social Contribution on Revenue Citrosuco GmbH (i) 50 43 ( COFINS ) (i) 1,057 379 Fibria Celulose S.A. 3 12 76 1 1 State Value-added Tax on Sales and Mineração Rio Do Norte S.A. 6 Services ( ICMS ) 594 465 Supermix Concreto S.A. 4 5 Value-added Tax ( VAT ) (foreign VTRM Energia Participações S.A 5 companies) 297 265 Others 2 1 7 Social Integration Program ( PIS ) (i) 230 85 14 53 14 148 271 143 Withholding Income Tax ( IRRF ) 62 69 State VAT on Sales and Services on Current 14 53 14 148 PP&E 59 66 Non-current 271 143 IRPJ/CSLL Plano Verão 30 81 14 53 14 148 271 143 Excise Tax ( IPI ) 28 32 Other 96 135 Trade payables Dividends payable Non-current liabilities 4,204 3,101 Liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Current 1,473 1,317 Parent company Non-current 2,731 1,784 Hejoassu Administração S.A. 415 140 4,204 3,101 Related companies and joint ventures (i) Refers substantially, to the PIS and COFINS credit recognized in the subsidiaries VCSA and Nexa BR, in the amounts of R$ 550 e Fibria Celulose S.A. 13 3 117 1 R$ 231, respectively (Note 1.1 (h)). Superior Materials Holdings, LLC 7 1 Others 19 4 19 24 39 8 415 140 136 25 Non-controlling interests 67 48 Current 39 8 482 188 Non-current 136 25 39 8 482 188 136 25 190 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 191 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D Sales (purchases), net Finance income (expenses), net 15 Financial instruments – firm commitment Profit and loss 2018 2017 2018 2017 Related companies and joint ventures The controlled company Votorantim Comercializadora de Energia Ltda. Cementos Avellaneda S.A. 36 32 (“Votener”) centralizes energy purchase and sale transactions to meet the Cementos Especiales De Las demands of Votorantim companies. A portion of these transactions takes the Islas, S.A. 27 12 form of contracts that have been entered into and continue to be carried Cementos Granadilla S.L. 20 14 out for the purpose of receiving the energy for own use or delivering the Citrosuco S.A. Agroindústria 32 28 5 energy of self-production, in accordance with the productive demands of Fibria Celulose S.A. 43 143 the Company’s subsidiaries and, therefore, meet the definition of a financial Midway Group, LLC 27 21 instrument. Supermix Concreto S.A. 204 167 Another part of these transactions refers to purchases and sales of Superior Materials Holdings, LLC 66 58 energy, not used in the productive process of Votorantim companies, being Others 20 12 (2) 2 transacted in the active market, and therefore, it meets the definition of 475 487 (2) 7 financial instruments, due to the fact of being liquidated in energy, and promptly convertible into cash. Such contracts are recorded as derivatives in (i) Refers to accounts receivable related to assets in excess of the basic net assets invested in Citrosuco’s operation. The realization accordance with IFRS 9 / CPC 48 and are recognized in the Company’s balance period is linked to the performance of each item under contractual rules laid down in the shareholder agreement and the closing memorandum signed between Fischer S.A. – Comércio, Indústria e Agricultura and Votorantim. sheet at fair value on the date the derivative is entered into and is revalued to fair value at the balance sheet date. The fair value of these derivatives is estimated based, in part, on quotations of prices published in active markets, to the extent that such observable market data exist, and partly by the use of valuation techniques, which considers: (i) prices established in the purchase and sale operations; (ii) risk margin in the supply and (iii) projected market price in the period of availability. Whenever the fair value at initial recognition for these contracts differs from the transaction price, gain or loss, it is recognized in profit or loss for the year. The Company, through its indirect subsidiary Votener, operates in the Regulated Contracting Environment (“ACR”) and participated in the 13th electric power purchase auction on April 30, 2014, in which, through a firm commitment, it made sales until December 2019. These transactions, on initial recognition, resulted in gains from the sale of surplus energy to the Company, which was recognized at fair value. The net difference of expenses and revenues generated by the realization of the fair value, through the physical settlement of the sale and purchase agreements, was recognized as an expense in the amount of R$ 147 in “Other operating expenses, net” (Note 30). In addition, the other operations carried out by the subsidiaries in the Free Contracting Environment (“ACL”), which meet the definition of a financial instrument, were likewise recognized at fair value. The realization of the fair value in the amount of R$ 15 was recognized as an expense in “Other 192 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 193 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D operating expenses, net” (Note 30). The values quoted above have the following composition: 16 Investments ACR ACL Total VotoVotoVotorantim rantim rantim CBA Energia Total Cimentos CBA Energia Total 2018 2017 Accounting policy Realization (116) (33) (149) (9) (41) (50) (199) (312) Investments in affiliates, subsidiaries and joint ventures are accounted for Recognition (31) (23) 119 65 65 (97) using the equity method of accounting as of the date they become their Constitution (reversal) 2 2 2 (113) jointly controlled joint ventures. (114) (33) (147) (31) (32) 78 15 (132) (522) Affiliates are those entities in which the Company, directly or indirectly, has significant influence, but not control or joint control over financial and The table below shows the composition of the assets and liabilities: operating policies. In order to be classified as a jointly controlled entity, there must be a contractual agreement that allows the Company to share control ACR ACL Total of the entity and gives the Company the right to the net assets of the jointly VotoVotoVotocontrolled entity, not the right to its specific assets and liabilities. rantim rantim rantim CBA Energia Total Cimentos CBA Energia Total 2018 2017 The Company also recognizes its assets in accordance with the venturer’s Assets participation in the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of the controlled entity on a proportional basis. This implies recognizing the venturer’s share Current 110 33 143 6 53 59 202 210 of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the joint ventures by adding Non-current 154 such amounts to its own assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses by the 110 33 143 6 53 59 202 364 straight-line method, including such amounts in corresponding to the balance Liabilities sheet and income statement of the same nature. Current (19) (19) (19) (1) Non-current (35) (82) (44) (161) (161) (207) (i) Impairment of investments (54) (82) (44) (180) (180) (208) For the calculation of the recoverable amounts of the investments, the Company and its subsidiaries use criteria similar to those used to test goodwill impairment. 194 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 195 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (a) Breakdown Percentage of total and Percentage of voting capital total and voting capital Main consolidated companies Note 2018 2017 Headquarters Main activity Exclusive investment funds Main consolidated companies Note 2018 2017 Headquarters Main activity Fundo de Investimento Pentágono VC Subsidiaries Multimercado – Crédito Privado 100.00 100.00 Brazil Finance Acerbrag S.A. 100.00 100.00 Argentina Steel Fundo de Investimento Pentágono CBA Votorantim FinCO GmbH 100.00 100.00 Austria Trading Multimercado – Crédito Privado 100.00 100.00 Brazil Finance Votorantim GmbH 100.00 100.00 Austria Zinc Odessa Multimercado Crédito Privado 96.91 89.97 Brazil Finance Acariuba Mineração e Participação Ltda. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Holding Odessa Multimercado Crédito Privado Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio 100.00 100.00 Brazil Aluminum Fundo de investimento VC 100.00 100.00 Brazil Finance Interávia Transportes Ltda. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Transportation Odessa Multimercado Crédito Privado Fundo de investimento VM 100.00 100.00 Brazil Finance Santa Cruz Geração de Energia S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Electric power Silcar Empreendimentos, Comércio e Participações Ltda. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Holding Main non-consolidated companies Ventos de São Vicente Energias Associates Renováveis S.A. 1.1 (d) 100.00 Brazil Holding Cementos Avellaneda S.A. 49.00 49.00 Argentina Cement Votener Votorantim Comercializadora Alunorte Alumina do Norte S.A. 3.03 3.03 Brazil Mining de Energia Ltda. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Electric power IMIX Empreendimentos Votorantim Cimentos N/NE S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Cement Imobiliários Ltda. 25.00 25.00 Brazil Mining Votorantim Cimentos S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Cement Mineração Rio do Norte S.A. 10.00 10.00 Brazil Mining Votorantim Energia Ltda. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Holding Supermix Concreto S.A. 25.00 25.00 Brazil Concrete Votorantim Finanças S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Finance Cementos Especiales de las Islas Votorantim Geração de Energia S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Holding S.A. 50.00 50.00 USA Cement Votorantim Investimentos LatinoAmericanos S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Holding Joint ventures Nexa Recursos Minerais S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Zinc Citrosuco GmbH 50.00 50.00 Austria Agribusiness Votorantim Cement North America Inc. 100.00 100.00 Canada Holding Banco Votorantim S.A. 50.00 50.00 Brazil Finance Acerías Paz del Río S.A. 82.42 82.42 Colombia Steel Citrosuco S.A. Agroindústria 50.00 50.00 Brazil Agribusiness Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inversiones, S.L. 1.1 (j) 100.00 100.00 Spain Holding Fibria Celulose S.A. 1.1 (c) 29.42 Brazil Wood pulp St. Marys Cement Inc. 100.00 100.00 USA Cement Juntos Somos Mais Fidelização US Zinc Corporation 1.1 (i) 100.00 USA Zinc S.A. 45.00 Brazil Services St. Helen Holding II B.V. 100.00 100.00 Cayman Islands Holding VTRM Energia Participações S.A. 1.1 (d) 50.00 100.00 Brazil Electric power British Virgin Hutton Transport Ltda. 25.00 25.00 Canada Transportation Hailstone Ltd. 100.00 100.00 Islands Holding Midway Group, LLC. 50.00 50.00 USA Cement Nexa Resources S.A. 64.25 64.25 Luxembourg Holding RMC Leasing, LLC. 50.00 USA Equipament leasing Votorantim Cimentos International S.A. 1.1 (j) 100.00 Luxembourg Holding Superior Materials Holdings, LLC. 50.00 50.00 USA Cement Votorantim RE 100.00 100.00 Luxembourg Insurance Cementos Portland S.A. 1.1 (f) 50.00 Perú Cement Compañia Minera Atacocha S.A.A. 91.00 91.00 Peru Mining Nexa Resources Perú S.A.A 80.23 80.23 Peru Mining Nexa Resources Cajarmarquilla S.A. 99.91 99.91 Peru Zinc Cementos Artigas S.A. 51.00 51.00 Uruguay Cement Joint operations Baesa Energética Barra Grande S.A. 15.00 15.00 Brazil Electric power Campos Novos Energia S.A. 44.76 44.76 Brazil Electric power Great Lakes Slag Inc. 50.00 50.00 Canada Cement Voto Votorantim Overseas Trading Operations IV Ltd. 50.00 50.00 Cayman Islands Trading 196 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 197 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (b) Information about the companies investees The following is a summary of selected financial information of the principal associates and joint ventures as at December 31, 2018: Finance Total and Current Non-current Current Non-current Other comOperation income Profit (loss) voting assets assets liabilities liabilities prehensive Equity Net revenue results (costs) for the year capital (%) Investments accounted for based on the equity method Associates Cementos Avellaneda S.A. 441 826 477 20 67 770 1,378 280 46 165 49.00% Alunorte Alumina do Norte S.A. 8,634 2,436 2,682 3,516 4,148 (651) (653) (933) 3.03% IMIX Empreendimentos Imobiliários Ltda. 7 7 14 6 6 1 5 25.00% Mineração Rio do Norte S.A. 554 2,610 507 1,756 901 1,524 306 (282) 16 10.00% Supermix Concreto S.A. 196 232 142 57 229 1,074 (29) 10 (19) 25.00% Cementos Especiales de las Islas S.A. 106 84 27 8 (5) 155 252 48 25 50.00% Controladas em conjunto (Joint ventures) Citrosuco GmbH 3,111 1,294 605 308 3,492 3,912 354 42 378 50.00% Banco Votorantim S.A. 56,264 46,035 63,341 29,832 9,126 5,674 6,296 1,061 50.00% Citrosuco S.A. Agroindústria 2,632 3,557 2,102 3,534 553 3,164 28 (186) (268) 50.00% Juntos Somos Mais Fidelização S.A. 27 3 18 0 12 (10) (6) 45.00% VTRM Energia Participações S.A. 26 2,897 116 16 2,791 (18) (2) 33 50.00% Hutton Transport Ltda. 35 61 14 2 4 80 78 (12) 1 14 25.00% Midway Group, LLC. 28 26 9 5 45 117 13 13 50.00% RMC Leasing LLC 5 15 1 20 50.00% Superior Materials Holdings, LLC 94 59 39 14 114 391 48 47 50.00% 198 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 199 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (c) Changes in investees Gain by ReclassifiOpening Initial Inicial adjustment cation for balance Equity in adoption Initial adoption to fair value assets clasClosing for the the results Exchange of IFRS 9 aplication of IAS 29 in VTRM´s sified as held balance for year of investees variation (iv) of FIPs (iv) (v) Dividends Additions Reductions operation (vi) Other for sale the year Investments accounted for based on the equity method Associates Cementos Avellaneda S.A. 251 81 (122) 168 378 Alunorte Alumina do Norte S.A. 135 (28) 107 Mineração Rio do Norte S.A. 83 2 5 90 IMIX Empreend. Imobiliários Ltda. 6 1 (4) 3 Supermix Concreto S.A. 62 (5) 57 Cementos Especiales De Las Islas, S.A. 69 12 (4) 77 Outros 251 16 (33) 234 857 79 (126) 168 (4) 5 (33) 946 Joint ventures Citrosuco GmbH (i) 2,120 156 337 2,613 Banco Votorantim S.A. (ii) 5,111 530 (337) (116) (97) (33) 5,058 Citrosuco S.A. Agroindústria (i) 1,029 (171) (28) (178) (42) 610 Fibria Celulose S.A. (iiI) 4,116 181 7 1 (4,305) Juntos Somos Mais Fidelização S.A. (3) 4 4 5 VTRM Energia Participações S.A. (i) (vi) 9 (4) 1,391 144 1,540 Hutton Transport Ltda. 18 4 1 (3) 20 Midway Group, LLC. 14 6 3 23 RMC Leasing LLC. 1 9 10 Superior Materials Holdings, LLC. 53 24 7 (19) (8) 57 Cemento Portland S.A. (viii) 54 (1) 6 (59) 12,515 735 334 (337) (116) (123) 1,404 (245) 144 (70) (4,305) 9,936 2018 13,372 814 208 (337) (116) 168 (127) 1,409 (245) 144 (103) (4,305) 10,882 2017 12,949 1,219 2 (493) (395) 90 13,372 (i) The following investments consider the goodwill paid on the acquisition of investments and the surplus value, which is amortized (iii) The investment includes the addition of R$ 6 referring to the percentage of treasury shares and eliminations of unrealized in the income statement of the parent company: profits, in the amount of R$ 178, in exchange of land with the Company. Equity was recognized up to March 31, 2018, when the investment was classified as available-for-sale. Goodwill Added value (iv) Refers to the initial adoption of IFRS 9 and adjustments to the initial application of the new accounting criteria for the recognition of variation of FIPs quotas recognized directly in the shareholders’ equity of Banco Votorantim S.A. (Note 3.1.1 (ii)). 2018 2017 2018 2017 (v) Refers to the initial adoption of IAS 29 recognized directly in shareholders’ equity (Note 1.1 (e)). Citrosuco S.A. Agroindústria 194 194 139 304 (vi) Adjustment of investments by operation of VTRM (Note 1.1 (d)). Citrosuco GmbH 141 145 726 649 (vii) Up to May 29, 2018, VGE held a 100% interest in the VTRM investee, recognizing the equity accounting result corresponding to VTRM Energia Participações S.A. 144 this holding. As of this date, it now holds a 50% interest due to the transaction (Note 1.1 (d)). (ii) The investment includes the adjustment to fair value in the amount of R$ 495 (December 30, 2017 – R$ 495). (viii)Conclusion of the sale of the CEMPOR joint venture, a transaction mentioned in Note 1.1 (f). 200 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 201 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 17 Property, plant and equipment (ii) Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that are subject to depreciation and amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in economic, operating or technological circumstances may indicate impairment or loss of book value. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit (“CGU”) exceeds its recoverable amount, adjusting the Accounting policy carrying amount to the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the greater of an asset’s fair value less costs to (i) Property, plant and equipment sell and its value-in-use. For the purpose of impairment assessment, assets Property, plant and equipment are stated at their historical cost of acquisition are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable or construction, less accumulated depreciation. Historical cost also includes cash flows (CGUs). Non-financial assets, except goodwill, which have been finance costs related to the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets. impaired, are subsequently reviewed for the analysis of a possible reversal of impairment, at the balance sheet date. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic The recoverability of the assets that are used in the activities of the Company benefits associated with these costs will flow to the Company and they can and its subsidiaries is evaluated whenever events or changes in circumstances be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced items or parts is indicate that the book value of an asset or group of assets may not be derecognized. recoverable based on future cash flows. If the carrying amount of these assets exceeds their recoverable value, the net amount is adjusted and their All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the statement of income useful life is adjusted to new levels. during the financial period in which they are incurred. The cost of major refurbishments is included in the carrying value of the asset when future economic benefits exceed the performance initially expected for the existing asset. Refurbishment expenses are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset. Land is not depreciated. Depreciation of other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to reduce their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount when the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, in accordance with the criteria adopted by the Company in order to determine the recoverable amount. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the sales amount with the carrying amount and are recognized within “Other operating income (expenses), net” in the statement of income. 202 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 203 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (a) Breakdown and changes 2018 2017 Machinery, Leasehold Land and Buildings and equipment and Furniture Construction improveimprovements construction facilities Vehicles and fittings in progress ARO (i) ments Other Total Total Opening balance for the year Cost 1,959 10,467 34,103 1,121 191 2,793 812 456 444 52,346 49,812 Accumulated depreciation (58) (4,232) (19,722) (918) (145) (443) (251) (354) (26,123) (24,352) Net opening balance for the year 1,901 6,235 14,381 203 46 2,793 369 205 90 26,223 25,460 Additions 5 13 50 3 35 2,459 2 2,567 3,108 Disposals (22) (17) (53) (1) (2) (7) (1) (103) (159) Depreciation (7) (354) (1,468) (69) (18) (39) (21) (8) (1,984) (1,814) Foreign exchange variation 72 191 481 11 3 140 31 17 946 109 Effect of subsidiaries included in (excluded from) consolidation (1) (164) (1,105) 1 (4) (1) (2) (10) (1,286) (5) Reversal (constitution) for impairment 1 3 33 1 (10) 1 29 94 Revision of estimated cash flow (32) (32) Reclassification to assets classified as held-for-sale (4) (1) (220) (225) (476) Changes in the interest rate (8) 104 96 Exchange variation of countries with hyperinflationary economy 138 138 Transfers (ii) 53 360 1,911 77 8 (2,589) 24 (33) (189) (94) Closing balance for the year 1,998 6,266 14,002 225 69 2,785 433 223 179 26,180 26,223 Cost 2,060 10,890 35,343 1,225 241 2,785 917 519 389 54,369 52,346 Accumulated depreciation (62) (4,624) (21,341) (1,000) (172) (484) (296) (348) (28,327) (26,123) Exchange variation of countries with hyperinflationary economy 138 138 Net closing balance for the year 1,998 6,266 14,002 225 69 2,785 433 223 179 26,180 26,223 Average annual depreciation rates -% 1 3 10 17 10 9 14 (i) Asset Retirement Obligation (ii) The transfers are related to the reclassification from “Construction in progress” within “Property, plant and equipment” to “Software” and “Rights to use natural resources”, within “Intangible assets”. 204 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 205 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (b) Construction in progress CBA 2018 2017 The balance is composed mainly of expansion and optimization projects Furnace refurbishment 131 75 related to industry. Rondon Bauxite projects 114 111 Revitalization and adequacy of Segment 2018 2017 2018 power plant 48 51 Nexa Resources 1,353 779 Votorantim Alumina factory project 30 25 Energia Other Votorantim Cimentos 771 1,360 Aços Longos Automation system 2 31 Nexus modernization 29 32 CBA 492 368 CBA* 48 18 % Plastic transformation and Long steel 92 195 foundry projects 29 26 Votorantim Energia 25 20 Furnace rooms project 22 18 28 Other 52 71 Other 89 30 Votrantim 2,785 2,793 Cimentos 492 368 The main projects in progress by business segment are as follows: Long steel 2018 2017 Nexa Resources 2018 2017 Revitalization and adaptation of plant Argentina and Colombia 168 Sustaining 354 261 Sustaining 80 Expansion and modernization Security projects, health projects 683 212 and environment projects Security, Health and enviroment Colombia 7 8 projects 223 244 Expansion 3 Information technology 53 24 Information technology 1 Other 40 38 Other 1 19 1,353 779 92 195 Votorantim Cimentos 2018 2017 Energy 2018 2017 Sustaining 220 209 Corumbá project 19 16 Modernization 161 66 Information technology 4 Environment and security 67 86 Change of corporate center Cement grinding Pecém SP 2 4 Brazil 39 39 25 20 New lines of co-processing 35 67 New production line in Sobral CE 34 Factory in Nobres MT 17 Hardware and software 15 28 Geology and mining rights 10 37 Cement production capacity expansion North America 3 462 Other 170 366 771 1,360 206 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 207 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 18 Intangible assets (iv) Use of public assets This represents the amounts established in the concession contracts regarding the rights to hydroelectric power generation (onerous concession) under Use of Public Assets agreements. These transactions are accounted for at the time when the operating permit is awarded, regardless of the disbursement schedule established in Accounting policy the contract. Upon inception, this liability (obligation) and intangible asset (i) Goodwill (concession right) correspond to the total amount of the future obligations discounted to their present value. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of assets and liabilities of the acquired entity. Goodwill on acquisitions of The amortization of the intangible asset is calculated on a straight-line basis subsidiaries is recorded as “assets” in the consolidated financial statements. over the period of the authorization to use the public asset. The financial Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated liability is updated by the effective interest method and reduced by the impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Gains and payments contracted. losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. (v) Contractual customer relationships and non-competition Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing. The agreements allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to Contractual customer relationships and non-competition agreements acquired benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. in a business combination are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. The contractual customer relations and non-competition agreements have (ii) Rights over natural resources a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated Costs for the acquisition of rights to explore and develop mineral properties useful lives as follows: and to explore wind resources are capitalized and amortized using the straightline method over their useful lives, or, when applicable, based on the depletion Customer relationships 15 years of the mines in question. Non-competition agreements 5 years Once the mine or wind farm starts operating, these costs are amortized and considered a cost of production. (vi) Impairment of goodwill and investments Depletion of mineral resources and wind farms is calculated based on Annually, the Company and its subsidiaries review the net book value of extraction and utilization, respectively, taking into consideration their goodwill, in order to assess whether there was deterioration or impairment. estimated productive lives. The recoverable amounts of CGUs were determined according to the value in use, based on the discounted cash flow model. The recoverable amount (iii) Computer software is sensitive to the rate used in the discounted cash flow model, as well as the expected future cash receipts and the growth rate used for extrapolation Computer software licenses and development costs directly attributable to purposes. software are recorded as intangible assets. These costs are amortized over the estimated useful life of the software (three to five years). 208 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 209 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (a) Breakdown and changes 2018 2017 Contracts, customer Rights over relationships Rights over natural Use of public and trademarks Note resources Goodwill ARO (i) assets agreements Software and patents Other Total Total Opening balance for the year Cost 8,693 4,863 317 541 235 593 485 783 16,510 17,225 Accumulated amortization (2,851) (115) (180) (156) (477) (313) (343) (4,435) (4,580) Net opening balance for the year 5,842 4,863 202 361 79 116 172 440 12,075 12,645 Additions 1 92 12 5 5 115 174 Disposals (32) (32) (243) Amortization and depletion (391) (3) (19) (15) (45) (6) (7) (486) (544) Foreign exchange variation 814 667 39 (1) (19) 3 82 1,585 266 Reclassification from assets classified as held-for-sale (4) (6) 6 (1) (5) (355) Effect of subsidiaries excluded from consolidation 1.1 (c) (50) (9) (19) (1) (18) (97) (47) Reversal (constitution) for impairment 24 24 (71) Revision of estimated cash flow (1) (1) 145 Changes in the interest rate (4) (22) (26) 11 Transfers 85 103 1 189 94 Closing balance for the year 6,285 5,613 202 342 69 158 152 520 13,341 12,075 Cost 9,860 5,613 337 540 268 526 208 918 18,270 16,510 Accumulated amortization (3,575) (135) (198) (199) (368) (56) (398) (4,929) (4,435) Net closing balance for the year 6,285 5,613 202 342 69 158 152 520 13,341 12,075 Average annual amortization and depletion rates % 4 7 7 7 18 10 9 (i) Asset Retirement Obligation. 210 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 211 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (b) Goodwill on acquisitions 2018 2017 Accounting policy Long steels The Company and its subsidiaries use the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a Acergroup S.A. 149 149 subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and Acerholding S.A. 9 15 the equity interests issued by the Company. The consideration transferred Acerbrag S.A. 2 3 includes the fair value of assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent 160 167 consideration arrangement, when applicable. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a CBA business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The Company and its subsidiaries recognize any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or Campos Novos Energia S.A. 31 58 at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the fair value of the Metalex Ltda. 49 49 acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Non-controlling interests are determined on each acquisition. Rio Verdinho Energia S.A. 29 29 Machadinho Energética S.A. 15 15 2018 2017 BAESA Energética Barra Votorantim Cimentos Grande S.A. 7 7 América do Norte 1,208 1,027 131 158 Europa, Ásia e África 1,275 1,140 América Latina 12 12 Holding and other Brasil Cimento Vencemos do Votorantim Andina S.A. 16 16 Amazonas Ltda. 92 Engemix S.A. 76 76 Fazenda Bodoquena Ltda. 1 1 CJ Mineração Ltda. 16 16 17 17 2,679 2,271 5,613 4,863 Nexa Resources US Zinc Corporation 30 Nexa Resources Perú S.A.A. 2,241 1,913 Nexa Resources Cajamarquilla S.A. 358 306 Campos Novos Energia S.A. 26 Pollarix S.A. 1 1 2,626 2,250 212 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 213 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (c) Impairment test for goodwill Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject 19 Borrowing to amortization and are tested annually for impairment. The Company and its subsidiaries evaluate at least annually the recoverability of the carrying value of the operating segment of each CGU. The process of estimating these values involves the use of assumptions, judgments Accounting policy and estimates of future cash flows that represent the best estimate of the Company and its subsidiaries. Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently carried at amortized cost. Any difference between The Company’s management determined the budgeted gross margin based on the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the total amount payable is past performance and its expectations of market development. The discount recognized in the statement of income over the period of the borrowings rates used are pre-tax and reflect specific risks related to the operating using the effective interest rate method. segment or the CGU being tested. Borrowing costs directly related to the acquisition, construction or production These calculations use cash flow projections, before income tax and social of a qualifying asset that requires a substantial period of time to get ready for contributions, based on financial budgets approved by management for a fiveits intended use or sale are capitalized as part of the cost of that asset when it year period. Cash flow that exceeds the five-year period is extrapolated using is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the estimated growth rates. The growth rate does not exceed the average the Company and costs can be measured reliably. The other borrowing costs long-term growth rate of the operating sector of each segment. are recognized as finance costs in the period in which they are incurred. The calculations of the value-in-use were based on the discounted cash flow model, and are based on the assumptions below: Growth rate Discount rate Cement 0.0% to 1.0% 6,60% a 11,30% CBA (ii) 9,64% a 11,14% Nexa Resources (ii) 10,34% a 11,98% Long steels (i) Not used 11,91% a 17,10% Holding and other Not used 8,40% a 9,57% (i) Considers units located abroad only (Argentina and Colombia). (ii) Growth rates take into account independent information on LME’s projections for quotations (mainly aluminum, zinc and copper). 214 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 215 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (a) Breakdown and fair value NonCurrent current Total Fair value Type Average annual charges 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Local currency Debentures 110.75% CDI 91 1,288 2,718 3,257 2,809 4,545 2,749 4,599 BNDES TJLP + 2.33% / 1.86% fixed rate BRL / SELIC + 2.92% / IPCA + 5.10% 95 486 635 1,410 730 1,896 687 1,774 Development promotion agency 8.46% Pré BRL / TJLP + 0.65% 51 41 198 208 249 249 246 238 FINAME 4.82% Pré BRL 21 23 68 91 89 114 83 102 Export credit notes 3 100 103 105 Other 11 16 11 11 22 27 20 26 269 1,857 3,630 5,077 3,899 6,934 3,785 6,844 Foreign currency Eurobonds USD 6.06% fixed rate USD 3,077 156 10,742 11,948 13,819 12,104 13,829 12,877 Loans Law 4131/1962 (i) LIBOR + 0.97% / 4.04% fixed rate USD 594 176 864 763 1,458 939 1,481 944 Eurobonds EUR 3.40% fixed rate EUR 978 37 1,541 2,246 2,519 2,283 2,584 2,415 Syndicated loan/bilateral agreements EURIBOR + 2.00% / LIBOR + 1.10% / 6.14% fixed rate 225 123 1,399 1,192 1,624 1,315 1,626 1,320 Export prepayments LIBOR + 1.27% 1 765 659 765 660 799 709 BNDES UMBNDES + 2.46% 112 37 149 152 Export credit notes 1 104 105 107 Working capital IBR + 2.62% / 5.67% fixed rate COP 111 96 111 96 112 98 Development promotion agency LIBOR + 1.10% 30 195 225 236 Other 7 14 24 31 31 45 33 43 5,022 716 15,530 16,980 20,552 17,696 20,700 18,665 5,291 2,573 19,160 22,057 24,451 24,630 24,485 25,509 Current portion of long-term borrowing 4,854 1,743 Interest on borrowing 324 365 Short-term borrowing 113 465 5,291 2,573 (i) Loans relating to Resolution 4131/1962 have swaps that are indexed to both exchange rates (LIBOR and fixed rates for floating CDI rates) and currency (US Dollars for reais), and resulted in a final weighted cost of 107.78% p.a. of the CDI. Borrowing of this type relates to compound financial instruments, contracted as a single product with the financial institution (debt in US Dollars + swap to a % of CDI in reais). The terms and conditions of the loan and derivative instrument are configured as a compound operation, so that the resulting cost is a debt adjusted by the CDI in reais. The difference in measurement between the two instruments (loan at amortized cost x derivative at fair value), creates an accounting mismatch in the statement of income. To eliminate this accounting mismatch, some of the borrowing contracts made from August 2015, were designated at fair value, and the effect of this designation is the measurement of debt at fair value through profit or loss, according to Note 30. Key: 216 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 217 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D BNDES – National Bank for Economic and Social Development. (b) Changes BRL – Brazilian currency (Real). Nota 2018 2017 CDI – Interbank Deposit Certificate. COP – Peso Colombiano. Opening balance for the year 24,630 24,419 EUR – European Union currency (Euro). New borrowing 3,639 5,393 Foreign exchange variation 2,771 616 EURIBOR – Euro Interbank Offered Rate. Interest 1,359 1,616 FINAME – Government Agency for Machinery and Equipment Financing. Addition of borrowing fees, net IBR – Interbank Rate (Colombia). of amortization 26 (22) INR – Indian Rupee Fair value adjustment (28) 47 IPCA – Extended Consumer Price Index. Payments interest (1,423) (1,558) LIBOR – London Interbank Offered Rate. Effect of subsidiaries excluded in consolidation 1.1 (d) (909) SELIC – Special System for Clearance and Custody. Payments principal (5,532) (5,881) TJLP – Long-term interest rate set by the National Monetary Council. Until December 2017, the TJLP is the BNDES basic cost Reclassification from assets of financing. As of January 2018, the Long Term Rate (TLP) became the main financial cost of BNDES financing. classified as held-for-sale (13) UMBNDES – Monetary unit of the BNDES reflecting the weighted basket of currencies of foreign currency debt obligations. At Gain on debt renegotiation 3.1.1 (iv) (69) December 31, 2018, 99% of the basket consisted of US Dollars. Closing balance for the year 24,451 24,630 USD – US Dollar. 218 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 219 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (c) New borrowing and amortizations Through funding and prepayment of certain debts, the Company seeks to extend the average term of maturities, as well as to balance the exposure to different currencies of loans and financing to its cash generation in these currencies. The main funding and amortizations made in 2018 were as follows: New borrowing Date Company projects Currency Principal Principal BRL Maturity Cost Mar-18 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Law 4131/1962 USD 100 325 2023 112.00% CDI May-18 Nexa Resources S.A. Export Prepayment USD 200 737 2023 LIBOR 6M + 1.27% May-18 Votorantim Cimentos N/NE S.A. Debentures BRL 450 450 2023 110.00% CDI Jun-18 Nexa Resources S.A. Development Agency USD 63 240 2026 LIBOR 6M + 1.10% Aug-18 Votorantim S.A. Debentures BRL 550 550 2024 112.00% CDI Oct-18 Votorantim Cimentos N/NE S.A. Law 4131/1962 USD 50 202 2023 108% CDI Dec-18 Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio BNDES BRL 39 39 2028 TLP + 4,90% Dec-18 Nexa Recursos Minerais S.A. BNDES BRL 229 229 2028 TLP + 5,23% Dec-18 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. BNDES BRL 57 57 2028 TLP + 4,71% Amortizations Date Company Type Currency Principal Principal BRL Maturity Observation Jan-18 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Debentures BRL (500) (500) 2022 Prepayment Jan-18 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Debentures BRL (44) (44) 2022 Prepayment Jan-18 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Debentures BRL (63) (63) 2022 Prepayment Jan-18 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Debentures BRL (94) (94) 2022 Prepayment Jan-18 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Law 4131/1962 USD (50) (161) 2020 Prepayment Jan-18 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. BNDES BRL (211) (211) 2018 / 2019 / 2020 Prepayment Mar-18 Nexa Recursos Minerais S.A. Export credit notes BRL (100) (100) 2018 Mar-18 Nexa Recursos Minerais S.A. Export credit notes USD (31) (102) 2018 Apr-18 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Debentures BRL (148) (148) 2024 Prepayment Apr-18 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Debentures BRL (200) (200) 2023 Prepayment May-18 Nexa Resources S.A. Export Prepayment USD (100) (366) 2018 May-18 Nexa Resources S.A. Export Prepayment USD (40) (149) 2023 Prepayment May-18 Nexa Resources S.A. Export Prepayment USD (60) (224) 2022 Prepayment Jun-18 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Debentures BRL (158) (158) 2023 Prepayment Jun-18 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Debentures BRL (294) (294) 2025 Prepayment Aug-18 Votorantim S.A. Debentures BRL (550) (550) 2024 Prepayment Oct-18 VOTO-Votorantim Overseas Trading Operations IV Limited Eurobonds USD (97) (359) 2020 Prepayment Oct-18 Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inversiones S.L. Syndicated loan/bilateral agreements EUR (43) (181) 2021 Prepayment Dec-18 Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio BNDES BRL (39) (39) 2019 / 2020 Prepayment Dec-18 Nexa Recursos Minerais S.A. BNDES BRL (229) (229) 2019 / 2020 / 2021 / 2022 / 2023 Prepayment Dec-18 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. BNDES BRL (57) (57) 2019 / 2020 Prepayment 220 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 221 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (d) Maturity (f) Breakdown by index 5,292 Local currency Foreign currency NonCurrent current Total 4,679 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 4,027 Local currency CDI 91 1,287 2,718 3,259 2,809 4,546 2,659 TJLP 79 436 314 1,239 393 1,675 2,396 2,238 Fixed rate 53 74 209 286 262 360 1,660 SELIC 14 55 100 196 114 251 TLP 32 289 321 979 Other 5 97 102 459 64 269 1,857 3,630 5,077 3,899 6,934 2019 2020 2021 2022 2003 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028+ Foreign currency Fixed rate 4,729 515 13,160 15,549 17,889 16,064 LIBOR 230 5 2,331 1,179 2,561 1,184 (e) Breakdown by currency EURIBOR 11 39 39 215 50 254 UMBNDES 112 37 149 NonCurrent current Total Other 52 45 52 45 5,022 716 15,530 16,980 20,552 17,696 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 5,291 2,573 19,160 22,057 24,451 24,630 USD 3,707 366 13,083 13,509 16,790 13,875 Real 269 1,857 3,630 5,077 3,899 6,934 Euro 1,098 110 1,879 2,825 2,977 2,935 Boliviano 64 1 406 395 470 396 (g) Collateral Turkish lire 39 47 148 220 187 267 Currencies basket 83 14 97 As at December 31, 2018, R$ 10,389 (December 31, 2017 – R$ 10,607) of the Other 114 109 14 17 128 126 balance of borrowing of the Company and its subsidiaries were collateralized 5,291 2,573 19,160 22,057 24,451 24,630 under promissory notes and sureties and R$ 792 of the property, plant and equipment items (December 31, 2017 – R$ 527) were collateralized by liens on the financed assets. (h) Covenants/financial ratios Certain borrowings are subject to compliance with certain financial ratios (“covenants”). When applicable, such obligations are standardized for all borrowing. The Company and its subsidiaries were in compliance with all of these covenants, as applicable. 222 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 223 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 20 Confirming payables 21 Current and deferred income tax and social contribution The Company and the subsidiaries have entered into agreements with financial institutions, aiming to anticipate receivables from suppliers in the domestic and foreign markets. In this operation, suppliers transfer the right to receive Accounting policy their accounts receivable related to sales of goods to financial institutions. The income tax and social contribution expense for the period comprises Operations Confirming current and deferred taxes. Taxes on profit are recognized in the statement of payables 2018 2017 income, except to the extent that they relate to items recognized directly in Domestic market 349 148 equity. In such cases, the taxes are also recognized in comprehensive income Foreign market 838 761 or directly in equity. 1,187 909 The current and deferred income tax and social contribution is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the entities operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken by the Company in income tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provision where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. The current income tax and social contribution are presented net, separated by taxpaying entity, in liabilities when there are amounts payable, or in assets when the amounts prepaid exceed the total amount due on the reporting date. Deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences and/or tax losses can be utilized. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are presented net in the balance sheet when there is a legal right and the intention to offset them upon the calculation of current taxes, generally related to the same legal entity and the same taxation authority. Thus, deferred tax assets and liabilities in different entities or in different countries are presented separately, and not net. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to income taxes in all countries in which it operates. The provision for income tax is calculated individually by the entity based on tax rates and rules effective at the entity’s location. The Company and its subsidiaries also recognizes liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will have an impact on the current and deferred tax assets and liabilities in the period in which the determination is made 224 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 225 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (a) Reconciliation of income tax and social contribution (b) Breakdown of deferred tax balances expenses 2018 2017 The current amounts are calculated based on the current rates levied on taxable income, adjusted upwards or downwards by the respective additions Tax credits on tax losses 2,669 1,884 and exclusions. Tax credits on temporary differences Estimation for losses on investments, fixed and intangible The income tax and social contribution amounts presented in the statements assets 857 1,181 of income for the year ended December 31 are reconciled to their Brazilian Foreign exchange gains 761 1,300 standard rates as follows: Tax, civil and labor provision 574 506 Tax benefit on goodwill 503 465 Note 2018 2017 Asset retirement obligation 182 166 Profit before income tax and social contribution 3,236 1,094 Use of public assets 154 172 Standard rates 34% 34% Environmental liabilities 128 116 Income tax and social contribution Fair value adjustments 123 (143) at standard rates (1,100) (372) PPR Provision for profit sharing 113 124 Adjustments for the calculation of Estimation for inventory losses 78 66 income tax and social contribution at effective rates Provision for loan 62 56 Equity 277 415 Provision for energy charges 49 46 Differential rate of foreign Provision for social security obligations 41 34 companies 559 192 Pension funds 3 (18) Income tax credit paid in foreign IN 1520/14 (219) (277) Estimated asset disposals 2 20 Reprocessing of previous Other tax credits 194 18 calculations 70 61 Tax debits on temporary differences Tax on mining operations (52) (74) Borrowing costs (3) (3) Dividends received (53) (59) Financial instruments firm commitment (8) (61) Tax loss carryforward and nonAsset retirement obligation (10) (6) deferred tax base (60) (9) Market value Citrosuco (13) (154) Tax effect of the corporate reorganization VCSA 1.1 (j) (431) Adjustment to present value (35) (55) Other additions, net (55) (13) Deferred of losses on derivative instruments (77) 63 Income tax and social contribution Gain in fair value in VTRM´s operation (102) calculated (1,064) (136) Capitalized interest (141) (140) Current (456) (722) Market value Milpo (388) (441) Deferred (608) 586 Goodwill amortization (405) (367) Income tax and social contribution expenses (1,064) (136) Market value assets (1,233) (1,140) Effective rate % 33% 12% Adjustment of useful lives of PP&E (depreciation) (2,192) (1,479) Other tax debits (6) (96) Net 1,880 2,114 Net deferred tax assets related to the same legal entity 4,079 4,079 Net deferred tax liabilities related to the same legal entity (2,199) (1,965) 226 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 227 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (c) Effects of deferred income tax and social contribution on the profit for the year and comprehensive income 22 Deferred revenue 2018 2017 obligation for performance Opening balance for the year 2,114 2,072 Deferred income tax and social contribution on hedge accounting 396 (11) Effects on the results of the Accounting policy year discontinued operations 112 (228) Effects of foreign exchange Deferred revenue, arising from the anticipation of receivables from financial variations in other institutions, represents an obligation for the subsidiaries to physically deliver comprehensive income (196) (41) the electric energy already sold to customers and consequently to pass on Effects on the results for the to the financial institution the amount received from the sale of energy. The year continuing operations (608) 586 obligation is performed monthly, after the transfer of energy to the client and Consumption of tax and social contribution credits for consequent financial transfer to the financial institution. payment of PERT program (259) In December 2014, the subsidiary indirect Votener ceded to a financial Other 62 (5) institution the receivables due until December 2019 as a result of certain Closing balance for the year 1,880 2,114 contracts for the Sale of Electric Energy in the Regulated Environment (“CCEAR”), which are being carried out with the physical delivery of energy. This transaction corresponded to R$ 1,252, and has no right of return and/ (d) Realization of deferred income tax and social contribution or type of co-obligation of the Company on the receivables. Due to the on tax losses assignment of receivables, Votener received a total amount of R$ 905, and the interest to be appropriated from the transaction will be recognized pro 2018 Percentage rata to the result during the term of the agreement. In 2019 881 33% In May 2015, Votener carried out a second credit assignment operation, In 2020 323 12% without any right of return and/or co-obligation of the subsidiary, in the total In 2021 238 9% amount of R$ 368. By assigning the receivables, Votener received the total In 2022 391 15% amount R$ 251, and interest to be appropriated from the operation will be After 2023 836 31% recognized pro rata to the result during the term of the agreement. 2,669 100% The updated value of these operations at December 31, 2018 was R$ 271 (December 31, 2017, R$ 516). 228 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 229 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 23 Provision (ii) Asset retirement obligations The calculation of asset retirement obligations involves judgment about certain assumptions. In environmental terms, they refer to the future obligation to restore the ecological conditions similar to those existing before the beginning of the project or activity, or to carry out compensatory measures, agreed upon with the applicable bodies, as a result of the impossibility of Accounting policy returning the areas to the pre-existing condition. These obligations arise from the beginning of the environmental degradation of the area occupied by the The Company and its subsidiaries are a party to tax, civil, labor and other operation or from formal commitments made to the environmental body, legal claims in progress at different Court levels. Provision against potentially under which the degradation must be compensated. The dismantling and unfavorable outcomes of litigation in progress is established and updated removal of an asset from an operation occurs when it is permanently retired, based on management evaluation, as supported by external legal counsel, through the interruption of its activities, or by its sale or disposal. and requires a high level of judgment regarding the matters involved. Expenditures relating to mine retirement are recorded as asset retirement The judicial deposits are monetarily restated and when they have a obligations. The asset retirement cost, equivalent to the present value of the corresponding provision they are presented net in “Provision”. Judicial obligation (liability), is capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the asset, deposits that do not have a corresponding provision are presented in nonwhich is depreciated over its useful life. current assets. The Company and its subsidiaries recognize a liability based on the fair value (i) Provision for tax, civil, labor, environmental and other legal for the demobilization of assets in the period in which they occur, against claims the corresponding intangible asset. The Company and its subsidiaries consider the accounting estimates related to the recovery of degraded areas The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to tax, labor, civil and and the costs of closing a mine as a critical accounting practice because it environmental and other litigation in progress and are discussing these involves expressive amounts of provisions and these are estimates that matters at both the administrative and judicial levels. These matters are involve several assumptions such as interest rates, inflation, useful life of the backed by judicial deposits where applicable. assets considering the current stage of exhaustion, the costs involved and The provision for tax, civil, labor, environmental and other legal claims is the projected depletion dates of each mine. These estimates are reviewed recognized when: (i) the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation annually by the Company and its subsidiaries. as a result of past events, (ii) it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and (iii) the amount can be reliably estimated. (iii) Obligation for environmental liabilities Losses classified as possible are not recognized for accounting purposes, and are disclosed in the notes. Contingencies with probability of loss classified The environmental liability must be recognized when there is an obligation on as remote are not provisioned nor disclosed, except when the Company the part of the Company and its subsidiaries that incurred an environmental and its subsidiaries consider their disclosure justified. The classification of cost not yet paid, provided that it meets the recognition criteria as an losses between possible, probable and remote is based on the management’s obligation. Therefore, this type of liability is defined as being a present assessment, based on the opinion of its legal advisors. obligation of the Company and its subsidiaries that arose from past events. Provision is measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to time elapsing is recognized as interest expense. Provision does not include future operating losses. 230 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 231 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (a) Breakdown and changes (c) Litigation with likelihood of loss considered possible The Company and its subsidiaries are party to litigations representing a risk of 2018 2017 possible loss, for which no constituted provision has been made, as detailed Legal below. claims ARO (i) Tax Labor Civil Other Total Total 2018 2017 Opening balance for the year 1,275 849 99 317 47 2,587 2,346 Tax (c.1) 11,162 10,035 Additions 24 82 142 59 7 314 687 Civil (c.2) 7,430 7,215 Reversals (ii) (47) (90) (88) (199) (10) (434) (945) Environmental 516 496 Judicial deposits, net of writeoffs (ii) (2) (9) 92 (1) 80 225 Labor and social security 374 441 Settlement in cash (41) (28) (82) (4) (1) (156) (182) 19,482 18,187 Settlements with escrow deposits (14) (14) (2) Reclassification of liabilities related to assets held for sale (18) (c.1) Comments on contingent tax and public rights liabilities Effect of subsidiaries included with likelihood of loss considered possible in (excluded from) consolidation (20) (2) (4) (26) 15 The contingent liabilities relating to tax lawsuits in progress with a likelihood Present value adjustment 67 67 52 of loss considered possible, for which no provision has been recorded, are Monetary restatement 35 33 12 2 82 216 commented on below. In the table below we present an analysis of the Foreign exchange variation 79 7 3 8 1 98 28 relevance of these lawsuits: Revision of estimated cash flow (3) (3) 165 Closing balance for the year 1,334 853 84 283 41 2,595 2,587 Nature 2018 2017 (i) Asset Retirement Obligation. Tax assessment notice IRPJ/CSLL (i) 1,884 1,794 (ii) Substantially refers to the classification of civil action loss of the subsidiary CBA, which was changed from probable to remote, generating IRPJ/CSLL – Profits abroad (ii) 1,052 765 a reversal of the judicial provision in the amount of R$ 104, of which R$ 66 was the principal amount and R$ 38 was the monetary restatement. The lawsuit is in progress, and at December 31, 2018, CBA had amounts deposited in Court in the amount of R$ 104. ICMS – Credit (iii) 818 923 Disallowances of PIS/COFINS credits (iv) 680 582 (b) Provision for tax, civil, labor, other contingencies and Compensation for exploration for mineral resources ( CFEM ) (v) 608 571 outstanding judicial deposits Disallowance of IRPJ/CSLL negative balance (vi) 493 362 Tax assessment notice – ICMS (vii) 315 272 2018 2017 Offset of tax loss – 30% limit (merger) 286 276 OutOutstanding standing ICMS – Transfer costs (viii) 242 judicial judicial Judicial ProviNet deposits Judicial ProviNet deposits ICMS on electricity charges (ix) 204 199 deposits sion amount (i) deposits sion amount (i) IRPJ/CSLL – Transfer costs (x) 198 192 Tax (126) 979 853 545 (124) 973 849 679 Error in fiscal classification Importation (xi) 172 163 Labor (214) 298 84 80 (205) 304 99 71 Collection of ICMS due to divergences regarding the destination of the property (xii) 104 90 Civil (28) 311 283 124 (120) 437 317 10 IRPJ/CSLL – Deduction of expenses (xiii) 74 71 Other (1) 42 41 6 47 47 5 Other lawsuits 4,274 3,533 (369) 1,630 1,261 755 (449) 1,761 1,312 765 11,162 10,035 (i) The Company and its subsidiaries have balances deposited in relation to lawsuits classified by management, following the directions of the legal advisors of the Company and its subsidiaries as remote or possible losses and, herefore, they are made without respective provision. 232 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 233 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (i) Tax assessment notice – “IRPJ / CSLL” (vii) Tax assessment notice ICMS In December 2016, the subsidiary VCSA was assessed by the Brazilian Federal Revenue Office in the historical amount of R$ In the fourth quarter of 2016, the subsidiary CAI received a tax assessment notice whose value up to December 31, 2018 470 demanding the collection of IRPJ and CSLL relating to the period of 2011, due to the alleged undue deduction of operating amounts R$ 172. The process currently awaits judgment of the special appeal filed by the company before the Tax and Taxes expenses and costs. In January 2018, the VCSA became aware of the Lower Court decision from the Federal Revenue’s Judgment Court of São Paulo Paulo. Office, which judged the appeal partially with grounds, reducing the lawsuit by approximately R$ 114. In December 2018, the In addition, the subsidiary Nexa BR has tax assessments issued by the tax authorities of the State of Minas Gerais, in the amount Appeal of the Administrative Board of Tax Appeals was dismissed and the Voluntary Appeal was partially accepted for the of R$ 143, of which R$ 127 refers to the incidence of value added tax on sales of certain energy contracts and R$ 16 referring VCSA, at this moment we await the formalization of the Court Decision. As at December 31, 2018, the restated amount of the to tax rate applied to interstate sales of manufactured goods with imported content. contingency was R$ 551, of which R$ 51 was assessed as probable loss and was properly accrued, and the remaining R$ 500 was assessed as possible loss. (viii)ICMS Transfer cost In December 2017, the VCSA received a tax assessment notice from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Office in the amount of R$ The subsidiary CBA was assessed for alleged failure to collect ICMS due to the nickel carbonate transfer operations for its 1,295 for alleged non-payment or underpayment of IRPJ and CSLL relating to the period from 2012 to 2013, due to: (i) capital subsidiary located in the State of São Paulo, for the periods January 2003 to December 2003, April 2004 to March 2005, from gain allegedly obtained due to a barter made by the VCSA; and (ii) amortization of goodwill supposedly incorrect. In October April 2005 to March 2006, from April 2006 to March 2007 and from April 2007 to March 2008. 2018, the VCSA took cognizance of the decision of the lower court, which ruled that the VCSA´s challenge was unfavorable. In In the opinion of Management and in the opinion of its independent legal advisors, the criteria adopted for the formation of the December 2018, the Appeal of the Administrative Board of Tax Appeals was dismissed and the Voluntary Appeal was partially calculation basis of the prices practiced by the CBA are in accordance with the pertinent legislation and the probability of loss of accepted for the VCSA, at this moment we await the formalization of the Court Decision. At December 31, 2018, the restated the process is considered remote. amount of the contingency assessed as possible loss was R$ 1,384. (ix) ICMS on electricity charges (ii) Profits abroad – “IRPJ/CSLL” The subsidiary CBA has judicial and administrative discussions regarding the incidence of ICMS on the sector charges levied on The Company and its subsidiaries have assessments drawn up by the Brazilian Federal Revenue Office, for alleged nonpayment the electricity tariff. As of December 31, 2018, the amount in controversy of these discussions amounts to R$ 204. of IRPJ and CSLL, on profits earned abroad by its subsidiaries or affiliates, in the periods of 2007, 2008, 2010, 2012, 2013 and 2014. In the opinion of Management and in the opinion of its independent legal advisors, the assessment is unfounded, which is why the likelihood of loss of the process is considered possible. The balance substantially composed by the Company, amounted R$ 739 at December 31, 2018 (R$ 607 as at December 31, 2017). All cases are awaiting judgment at the administrative level. (x) IRPJ/CSLL – Transfer Price (iii) ICMS credit Between 2007 and 2010, four tax assessments were filed against its subsidiary CAI, aiming at the collection of IRPJ and CSLL, and the adjustment in the basis of tax losses and the negative basis of CSLL, due to the losses made in the adjustments made by Between 2011 and 2013, eight notices of infringement and fines were filed against the Company’s subsidiary Citrovita Agro the Company in this transfer pricing calculations in 2003 and 2004. In October 2017, one of the cases was closed in a favorable Industrial Ltda. (“CAI”), mainly aimed at the collection of ICMS credited, as highlighted in invoices for the transfer of other manner to the CAI, with the amount of R$ 199 remaining under administrative discussion, restated up to December 31, 2018. subsidiaries, with the specific purpose of export, whose exits are not taxed. The tax assessment notices totaled R$ 819 as at The active processes await judgment of appeals by the Administrative Council of Tax Appeals. December 31, 2018 (R$ 923 as at December 31, 2017). (xi) Tax classification mismatch – Import Of the eight cases mentioned above, six are awaiting judgment in the administrative sphere, and (i) three of them with a totally unfavorable decision; (ii) and three in which the decisions kept the entries only in part, reducing the amount assessed. In the In March 2017, the subsidiary CBA was assessed on account of a supposed error in the tax classification on the importation of face of these decisions, appeals were filed by the CAI and the State Treasury Attorney of São Paulo, which are pending judgment inputs, resulting in the tax requirement (IPI, PIS, COFINS E II), whose value in December 2018 amounts to R$ 172. by the Tax and Tax Court. Two of them were closed in an unfavorable manner to CAI at the administrative level and are being Because the undisputed legal counsel wrongly understood the complaint, the subsidiary CBA filed a challenge that was favorably discussed in Court. judged in the first administrative instance. Currently, the case awaits judgment by the CARF of the voluntary appeal filed by the (iv) PIS / COFINS credit statement Attorney General of the National Treasury. Substantially comprised by the subsidiary CBA, which has Decisional Orders and tax assessments relating to the PIS and COFINS In the opinion of Management and in the opinion of its independent legal advisors, the likelihood of loss of said process is credits, referring to the items applied in the production process, which, in the opinion of the Brazilian Federal Revenue Office, considered possible. would not generate the right to credit of the said contributions. The amount restated as of December 31, 2018 corresponds to (xii) Collection of ICMS due to divergences regarding the destination of the item R $ 661. Currently, all the processes await administrative decision. The subsidiary CBA was assessed for alleged failure to pay ICMS, due to the credit claims arising from the acquisition of assets In the opinion of Management and in the opinion of its independent legal advisors, in light of precedents and case law, the due to divergences regarding the allocation of assets in the amount of R$ 104. likelihood of loss of the process is considered possible. In the opinion of Management and in the opinion of its independent legal advisors, the criteria adopted in relation to the (v) Financial Compensation for the Exploration of Mineral Resources CFEM destination of the assets are in accordance with the pertinent legislation and the probability of loss of the process is considered The subsidiaries Nexa BR, CBA and VCSA had several assessments drawn up by the National Department of Mineral Production possible. “DNPM” for alleged failure to pay or lower collection of CFEM from 1991 to 2015. As of December 31, 2018, the amount of (xiii) IRPJ and CSLL Expense Deduction possible loss amounts to R$ 608. In December 2016, the subsidiary CAI was assessed by the RFB for the collection of IRPJ and CSLL, due to the gloss of exclusions (vi) IRPJ negative balance credit from the calculation base of said taxes in the 2011 calendar year. The amounts required by the tax assessment notice total R$ VSA, Companhia Nitro Química Brasileira Ltda. (CNQB) (its company sold to third parties), and its subsidiaries CBA and Nexa 74. In the last quarter of 2018, a partial cancellation of the tax assessment notice was filed by the Regional Judgment Office BR, received decisions regarding the gloss of negative balance of IRPJ credits, totaling the updated amount of R$ 493 as of (DRJ), and judgment on the Voluntary Appeal filed is currently awaiting. December 31, 2018. It is expected that the defenses presented in the administrative and judicial spheres by the companies will be judged. 234 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 235 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (c.2) Comments on contingent civil liabilities with likelihood of In November 2015, VCSA filed an annulment action to cancel the decision issued at the administrative level or, at least, to reduce loss considered possible the applied penalties. The injunction was granted on November 24, 2015, suspending the effects of the decision issued by CADE at the administrative level, preventing CADE from demanding the fulfillment of the obligations and/or executing the penalties until a judgment of the merits. CADE was summoned and filed its defense, while VCSA presented its reply in November 2016. Nature 2018 2017 Recently, an economic expert evidence has been accepted. The parties indicated technical assistants and made questions. The expert is requested to inform if he accepts the charge and presents an estimate of the fees. The VCSA classified the likelihood Public civil suit – Violation of the of loss on this lawsuit as possible. economic order (i) 4,023 3,872 Administrative investigations During 2017, some construction companies and concrete producers filed lawsuits for indemnity claims against Votorantim carried out by the Secretariat of Cimentos and other companies which were convicted by CADE, due to the alleged formation of a cartel in the cement and Economic Law (ii) 2,052 1,994 concrete markets, in summary claiming that the cartel caused economic and non-economic losses. In January 2018, the first sentence dismissing the merit of the indemnity claims was issued. In December 2018, there were already 20 decisions dismissing Litigation with a São Paulo the merit in the lower court. Moreover, eight of these lawsuits already recognized that eventual damages arising from the facts transportation company (iii) 187 identified in the administrative proceeding of CADE had already expired, of which five were final decisions. In June 2018, this Other lawsuits 1,355 1,162 position was confirmed for the first time by the higher court, through a court decision preventing the charging of amounts prior 7,430 7,215 to three years from the filling of the lawsuit. (iii) Litigation with a transportation company in São Paulo (i) Civil class action – Cartel In September 2003, a transportation company filed a claim against Votorantim Cimentos Brasil S.A. (a company merged into The Office of the Public Prosecutor of the State of Rio Grande do Norte filed a civil class action against the subsidiary VCSA, the subsidiary VCSA) seeking compensation for property damages amounting to R$ 84 and pain and suffering in an unspecified together with eight other defendants, including several of Brazil’s largest cement manufacturers, alleging the formation of a amount, alleging that the VCSA failed to honor two oral contracts. The transportation company argued that those breaches cartel, demanding that: (1) the defendants make an indemnity payment, jointly, amounting to R$ 5,600, in favor of the civil resulted in the discontinuation of the activities of its sales department and significant losses to its transportation department. class action, due to pain and suffering and property collective damage; (2) the defendants make a payment of 10% of the total The VCSA filed its response in September 2009, arguing that: (1) the transportation company’s statute of limitations had amount paid by the customers for the acquisition of cement or concrete under the brands owned by the defendants, during the expired; (2) the VCSA did not change the general conditions of the agreement; and (3) the transportation company was unable period from 2002 to 2006, due to individual consumer damages; (3) that the defendants pay the following penalties according to to provide the contracted services, which resulted in its insolvency. In August 2011, the Court rejected the argument regarding Article 23 Section 1 and Article 24 of Law 8,884/1994: (i) in addition to the payment mentioned in item (1) above, a fine ranging the expiration of the statute of limitations and determined an expert examination, as requested by the parties. The expert from 1% to 30% of annual gross revenues relating to the fiscal year immediately preceding the year in which the alleged violation examination was concluded and the report was presented. The parties filed their challenges to the report and the lawsuit was occurred, but not less than the monetary advantage acquired; and (ii) a prohibition, for a period not shorter than five years, from sent to the expert for his opinion. In June 2014, clarifications were provided by the expert. On June 24, 2014, the VCSA’s obtaining financing from governmental financial institutions or from participating in bidding processes conducted by the federal, challenge was filed. In December 2014, the Company received a decision declaring the end of the fact-finding phase and state or municipal governments and their entities. In view of the total number of the claims in item (1) above in the amount of R$ requesting the parties to declare whether they would be interested in holding a conciliation hearing. In July 2016, the request 5,600 and because of the claims alleging joint liability, VCSA estimated that, based on its market share, its share of the liability was partially judged, sentencing Votorantim to pay R$ 400 thousand. In October 2016, Votorantim filed an appeal request. In would be approximately R$ 2,400. However, there can be no assurance that this apportionment would prevail and that VCSA will 2018, the Court upheld VCSA’s appeal by a majority and dismissed the transportation VCSA’s claim as unfounded. As a result, not be held liable for a different proportion, which may be larger, or for the total number of these claims. Additionally, there can there was a reclassification of the likelihood of loss to remote. As at December 31, 2018, the restated amount of the remote be no assurance that VCSA will not be required to pay other amounts as compensation for damages caused to consumers as contingency is R$ 203. mentioned in item (2) above and/or the fine mentioned in item (3) above. In the last quarter of 2018 an order was issued rejecting the arguments presented by the defendants and determining the production of expert evidence. At the moment a decision is awaited on the motions to clarify against such order. The likelihood of loss in this matter is considered possible, and the VCSA has not recorded any provision for this claim. As at December 31, 2018, the restated balance of the contingency was R$ 4,023. (ii) Administrative Proceedings by SDE, currently CADE (Brazilian antitrust agency) In 2006 the SDE initiated administrative proceedings against the largest Brazilian cement companies, including VCSA, alleging that the large cement companies would have breached Brazilian antitrust laws, such as in terms of price fixing and the formation of a cartel. After the finding of facts, the CADE court judged the lawsuit, issuing the final terms of the judgment on July 29, 2015, applying several penalties to the companies. The penalties imposed on VCSA include the payment of a fine of approximately R$ 1,566 and an obligation for VCSA to sell: (1) all its interests in other cement and concrete companies in Brazil; (2) 20% of its installed capacity of concrete services in Brazil, in relevant markets in which VCSA has more than one concrete plant; and (3) a specific cement asset that, in CADE’s opinion, was directly related to the alleged illegal act of which VCSA is accused. Other non-monetary penalties were also imposed on VCSA, including: (1) the obligation to publish CADE’s decision in one of the five biggest Brazilian newspapers; (2) a prohibition against contracting with official financial institutions for credit lines with financing conditions subsidized by public programs or resources provided by these institutions; and (3) a recommendation to the Federal Revenue that they restrict or limit certain other benefits and tax incentives. As at December 31, 2018, the restated balance of the contingency was R$ 2,052. 236 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 237 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 24 Use of public assets Accounting policy The amount is originally recognized as a financial liability (obligation) and as an intangible asset (right to use a public asset) which corresponds to the amount of the total annual charges over the period of the agreement discounted to present value (present value of the future payment cash flows). The subsidiaries own or participate in companies that hold concession contracts in the electrical energy industry. Most of these contracts provide for annual payments from the commencement of operations and are adjusted by the General Market Price Index for the Use of Public Assets. The contracts have an average duration of 35 years, and the amounts to be paid annually are as follows: 2018 2017 Intangible Intangible Concession start Concession Payment Ownership assets Ownership assets Plants/Companies Investor date end date start date interest (Note 18) Liabilities interest (Note 18) Liabilities Salto Pilão Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio nov-01 dec-36 jan-10 60% 184 518 60% 194 493 Salto do Rio Verdinho Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio aug-02 sep-37 oct-10 100% 7 21 100% 8 20 Itupararanga Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio nov-03 dec-23 jan-04 100% 2 100% 1 2 Piraju Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio dec-98 jan-34 feb-03 100% 1 6 100% 1 6 Ourinhos Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio jul-00 aug-35 sep-05 100% 1 5 100% 1 5 Baesa Energética Barra Grande Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio jun-01 may-36 jun-07 15% 13 45 15% 14 42 Capim Branco I e Capim Branco II Pollarix S.A. aug-01 sep-36 oct-07 13% 3 11 13% 3 10 Picada Pollarix S.A. may-01 jun-36 jul-06 100% 17 69 100% 18 65 Enercan Campos Novos Energia S.A CBA Energia Participações S.A. apr-00 may-35 jun-06 24% 2 7 33% 2 6 Enercan Campos Novos Energia S.A Pollarix S.A. apr-00 may-35 jun-06 21% 2 6 0% 1 5 Pedra do Cavalo Votorantim Cimentos N/NE S.A. mar-02 apr-37 apr-06 100% 112 499 100% 118 478 342 1,189 361 1,132 Current 83 76 Non-current 342 1,106 361 1,056 342 1,189 361 1,132 238 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 239 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 25 Pension plan and post-employment 2018 2017 health care benefits Rights recorded in the balance sheet with: Pension plan benefits 25 2 Assets recorded in the balance sheet 25 2 Accounting policy Obligations recorded in the balance sheet with: The Company, through its subsidiaries abroad (VCNA, VCEAA, Artigas and Pension plan benefits 155 168 APDR) and in Brazil (VCNNE), participates in pension plans managed by a private Post-employment healthcare pension entity, which provide post-employment benefits to employees. benefits 164 152 The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit Liabilities recorded in the balance sheet 319 320 pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date minus the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit Expenses recognized in the obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected statement of income with: unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is Pension plan benefits 19 20 determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using market Post-employment healthcare interest rates that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits benefits 12 11 will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of 31 31 the related pension obligation. In countries where there is no active market Remeasurement with: related to such obligations, market rates for government securities are used. Pension plan benefits gross Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in actuarial assumptions are amount (39) (23) recognized within “Carrying value adjustments” in the period in which they Deferred income tax and social contribution 5 8 arise. Pension plan benefits net Past-service costs are recognized immediately in the statement of income, amount (34) (15) unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case, past-service costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the (a) Defined contribution pension plan vesting period. The Company and its Brazilian subsidiaries sponsor private pension plans For defined contribution plans, the Company pays contributions to the available to all employees administered by Fundação Senador José Ermírio pension plan administrators on a compulsory, contractual or voluntary basis. de Moraes (“FUNSEJEM”), a private, not for profit, pension fund. Under the The Company no longer has payment obligations once the contributions are terms of the regulations of the fund, the contributions of the employees paid. Contributions are recognized as employee benefit expense when due. to FUNSEJEM are matched by the sponsors in accordance with the level of Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset to the extent that a cash remuneration of the employee. For employees whose remuneration is lower refund or a reduction in the future payments is available. than the threshold established by the regulations, the Company matches the contributions that represent up to 1.5% of their monthly remuneration. For The Company’s subsidiaries have a defined contribution plan for employees. employees whose remuneration exceeds the threshold, the Company matches Certain subsidiaries, however, have a defined benefit plan. the contributions of employees that represent up to 6% of their monthly The table below shows where the balances and activities related to postremuneration. Voluntary contributions can also be made to FUNSEJEM. Once employment benefit are allocated in the consolidated financial statements. the plan contributions are made, no additional contributions are required. 240 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 241 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (b) Defined benefit pension plan The changes in the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of the plan assets during the year were as follows: The Company has subsidiaries with defined pension plans in North America, South America and Europe, which follow similar regulatory standards. The 2018 2017 defined benefit pension plans also offer health care and life insurance, among Impact other benefits. The cost of the retirement benefits and the other benefits Present of the of the plan granted to employees are determined by the projected benefit value of minimum fundrequiremethod on a pro rata basis considering the length of service and the best ed and ment of the expectations of management regarding the return on plan assets, salary unfunded Fair value of funds/asset obligations plan assets Total ceiling Total Total adjustments, costs and mortality trends, and the age of retirement of employees. Opening balance 1,125 (809) 316 1 317 320 Current service cost 9 9 9 9 The amounts recognized in the balance sheet are determined as follows: Finance cost (income) 56 (31) 25 25 20 2018 2017 Past service cost and curtailments (2) (2) (2) 1 63 (31) 32 32 30 Present value of funded obligations 1,031 1,042 Re-measurements: Fair value of plan assets (814) (808) Return on assets, excluding the Deficit of funded plans 217 234 amount included as finance Present value of non-funded income 29 29 29 (35) obligations 68 82 Losses (gains) arising from Total deficit of defined benefit changes in demographic pension plans 285 316 assumptions (1) (1) 13 Impact of the minimum funding Losses (gains) arising requirement/assets ceiling 9 2 from changes in financial assumptions (69) (69) (69) 42 Assets and liabilities in the balance sheet 294 318 Losses arising from experience (6) (6) (6) (10) Changes in the asset ceiling, excluding the amount included as finance cost 7 7 (8) (76) 29 (47) 7 (39) 2 Foreign exchange gains (losses) 95 (65) 30 30 6 Contributions: Employer (6) (6) (6) (4) Payments of the plans: Payment of benefits (99) 63 (36) (36) (36) Assumed/(acquired) in a business combination (8) 4 (4) (4) Closing balance 1,100 (815) 285 8 294 318 242 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 243 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D The defined benefit obligation and the plan assets, by country, are as follows: Percentual 2018 2017 North South North South Brazil Europe America America Colombia Total Brazil Europe America America Colombia Total Present value of the obligation 43 29 697 263 1,032 49 20 706 268 1,043 Fair value of plan assets (53) (619) (142) (814) (52) (4) (624) (128) (808) (10) 29 78 121 218 (3) 16 82 140 235 Present value of non-financial obligations 31 32 5 68 46 32 82 Impact of the minimum requirement of the funds/asset ceiling 8 8 1 1 (2) 60 110 5 121 294 (2) 62 114 4 140 318 The actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 2018 2017 North South North South Brazil Europe America America Colombia Total Brazil Europe America America Colombia Total Discount rate 10.51% 6.12% 3.84% 10.92% 7.50% 7.78% 9.93% 7.25% 3.46% 10.70% 6.80% 7.63% Inflation rate 5.37% 1.33% 2.00% 2.90% 4.46% 2.85% 2.00% 3.10% Future salary increases 4.88% 7.00% 2.50% 6.92% 5.33% 5.25% 6.85% 2.50% 6.70% 5.33% Increases in future pension plans 5.37% 3.50% 4.44% 4.46% 3.50% 3.98% (c) Post-employment benefits (pension and health care) The Company operates post-employment health care plans through indirect subsidiaries in North America, VCNA, and in Europe, VCEAA. The accounting method, assumptions and frequency of evaluations are similar to those used for the defined benefit pension plans. Most of these plans are not funded. The obligations relating to these plans are included in the movement of the defined benefit obligations previously presented. 244 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 245 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 26 Equity (v) Government grants The tax incentive reserve is credited with tax incentive benefits, which are recognized in the income statement for the year and allocated to retained earnings for this reserve. These incentives are not included in the calculation of the mandatory minimum dividend. Accounting policy (vi) Equity valuation adjustments The equity valuation adjustments include: (i) Share capital (a) Effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of hedge Share capital is represented exclusively by common shares classified as equity. instruments used in hedge of cash flow until the recognition of the cash flows that were hedged. (ii) Dividends (b) Cumulative translation adjustments with the exchange differences This is recognized as a liability in the Company’s financial statements at yeararising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign end based on the Company’s bylaws. Any amount that exceeds the minimum operations. required, 25% of the profit for the year, is only recognized on the date it is approved by the stockholders at a General Meeting. When a Company (c) Effective portion with exchange differences of hedge of the presents a loss in the year, there is no dividend. Company’s net investments in a foreign operation. (d) Actuarial losses (gains) and measures with retirement benefits. (iii) Earnings per share Earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the (a) Share capital controlling stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares On December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the fully subscribed and during the year. The weighted average number of shares is calculated based paid-up capital of the Company was R$ 28,656, consisting of 18,278,789 on the periods in which the shares were outstanding. thousand common shares. (iv) Statutory reserve (b) Dividends The statutory reserve is constituted by the appropriation of 5% of the net The calculation of mandatory dividends at December 31 can be shown as income for the fiscal year or remaining balance, limited to 20% of the capital follows: stock. Its purpose is to ensure the integrity of social capital. It can only be used to offset losses and increase capital. When the Company presents a loss 2018 2017 in the year, there will be no legal reserve. Net income (loss) attributable to The retained earnings reserve refers to the retention of the remaining balance controlling shareholders 1,746 590 of retained earnings in order to meet the business growth plan established in Legal reserve (87) (30) the Company’s investment plan. Dividend calculation basis 1,659 560 Dividends 415 140 Percentage of net income for the year 25% 25% 246 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 247 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D During 2018, the Company approved to its parent company Hejoassu Administração S.A, the amount of R$ 789, corresponding to dividends related to part of the balance of the “Profit Reserve” account, accumulated up to December 31, 2017. On April 30, 2018, the Ordinary and Extraordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting resolved the cancellation of the mandatory minimum dividends of 2017 in the amount of R$ 140. (c) Carrying value adjustments Attributable to the owners of the Company Hedge Currency accounting for Hedge translation net investments accounting for Remeasurement Fair value of Other of investees abroad, net of the operations of retirement available-forcomprehensive located abroad taxes of subsidiaries benefits sale assets income Total At January 1, 2017 5,246 (4,342) (30) (78) 227 232 1,255 Other comprehensive income Currency translation of investees located abroad 473 473 Hedge accounting for net investments abroad, net of taxes (163) (163) Hedge accounting for the operations of subsidiaries (101) (101) Remeasurement of retirement benefits 1 1 Fair value of available-for-sale financial assets of non-consolidated investments 39 39 Realization of comprehensive income on disposal of investments (136) (136) Realization of comprehensive incomeon the sale of interst in Nexa Resources S.A. (593) 330 13 (4) (165) (419) Increase in noncontrolling interest Nexa Resources S.A. dilution interest (215) (215) At December 31, 2017 4,990 (4,175) (118) (81) 266 (148) 734 Other comprehensive income Currency translation of investees located abroad 1,555 1,555 Hedge accounting for net investments abroad, net of taxes (931) (931) Hedge accounting for the operations of subsidiaries 158 158 Remeasurement of retirement benefits 34 34 Fair value of available-for-sale financial assets of non-consolidated investments (74) (74) Realization of comprehensive income on disposals of investments (4) (4) Share in other comprehensive income of investees 3 3 At December 31, 2018 6,545 (5,106) 40 (47) 192 (149) 1,475 248 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 249 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (d) Non-controlling interests 27 Net revenue from products sold and 2018 2017 services rendered Nexa Resources S.A. (i) 3,431 2,967 Nexa Resources Cajarmarquilla S.A. 885 795 Nexa Resources Perú S.A.A 564 406 Cementos Artigas S.A. 212 204 Asment de Témara 165 170 Accounting policy Yacuces, S.L. 139 125 Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or receivable Itacamba Cemento S.A. 99 92 from the sale of goods in the ordinary course of business of the subsidiaries. Shree Dijivay Cement Co. Ltd 21 54 Revenue is shown net of value added tax, rebates and discounts after Yibitas Yozgat Isci Birligi Insaat M.T.S 18 22 elimination of sales among consolidated companies. Acerías Paz Del Rio S.A. 22 12 Other 67 9 The subsidiaries recognizes revenue when: (i) the amount of revenue can be measured reliably; (ii) it’s probable that future economic benefits will flow to 5,623 4,856 the entity; and (iii) specific criteria have been met for each of the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ activities. (i) The variation refers to the issuance of new shares and sale of interest by VSA. Revenue will not be reliably measured if all terms of sale aren’t resolved. The subsidiaries bases its estimates on historical results, taking into account the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specificities of each agreement. Revenue recognition is based on the following principles: (i) Sales of products and service Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts, after eliminating sales within the consolidated companies. (ii) Sale of surplus energy The sale of energy, which meets the definition of a financial instrument, is recognized in the Company’s financial statements at its fair value. 250 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 251 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (a) Reconciliation of revenues 2018 2017 2018 2017 Tunisia 232 199 Taiwan 231 147 Gross revenue Chile 202 148 Sales of products domestic market 15,901 13,620 Austria 147 119 Sales of products foreign Singapore 139 194 market 17,029 13,730 Alemanha 76 75 Supply of electrical energy 3,314 3,299 Equador 64 65 Services provided 521 486 Italia 50 67 36,765 31,135 India 29 181 Taxes on sales, services and Other countries 536 423 other deductions (4,817) (4,336) 31,948 26,799 Net revenue 31,948 26,799 (ii) Revenue by currency (b) Information on geographical areas in which the Company operates 2018 2017 The geographical areas are determined based on the location of the customers. Real 15,028 12,813 The net revenue of the subsidiaries classified by currency and destination, is US Dollar 11,099 8,974 as follows: Dólar Canadense 1,127 1,017 Colombian Peso 1,066 834 (i) Revenue by destination Argentinian Peso 1,062 857 Euro 729 519 2018 2017 Turkish Lira 488 567 Brazil 15,400 13,290 Dirham 447 394 United States 3,977 2,910 Dinar 232 199 Peru 2,459 2,234 Other currencies 670 625 Argentina 1,421 1,127 31,948 26,799 Colombia 1,260 991 Canada 1,137 1,062 Spain 676 487 Turkey 663 682 Luxembourg 631 418 Switzerland 598 567 Morocco 447 394 Uruguay 390 307 Japan 344 227 Bolívia 304 222 China 278 153 Belgium 257 110 252 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 253 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 28 Expenses by nature 29 Employee benefit expenses 2018 2017 (a) Health care (post-retirement) Cost of products The liability related to the health care plan for retired employees is stated at sold and General and the present value of the obligation, less the market value of the plan assets, services administrarendered Selling tive Total Total adjusted by actuarial gains and losses and past-service costs, in a manner similar to the accounting methodology used for defined benefit pension Raw materials, inputs and plans. The post-retirement health care obligation is calculated annually by consumables 16,363 9 9 16,381 12,850 independent actuaries. The present value of the post-retirement health care Employee benefit expenses 3,239 374 1,087 4,700 4,016 obligation is determined based on an estimate of the future cash outflow. Depreciation, amortization and depletion 2,361 15 94 2,470 2,325 Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in actuarial assumptions are Outsourced services 1,362 64 598 2,024 1,560 fully recognized within “Carrying value adjustments” in the period in which Transportation expenses 1,784 33 1,817 1,154 they arise. Other expenses 800 280 385 1,465 1,980 25,909 0 775 0 2,173 28,857 23,885 (b) Employee profit sharing Provision is recorded to recognize the expenses related to employee profit sharing. This provision is calculated based on qualitative and quantitative targets established by management and recorded in the statement of income as “Employee benefits”. 2018 2017 Salaries and bonuses 2,951 2,469 Payroll charges 1,040 947 Benefits 709 600 4,700 4,016 254 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 255 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 30 Other operating expenses, net 31 Finance results, net Accounting policy Note 2018 2017 Tax recovery (i) 498 (i) Financial income (expenses) Gain in fair value in VTRM´s These comprise interest rates on loans and financial investments, monetary operation 1.1 (c) 300 and exchange variation on assets and liabilities, linked to loans with a swap Net income from sale of investment US Zinc 1.1 (i) 126 instrument, as a result of the exchange variation net of gains and losses on Tax benefits 110 74 derivative financial instruments (swap contracts) and various discounts that Gain (loss) on hedge 75 (63) are recognized in the income for the year on the accrual basis. Income from rentals and leasing 57 73 Reversal for impairment (ii) Foreign exchange variations of investments, fixed and intangible assets 52 23 A foreign currency transaction shall be initially recognized in the functional Net income from waste sale 48 29 currency by applying the spot exchange rate between the functional currency Gain (loss) on sale of fixed and and the foreign currency on the transaction date on the amount in foreign intangible assets, net 42 4 currency. Insurance operations 15 (26) At the end of each reporting period, monetary items in foreign currency must Realization of other comprehensive income Nexa 750 be converted using the closing exchange rate. Realization of other comprehensive Foreign exchange variations arising from the settlement of monetary items or income Others 3 the translation of monetary items at rates different from those for which they Net income from sale of investment Nexa (161) were converted at the initial measurement during the period or in previous Gain on sale of investments financial statements shall be recognized in the statement of income in the Cement and Metals Operations (3) 33 year in which they arise. Reversal (provision) of environmental obligations (6) (30) Provision, net (18) (223) Royalties on natural resources (46) (37) Financial instrument firm commitment 15 (132) (522) Expenses on not activatable projects (ii) (575) (316) Other income (expenses), net 7 (164) 550 (553) (i) Relates substantially to the credit of PIS and COFINS Granted in subsidiaries VCSA and Nexa BR, mounting R$ 308 and R$ 130, respectively, as described on Note 1.1(h). (ii) Relates substantially to mineral exploration projects that are in the early stages of research. 256 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 257 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D Note 2018 2017 Note 2018 2017 Finance income Results of derivative financial Income from financial instruments 6.1.1 (c) investments 389 583 Revenue 370 3 Fair value of borrowing 42 61 Expenses (166) (216) Reversal of monetary 204 (213) restatement of provision 103 207 Interest on financial assets 476 119 Foreign exchange variation, net (977) (724) Gain on debt renegotiation 3.1.2 (iv) 69 Finance results, net (2,043) (2,489) Monetary updating of assets 64 119 Discounts obtained 35 29 Interest on related-party transactions 14 2 10 (i) Refers substantially to the PIS and COFINS credit recognized in the subsidiaries VCSA and Nexa BR, in the amounts of R$ 242 and R$ 101, respectively, according to (Note 1.1 (h)). Interest and monetary restatement use of public (ii) In 2017, the subsidiary CBA and indirect subsidiary VCNNE recognized a monetary adjustment revenue on “UBP” Use of the assets (i) 6 Public Asset, as a result of the index used to update (“IGP-M” General Market Price Index). Other finance income 81 19 1,261 1,153 Finance costs Interest on borrowing (1,394) (1,580) Capitalization of borrowing costs 43 29 Monetary restatement of provision (194) (268) Fair value of borrowing and financing (155) (117) Interest and monetary restatement use of public assets (108) (3) Interest on anticipation of receivables (101) (101) Adjustment to present value CPC 12 (96) (83) Borrowing fees (102) (40) Income tax on remittances of interest abroad (111) (120) Interest on silver streaming (27) PIS/COFINS on financial results (46) (38) Interest on taxes payable (13) 24 Interest on related-party transactions 14 (4) (3) Interest on Mato Grosso State Credit Recovery Program ( REFIS ) (40) Interest on Special Tax Regularization Program ( PERT ) (107) Charges on discount operations (18) Other finance costs (205) (258) (2,531) (2,705) 258 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 259 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 32 Tax benefits 34 Assets and liabilities classified as heldfor-sale VCSA and its subsidiaries have tax incentives within certain state and federal industrial development programs. The state programs are aimed at attracting industrial investments seeking regional decentralization, promoting Accounting policy employment and income generation, besides complementing and diversifying the industrial matrix of the states. These fiscal incentives are approved by the They are classified as assets held-for-sale when their book value is recovered, states in the form of percentage financing of up to 75%, presumed credit with mainly through sale and when the sale is considered highly probable. a percentage of up to 95% and deferral of the payment of taxes or partial The asset or group of assets to be classified as held-for-sale should be reductions of the amount due for imports of assets and inputs. measured at initial recognition at the lower of its book value if it were not classified as such and the fair value less costs to sell. If the asset or group of assets is acquired as part of a business combination, it must be measured at fair value less costs to sell. When the sale is expected to occur after one year, the entity shall measure selling expenses at present value. Any increase in the 33 Insurance present value of selling expenses that results from the passage of time should be presented in the results as financial expense. Depreciation of assets held for trading ceases when a group of assets is designated as held-for-sale. The assets and liabilities of the group of discontinued assets are presented in single lines in assets and liabilities. The Company and its subsidiaries maintain property risk insurance coverage amounting to R$ 59,253 and for loss of income amounting to R$ 11,695 on Net December 31, 2018. The Company’s management considers these amounts Assets Liabilities investment sufficient to cover eventual property risks and loss of profits. Cellulose Segment Fibria Celulose In addition to the previous risk insurance, the Company and its subsidiaries S.A. (a) 4,305 4,305 maintain the policies of civil liability of executives and directors in amounts Cement segment India and China operations (b) 222 108 114 considered adequate by Management. 4,527 108 4,419 (a) Pulp segment On March 15, 2018, the Company together with BNDES Participações SA BNDESPAR (jointly, “Controlling Shareholders of Fibria”), entered into an agreement with Suzano Holding SA and all other shareholders of Suzano Papel e Celulose SA (together, Suzano Controlling Shareholders “), the Voting Commitment and the Assumption of Obligations, by which are the Controlling Shareholders of Fibria and the Controlling Shareholders of Suzano, with the Commitment”), through a corporate reorganization (“Operation”). 260 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 261 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D In compliance with the accounting rule to position itself as a high risk company, (b) Cement segment the Company began to be a reclassification of the investment in the book The assets and liabilities of the cement segment correspond to India’s value. The fair value of the transaction exceeds the carrying amount. operations and the remaining assets of China. The terms and conditions of the transaction must be submitted to the second paragraph of the Protocol and the Prospects for Merger of Shares (c) Income from discontinued operations and Company, and must be submitted to the evaluation of sets of data and additional documents to the Boards of Directors of Fibria and Suzano by its Cement Siderurgy Total administrations, as well as, in due course, the deliberation of the Extraordinary VSA General Meetings of Fibria and Suzano. Contribution of capital, net of On October 11, 2018, Fibria announced through the Notice to the Market taxes long steel in Brazil (160) (160) that the opinion of the General Superintendency, which regulates, without VCEAA restriction, a combination of business and a shareholder transaction between Income from the sale of assets Fibria and Suzano. and liabilities of India and China. (58) (58) Loss for the year 2017 (58) (160) (218) On November 29, 2018, a European Commission competition was held, checking all the precedents of the transaction for a business association and shareholder base. On December 3, 2018, Fibria approved interim dividends in the amount of R$ 2,783, of which a portion corresponds to a Company in the amount of R$ 820 in dividends received in the income for the year. (i) Financial basis of the operation Pursuant to the Undertaking, a corporate reorganization shall be submitted to the shareholders of Fibria and Suzano, which will result in: (a) the ownership by Suzano of all the shares issued by Fibria; and (b) the receipt by Fibria’s shareholders, for each common share issued by Fibria, of (i) R$ 52.50 (fiftytwo Reais and fifty cents), adjusted for the CDI variation from March 16, 2018 and (ii) 0.4611 (zero, comma, four, six, one, one) common shares issued by Suzano, adjusted as mentioned below (“Exchange Ratio”), to be delivered also on the date of consummation of the Transaction. In addition to the adjustment for the CDI variation, as indicated above, the Cash Portion will be adjusted based on dividends, interest on shareholders’ equity and other earnings declared by Fibria and Suzano as of March 15, 2018, except for the minimum dividends obligations already disclosed to the market by Fibria and Suzano. The Exchange Ratio will be proportionally adjusted for eventual splits, splits and bonuses of the shares issued by Fibria and Suzano. 262 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 263 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 35 Supplemental information – Business Industrial segments segments Adjusted EBITDA Discontinued operations Note 2018 2017 Equity in the results of investees (151) Net financial results 2 99 Income and social In order to provide more detailed information the Company has elected to contribution taxes (99) 126 present financial information organized into two business segments. Each Depreciation, segment presented has been prepared following the accounting consolidation amortization and depletion 39 35 policies in note 22 and consider, first, the elimination of balances and EBITDA before other transactions among the companies before: (i) eliminations between business additions and exceptional segments; (ii) eliminations of investments held by the holding companies. items 5,849 4,688 Plus : Additionally, the eliminations and reclassifications among the companies are Dividends received 942 489 presented so that the net results reconcile with the consolidated financial information of VSA according to the supplementary information. This Extraordinary items supplementary information is not intended to be in accordance with, and is EBITDA discontinued operations 65 306 not required by, the accounting practices adopted in Brazil, or by IFRS. Non-recurring items discontinued operations 211 (267) (a) Capital management Gain on sale of investments, net (130) (625) The financial leverage ratios are calculated according to the information of Reversal for impaiment of property, plant, equipment and the industrial segments, considering the accumulated result of 12 months, as intangible assets (24) (23) loan covenants, are summarized as follows: Reversal for impairment of investments (71) Industrial segments Fair value of biological assets 8 Adjusted EBITDA Note 2018 2017 PERT payment with deferred tax credit 99 Net income for the year 1,953 810 Gain by adjustment to fair value Plus (less): in deconsolidation of VTRM 1.1 (d) (302) Continuing operations Other 322 113 Equity in the results of investees (1,634) (1,197) Adjusted annualized EBITDA (A) 6,933 4,717 Net financial results 2,051 2,503 Net debt Income and social Borrowing 19 24,451 24,630 contribution taxes 1,066 138 Cash and cash equivalents, Depreciation, financial investments and amortization and derivative financial instruments (11,237) (12,274) depletion 2,471 2,325 Net debt (B) 13,214 12,356 Gearing ratio (B/A) 1.91 2.62 264 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 265 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (b) Balance sheet business segments 2018 Total, Votorantim Votorantim Holding and industrial Votorantim Total, Assets Cimentos Nexa Resources CBA Long steels (*) Energia other Eliminations segments Finanças Eliminations consolidated Current Cash and cash equivalents, financial investments and derivative financial instruments 3,946 4,401 738 176 121 1,820 11,202 71 11,273 Trade receivables 903 671 490 182 445 94 (239) 2,546 2,546 Inventory 1,604 1,045 827 337 1 3,814 3,814 Taxes recoverable 348 370 356 72 10 233 1,389 84 1,473 Dividends receivable 9 101 (68) 42 9 (37) 14 Financial instruments firm commitment 116 86 202 202 Other assets 269 106 52 46 2 89 564 564 7,070 6,593 2,579 813 673 2,338 (307) 19,759 164 (37) 19,886 Assets classified as held-forsale 222 4,305 4,527 4,527 7,292 6,593 2,579 813 673 6,643 (307) 24,286 164 (37) 24,413 Non-current assets Long-term receivables Financial investments and derivative financial instruments 140 1 2 136 279 279 Financial instruments put option 744 744 744 Taxes recoverable 1,328 342 656 14 391 2,731 2,731 Related parties 27 3 1 15 233 940 (948) 271 271 Deferred income tax and social contribution 426 779 782 148 1,415 504 4,054 25 4,079 Judicial deposits 564 36 124 2 29 755 755 Financial instruments firm commitment Other assets 434 88 13 38 1 111 685 685 2,919 1,249 1,578 217 234 3,766 (444) 9,519 25 9,544 Investments 787 1 197 1,796 30,365 (22,281) 10,865 5,058 (5,041) 10,882 Property, plant and equipment 12,610 7,020 4,830 1,135 36 549 26,180 26,180 Intangible assets 6,038 7,535 501 28 546 209 (1,516) 13,341 13,341 Biological assets 4 5 65 74 74 22,354 15,805 7,110 1,385 2,612 34,954 (24,241) 59,979 5,083 (5,041) 60,021 Total assets 29,646 22,398 9,689 2,198 3,285 41,597 (24,548) 84,265 5,247 (5,078) 84,434 (*) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). 266 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 267 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 2018 Total, Votorantim Votorantim Holding and industrial Votorantim Total, Liabilities and equity Cimentos Nexa Resources CBA Long steels (*) Energia other Eliminations segments Finanças Eliminations consolidated Current liabilities Borrowing 3,496 126 118 111 1,440 5,291 5,291 Derivative financial instruments 30 55 58 23 166 166 Confirming payable 658 273 256 1,187 1,187 Trade payables 1,781 1,500 391 405 385 17 (217) 4,262 4,262 Salaries and payroll charges 375 225 119 32 20 74 845 845 Taxes payable 318 52 32 71 12 5 490 490 Advances from customers 32 12 29 48 2 5 128 128 Dividends payable 20 2 4 59 454 (57) 482 37 (37) 482 Use of public assets 33 6 44 83 83 Related parties 223 (223) Financial instruments firm commitment 19 19 19 Deferred revenue performance obligation 242 242 242 Deferred revenue silver streaming 124 124 124 Other 401 173 50 24 1 158 807 1 808 7,163 2,548 1,324 691 721 2,176 (497) 14,126 38 (37) 14,127 Liabilities related to assets held-for-sale 108 108 108 7,271 2,548 1,324 691 721 2,176 (497) 14,234 38 (37) 14,235 (*) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). 268 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 269 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 2018 Total, Votorantim Votorantim Holding and industrial Votorantim Total, Liabilities and equity Cimentos Nexa Resources CBA Long steels (*) Energia other Eliminations segments Finanças Eliminations consolidated Non-current liabilities Borrowing 10,049 5,395 1,941 1,775 19,160 19,160 Derivative financial instruments 75 3 78 78 Deferred income tax and social contribution 569 1,157 1 107 197 2,031 168 2,199 Related parties 177 6 13 630 2 71 (763) 136 136 Provision 1,083 838 471 97 2 104 2,595 2,595 Use of public assets 467 80 559 1,106 1,106 Pension plan 197 122 319 319 Financial instruments firm commitment 35 82 44 161 161 Deferred revenue performance obligation 29 29 29 Deferred revenue silver streaming 650 650 650 Other 186 307 53 177 6 195 924 924 12,838 8,433 3,119 1,027 190 2,345 (763) 27,189 168 27,357 Total liabilities 20,109 10,981 4,443 1,718 911 4,521 (1,260) 41,423 206 (37) 41,592 Equity Total equity attributable to owners of the Company 8,815 9,399 5,064 328 2,374 37,076 (25,837) 37,219 5,041 (5,041) 37,219 Non-controlling interests 722 2,018 182 152 2,549 5,623 5,623 Total equity 9,537 11,417 5,246 480 2,374 37,076 (23,288) 42,842 5,041 (5,041) 42,842 Total liabilities and equity 29,646 22,398 9,689 2,198 3,285 41,597 (24,548) 84,265 5,247 (5,078) 84,434 (*) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). 270 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 271 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (c) Statement of income business segments 2018 Total, Votorantim Votorantim Holding and Eliminaindustrial Votorantim Total, Cimentos Nexa Resources CBA Long steels (**) Energia other tions segments Finanças Eliminations consolidated Continuing operations Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 12,610 9,066 5,417 2,112 4,456 1,064 (2,777) (*) 31,948 31,948 Cost of products sold and services rendered (10,224) (6,904) (4,468) (1,844) (4,283) (963) 2,777 (*) (25,909) (25,909) Gross profit 2,386 2,162 949 268 173 101 6,039 6,039 Operating income (expenses) Selling (613) (69) (36) (25) (32) (775) (775) General and administrative (810) (553) (197) (133) (94) (373) (2,160) (13) (2,173) Other operating income (expenses), net 596 (345) (35) 182 345 (82) (111) 550 550 (827) (967) (268) 24 251 (487) (111) (2,385) (13) (2,398) Operating profit (loss) before equity results and finance results 1,559 1,195 681 292 424 (386) (111) 3,654 (13) 3,641 Result from equity investments Equity in the results of investees 120 (27) 39 1,323 (645) 810 530 (526) 814 Dividends received 820 820 820 Realization of other comprehensive income on disposal of investments 4 4 4 124 (27) 39 2,143 (645) 1,634 530 (526) 1,638 Finance results, net Finance income 647 233 152 15 108 230 (132) 1,253 8 1,261 Finance costs (1,250) (417) (395) (152) (154) (295) 132 (2,531) (2,531) Results of derivative financial instruments 34 (9) 4 175 204 204 Foreign exchange gains (losses), net (319) (538) (283) (33) (218) 414 (977) (977) (888) (731) (526) (166) (46) (108) 414 (2,051) 8 (2,043) Profit (loss) before income tax and social contribution 795 464 128 126 417 1,649 (342) 3,237 525 (526) 3,236 Income tax and social contribution Current (127) (251) (26) (70) (23) 41 (456) (456) Deferred (600) 107 (48) 87 (116) 63 (103) (610) 2 (608) Profit (loss) from continuing operations 68 320 54 143 278 1,753 (445) 2,171 527 (526) 2,172 (*) Relates to the net revenue from electric energy operations to CBA and VCSA. (**) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). 272 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 273 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 2018 Total, Votorantim Votorantim Holding and Eliminaindustrial Votorantim Total, Cimentos Nexa Resources CBA Long steels (**) Energia other tions segments Finanças Eliminations consolidated Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations (58) (160) (218) (218) Profit (loss) for the year 10 320 54 143 278 1,593 (445) 1,953 527 (526) 1,954 Profit (loss) attributable to the owners of the Company (46) 274 43 97 278 1,593 (493) 1,746 526 (526) 1,746 Profit attributable to noncontrolling interests 56 46 11 46 48 207 1 208 Profit (loss) for the year 10 320 54 143 278 1,593 (445) 1,953 527 (526) 1,954 (*) Relates to the net revenue from electric energy operations to CBA and VCSA. (**) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). 274 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 275 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 2017 Total, Votorantim Votorantim Holding and Eliminaindustrial Votorantim Total, Cimentos Nexa Resources CBA Long steels (**) Energia other tions segments Finanças Eliminations consolidated Continuing operations Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 10,928 7,764 4,423 1,659 4,124 864 (2,963) (*) 26,799 26,799 Cost of products sold and services rendered (8,726) (5,543) (3,773) (1,430) (3,873) (789) 2,963 (*) (21,171) (21,171) Gross profit 2,202 2,221 650 229 251 75 5,628 5,628 Operating income (expenses) Selling (578) (59) (24) (22) (18) (701) (701) General and administrative (807) (500) (205) (89) (82) (289) (1,972) (41) (2,013) Other operating income (expenses), net (207) (409) 279 46 (258) 585 (589) (553) (553) (1,592) (968) 50 (65) (340) 278 (589) (3,226) (41) (3,267) Operating profit (loss) before equity results and finance results 610 1,253 700 164 (89) 353 (589) 2,402 (41) 2,361 Result from equity investments Equity in the results of investees 157 (4) 12 20 1,260 (251) 1,194 315 (290) 1,219 Realization of other comprehensive income on disposal of investments 3 3 3 160 (4) 12 20 1,260 (251) 1,197 315 (290) 1,222 Finance results, net Finance income 659 88 177 18 119 209 (131) 1,139 14 1,153 Finance costs (1,572) (332) (404) (89) (152) (287) 131 (2,705) (2,705) Results of derivative financial instruments (169) (2) (42) (213) (213) Foreign exchange gains (losses), net (205) (154) 18 (1) (417) 35 (724) (724) (1,287) (400) (209) (72) (33) (537) 35 (2,503) 14 (2,489) Profit (loss) before income tax and social contribution (517) 849 503 92 (102) 1,076 (805) 1,096 288 (290) 1,094 Income tax and social contribution Current (163) (390) (54) (61) (43) (11) (722) (722) Deferred 4 57 68 42 86 132 195 584 2 586 Profit (loss) for the year from continuing operations (676) 516 517 73 (59) 1,197 (610) 958 290 (290) 958 (*) Referem-se a operação de venda de energia elétrica da Votener para a CBA e VCSA. (**) Referem-se às operações de aços longos no exterior (Argentina e Colômbia). 276 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 277 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 2017 Total, Votorantim Votorantim Holding and Eliminaindustrial Votorantim Total, Cimentos Nexa Resources CBA Long steels (**) Energia other tions segments Finanças Eliminations consolidated Discontinued operations Profit (loss) from continuing operations 56 (204) (148) (148) Profit (loss) for the year (620) 516 517 73 (59) 993 (610) 810 290 (290) 810 Profit (loss) attributable to the owners of the Company (682) 330 518 78 (59) 993 (588) 590 290 (290) 590 Profit (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 62 186 (1) (5) (22) 220 220 Profit (loss) for the year (620) 516 517 73 (59) 993 (610) 810 290 (290) 810 (*) Referem-se a operação de venda de energia elétrica da Votener para a CBA e VCSA. (**) Referem-se às operações de aços longos no exterior (Argentina e Colômbia). 278 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 279 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D (d) Adjusted EBITDA business segments 2018 Votorantim Votorantim Holding and Total, industrial Votorantim Total, Cimentos Nexa Resources CBA Steel (**) Energia other Eliminations segments Finanças consolidated Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 12,610 9,066 5,417 2,112 4,456 1,064 (2,777) (*) 31,948 31,948 Cost of products sold and services rendered (10,224) (6,904) (4,468) (1,844) (4,283) (963) 2,777 (*) (25,909) (25,909) Gross profit 2,386 2,162 949 268 173 101 6,039 6,039 Operating income (expenses) Selling (613) (69) (36) (25) (32) (775) (775) General and administrative (810) (553) (197) (133) (94) (373) (2,160) (13) (2,173) Other operating income (expenses), net 596 (345) (35) 182 345 (82) (111) 550 550 (827) (967) (268) 24 251 (487) (111) (2,385) (13) (2,398) Operating profit (loss) before equity results and finance results 1,559 1,195 681 292 424 (386) (111) 3,654 (13) 3,641 Plus: Depreciation, amortization and depletion continuing operations 1,038 974 303 91 27 38 2,471 2,471 EBITDA 2,597 2,169 984 383 451 (348) (111) 6,125 (13) 6,112 Plus: Dividends received 46 8 896 (8) 942 143 1,085 Exceptional items Loss (gain) on sale of investments, net 4 (1) (111) (133) 111 (130) (130) Reversal for impairment fixed assets (8) 12 (41) 13 (24) (24) Gain by adjustment to fair value in deconsolidation of VTRM (302) (302) (302) Other (15) 337 322 322 Adjusted EBITDA 2,624 2,180 832 383 157 765 (8) 6,933 130 7,063 (*) Relates to the net revenue from electric energy operations to CBA and VCSA. (**) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). 280 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 281 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 2017 Votorantim Votorantim Holding and Total, industrial Votorantim Total, Cimentos Nexa Resources CBA Steel (**) Energia other Eliminations segments Finanças consolidated Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 10,928 7,764 4,423 1,659 4,124 864 (2,963) (*) 26,799 26,799 Cost of products sold and services rendered (8,726) (5,543) (3,773) (1,430) (3,873) (789) 2,963 (*) (21,171) (21,171) Gross profit 2,202 2,221 650 229 251 75 5,628 5,628 Operating income (expenses) Selling (578) (59) (24) (22) (18) (701) (701) General and administrative (807) (500) (205) (89) (82) (289) (1,972) (41) (2,013) Other operating income (expenses), net (207) (409) 279 46 (258) 585 (589) (553) (553) (1,592) (968) 50 (65) (340) 278 (589) (3,226) (41) (3,267) Operating profit (loss) before equity results and finance results 610 1,253 700 164 (89) 353 (589) 2,402 (41) 2,361 Plus: Depreciation, amortization and depletion continuing operations 956 856 318 108 16 71 2,325 2,325 EBITDA 1,566 2,109 1,018 272 (73) 424 (589) 4,727 (41) 4,686 Plus: Dividends received 67 51 371 489 51 540 Exceptional items Loss (gain) on sale of investments, net (20) (16) (589) (589) 589 (625) (625) Reversal for impairment fixed assets 21 (44) (71) (94) (94) Compensation of energy assets 99 99 99 Fair value of biological assets 8 8 8 Other 113 113 113 Adjusted EBITDA 1,733 2,093 436 272 (73) 256 4,717 10 4,727 (*) Relates to the net revenue from electric energy operations to CBA and VCSA. (**) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). 282 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 283 N OT E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N O T E S TO T H E C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 AT D E C E M B E R 3 1 , 2 0 1 8 A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D A L L A M O U N T S I N M I L L I O N S O F R E A I S U N L E S S O T H E R W I S E S TAT E D 36 Subsequent events (d) Early settlement of 4131 loans and bonds On January 23, 2019, the Company prepaid all principal plus interest on its bonds, signed on March 25, 2013, maturing on September 25, 2019, which were guaranteed by the subsidiary VCSA in 50% of the value. The total value settled by the VSA was R$ 809 (USD 216). On February 14, 2019, the Company prepaid the loan agreement related to (a) Results of the offer to employees Resolution 4131/1962, in the amount of R$ 187 (USD 50), signed on May 14, As expected in the privatization auction, in January 2019, the indirect 2015, with maturity on May 14, 2020. subsidiary VTRM acquired additional shares of CESP related to the remaining On February 25, 2019, the Company prepaid the loan agreement related to shares of the offer to employees, totaling an investment of R$ 210. After Resolution 4131/1962, in the amount of R$ 386 (USD 102), entered into on the results of the offer to employees, VTRM to hold a 40.0% stake in CESP, February 24, 2017, with maturity on January 21, 2021. equivalent to 93.5% of the voting common shares. (e) ICMS on the basis of calculation of PIS and COFINS (b) Offer of Tender and Exchange Offer of debt by VCI In February 2019, there was recognition of the decision in another lawsuit of On January 10, 2019, the indirect subsidiary VCI announced the tender offer the subsidiary VCSA, regarding the thesis of exclusion of ICMS on the basis (“Tender Offer”) of its euro bonds maturing in 2021 and 2022 and its US dollar of calculation of PIS and COFINS, registering a credit the amount of R$ 401. bonds maturing in 2041 On February 14, 2019, the repurchase transaction In addition, the subsidiary VCSA proceeded with the collection of the judicial was settled, with the principal amount of EUR 61 (R$ 269) of the issuance deposit that was linked to another lawsuit, whose final res judicata occurred maturing in 2022, EUR 152 (R$ 673) maturing in 2022 and USD 540 (R$ 2 at the end of 2018, in the amount of R$ 346 (Note 1.1 (h)). billion) maturing in 2041, together with a total cash outlay of R$ 3 billion. Concurrently with the Tender Offer, VCI announced the exchange offer of its US dollar-denominated bonds maturing in 2041 for a new issue of bonds from its direct subsidiary St. Mary’s Inc. (Canada)), maturing in 2041 and annual coupon of 7.25%. However, the transaction did not meet the minimum conditions stipulated in the offer and was not made. (c) Conclusion of Fibria Celulose S.A. sale On January 14, 2019, Suzano Papel e Celulose SA (“Suzano”) and Fibria (together with Suzano, the “Companies”) jointly made public and in addition to information previously disclosed by the Companies in the relevant facts, informing its shareholders and the market in general that, on this date, the corporate reorganization object of the Voting Commitment and Assumption of Obligations entered into on March 15, 2018 was completed, with the effective combination of operations and shareholding bases of Suzano and Fibria, pursuant to the protocol and justification executed on July 26, 2018 and approved by the shareholders of the Companies at meetings held on September 13, 2018. 284 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 285 CREDITS Corporate information www.votorantim.com Votorantim S.A. Rua Amauri, 255 | 13th floor São Paulo (SP) – Brazil ZIP Code: 01448-000 Phone: +55 11 3704-3300 CoE Rua Olimpíadas, 205 | 9th floor São Paulo (SP) – Brazil ZIP Code: 04546-004 Phone: +55 11 3475-3045 Rodovia Curitiba/Rio Branco do Sul, 1.303 Curitiba (PR) – Brazil ZIP Code: 82130-570 Phone: +55 41 3388-5150 Jirón Vittore Scarpazza Carpaccio, 250 | Int.305 Lima – Peru Phone: +51 715-7600 Credits General coordinators External assurance Finance and Investor Relations PwC Department Caroline Afonso Images Débora Vargas Leal Oliveira Votorantim’s image library Mariana Mayumi Oyakawa Sergio Malacrida English translation Dekka Silveira Technical adviser RESULTANTE Consultoria Printing Writing, editing, and Leograf proofreading Copies KMZ Conteúdo Portuguese 300; English 100 Typeface Graphic design Votorantim Sans Pierre Design Marketing March 2019 286 VOTORANTIM 2018 ANNUAL REPORT www.votorantim.com
