2018 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS N O B I A 2 018 BOA RD O F D I REC TO R S ’ RE PO RT 00 Nobia in brief 41 Financial overview 02 Nobia 2018 46 Risks and risk management 03 Highlights 04 CEO’s comments F I N A N C I A L STATE M E NT S 06 How Nobia creates value 50 Consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income and ­comments B U S I N E S S E N V I RO N M E NT A N D STR ATEGY 54 Consolidated balance sheet and comments 10 Trends affecting our kitchens 56 Change in consolidated shareholders’ equity 12 The European kitchen market 57 Consolidated cash-flow statement and comments 14 Strategy for profitable growth 58 Parent Company income statement, 151 Efficiency balance sheet, cash-flow statement and 161 Growth change in shareholders’ equity 171 Enablers 60 Notes 19 Targets and fulfilment 88 Reconciliation of alternative performance measures 89 Board of Directors’ assurance O PE R ATI O N S 90 Audit report 22 Nordic region 24 UK region CO RPO R ATE GOV E RN A N C E A N D 26 Central Europe region TH E N O B I A S H A RE 92 Corporate Governance Report OU R S U STA I N A B I LIT Y I N ITI ATI V E S 96 Board of Directors 30 Value chain 98 Group management 31 Sustainable advances in 2018 100 The Nobia share and shareholders 32 Strategic focus areas 102 Five-year overview 341 Sustainable innovations 103 Definitions – Key figures 351 Timber from sustainable sources 104 Sustainability 36 1Reduce CO2 emissions 108 Annual General Meeting 2019 371 Responsible sourcing 38 1Resource efficiency 391 Employee well-being The audited Annual Report and consolidated financial statements can be found on pages 41–89. The Corporate Governance Report can be found on pages 92–99 and the statutory Sustainability Report can be found on pages 30–40 and 104–107. The kitchen shown on the front cover is the Marbodal Arkitekt Plus. This annual report has been prepared in Swedish and translated into English. In the event of any discrepancies between the Swedish and the translation, the former shall have precedence. NOBIA IN BRIEF Nobia is a kitchen specialist with operations along the entire value chain. We manufacture and sell kitchens in seven European countries through own stores, franchise stores and retailers. Over the years, the Group has developed and strengthened through acquisitions. Our specialisation and size means that we can leverage shared skills and capitalise on economies of scale. E F F I C I E NT PRO D U C TI O N Nobia has 14 production facilities, of which 11 handle everything from furniture production to installation and assembly of complete kitchen orders. Other plants either specialise in manufacturing components or installation. Our production is large-scale and resource-efficient, and we maintain a high level of service for our customers. STRO N G B R A N DS Our brands enjoy a high level of recognition and appeal among customers, and have long served their respective markets. These brands are primarily in the mid-price and premium segments. In addition, we have tactical brands for specific sales channels and operations. TH E K ITC H E N I S TH E H E A RT O F TH E H O M E The kitchen is a room that has increased in significance – it has gone from being a place for preparing food to becoming a natural place for many of our activities and should express our lifestyle. As a leading kitchen Group, Nobia is proud of its reputation for creating new products and kitchen concepts to meet the latest needs and help consumers live more sustainably. We want to make it simple for our customers to have inspiring kitchens in their homes. NOBIA IN BRIEF PRO D U C TI O N U N IT S Denmark: Bjerringbro, Farsø, Ølgod Norway: Eggedal Finland: Nastola Sweden: Tidaholm UK: Darlington, Dewsbury, Grays, Halifax, Morley Netherlands: Dinxperlo Austria: Freistadt, Wels TH R E E R EG I O N S Nobia operates in seven countries: UK, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Netherlands and Austria. We are organised into three regions: Nordic, UK and Central Europe, of which the first two are the largest. N E T SA L E S O PE R ATI N G PRO F IT 1 E M PLOY E E S PE R R EG I O N , % PE R R EG I O N , % PE R R EG I O N , % Nordic, 51 Nordic, 69 Nordic, 42 UK, 26 UK, 46 UK, 42 Central Europe, 5 Central Europe, 11 Central Europe, 7 1) E xcluding items Parent Company, 1 affecting comparability as well as Group-wide items and eliminations. PRO D UC T S A N D C H A N N E L S Kitchen furnishings and other kitchen products represent the majority of our sales, but in certain markets we also sell installation services and – to a limited extent – other joinery products. Kitchen furnishings are manufactured mainly from wood, and reach end customers through various sales channels. S H A R E O F TI M B E R F RO M SA L E S PE R PRO D U C T, % SA L E S C H A N N E L S , % C E RTI F I E D SO U RC E S , % Kitchen furnishings, 65 Kitchen specialists, own Purchased wood and stores and franchises, 55 wood products derived Other products, 29 Direct project from certified sales, 22 source, 92 Installation services, 6 Builders’ merchants/ DIY chains, 17 Other retailers, 6 14 production units Approximately 11,000 248 own stores and 6,081 employees with kitchen manufacturing kitchens delivered weekly 156 franchise stores in seven countries N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 01 N O B I A 2 018 N E T SA L E S N E T SA L E S , S E K M O PE R ATI N G PRO F IT 1 , S E K M 13,209million SEK 15,000 A N D O PE R ATI N G M A RG I N 1 , % 1,500 15 O PE R ATI N G PRO F IT 10,000 1,000 10 1,018 million SEK 5,000 500 5 O PE R ATI N G C A S H F LOW 0 0 0 599 million SEK 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 1) E xcluding items affecting comparability. 2018 RETURN ON O PE R ATI N G C A S H F LOW, S E K M RETURN ON O PE R ATI N G C A PITA L , S E K M O PE R ATI N G C A PITA L 40 1,200 21.7% 30 900 DIVIDEND 2 20 600 4.00 SEK per share 10 300 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 K E Y R ATI O S – F I V E -Y E A R OV E RV I E W 20143 2015 4 2016 2017 2018 Net sales, SEK m 11,411 12,266 12,648 12,744 13,209 Gross profit, SEK m 4,617 4,906 4,933 5,014 5,090 Gross margin, % 40.5 40.0 39.0 39.3 38.5 Operating profit, SEK m 878 1,189 1,298 1,286 1,018 Operating profit excl. items affecting comparability, SEK m 975 1,189 1,298 1,286 1,084 Operating margin, % 7.7 9.7 10.3 10.1 7.7 Operating margin excl. items affecting comparability, % 8.5 9.7 10.3 10.1 8.2 Operating capital, SEK m 4,402 4,596 3,912 4,231 5,163 Return on operating capital, % 23.2 32.2 32.5 31.5 21.7 Investments, SEK m 316 410 290 319 414 Operating cash flow, SEK m 779 770 1,031 706 599 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK -0.17 4.92 2.70 6.02 4.46 Dividend per share, SEK 1.75 2.50 3.00 7.00 4.002 Average number of employees 6,636 6,473 6,573 6,178 6,178 Number of employees at year-end 6,925 6,539 6,445 6,087 6,081 2) The Board’s proposal. 3) After reclassification of Hygena to discontinued operations. 4) After reclassification of Poggenpohl to discontinued operations. 02 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 HIGHLIGHTS HIGHLIGHTS ACQU I S ITI O N O F B RI B U S RO LL OUT O F N E W STO RE M AG N E T S M A RT K ITC H E N In July, Nobia acquired the Dutch kitchen CO N C E P T Magnet launched a new kitchen concept company Bribus, a leading player in the Nobia’s store concept, developed as in collaboration with Samsung. Magnet Dutch kitchen project market that in part of the strategic omnichannel focus Smart Kitchen contains smart appliances addition to kitchen furnishings also offers area, was rolled out. Especially in Norway with WiFi connections that will help save installation and appliances. Its customers there has been a great interest in the conconsumers time and energy, organise consist primarily of companies in social cept. Nobia had eight omnistores in early their kitchens and entertain guests. The housing and major property investors. 2019, six of them in Norway. An assesssmart kitchen was presented in stores The kitchens are manufactured in a modment has shown that these stores are with traditional kitchen furnishings. New ern facility in Dinxperlo. Part of the prodhighly efficient in sales. The stores’ special solutions from Magnet include a USB uct range is manufactured from layers of “tech lab” display – which spotlights funccharging dock, integrated speakers and chipboard interspersed with corn, which tion, quality and innovation – has been innovative cabinet solutions that make means the products weigh less than its particularly popular with customers. use of otherwise unused space. competitors’. M A RBO DA L W I N S D E S I G N AWA RD FO R SA F E WO RK 50 Y E A R S O F U N O FO RM AWA RD E N V I RO N M E NT In 2018, uno form’s Reflect Kitchen series At the beginning of the year, Marbodal’s Magnet was awarded for its safety iniwas nominated for Design of the Year Signatur Sandell kitchen series won Kitchen tiatives by the UK’s Royal Society for in Denmark’s most prestigious design of the Year at the ELLE Decoration Swedish the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA). awards. Uno form has kept its original Design Awards. The kitchen series was the It brought home the gold in 2018, after design since its beginnings in 1968, and result of collaboration between Marbodal a silver medal the year before. RoSPA’s even though Arne Munch’s basic idea and furniture designer Thomas Sandell, awards strive to create engagement in remains, new designs and craft manuand the citation for the award was: “A funcworkplace environment issues and calls factured design elements are constantly tional, flexible kitchen that breathes interior attention to organisations that prioritise being developed. In connection with its deco­rating rather than kitchen fittings.” The the work on preventing accidents. 50th anniversary, the new Copenhagen components of the kitchen are free-standCollection kitchen series was presented ing, which makes it possible for anyone interand introduced in stores in the first quarested in decorating to put their own stamp ter of 2019. on their kitchen. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 03 CEO’S COMMENTS An eventful year with great uncertainty in the business environment Looking back at 2018, it was a year impacted by a weaker macroeconomic outlook. Brexit uncertainty coupled with the softening of the Nordic housing market and material price inflation negatively affected our growth and margins. However, much has been done to mitigate these impacts, and with Nobia’s strong organisation and finances, we are well prepared to drive profitable growth going forward. 2018 was a year in which a great deal happened. We made another the closure of 16 stores, primarily in the UK. The measures will genacquisition – this time in the Netherlands, which is a new market for erate annual savings of SEK 80 million. Depending on the demand Nobia. Our project operations in the UK reaped major sales suctrends, we may initiate further measures, and we will continue to cesses, which resulted in a sharp increase in the value of the Britfocus mainly on continually bringing down cost levels. ish project portfolio, and we continued to roll out our new store Cash flow from operating activities increased during the ­concept with more digital content. But perhaps most important for year, and the company’s financial position remains strong. The the years ahead was that we prepared plans to tap into the major Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 4 per share. potential for improved efficiency inherent in the Group’s production and logistics structures. N E W FA M I LY M E M B E R In July, we welcomed Bribus to the Nobia family. Bribus is a leader N O G ROW TH I N TH E M A I N M A RK E T S in the Dutch kitchen project market, and we see strong opporOur UK operations reported negative growth during the year, tunities for continued growth in the Netherlands as well as for even though Magnet grew and captured shares in a consumer expansion into other channels and countries. The integration segment subject to fierce competition. The background to Magof Bribus into the Nobia Group went well, and as a result of the net’s sales growth was the successful repositioning of the conacquisition our Central European region has expanded. Bribus’s sumer offering at the beginning of the year. Uncertainty surincome in the second half of the year totalled SEK 350 million. rounding Brexit led however to lower consumer confidence and a certain level of turbulence in the UK kitchen market, in which M A J O R PROJ EC T S I N LO N DO N several players reformulated their offerings and business models. Through CIE Kitchens, which designs and installs premium kitchOur sales to small, local construction companies and DIY chains ens for private developer projects, we successfully bid on several decreased, and growth was also negatively impacted by the conprestigious projects in London, including Southbank Place, Batcluded collaboration with B2B customer Homebase, a weak tersea Power Station, Lillie Square, South Quay Plaza and Marsocial housing market and postponed housing projects. ble Arch Tower. Many attractive apartment buildings in London In the Nordic region, the project market was initially very will be built and furnished with kitchens over the coming years. strong, but unfortunately during the summer we were compelled All together, our UK project operations via Commodore and to state that our Swedish factory could not manage to deliver high CIE Kitchens have a very strong orderbook, with a high proporvolumes without disruptions to production. Procedures were tion of planned deliveries in 2019. reviewed by our new central and local supply chain teams, and the disruptions were rectified following maintenance work in the sumPROG R A M M E FO R E N H A N C E D E F F I C I E N CY mer. At the end of the year, the rate of growth in project deliveries Restructuring in production and logistics will be a large part of future had slackened. Consumer sales also decreased, largely as a consevalue creation at Nobia. We have overhauled the production strucquence of the decision to convert own stores in Norway to ture and built a highly competent organisation. Beginning in 2019, we franchise stores. The background to the store conversion was will implement measures to enhance the efficiency of the structure primarily that the franchise model proved to work well in the in the Nordic region, where we currently have six production facilNorwegian market, but also that it lowers our fixed costs. ities, and in the UK, where no structural changes have been implemented since the plants were acquired. Over the next few years, this W E A RE SA F EG UA RD I N G PRO F ITA B I LIT Y will mean fewer full-scale production facilities and more specialised In light of the increased uncertainty in our markets, and to safeguard divisions in both regions. In addition to improving the production our profitability, a cost savings programme was initiated in the fourth structure, we will implement efficiency enhancements in our prodquarter. These measures include staff reductions in all regions and uct range and sourcing as well as make general cost savings. 04 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 CEO’S COMMENTS Good opportunities for profitable organic and acquired growth going forward. UNO FORM SHAKER VA LU E C RE ATI O N STR ATEGY LOO K I N G FO RWA RD Focus on profitable growth and efficiency enhancements is a With a strong marketposition and many initiatives for growth central part of our strategy. Other important parts of the stratfollowing the value creation plan, I am convinced we can gain egy are investments in omnichannel, growth in the economy shares in our core markets. However, macro economic uncersegment and new solutions for the modern, sustainable kitchen. tainty will most likely entail softer market conditions. In the As a leading kitchen specialist, we need to continually invest in UK, political uncertainty concerning Brexit continues to hamour brands, channels and product range. In 2019 there will be per demand, and the risk of a “no deal” UK exit from the EU a comprehensive review of both the production and logistics increased early in the year. Nobia is well prepared for such a situstructures, as well as choice of channels, and strategic initiatives ation; measures we have taken include building up a safety stock to further strengthen our market position and create value. We of components and fronts in order to keep our customers suphave also identified good opportunities for profitable organic plied with complete kitchens even if imports are disrupted. At and acquired growth going forward, which include strengthenthe same time, an increasing number of indications are emerging ing the UK contract business and revamping the Nordic B2C from the Nordic and Central Europe regions that markets are business. becoming softer. The most important facilitator for achieving what we want We are taking these warning signs extremely seriously, and I is our employees. To attract and retain talent, we are investing would like to be clear that there is much left to be done to realin our corporate culture, in which the safety of our employees ise the Group’s full potential. But it should also be remembered is the highest priority. Other central parts are a healthy workthat, in many respects, Nobia today is a different company than ing environment and good management. We are keen to ensure it was ten years ago after the financial crisis. Nobia was not profthat Nobia is hallmarked by diversity, and are making efforts to itable then, and the company was deeply indebted; today, the recruit more women to executive positions. Group’s earnings are healthy, with lower fixed costs and strong Sustainability is a strategically important issue that helps us finances. We also have relatively strong insight into project busiremain relevant and strengthens our relationships with importnesses, since lead times from construction start to delivery are ant stakeholders. Today’s consumers want attractive kitchens, long. These insights, as well as our plans, give me confidence in and at the same time want to take responsibility for the planet. the assurance that we have excellent conditions for managing We have a great deal of experience in manufacturing and selling well even in a tougher market situation, and that we will realise kitchens with high environmental standards, and regard sustainmajor efficiency enhancements in the coming years. ability from two perspectives: how we inspire people to more I would like to extend my warmest thanks to all my colsustainable lives through our kitchens; and how we can be more leagues and partners for excellent collaboration. We are headsustainable in our own operations and business relationships. ing towards eventful times, and I am looking forward to them. Nobia has signed the UN Global Compact and supports the ten principles on human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption; we work actively to integrate these principles into our operations and our business relationships. Our sustainability strategy is intended to create value through linking our operations to our ambitions to promote the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We have defined our own sustainability goals, and have already achieved the goal of 100 per cent renewMorten Falkenberg able electricity in production. President and CEO N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 05 H O W N O B I A C R E AT E S V A L U E HOW NOBIA CRE ATES VALUE Our operations cover the entire value chain, from the development and manufacturing of kitchen products to sales and distribution of complete kitchen solutions to end customers. We create value for our customers and other stakeholders, and strive to develop sustainable operations. RESOURCES WE ARE OUR OPER ATIONS DE VELOPING FOC U S O N K ITC H E N S Nobia’s business model is manufacturing and selling M A N U FAC TU RE D C A PITA L kitchens to consumers and companies under its own 14 production facilities kitchen brands and under private labels. Operations 248 own stores cover the entire value chain from product developSEK 338 million of investments ment and sourcing to sales and distribution, as well as in tangible fixed assets installation services in certain markets. We sell primarily complete kitchen solutions: everything needed in a kitchen – cabinets, drawers, fronts, panels, bases, cabinet fixtures, worktops, sinks, B U S I N E S S RE L ATI O N S H I P S mixer taps, appliances, kitchen fans, handles and so 156 franchise stores on. The furnishings are primarily manufactured from Approximately 1,500 retail stores wood products in our facilities. Sales take place via Approximately 650 suppliers of direct materials own stores, franchise stores and retailers. In addition, we have direct sales to certain professional customers. Nobia creates value by delivering complete and attractive kitchen solutions, with excellent function I NTA N G I B LE RE SOU RC E S and design, based on our customers’ needs. Our A portfolio of strong kitchen brands strategy starts from our resources and economies of SEK 76 million of investments in intangible assets scale throughout the entire value chain. Read more Systems and master data for products about the strategy on pages 14-17. and supplier management Operating systems and programmes for employee development lopme nt ct deve So H U M A N C A PITA L o du ur ci 6,081 employees Pr ng ste and recyclin Ma nu f ac Wa F I N A N C I A L RE SOU RC E S SEK 5,163 million operating capital t u r i ng g SEK 599 million operating cash flow n N ATU R A L RE SOU RC E S t io 417,000 m3 wood and wood products ta se or sp U 178 GWh energy n Tra S ale s 06 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 H O W N O B I A C R E AT E S V A L U E VALUE CRE ATED, 2018 PE R STA K E H O LD E R G ROU P D I STRI B UTE D VA LU E , S E K M 2018: Customers Delivery of nearly a half million new kitchens both in 4,587 new homes and for renovation 11 New kitchen concepts and products that make 261 ­consumers’ daily lives easier Approximately 12 million visits to our website, 1,180 where over 42,000 consultations were booked 2017: Employees 3,672 Commitment index increased to 78 7 Over 4,500 performance evaluations conducted 248 280 managers took our leadership course 505 Owners and lenders Dividend SEK 1,180 million 3,135 Interest paid, net SEK 11 million 2,912 Community and suppliers SEK 261 million in income tax paid Approximately 6,000 job vacancies, primarily in smaller towns Innovative solutions for a more sustainable life in the kitchen 100 per cent renewable electricity in production Slightly more than 300 suppliers in the supplier audit programme Payments to lenders State and municipal taxes Dividends to shareholders Salaries, social security contributions and pensions N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 07 B U S I N E S S E N V I R O N M E N T A N D S T R AT E G Y MAGNET TATTON 08 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 B U S I N E S S E N V I R O N M E N T A N D S T R AT E G Y Business environment and strategy Kitchens are a lifestyle product affected by prevailing consumer trends, but as a leading kitchen specialist we interact with our customers in various ways. We focus on profitable growth through continuous efficiency enhancements and by selling inspiring kitchens in new ways. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 09 TRENDS TRENDS THAT IMPACT OUR KITCHENS Urbanisation, digitisation and an increased interest in sustainability and experiences are examples of megatrends that impact how our kitchens look and how we buy them. Here, we present five specific trends with an impact on our product development and on how we interact with our customers. REDUCED WASTE URBAN AND KITCHEN GARDEN S Around one third of all food produced is estimated to go to Over the last few years, megatrends such as stability, a focus waste before it is consumed by people. Consumers are beginon health and urbanisation have rapidly driven the urban garning to increasingly question waste in food – the food itself, as den trend forward. More and more companies and consumers well as packaging materials and energy. In this light, we are seeare using smaller spaces in, under and above cities to grow veging increased demand for storage solutions that extend the susetables, plants and herbs. Gardening has also moved into the tainability of food, solutions that make in easier to sort and recykitchen; today, there are solutions that make indoor gardening cle waste, products that are manufactured from fully or partially possible without manual irrigation or access to direct sunlight. recycled materials, and energy-efficient appliances. Using these solutions, the kitchen is becoming a room that can also produce foodstuffs. 10 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 TRENDS SI STORE EXPERIENCE In the consumer trades, e-commerce is gaining ground at the offering more social, emotional and personal experiences, expense of shopping in physical stores. At the same time, conoften using design, digital solutions and human interactions sumption of services and experiences is increasing, as is the that enhance the store experience. Simply put, the store demand for a positive purchasing experience. Many stores go experience increases in importance for the consumers’ choice from being a location for transactions, with products in store, to of channel, brands, satisfaction and loyalty. focusing on an inspiring presentation of the product range and VOICE FIRST PERSONALISATION Technological development has made great strides since Apple For many consumers, mass-produced and standardised goods launched its voice-controlled assistant, Siri. Today’s voice-conare starting to become increasingly uninteresting. They want trolled, connected assistants such as Google Home and Amato have their needs met to a greater extent through personally zon Echo have been gifted with artificial intelligence and can be designed products and services. Nobia’s consumer studies also used for everything from answering factual questions and givshow that many have an emotional need to create a home and ing the weather forecast for the week to controlling lighting, bura kitchen that feels personal – adapted to their preferences, lifeglar alarms and sound systems. There are already several prodstyle and use. There is also an increasing need for inspiration ucts and functions that make life in the kitchen simpler and more both online and in stores, easy-to-use design programs, and efficient. In the next few years, these will very likely make them­professional advice and planning help when buying kitchens. selves broadly felt. For example, in the form of voice-controlled mixer taps, ovens and refrigerators. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 11 MARKET THE EUROPE AN KITCHEN MARKET The kitchen market can be divided according to whether the kitchens are sold to consumers or to professional customers. These customer segments are sized differently in different European countries, and can in turn be divided into renovation and new construction. It is estimated that 80 per cent of the European kitchen market is made up of purchases for renovation, and the remainder of purchases for new production. TH E CO N S U M E R M A RK E T a kitchen adapted according to every customer’s needs, prefAs a room, the kitchen is becoming increasingly important in erences and lifestyle. One important aspect for functionality is our homes. It is no longer just a room where people cook and planning based on the kitchen’s ‘triangle’ – the sink, oven and eat food, but also the natural room both for socialising with famrefrigerator are located relatively close to each other so as to ily and friends and for work, study and creative activities. In addicreate an efficient work flow. tion, interest in food and cooking is increasing. Many also have a Kitchen renovations often result in labour costs for installaneed to create a home and a kitchen that expresses their pertion, plumbing and electricity, which is why some countries offer sonality and reflects their lifestyle. Furnishings, appliances and tax deductions on labour that could have a positive effect on kitchen equipment can consequently cost more. New design kitchen sales. and functionality reflect the growing importance of the kitchen Ready-to-assemble kitchen products are a large and growing and inspire consumers to renovate and invest in their kitchens. segment of many kitchen markets in Europe. Nobia provides a For households, a new kitchen is a relatively major and comproduct range under several brands that are a good value for plex investment that includes the important factors of function, someone who wants to do all the work – measuring, assembling layout, style and materials. Kitchens are infrequently purchased and installing the kitchen – by themselves. products associated with a high level of customer involvement. On average, consumers purchase new kitchens every 15–20 years TH E PRO F E S S I O N A L M A RK E T and often when they move into a new home or have major renoThe professional market contains corporate customers – major vations done. The general economic climate and consumers’ faith construction companies and property companies, house facin the future on questions of private economy affect demand. tories and property developers, for example – and also private Consumers usually invest a great deal of time and energy and municipal landlords as well as small construction companies on gathering inspiration and information. In addition to research and builders. In large countries such as the UK, kitchen suppliers in such places as websites, social media and home décor mag­ focus to a large extent on a specific segment of the professional azines, they visit an average of two to three stores to compare market, for example, customers in property development, social different alternatives and to get design and cost proposals before housing, or small local construction companies. Nobia has operthey choose a supplier and place an order. This is why a strong, ations in all these segments through various channels, and has well-known brand is important, as is professional and inspiring a particularly strong position in the professional market in the service in the stores. Nordic countries. European consumers can purchase their kitchens through Professional customers are important partners for Nobia, various channels, for example, specialised kitchen stores, furniand while they have product requirements that are simiture stores and builders’ merchants, as well as directly on the lar to consumers’, their service needs are somewhat different. Internet to a certain extent. Nobia reaches customers through The most important competitive advantages for major projboth own stores and franchise stores, and a large number of ects are successfully delivering large orders on time, and prodretailers who often specialise in kitchens or who are active as ucts that are easy to install. The services being demanded could builders’ merchants. be knowledge of trends, maximising surface area and the work Customers often seek inspiration and help in their planning, flow in the kitchen and dedicated project management. Physical which is why trained kitchen designers and sellers are important stores that allow the end customer to see and feel the kitchens in order to offer the right service and support our consumers are also an advantage. Sustainability issues are also important through the purchasing process. The goal is to plan and design for professional customers, and demand for sustainability cer12 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 MARKET HTH NEW YORK tifications and product labels and solutions that enable the end Social housing consumer to live more sustainably have increased. There is, for One part of the professional kitchen market is sales to tenancy example, a growing demand for smart waste sorting and comapartments or the public housing sector, who in the form of posting solutions. municipal housing authorities and tenant associations provide Contracts for kitchen deliveries are signed on a project-­ housing. Investments in social housing are often dependent on by-project basis, but it is common for business relationships state subsidies and political decisions. Most of the kitchens in this between kitchen suppliers and professional customers to be segment are sold for renovation, normally as part of a planned long-term, especially among the major construction companies maintenance programme, even thought there is some new conin the Nordic region. struction in this sector. Competitive prices and product durability are important House builders and construction companies aspects for customers in this segment. Other important comHouse builders and construction companies need to offer their petitive advantages are simplicity in ordering and installation, customers kitchens with good design and numerous options, reliability of deliveries and short delivery times. and an attractive kitchen is seen as part of marketing new Kitchens for the rental market and social housing are a sigobjects. New housing construction is an industry that is relnificant part of Nobia’s operations, primarily in the UK and the atively sensitive to the business cycle; construction moves in Netherlands, which have a relatively large stock of rental apartcycles but does not necessarily follow the same trend in all Euroments. pean countries. Macroeconomic events and megatrends such as urbanisation impact the demand for new housing, as do conBuilders and small local construction companies sumers’ future expectations for salary trends, housing prices and Builders and small local construction companies are another interest rates as well as opportunities for borrowing money. important customer group in the professional market. Small In the UK and the Nordic region, kitchens are considered companies with a small number of employees normally purchase building accessories and included in the sale of an apartment and install one kitchen at a time for the end consumer. A numor a house. This is less common, however, in countries such as ber of these focus only on kitchen installation, but the majority Austria or Germany, which means significantly smaller project also perform extensive renovation work for private households. markets in these countries. These smaller construction companies are important cusNobia has a strong position in new housing construction tomers for Nobia, above all through Magnet in the UK. But even among construction companies – especially in the Nordic region our brands in the Nordic market and Bribus sell to smaller con– but is also active in the UK, primarily through Commodore struction companies and builders, through both franchise stores and CIE. and retailers in the building trade. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 13 S T R AT E G Y STR ATEGY FOR PROFITABLE GROW TH We are governed by our vision and a strategy built on economies of scale throughout the entire value chain. We focus on profitable growth by offering inspiring kitchen solutions and new ways of interacting with our customers. VISION “ Inspiring k itchens made easy ” We will make it easy for our customers to have inspiring kitchens in their homes. We focus on the customer experience and endeavour to make the purchasing process as simple as possible. With our sound know-how and long experience, we create and realise fantastic kitchen solutions together with our customers. We provide support in the entire process, from inspiration and concept to a finished, functional and attractive kitchen. OV E R A L L G OA L Profitable growth F I N A N C I A L TA RG E T S >5 % >10 % <10 0 % 40 – 60 % Growth Operating margin Debt/equity ratio Dividend S TR ATEGY with economies of scale throughout the value chain EFFICIENCY G ROW TH FAC I L ITATO R S Product Production OmniEconomy Employees Acquisitions development structure channel segment B U S I N E S S CO N C E P T Nobia offers attractive kitchen solutions to consumers and corporate customers. We generate value for customers by offering high-quality function and appealing design in both complete kitchen solutions and individual kitchen products, and through services such as advice, customer-adapted design, delivery and installation. Behind the scenes, efficient processes capitalise on economies of scale. S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y Our commitment to and responsibility for sustainable development permeates out work throughout the value chain. Our primary opportunities to have a positive impact on people and the environment concern choice of materials, how kitchens are manufactured and distributed, and how our kitchen solutions can promote a more sustainable lifestyle. 14 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 S T R AT E G Y EFFICIENCY Nobia is one of the largest kitchen producers in Europe, and an important part of our strategy is to realise advantages of large-scale production and opportunities for efficiency enhancement. We are continually developing new products while we optimise our total product range. Another important part of our strategy is our work on rationalising our production structure. Product development Production structure For most of Nobia’s brands and markets, there is a Group-wide core The efficiency of Nobia’s structure, with 14 production facilities range. The goal is to be on the leading edge as regards new products (of which 11 manage the entire process from manufacturing of while reducing the complexity of the Group’s total product range components to painting, installation and packaging of complete by increasing the overlaps of best-selling products and reducing the kitchen orders) can be enhanced through increased specialisa­ number of components with small volumes. This allows us to realise tion and a clearer division into high-volume and low-volume additional economies of scale in both sourcing and production. production. Our central product development brings out new kitchen The long-term strategy is to centralise component manufacconcepts and innovative solutions that meet the latest customer ture. Production on a larger scale means lower fixed costs, makneeds, distinguishing our brands from our competitors. As a ing concentrated investments in first-class equipment possible. leading kitchen specialist, Nobia’s ambition is to be the first to The main components in our kitchens will be produced under market with new products and to improve environmental perown management, even though contract manufacture may be formance in our kitchens in order to help our customers proadvantageous for smaller product categories or for managing mote sustainable development. volume fluctuations. Assembly and customisation should take place in local marCO M PLE TE D I N 2 018 kets so that we can maintain a high level of service for our cusT  wo new kitchen concepts with smart solutions were introtomers. Transport efficiency should also be taken into account, duced in the market. since rigid kitchens are relatively bulky products. Assembly facilities and logistics centres need to be conveniently located for Our Waste-Free Kitchen helps customers live more responoptimal transportation. sibly and sustainably. This kitchen concept contains cabinet fronts made of recycled material, solutions that make recyc­ling CO M PLE TE D I N 2 018 more convenient, and better storage of food.  comprehensive review was conducted of the production A M  agnet Smart Kitchen is a kitchen with a large amount of structures for the Nordic and UK regions. technological content. This smart kitchen from Magnet contains solutions such as a USB charging dock, integrated  logistics centre for the Nordic economy price product range A speakers and innovative cabinet solutions, as well as Samwas developed at Tidaholm. Kitchen orders sold via Power’s sung’s range of connected smart appliances. stores – and, beginning in the spring of 2019, also HTH’s range of flat packs – are put together and packaged from here.  he total number of fronts was reduced, primarily as a result of T harmonising the product range in the UK.  transport system that allows better control over deliveries A and costs in the entire transport process began to be imple2016 2017 2018 mented. Fronts, UK 530 320 197 Fronts, Nordic 256 246 214 FO RWA RD FOC U S The priorities moving forward are implementing structural FO RWA RD FOC U S changes, investing in new equipment, minimising the risk of The direction of our product development is determined based on an disrup­tions to production and maintaining a high delivery analysis of prevailing trends and consumer insights. New solutions will ­capacity. The changes will mean fewer full-scale plants and be worked out for trends such as small kitchens and indoor gardening. more specialised facilities with a greater degree of automation. We are also developing concepts that will increase comfort and simIn 2019, these restructuring plans will be made more specific. plify life in the kitchen, and we will also focus on introducing products that help consumers live more sustainably. Cost-efficient solutions for sustainable kitchens in rental apartments are being developed in partnership with our customers from construction companies. Savings in purchasing will be achieved through in-depth collaboration and cross-functional improvement initiatives with our most important suppliers. We will also reduce the number of suppliers. We will place great important on optimising transports and on total cost, where we are working with value engineering to optimise the product range. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 15 S T R AT E G Y GROW TH Our focus is on developing digital services and new store concepts to meet new customer behaviours and technological possibilities. We will offer inspiring kitchens in a simple fashion, both in physical stores and digitally. We also endeavour to develop new offers for the economy segment, which is a growing part of the consumer market. Omnichannel The economy segment Nobia is well in the lead in omnichannel for the kitchen industry, More and more consumers want to do a part of the work of and we will continue to develop new digital tools and new store installing kitchens themselves, which is why the market for lower concepts. Our customers will have the same inspiring experipriced kitchens will continue to grow. With our strong brands, ence regardless of whether they visit our website or come in to broad distribution and healthy production economy, Nobia has a store. excellent conditions to create growth for kitchens for consumWith inspiring and relevant content in social media and on ers in the economy segment. our websites, we will utilise customers’ involvement and help Nobia has a few sales channels primarily aimed at the econthem through the purchasing process. When our customers omy segment, for example, Gower in the UK and the electronics have the opportunity to do more work by themselves, they will chain Power in the Nordic region. In addition, our largest brands come more prepared to the meetings with our kitchen designhave separate ranges that are sold ready-to-assemble. Approxi­ ers and the purchasing process will be more efficient. mately 30 per cent of the Group’s sales in the UK come from With the customer experience in focus, a store concept ready-to-assemble kitchens, while the same share in the Nordic was introduced in 2017 with a great deal of digital elements and region is approximately 10 per cent. In Central Europe, we only smaller surface areas than normal kitchen stores. These omnisell rigid kitchens. stores invite customers to become involved in and experience Over the last few years, we have focused on growth in the the products in new and inspiring ways. The physical kitchen disNordic economy segment. Buying and assembling our kitchens plays are fewer, and the broad offering is presented using digital should be easy and offer good value, and the products should be tools instead. The stores have a special display about function, delivered directly to the customer’s door. quality and innovation where the customers can test smart storage solutions and accessories. CO M PLE TE D I N 2 018 A  fter having marketed HTH’s ready-to-assemble kitchens for a CO M PLE TE D I N 2 018 period under its own brand, HTH returned to the strategy of a F ocus for our online development was on increasing users’ brand under which the ready-to-assemble range was sold as a activity levels. One important part of this was the roll-out of DIY alternative to the regular range. the Get Started module, which helps visitors start on their Nobia introduced a simplified installation for its kitchen range, kitchen journey. delivered in flat packs and sold via the Power electronics chain F our new omnistores, and three stores with parts of this conin the Nordic region. With pre-installed components in the cept, were opened during the year. In total we have eight omnicabinet sides, customers avoid dealing with packets of screws stores and six stores with parts of the concept. and matching the right screw to the right hole – both of which A  n evaluation of the omnistores showed that they have higher often try people’s patience. A manual with QR codes to usersales per store seller, and a higher rate of conversion, than trafriendly instructions accompanies the delivery. Compared ditional stores. to earlier, it takes half as long to install the cabinets with the simplified system, which will also be introduced into HTH’s 2016 2017 2018 ready-to-assemble range in the spring of 2019. Activations online 6.0% 6.2% 6.5% FO RWA RD FOC U S FO RWA RD FOC U S Our brands develop offerings with good value for consumers, Nobia plans to continue the roll-out of the omnistore concept in and we will continue to improve our production economy and both own stores and in franchisees. The long-term trend is movour range of ready-to-assemble kitchens. In parallel with this, ing toward smaller stores in more central locations, and with we are looking for more sales partnerships regarding ready-tomore digital content. We will continue to invest in being on the assemble kitchens that we can deliver with short lead times leading edge, digitally, focusing on creating a positive customer direct to the end customer’s home. experience through tools that make it simpler for our customers to plan and make their kitchen dreams a reality. 16 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 S T R AT E G Y ENABLERS The commitment among our employees is what makes development possible. By offering a safe, attractive workplace, we can recruit and retain employees who help deliver kitchen dreams to our customers. Our acquisitions make it possible for us to grow and consolidate the kitchen market. Employees Acquisitions Nobia has 6,081 employees in seven countries, with many difAcquisitions represent an important part of Nobia’s strategy, ferent positions, backgrounds and skills, all of whom enable the and the Group still has the ambition of growing on Europe’s success of the organisation. The ability to recruit skilled employkitchen market and enabling its consolidation. The acquisiees and to retain and develop existing staff is crucial for a suction strategy targets profitable kitchen companies operating cessful, sustainable company. That is why we continually work in attractive markets and that supplement the Group’s existto increase the company’s attractiveness as an employer, create ing structure. Both add-on acquisitions in countries where we commitment and pride among our employees, and to develop already operate and expansion into new markets in Europe may leadership abilities and the right skills. be of interest. The acquisitions of the past few years – Rixonway Kitchens CO M PLE TE D I N 2 018 in 2014, Commodore Kitchens and CIE in 2015, and Bribus in To emphasize Nobia’s position on the labour market as an 2018 – have not only meant increased sales and larger producinternational kitchen group with many well-known and attraction volumes but also synergy effects and increased diversificative brands, we have pooled job vacancy announcements from tion through expansion into new segments and markets. all our operations into a Group-wide career website. The website was launched in May, and together with increased visibility CO M PLE TE D I N 2 018 in social media enables recruitment and increases pride among In July, Nobia acquired the kitchen supplier Bribus, a leader in our current employees. the Dutch kitchen project market. Bribus manufactures and  Group-wide leadership programme, customised for the A installs approximately 45,000 kitchens a year; its customers are company’s business and management challenges, is being primarily companies operating in social housing and major propimplemented in all the countries where we operate. In 2018, erty investors in the Netherlands. The kitchens are delivered 280 managers began the programme, which consists of six complete, including appliances, from the modern production modules. The first module takes place in a classroom environfacility in Dinxperlo. Some of Bribus’s kitchen cabinets are manument, while the other modules make use of technological solufactured from chipboard interspersed with corn, which means tions that make virtual classrooms possible. the products weigh less and are better for the environment. Two measurements of all employees’ commitment has been FO RWA RD FOC U S carried out. The result is used as the basis for working further on Acquisitions remain high on our agenda. We have excellent activities both locally and centrally. financial conditions for acquiring profitable kitchen operations, 2016 2017 2018 when the opportunity presents itself. Our acquisition market is Employee relatively limited, however, and most of the attractive European commitment index 75 77 78 kitchen companies are privately owned. It may therefore take a while to reach agreements on company transactions. FO RWA RD FOC U S Nobia will continue to invest in employee’s commitment and participation. The ambition is to strengthen collaboration and unity among employees, divisions and functions and to develop a shared corporate culture. One important part of the work will be implementing a new intranet that will promote communication and collaboration. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 17 MAG NE T ’ S R EPOSITIONING MAGNET MAGNET’S REPOSITIONING For Magnet’s 100th anniversary as an acknowledged kitchen specialist, a repositioning was carried out with a focus on Magnet’s core target group: families in the UK. This work led to a simplified purchasing process and a clearer offering, focused on customer value. The repositioning manifested in the “Part of the Family” adverdisplayed double-digit growth in consumer sales over the foltising campaign, which emphasized the central place of the lowing two quarters, which shows that the new offering stood kitchen in the family and which highlighted Magnet’s strengths strong in the stiff competition on the as the oldest kitchen specialist in the UK. A new version of MagUK kitchen market. net’s website was launched at the same time, with tools that help After the successful repositioncustomers understand the kitchen process and make informed ing toward consumers, and with this choices before they visit a store. Many inspiring customer activinew experience under its belt, work in ties were also arranged in the stores throughout the entire annithe same spirit was initiated at the end versary year. of the year to customise and simplify The adjusted offering and repositioning were positively Magnet’s offering to the target groups received by customers early in the year, which is the period that of builders and small, local construchas the highest level of kitchen sales to UK consumers. Magnet tion companies. 18 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 TA R G E T S A N D TA R G E T F U L F I L M E N T TARGETS AND TARGET FULFILMENT Nobia has four financial targets linked to the overall goal of profitable growth. FINANCIAL TARGETS >5 G ROW TH Target fulfilment Sales grew by 4 per cent; the growth target was therefore not met. The growth in sales was the Sales growth, % Organic growth 2014 2 2015 6 2016 4 2017 2 2018 -4 Acquisitions/divestSales are to grow result of positive currency effects and the acquiments -1 4 4 – 3 organically and through sition of Bribus, while the organic sales trend was Currency effect 6 7 -5 -1 5 acquisitions by an avernegative for the first time in five years. By region, Total growth 7 17 3 1 4 age of over 5 per cent organic growth was negative 1 per cent in Nordic, per year. negative 7 per cent in UK and 1 per cent in Central Europe. >10% O PE R ATI N G Target fulfilment The target for operating margin was not met in 2018. Operating profit, excluding items affecting Operating margin excluding items affecting comparability, % 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Nordic 12.8 13.3 14.3 14.8 12.5 M A RG I N comparability of SEK 66 million, totalled SEK 1,084 UK 7.5 9.3 8.9 8.0 5.8 The operating margin million and was impacted by non-recurring costs of Central Europe 7.8 3.7 6.8 2.3 6.4 is to amount to more SEK 88 million. The impaired operating margin was Group 8.5 9.7 10.3 10.1 8.2 than 10 per cent over a mainly the result of decreased sales, higher prices business cycle. of materials, lower productivity and non-recurring costs primarily regarding a cost savings programme in the fourth quarter. <100% D E BT/ EQU IT Y Target fulfilment Nobia has a strong financial position. At year-end, the debt/equity ratio was 32 per cent. Net debt, Net debt and net debt/equity ratio, SEK m Net debt 2014 1,206 2015 774 2016 493 2017 2018 77 1,266 Pension liabilities 869 732 9551 567 505 R ATI O defined as interest-bearing liabilities less interest-­ Debt/equity ratio, % 38 20 14 2 32 The debt/equity ratio bearing assets, totalled SEK 1,266 million at 31 Equity/assets ratio, % 41 47 43 58 50 is to be less than 100 December 2018; the increase over the previous 1) Including Poggenpohl. per cent. A temporary year is due to the acquisition of Bribus and the elevation of the debt/ extra dividend for the 2017 financial year. Pension equity ratio is acceptliabilities decreased as the result of changed working able in conjunction life assumptions and an increased discount rate. with acquisitions. 40–60% DIVIDEND Target fulfilment The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting a dividend of SEK 4 per share for Dividends to shareholders, SEK Earnings per share 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 after dilution, SEK -0.17 4.92 2.70 6.02 4.46 Dividends to share2018, corresponding to 90 per cent of net profit Dividend per share, holders are, on averafter tax for the year, thereby exceeding the tarSEK 1.75 2.50 3.00 7.00 4.001 age, to comprise get interval. The proposal entails a total dividend Dividend as a per40–60 per cent of net of approximately SEK 675 million. For 2017, a regucentage of net profit profit after tax. lar dividend of SEK 3.50 per share was paid out as after tax, % N/A 51 111 116 90 well as an extra dividend of SEK 3.50 per share, for 1) The Board’s proposal. a total of SEK 7.00 per share. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 19 O P E R AT I O N S INTUO F I N I S O 20 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 O P E R AT I O N S Operations We have organised our operations based on three geographic regions: Nordic, the UK and Central Europe. How we interact with the market differs among the various regions and also among our different brands. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 21 NORDIC REGION Nordic R EGION 2 018 34 OW N S TO R E S O  rganic growth totalled negative 1 per cent and was driven by decreased consumer sales. 156 F R A N C H I S E S TO R E S  isruptions to production at the D Swedish plant in Tidaholm had a neg~440 R E TA I L S TO R E S ative impact on both sales and operating profit. Maintenance work was performed and the problem was 6 P RO D U C T I O N resolved. UNITS  ine own stores that sell kitchens N under the Norema brand were converted to franchise stores. The reason for this was primarily that the franchise model has proven to be success N A S TO L A ful in the Norwegian kitchen market.  E G G E DA L  FA R S Ø  T I DA H O L M  B J E R R I N G B RO Ø LG O D SA L E S PE R PRO D U C T, % SA L E S C H A N N E L S , % PE RC E NTAG E O F N E T SA L E S , % Kitchen furnishings, 67 Kitchen specialists, own stores and franchises, 64 Other products, 27 Direct project Installation services, 6 sales, 15 51% Builders’ merchants/ DIY chains, 16 Other retailers, 5 KEY FIGURES 2017 2018 Change, % N E T SA L E S , S E K M Net sales, SEK m 6,516 6,705 3 A N D O PE R ATI N G M A RG I N , % Gross profit, SEK m 2,638 2,590 -2 8,000 20 Gross margin, % 40.5 38.6 – Operating profit, SEK m 963 841 -13 6,000 15 Operating margin, % 14.8 12.5 – Operating capital, SEK m 712 786 10 4,000 10 Return on operating capital, % 138 112 – Investments, SEK m 135 182 35 2,000 5 Average number of employees 2,767 2,715 -2 0 0 Number of employees at year-end 2,710 2,581 -5 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 22 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NORDIC REGION POSITION AND MAR K E T TR END Nobia is a leading kitchen supplier in the Nordic region with a franchise, and through roughly 440 retailer stores found in such manufacturing and distribution in all Nordic countries. sectors as the building trades. Project sales in all of the Nordic Our kitchen brands are some of the most well-known in countries to house builders and construction companies take place their respective markets, and are sold to both consumers and directly and via own stores, franchise stores and retailers. professional customers. We have a strong position as a supplier The Nordic kitchen market continued to grow in early 2018, to construction companies and private property developers. driven primarily by a strong project market with increased new We compete with both local players and kitchen producers and construction in all countries. At the end of the year, the rate of international furniture companies in all of the Nordic countries. growth on the project market had decreased, primarily in Sweden Distribution varies among the brands and takes place through and Norway. The consumer market is deemed to have decreased dedicated kitchen stores, operated under own management or as during the year, also driven by Sweden and Norway. Brand Products Customer segment Sales channels Markets Complete kitchen solutions in the Consumers and Sales primarily through 30 own stores in DenDenmark, Norway, mid-price segment, often rigid. There professional cusmark and 60 franchise stores in Denmark, SweSweden, Finland is also a range of ready-to-assemble tomers. den and Norway. kitchens. Rigid and complete kitchen solutions Consumers and Marbodal kitchens are sold via 15 franchise stores Sweden, Norway in the mid-price segment. professional cusand via retailers, for example the Optimera, Beitomers. jer and XL Bygg construction chains. Kitchens to professional players are sold directly. Rigid and complete kitchen solutions Consumers and Sigdal is sold via 16 franchise stores and in addiNorway in the mid-price segment. professional custion has retailers, including the Byggmakker hardtomers. ware chain. Primarily rigid kitchens in the midConsumers and Through Nobia’s Keittiömaailma (Kitchen Finland price segment. professional cusWorld) franchise chain with 32 stores, and also tomers. via retailers in the building materials trade. Kitchens to professional players are sold direct. Rigid kitchens with high design conConsumers and Invitas kitchens are sold primarily through 21 Denmark tent in the upper mid-price segment. professional cusfranchise stores. tomers. Primarily rigid kitchens. There is also Consumers and Norema is sold through nine franchise stores. Norway a ready-to-assemble range in a lower professional cusSales also take place through the Power electronprice segment for consumers. tomers. ics chain and retailers in the building trade. Exclusive, expertly handcrafted Consumers and Uno form is sold through two own stores and Denmark, Norway, kitchens in the luxury segment. professional custhree franchise stores, as well as through a selecSweden tomers. tion of HTH’s franchise stores. A la Carte offers rigid kitchen soluConsumers and Sold via Nobia’s Keittiömaailma (Kitchen World) Finland tions in the upper mid-price segment. professional cusfranchise chain. tomers. SELEC TION OF COMPE TITOR S Sweden: IKEA, Ballingslöv, Epoq Norway: IKEA, Drømmekjøkkenet, Kvik Denmark: Svane, IKEA, Kvik Finland: Puustelli, Topi-Keittiöt, IKEA N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 23 UK REGION UK R EGION 2 018  rganic growth totalled negaO tive 7 per cent, driven primarily by 214 OW N S TO R E S decreased B2B sales owing to the terminated partnership with Homebase and decreased project deliveries. ~510 R E TA I L S TO R E S  agnet’s sales grew more than the M market after a successful reposition5 P RO D U C T I O N ing of its offering for consumers early UNITS in the year.  ommodore Kitchens and CIE C won several major orders during the year for kitchens for new housing  DA R L I N G TO N construction in the London region. MORLEY  H A L I FA X D E W S B U RY G R AYS SA L E S PE R PRO D U C T, % SA L E S C H A N N E L S , % PE RC E NTAG E O F N E T SA L E S , % Kitchen furnishings, 62 Kitchen specialists, own stores and franchises, 53 Other products, 32 Direct project sales, 27 42% Builders’ merchants/ Installation services, 6 DIY chains, 20 KEY FIGURES 2017 2018 Change, % N E T SA L E S , S E K M Net sales, SEK m 5,710 5,597 -2 A N D O PE R ATI N G M A RG I N 1 , % Gross profit, SEK m 2,172 2,190 1 8,000 16 Gross margin, % 38.0 39.1 – Operating profit, SEK m 454 257 -43 6,000 12 Operating profit excl. items affecting comparability, SEK m 454 323 -29 Operating margin, % 8.0 4.6 – 4,000 8 Operating margin excl. items affecting comparability, % 8.0 5.8 – Operating capital, SEK m 1,824 1,969 8 2,000 4 Return on operating capital, % 26 14 – 0 0 Investments, SEK m 116 149 28 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Average number of employees 2,941 2,879 -2 1) E xcluding items affecting comparability. Number of employees at year-end 2,955 2,768 -6 24 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 UK REGION POSITION AND MAR K E T TR END Generally speaking, Nobia is a leading player in the UK kitchen The UK kitchen market is deemed to have decreased during market, with diversified operations spanning across all market the year, in part owing to the increased political and economic segments. We reach consumers and builders directly through the uncertainty around the planned Brexit. Prices in the UK housMagnet kitchen chain, the UK’s oldest and largest kitchen specialing market held up relatively well, but the increased uncertainty ist. In terms of sales, the UK is Nobia’s single largest market. has led to higher demand for rentals, particularly in the London Through our operations in Gower, we deliver kitchens priregion. There is still a great need for new housing in the UK, but marily under private labels to the Wickes DIY chain and the the project market may be impacted by short-term fluctuations in Benchmarx hardware chain. We also sell kitchens to companies the business cycle. Sales to builders are generally more resilient to within property development and residential construction in economic declines compared to sales to consumers. Competition the UK mainly via Commodore Kitchens and CIE. Our Rixonway remained fierce during the year. operations deliver kitchens primarily to social housing, but also to builders’ merchants. Brand Products Customer segment Sales channels Markets Rigid kitchens in the mid-price segment, delivConsumers and professional 212 own stores, of which some UK ered with a high level of service commitment. customers. concentrate primarily on conThere is also a range of ready-to-assemble sumers while other stores serve kitchens. A range of kitchen products is kept both consumers and profesin stock for builders, while a range of doors sional customers such as small and other joinery products is also offered. local construction companies and minor private property developers. Ready-to-assemble kitchens and bathrooms, Professional customers. The kitchens are sold via the UK primarily under private labels but also under building materials trade and its own brand, Rapide. DIY chains. Commodore Kitchens sells rigid kitchens in Professional customers. Commodore and CIE sell kitchUK the mid-price segment that by and large they ens to companies in property manufacture themselves. The kitchens are development and residential normally sold installation included and with construction, primarily in Lonworktops and appliances. Imported complete don and southeast England. kitchen solutions in the luxury segment sold through the sister company CIE, which also offers installation. Rigid kitchen solutions in the economy price Consumers and professional Direct sales to construction UK segment, offered together with installation customers. companies and purchasing services. organisations that service the public housing sector and the building materials trade, and a few own stores. SELEC TION OF COMPE TITOR S Howdens, B&Q, Wren, IKEA N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 25 CENTR AL EUROPE REGION Central Europe R EGION 2 018  he Dutch kitchen supplier BriT bus was acquired in July. In the second >530 SALES POINTS half of the year, Bribus has sales of SEK 350 million. 3  rganic growth totalled 1 per O P RO D U C T I O N UNITS cent and was the result of both increased sales in Austria and increased export sales.  perations in Austria came under O new management and underwent an overhaul that resulted in an adjusted  D I N X P E R LO customer offering.  F R E I S TA DT WELS SA L E S PE R PRO D U C T, % SA L E S C H A N N E L S , % PE RC E NTAG E O F N E T SA L E S , % Kitchen furnishings, 72 Other retailers, 55 7% Other products, 21 Direct project sales, 42 Installation services, 7 Builders’ merchants/ DIY chains, 3 KEY FIGURES 2017 2018 Change, % N E T SA L E S , S E K M Net sales, SEK m 521 909 74 A N D O PE R ATI N G M A RG I N , % Gross profit, SEK m 152 256 68 1,600 12 Gross margin, % 29.2 28.2 – Operating profit, SEK m 12 58 383 1,200 9 Operating margin, % 2.3 6.4 – Operating capital, SEK m 117 292 150 800 6 Return on operating capital, % 11 28 – Investments, SEK m 20 16 -20 400 3 Average number of employees 409 524 28 0 0 Number of employees at year-end 363 665 83 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 26 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 CENTR AL EUROPE REGION POSITION AND MAR K E T TR END Nobia has a small share of the kitchen market in Central Europe, newly constructed apartments or during renovation projects, but has a strong position in Austria – and after the acquisition of and Bribus also provides project management and installation. Bribus, in the Netherlands as well. Bribus also has a number of retailers, including the Bouwmaat Our Austrian operations sell kitchens under the ewe, FM builders’ merchants chain with 46 sales points that sell kitchens and Intuo brands. The customers are primarily a large number of to smaller construction companies and builders. independent retailers, of which a few are organised via purchasThe Austrian kitchen market is deemed to have grown in ing organisations, but also major Austrian furniture chains such 2018 as a result of increased housing construction but also as a as Leiner and XXXLutz. Our kitchens are found in some 430 consequence of healthy macroeconomic conditions as well as sales points in Austria, and our operations also have a certain growth in the renovation market. Intense competition continamount of exports to neighbouring countries. ued to prevail from companies such as DAN Küchen in Austria Bribus concentrates primarily on customers in the rental and several German kitchen companies. The Dutch kitchen market in the form of the public housing sector and large-scale market is also deemed to have grown, especially in the profescommercial property owners. The kitchens are installed in sional segment where there is a great need for new housing. Brand Products Customer Sales channels Markets segment Rigid kitchens with modern designs in Professional cusSold through Austrian furniture chains and some Austria, Germany, the mid-price and premium segments. tomers. 440 independent kitchen specialists. Switzerland, Italy Rigid kitchens in the low and midProfessional cusSold directly to construction companies, where Netherlands price segment. The kitchens are most tomers. they take overall responsibility for the projects, often sold together with installation and to retailers in the building materials trade. and appliances. Overall responsibility for the projects is provided. Rigid kitchens in the mid-price and Professional cusSold through Austrian furniture chains and some Austria premium segments with traditional tomers. 190 independent kitchen specialists. designs and a high level of functionality, such as solid wood counters and cabinets that can be raised and lowered. Rigid and complete kitchen solutions Professional cusSold through some 110 independent kitchen Austria, Germany, for quality and design-conscious contomers. specialists. Switzerland, UK sumers in the premium segment. SELEC TION OF COMPE TITOR S Austria: DAN Küchen, Nobilia, IKEA Netherlands: Bruynzeel Keukens, Keller, Mandemakers N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 27 O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S MARBODAL ARKITEKT PLUS 28 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S Our sustainability initiatives The global challenges society is facing require responsible leadership and systematic work. The business sector has an important role to play. That is why we are working actively to integrate sustainability in our daily work; we see it as a precondition for long-term profitable and responsible business. Our sustainability initiatives are based on the understanding that every link in the chain is important, from supplier to employee to customer. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 29 O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S VALUE CHAIN Nobia’s operations include everything from product development and production to sales to the end consumer. By implementing our sustainability strategy, we are aiming to have sustainability issues permeate innovation and design as well as choice of materials and manufacturing. Produc t deve lopme n t S ourc ing Choice of materials, design and functionality can create solutions Our suppliers are found in various markets, and can impact that have a far-reaching, positive impact on people and the enviboth people and the environment where they operate. We ronment, for example, by extending the service life of a product, monitor and audit the work of our suppliers on social, enviincreasing resource efficiency, preventing waste and facilitating a ronmental and ethical issues for the purpose of reducing more sustainable lifestyle. This is why sustainability is a focus risk and promoting a more sustainable supply chain. area in product development, which means that environmental and social issues are included as early as in the design phase. Wa s t e a nd re c yc ling M a nu f ac t ur ing Waste, for example in the The health and safety of our form of waste wood and employees is our highest priorpackaging, occurs both ity. There are procedures and in our own manufacturroutines in place for continually ing and at the customer. improving our results in these We endeavour to mini­ areas. In our manufacturing we mise waste and to find follow goal-driven Lean initiarecycling solutions. Waste tives, which includes systematic wood from production is health, safety and environmental used as an energy source initiatives to prevent workplace or for new material. accidents, reduce energy consumption and use of raw materials, and reduce emissions and waste. Of our 14 production facilities, 11 have an environmental management system that is third-party certified. U se S a le s Tr a n spor t at ion With our kitchen solutions, we can We have a great deal of expeGoods transports make up the largest enable our customers to live more rience in designing kitchens, part of our CO2 emissions. Efficient dissustainably. In-house and third-party and we help the customer the tribution along the entire goods flow, testing ensures that our products entire way from inspiration to from supplier to customer, is importare safe for people and the environinstallation in order to provide ant for minimising environmental impact ment. Our range includes Nordic a sustainable kitchen solution from transport. Studies and analyses of Swan eco-labelled products, which for both future and immediate the transport flow are being carried out are assessed according to how they needs. To ensure best practices, in close collaboration with our carriers in impact the environment throughNobia’s employees are trained order to find new and optimal solutions. out their service life from raw materiin our Code of Conduct. als to waste. 30 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S SUSTAINABLE ADVANCES IN 2018 During the year, we continued to integrate important sustainability issues into our value chain and made important advances in concept and product development as well as in production and the supply chain. We have also focused on skills development to increase and broaden knowledge about sustainability. Some of the most important activities, results and awards from the year are listed below. AC TI V ITI E S RE S U LT S AWA RDS S witching from energy recovery to 9 2 per cent of Nobia’s total wood Nobia ranked among the top five in the material recycling of waste wood in and wood materials originated from Consumer Goods category of the 2018 ­several facilities a ­certified source Hållbar bolag (Sustainable Businesses)  roup-wide projects to reduce waste G 7 0 per cent of the UK’s wood and wood survey wood in production materials originated from FSC© (Forest N  obia was graded C+, Prime in sustain wo concept kitchens with a focus on T Stewardship Council© FSC©-C100100) ability in the ISS-oekom corporate rating minimising waste, and circular flows or PEFC TM (Programme for the N  obia’s score in CDP Forest increased Endorsement of Forest CertificationTM) from D to -B S witching one of our largest supplier’s certified wood, with full chain of custransport flow from vehicles to trains Our  production facilities in the UK tody through to the end consumer Internal sustainability training initiatives received the British Safety Council’s 4 5 per cent of sales in Sweden and Sword of Honour award ­Norway consisted of Nordic Swan  ur production units in ­Darlington, O eco-labelled products Halifax, Morley and D­ ewsbury were 5 0 per cent of all our wood waste went granted entry into the Furniture Industry to manufacturing new products Sustainability Programme (FISP) S lightly more than 300 suppliers in the supplier review programme “Our commitment to sustainable development is both for the long term and businessoriented, which is why it is very gratifying to MARBODAL SIGNATUR SANDELL make such great advances in the field” M O RTE N FA L K E N B E RG President and CEO, Nobia AB N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 31 O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S STR ATEGIC FOCUS ARE AS SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION S V I S I O N : We develop kitchen solutions that support Our sustainability strategy is our mediumpeople, the planet, and our operations through continu­ ously improving the environmental and social perforto long-term itinerary, constituting mance for our products and processes. In addition, we enable our customers to live more sustainably in the a support for our business plan and kitchen. vision. It links our core operations with G OA L 2 02 0 : We have implemented a sustainability scorecard to evaluate the sustainability performance of our ambitions to promote the UN our new kitchen products as regards choice of materials, Sustainable Development Goals. design, and functionality. R E S U LT S 2 018 : According to plan. The strategy is built on four long-term CO M M E NT S : The development of the sustainability focus areas that reflect the impact of our scorecard has taken longer than estimated but was finished at the end of 2018. Everyone concerned has been operations and constitute the areas with trained and implementation has been initiated. opportunities for improvement. The focus U N G LO BA L CO M PAC T PR I N C I PL E S : 1, 7, 8, 9 areas also work together with our other U N S U STA I N A B L E D E V E LO PM E NT G OA L S strategic initiatives concerning resource ANSTÄNDIGA HÅLLBAR ARBETSVILLKOR KONSUMTION OCH OCH EKONOMISK PRODUKTION TILLVÄXT efficiency and employee well-being. REDUCE CO 2 EMISSION S V I S I O N : We promote a value chain with low CO2 emissions by reducing CO2 emissions from our products and processes. Through a twofold energy strategy, we focus on energy efficiency and the transition to renewable sources of energy. G OA L 2 02 0 : 100 per cent renewable electricity in all our production facilities in all markets. R E S U LT S 2 018 : Achieved. CO M M E NT S : Now that we have already reached our U N G LO BA L CO M PAC T PRI N C I PLE S goal for 2020 of 100 per cent renewable electricity, we The UN’s Global Compact initiative is based on commitwill produce new climate goals, focusing on transport ments by businesses to work on sustainability issues by and heating. introducing the ten principles of the Global Compact: U N G LO BA L CO M PAC T PR I N C I PL E S : 7, 8, 9 human rights (principles 1, 2), labour (principles 3, 4, 5, 6), U N S U STA I N A B L E D E V E LO PM E NT G OA L S environment (principles 7, 8, 9) and anti-corruption (principle 10). Read more at www.unglobalcompact.org BEKÄMPA KLIMATFÖRÄNDRINGARNA TH E S U STA I N A B LE D E V E LO PM E NT GOA L S The 17 Sustainable Development Goals aim at eliminating extreme poverty, reducing inequality and injustice in the world, promoting peace and justice and solving the climate crisis by 2030. Read more at www.un.org 32 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S TIMBER FROM SUSTAINABLE RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SOURCES V I S I O N : Efficiency is one of the linchpins of Nobia’s V I S I O N : We contribute to the elimination of deforestabusiness strategy. We endeavour to promote enduring, tion, reducing greenhouse gas emissions as well as prosustainable growth by economising on resources and tecting biodiversity and people’s livelihood by promoting continually searching for new circular cycles that prosustainable and responsible forestry and the provision of mote more efficient use of resources and minimising the timber from sustainable sources. amount of byproducts that cannot be re-used. G OA L 2 02 0 : 100 per cent wood from sustainable TR E N D I N 2 018 : During the year, we initiated a sources such as forests certified under acknowledged forGroup-wide Lean project to reduce waste wood from est standards, recycled wood or wood from our suppliers sawing. The project will continue in 2019. In addition, who have been audited and approved for sustainability. through a local improvement project, we were able to R E S U LT S 2 018 : According to plan. recycle approximately 300 litres of water and UV paint per day, which is estimated to equal a savings of 15–20 CO M M E NT S : 92 per cent of Nobia’s total wood and per cent. wood materials originate from a certified source. In addition, 70 per cent of all the UK’s purchased wood and wood U N G LO BA L CO M PAC T PR I N C I PL E S : 7, 8, 9 materials originate from FSC© or PEFC TM responsible U N S U STA I N A B L E D E V E LO PM E NT G OA L S sources, with full traceability all the way to the customer. BEKÄMPA KLIMATFÖRÄNDRINGARNA U N G LO BA L CO M PAC T PR I N C I PL E S : 2, 7, 8, 9 U N S U STA I N A B L E D E V E LO PM E NT G OA L S ANSTÄNDIGA HÅLLBAR BEKÄMPA KLIMATARBETSVILLKOR KONSUMTION OCH FÖRÄNDRINGARNA OCH EKONOMISK PRODUKTION TILLVÄXT RESPON SIBLE SOURCING EMPLOYEE WELLBEING V I S I O N : We build relationships with suppliers who V I S I O N : The safety of our employees is our highest priare working successfully on sustainability. By promoting ority. The company is able to retain and recruit comperesponsibility and transparency in our supply chain, we tent employees by offering a safe and secure workplace are contributing to a more sustainable future. that offers opportunities for career and skills developG OA L 2 02 0 : We have guaranteed a new programme ment. Nobia’s vision is zero workplace accidents and for suppliers that includes risk analysis, an audit prozero work-related injuries. gramme, and a channel for reporting violations of our TR E N D I N 2 018 : Despite a positive trend in several Code of Conduct for Suppliers. We aim to work further production facilities, the total number of accidents down the supplier chain. increased during the year. The increase was equivalent R E S U LT S 2 018 : According to plan. to 15.19 workplace accidents per million hours worked. Most of the accidents occurred while lifting or because CO M M E NT S : During the year, we implemented a new of slipping, but resulted in no permanent injuries. We are programme for supplier reviews which includes over further developing our safety programme, and expect to 300 suppliers. reverse this development in 2019. U N G LO BA L CO M PAC T PR I N C I PL E S : 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, U N G LO BA L CO M PAC T PR I N C I PL E S : 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 10 7, 10 U N S U STA I N A B L E D E V E LO PM E NT G OA L S ANSTÄNDIGA BEKÄMPA KLIMATU N S U STA I N A B L E D E V E LO PM E NT G OA L S ARBETSVILLKOR FÖRÄNDRINGARNA JÄMSTÄLLDHET ANSTÄNDIGA OCH EKONOMISK ARBETSVILLKOR TILLVÄXT OCH EKONOMISK TILLVÄXT N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 33 O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S SUSTAINABLE INNOVATIONS Under our brands, we offer kitchens that last for many years. This long-term perspective requires remaining on the leading edge, developing products that meet both today’s and tomorrow’s needs. Sustainability is thus a central theme in our product development, in everything from concept development and innovation to tests and quality requirements. D E V E LO PM E NT O F S U STA I N A B LE CO N C E P T ings. We are seeing tremendous – and increasing – market interest K ITC H E N S in sustainability certification and product labelling. In Sweden and During the year, we developed two concept kitchens with a focus Norway, 45 per cent of sales came from Nordic Swan eco-labelled on minimising waste and on circularity: the Waste-Free Kitchen and products in 2018. As a response to market demand, we will addithe Circular Kitchen. The Waste-Free Kitchen concept was launched tionally introduce Nordic Swan eco-labelled laminated worktops during the year, and products from the concept will be available into the Nordic market during 2019. under several of our brands. The Circular Kitchen is a concept develFurthermore, we offer products that meet local labelling oped in partnership with our Bribus brand and institutions such as standards in our various markets: the M1 classification in Finthe Delft University of Technology. The concept focuses on aspects land, Dansk inomhusklimat in Denmark, and Byggvarubedömda such as long service life, as well as repairable and replaceable parts. produkter in Sweden. In the UK, all our cabinets and doors are approved under the Furniture Industry Research Association S U STA I N A B I LIT Y E VA LUATI O N SCO REC A RD FO R (FIRA) requirements for safety, ergonomics and sustainability. PRO D UC T S To further reinforce our work on sustainability-related cerIn 2017, we initiated a partnership among the functions for prodtifications and product labelling, we developed a new procedure uct development, sourcing and sustainability for the purpose during the year for certifications and product labelling in our of developing and implementing a sustainability scorecard for product development process. our new products. The scorecard makes it possible to evaluate products based on several different criteria as regards materiCO NTI N U E D FOC U S O N PRO D UC T SA F E T Y als, design, supplier and function. Every area is graded separately Product safety is a linchpin in our work, and ergonomics is taken using a points system; all together, they provide a total assessinto consideration in all our product development. Before a new ment of the product’s sustainability performance. In materiproduct enters the production phase, relevant tests are carried als, both core and surface materials are assessed; in design, the out both in-house and by accredited testing institutions in line with product is assessed based on both use and possibility of recyEU standards. In our product development process, we conduct cling. Development of the scorecard is completed, and everyone systematic product risk assessments, known as Failure Mode and concerned has been trained in using the tool. The implementaEffect Analysis (FMEA), for all new internally developed products. tion phase will continue in 2019. Under FMEA, risks related to product safety are classified and analysed. Our products also meet several different requirements for I N C RE A S E D I NTE RE ST I N C E RTI F I C ATI O N A N D standards and labelling in our various markets. PRO D UC T L A B E LLI N G During the year, Nobia had no product safety incidents that Nobia has extensive experience in working with eco-labelled prodled to insurance cases or legal proceedings. ucts. Under our Marbodal brand, we were the first kitchen brand in Sweden with a Nordic Swan eco-labelled range – in 1996. Today, U N S U STA I N A B LE D E V E LO PM E NT GOA L S we offer Nordic Swan eco-labelled products, as well as products ANSTÄNDIGA ARBETSVILLKOR OCH EKONOMISK HÅLLBAR KONSUMTION OCH PRODUKTION that meet eco-building standards such as BREEAM (BRE EnvironTILLVÄXT mental Assessment Method) and Nordic Swan eco-labelled buildT  he kitchen includes a cabinet door manufactured from 100 per cent recycled PET foil and recycled wood. Sustainability is a focus area in our pro­ inet door manu­factured from 100 per duct development. The Waste-Free cent recycled PET foil and recycled wood, Kitchen is one of our latest concept kitchsmart storage of food for longer sustainens, with a focus on using less material and ability, and ‘cradle-to-cradle’ certified K R I S TI A N using greater amounts of recycled matehandles designed and manufactured to R I D E F E LT rial, and to facilitate waste recycling for be part of a cycle, to be re-used and not Head of Product kitchen users. The kitchen includes a cabgene­r ate waste. Management & Innovation 34 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S TIMBER FROM SUSTAINABLE SOURCES Wood is the main component of our products. Wood is renewable, recyclable and strong. Being a sustainable choice, however, requires that it comes from responsible forestry so that we can preserve long-lasting forests. TI M B E R F RO M S U STA I N A B LE SOU RC E S of waste wood to material recycling. Some of our facilities in the For us, timber from sustainable forestry means wood from forUK changed to send wood to recycling instead of incineration. ests that are certified for sustainable forestry, recycled wood These conversions have resulted in 50 percent material recycling or wood from suppliers audited and approved for sustainability. of byproducts from production. Wood and trade in wood are strictly regulated through the EU In 2017, we began a project in partnership with Swerea-IVF Timber Regulation. To ensure compliance, we gather information concerning how used textiles can be reused as future materials on traceability for the wood and wood materials we purchase. in kitchens. This project intensified during the year, and we are Our suppliers of wood and wood products are mainly based now working on reviewing the possibility of developing parts for in Europe. Only a small amount of wood is purchased from our kitchens with the new, innovative material. countries such as Indonesia and Brazil. All our suppliers of wood Another example of new, more sustainable choices of mateand wood products must comply with Nobia’s policies and rials comes from our Bribus brand, which offers kitchen prodrequirements regarding sustainable forestry. There must, for ucts consisting of Balanceboard, an FSC© certified chipboard example, be information on the source; that it is not wood from with compressed granules from annual crops such as grass, linintact natural forests, high conservation value forests, or plantaseed or remnants of cornstalks. Moreover, the products are tions in tropical and sub-tropical regions; and that it is not wood lighter, which yields climate advantages during transport. from tropical trees except those that are certified. In addition, we endeavour to increase the share of wood from N O B I A CO LL A BO R ATE S O N RE S PO N S I B LE responsible sources. In 2018, we worked actively with our suppliFO RE STRY ers of wood and wood materials to increase the share of wood Nobia is a member of the Global Forest and Trade Network (GFTN) from sustainable forestry through proactive dialogues and by intein the UK. GFTN is a part of the World Wide Fund for Nature grating certification requirements into our procurements. 92 (WWF) and an association of companies and organisations that have per cent of Nobia’s wood and wood products purchased in 2018 committed to pursuing or supporting responsible forest managecame from certified sustainable sources. Additionally, 70 per cent ment. GFTN works to coordinate national and regional initiatives in of the wood purchased in the UK was FSC© or PEFC TM certified, order to increase responsible forest management and its members with full traceability certification all the way to the customer. undertake to increase sourcing of wood and wood products from sustainable sources and to disassociate themselves from forest prodC I RC U L A R F LOWS A N D M O RE S U STA I N A B LE ucts that are illegal or originate from controversial sources. C H O I C E O F M ATE RI A L S The largest part of our incoming wood is board material and Nobia reports to CDP Forest and raised its results markedly during MDF. Approximately 30 per cent of this material consists of the year, from D to B-. recycled wood such as waste wood from manufacturing, but also recycled furniture, pallets and packaging materials that meet the requirements in applicable directives and systems for UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS inspection. Similarly, we want our waste wood from production ANSTÄNDIGA HÅLLBAR BEKÄMPA KLIMATARBETSVILLKOR KONSUMTION OCH FÖRÄNDRINGARNA OCH EKONOMISK PRODUKTION to be recycled into new products. At the production facility in TILLVÄXT Ølgod, Denmark, we converted from internal energy recovery Material recycling is a crucial part of the switch to a more sustainable society. During the year, we switched from burning our own waste wood to recycling it. This means that 100 per cent of our waste wood from the plant in Ølgod now goes back to our suppliers for MICHAEL production of new chipboard. RO S E N DA H L J E N S E N Head of Production, Nobia Denmark N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 35 O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S REDUCE CO 2 EMISSIONS We are working steadily to reduce our direct emissions from production and transport; at the same time, we want our products to make it possible for our customers to live more climate-smart at home. RENEWABLE ENERGY AND EFFICIENT ENERGY USE O P TI M I SATI O N O F TR A N S PO RTATI O N Based on our sustainability strategy we have worked on reducApproximately 80 per cent of our total CO2 emissions comes from ing climate impact from our production by transitioning to renewtransportation. The climate impact from transportation is therefore able electricity in all our production units. As a next step in our carone of our greatest challenges in sustainability, but this also contains bon footprint work we improved our processes during the year to major opportunities. During the year we had a slight decrease of measure and follow up our transport-related emissions in order to CO2 emissions from purchased transport. Restructuring in producdevelop new climate reduction targets. tion and logistics will be a large part of future value creation in Nobia, In production, we are working on both where we are also endeavouring to reduce enhancing energy efficiency and reducS H A RE O F RE N E WA B LE E N E RGY: our climate footprint from transportation. 100% 84% ing CO2 intensity by choosing optimised Transportation from our production energy sources for every production facilfacilities to customers takes place through ity. Today, we use renewable energy at all distributors, or alternately with our own our facilities in all our markets. During the Electricity Heating fleet depending on the market. Distribution year, we optimised energy consumption to customers is a complex operation requirat the production facility in Ølgod, Denmark by switching from ing balance between customers’ wishes, costs and the environmenin-house heating from waste wood to purchasing renewable distal impact that producing efficient transport solutions entails. trict heating. Waste wood from production will now instead be As a step in improving control over our flow of incoming recycled into new material. materials, we took over transportation to our production facilities in the UK from one of our high-volume suppliers. At the E N E RGY M A N AG E M E NT SYSTE M S same time, we switched from pure road freight to intermodal In the UK, three of our five production facilities are certitransport by train from Italy to the Netherlands, which has been fied under ISO 50001, Energy management, which means that calculated to save approximately 230 tonnes of CO2 per year. energy consumption is systematically measured and monitored Emissions from incoming transportation are not included in our to reduce energy, costs and CO2 emissions. Certification of the CO2 emissions as currently reported but constitute a considerremaining two facilities is planned for 2019. able portion of our indirect CO2 emissions. The current switch During the year, a new boiler for biomass was installed at the will therefore be evaluated with the possibility of similarly switchproduction facility in Halifax. The capacity of the boiler in the ing more incoming transportation, from vehicles to intermodal Darlington facility was further improved. These measures have solutions. led to the use of internally renewable waste wood as a source of energy, instead of fossil energy. Nobia reports to CDP Climate and received a grade of C in the 2018 Moreover, three of the five facilities have switched to LED report, which is the same as the preceding year. lighting, which has reduced energy consumption by approximately 60 per cent. At the same time, lighting intensity and quality have UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS markedly improved, which has benefited the work environment. BEKÄMPA KLIMATFÖRÄNDRINGARNA The ambition is to attain 100 per cent LED lighting by 2020. T  hrough improved oversight and control over our ­outgoing transports, we increase the possibility of co-ordination, efficiency enhancement and optimising routes, and also for better fuel and modes of transport. We are reviewing how we can reduce transport planning procedures and skills. both costs and the environmental impact Through improved oversight and control J A SO N PA L M E R from transportation. Through ongoing over our outgoing transportation, we Director of Transport Sourcing improvement projects, we are investiincrease the possibility of co-ordination, gating the possibility of optimising our efficiency enhancement and optimising transport planning system by implementroutes, and also for better fuel and modes ing new shared software and improving of transport.” 36 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S RESPONSIBLE SOURCING A sustainable supply chain and good relations with our suppliers are crucial for offering attractive products to our customers. That is why we are continually working on creating transparent and efficient partnerships with responsible suppliers. Our Supplier Code of Conduct regulates and governs Nobia’s requirements for suppliers as regards working conditions, human rights, business ethics, environmental performance, and so on. S U PPLY C H A I N er’s accreditations and certificates, as well as compliance with legal We have about 650 suppliers (560) in our supply chain, the majorrequirements and Nobia’s requirements. The tool is built on an algoity of which are based in Europe. The core components of the prodrithm, so as to make the assessment more objective. Decisions on ucts, such as chipboard, MDF, paint, hinges, drawer units, edging and audits are taken based on the review and prioritisation. Deviations worktops, are supplied by European companies. More than 90 per during the audit are assigned points and monitored. The work on cent of the wood, which is the primary material in our products, is monitoring is governed by the degree of severity of the deviations. also purchased from European suppliers. Nobia has several suppliers Our primary risk in sourcing can be linked to any such deviof appliances for different customer segments and its ambition is to ations from our Code of Conduct, especially in countries with always be in a position to supply products from the leading appliance weaker implementations of legislation. In order to promote the companies. Product categories manufactured in Asia include screws, reduction of sustainability risks even further down the supply chain some interior fittings and LED lighting. These products are pur– among our suppliers’ suppliers – we impose requirements on our chased principally via European wholesalers based on detailed prodsuppliers that are also to be communicated to their relevant subuct specifications that include EU requirements and local regulations. contractors. Information gathering at this level is sometimes difficult, as not all suppliers wish to share information about the underPROG R A M M E FO R RE S PO N S I B LE SOU RC I N G lying links. We see this as a valuable step, however, since this way we Centralised sourcing provides Nobia with the opportunity to can go further in our risk analysis to where it has the most effect. apply a structured work method in terms of setting requirements, Of 309 (48) suppliers reviewed, 88 per cent had undergone and monitoring and developing suppliers’ work. Purchased matea complete initial review during the year. Based on our stringent rials and components are carefully specified and suppliers are risk assessment criteria, 27 per cent of these suppliers were judged assessed, inspected and evaluated in accordance with our guideto be in need of further assessment. This could for example be lines on the environment, work environment, human rights, busia supplier operating in a country with higher risks, with none or ness ethics and quality. Respect for human rights, with a startfew sustainability certificates or accreditations. Since a great deal ing point in the UN’s guidelines for companies and human rights of work was put in during the year on all suppliers under­going as well as local labour legislation, is an important part of our work the initial review, only a small number of in-depth audits – 13 (20) and is reflected in both our internal guidelines and processes as – were conducted. All new suppliers covered by the program well as in our requirements for and monitoring of suppliers. were included in the initial review. In 2018 we took a big step forward in our work to include all The team working on supplier evaluations is collaborating ­relevant suppliers in the new responsible sourcing programme. The with purchasers and the sustainability function. The work programme is built on our Supplier Code of Conduct and includes includes risk assessments, evaluations and physical supplier risk analysis, review, audit and an anonymous channel for reporting audits covering topics such as human rights, health and safety, violations of the Supplier Code of Conduct. Our new programme, labour conditions, the environment, business ethics and quality. which covers approximately 300 suppliers, is equivalent to 99 per cent of total supplier costs. Using a digital platform, suppliers of direct U N S U STA I N A B LE D E V E LO PM E NT GOA L S material are audited as regards human rights, working conditions, ANSTÄNDIGA ARBETSVILLKOR BEKÄMPA KLIMATFÖRÄNDRINGARNA the environment, quality and anti-corruption. Nobia’s risk analyOCH EKONOMISK TILLVÄXT sis and supplier audit contains an extensive screening of the suppli s the risks are sometimes greater further A along the supplier chain, we also want to reach out to our subcontractors. Implementing our digital supplier proplier chain, we also want to reach out to gramme was an extensive amount of our subcontractors, that is why we chose work in which all first-tier suppliers were to also demand similar information about reviewed first-hand. As the risks are our suppliers’ suppliers. sometimes greater further along the supTO N Y B ROC K L E H U R S T Senior Quality Assurance Manager, responsible for Nobia’s supplier audit programme N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 37 O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S RESOURCE EFFICIENCY At every step of the value chain, we strive to find resourceand energy-efficient solutions that help us, our business partners, and our customers to reduce our climate and environmental impact, and to act in a more sustainable manner. Our Group-wide environmental and climate policy governs our environmental and climate initiatives, and is supplemented with local environmental management systems and environmental targets. F RO M C E NTR A L TO LOC A L WO RK optimised processes, and energy, emissions and costs can thus Starting from our Group-wide sustainability strategy as well as be reduced. In 2018, nearly 200 improvement projects (95) our environmental and climate policy, goals and priorities are were in progress as part of our NLS initiatives. The projects set at the central and local levels. Our envi­initiated include projects involving all producronmental initiatives are integrated into the WA STE WOO D TO tion units so as to measure material efficiency operations of the respective production facilM ATE RI A L R ECYC LI N G : and reduce wood waste from our sawing. 50% ities; in total, 11 of 14 production facilities The project will continue in 2019. are certified under the ISO 14001 standard for environmental management. Our enviE M I S S I O N S O F SO LV E NT S ronmental responsibility means always comEmissions from solvents are a key issue in plying with environmental legislation in the Nobia’s environmental work. Solvents are markets where we operate, and striving to reduce the environmainly used in surface treatment and when cleaning painting mental impact in our operations through increasing resource facilities. From having decreased over several years in a row, efficiency, optimising transport and limiting the use of hazardtotal emissions of volatile organic compounds from solvents ous chemicals. Furthermore, we endeavour to develop products increased by 21 per cent (-1) in 2018. The increase is due to such that meet strict requirements for low environmental and climate factors as increased sales of painted cabinet doors; an increase in impact and, through our products, inspiring people to a more sales of darker colours, which requires an extra step in the paintresource-efficient, healthier, and more sustainable life in the ing process; and reworking of products at one of our facilities. kitchen. No business unit in Nobia was sentenced or paid fines Initiatives to reduce the use of solvents include replacing for environmental crimes in 2018. them with water-based and UV-tempered surface coatings and reducing the number of changeovers in production equipment, RE SO U RC E S M A RT M A N AG E M E NT which both reduces the amount of cleaning required and raises We endeavour to optimise the use of materials, increase the productivity. In one project at our production facility in Nastola, share of waste that can be reused or recycled, and reduce the Finland, the opportunity of increasing the share of water-based amount of waste to landfill. During the year, the transition from paints is being evaluated, which would reduce solvent emissions energy recovery to material recovery took place in several proconsiderably. The total share of water-based and UV-tempered duction facilities. This resulted in 50 percent of waste wood to paints in the group in 2018 was 51 per cent (54). material recycling in 2018. Read more about our work on a circular economy on page 35. One of the most significant waste U N S U STA I N A B LE D E V E LO PM E NT GOA L S streams in our production are sawing waste. Continuous efforts BEKÄMPA KLIMATFÖRÄNDRINGARNA are being made in production to optimise the flows and reduce waste using a Lean-based programme called the Nobia Lean System (NLS). Resources can be used more efficiently through In total, the switch is estimated to yield an annual paint conservation of 15–20 per cent. During the year, we began a paint recying in paint consumption decreased by 7 cling project in Tidaholm after a Lean per cent over the year. In total, the switch course. The paints are used in suris estimated to yield an annual paint conface treatments of objects such as cabiservation of 15–20 per cent. Our project net doors. The improvement, which was has resulted in both reduced environmenA N N A K E L L E T T, implemented in the autumn, made it postal impact in the form of decreased paint Surface treatment operator sible to recycle approximately 300 litres consumption and waste, and in reduced of water and UV paint per day, resultcosts. 38 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S EMPLOYEE WELLBEING Employees are Nobia’s chief asset. Attracting, engaging, and developing our employees is a crucial success factor for our operations. That is why we work purposefully towards creating a safe, secure work environment where our employees’ engagement is utilised and creates, together with good management, a company to be proud of. SA F E A N D S EC U RE WO RK E N V I RO N M E NT on the European Work Council (EWC), a European information The safety of our employees is our highest priority. All units have and consultation council. systematic health and safety work in which every workplace accident is analysed, and measures are taken to prevent a simi­ E M PLOY E E CO M M ITM E NT I S C RUC I A L lar accident from happening again. Safety is always highest on Our employees getting on well in the work, displaying committhe agenda through daily monitoring of incidents and accidents. ment and all working towards the same goals and vision are cruBoth managers and employees are continually trained in health cial for our success. MyVoice is Nobia’s annual employee survey and safety. Moreover, seven of our 14 production facilities are with questions concerning management, team efficiency, stress OHSAS 18001 certified. and discrimination. During the year, a Pulse survey – a less comDespite a positive trend in several production units, the prehensive version of the employee survey – is also conducted number of total working accidents increased in 2018. During the to more frequently measure and monitor trends around comyear, 92 (75) workplace-related accidents occurred that resulted mitment. The surveys form the basis for creating active work in at least eight hours of sickness absence. This corresponded around commitment; based on their results, local action plans to 15.19 workplace accidents (13.04) per million hours worked. supporting our shared goals are worked out. The year’s commitMost of the accidents occurred while lifting or because of slipment index from MyVoice stood at 78 (77), with a response rate ping in production operations, but resulted in no permanent of 81 per cent (85). injuries. The trend in the total number of accidents is not satisfactory. During the year, we had a high level of capacity PROG R A M M E FO R STRO N G E R LE A D E R S H I P utilzation. We are further developing our safety programme, Leadership is an important cornerstone in our business strategy; and expect to reverse this development in 2019. its purpose is to lead our operations and to motivate and involve During 2018, we implemented a new scorecard for producall employees to work towards shared visions and goals that are tion. This scorecard is an internal tool that covers several straset high. In many cases, employee engagement is a reflection tegically important questions, including workplace accidents. of involved and competent managers, something that was also Workplace accidents and activities to prevent them are moninoted in our employee survey. That is why, in the previous year, tored by senior management on a monthly basis using the scorewe launched the Excellent Leadership programme to provide card. In our Nordic operations, new routines and processes all managers in the organisation the opportunity to develop and have also been introduced for both monitoring and escalating strengthen their leadership qualities. The programme has been workplace accidents. implemented in all countries and to date covers 280 managers; a total of 550 managers are planned to go through the proA PE RM A N E NT L A BOU R FO RC E gramme as part of the current initiative. The programme proNobia’s employees are primarily permanent. Only approxivides managers with the knowledge and tools to develop, and is mately two per cent of our employees are temporary; they are run in part through virtual workshops. located in Sweden, the Netherlands and the UK. The workforce can be divided up into employees working in production and S U STA I N A B I LIT Y S K I LL S I N ITI ATI V E S logistics, and those working in administration and sales. Nobia During the year, we continued to invest in sustainability courses. principally has employees in seven European countries; all of A custom course for Nobia in sustainable development was held our employees are covered by collective agreements in each of for the product development and sourcing divisions, and for our these countries except the UK. Our employees are represented sustainability ambassadors and Group management. The entire 90% of employees to date have undergone 78 The year’s commitment index 550 managers will conduct the Excellent training in the Code of Conduct. increased to 78 (77). Leadership programme. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 39 O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S product development organisation has also been trained in business culture in all parts of our operations, where people can assessing products for sustainability. make use of their full potential. The Board of Directors consists of nine members, includD E V E LO PI N G O N TH E J O B ing the CEO. Of the regular members of the Board, 44 per cent In our routine skills development, we are investing a greater are women and 56 per cent men. In the management group, the amount in e-learning as a tool for producing customised courses division between women and men is 9 per cent and 91 per cent, more efficiently, for example products and markets, that can be respectively. Out of some 100 senior executives and senior manadapted to a service or region. agers, 24 per cent (23) are women and 76 per cent (77) men. Internship programmes are being run in several of our countries to attract and develop promising students. Every year, stuTH E CO D E O F CO N D U C T dents are brought in to an internship programme for woodNobia’s Code of Conduct is based on principles of environmenworkers at our production facility in Austria. The three-year tal, social and economic sustainability. It indicates the minimum programme interweaves school with practical work in produclevel of acceptable behaviour for all employees and collaborattion. The practical work entails different jobs, and the students ing partners. To ensure compliance with the Code of Conduct, switch divisions every six months. After completing the proemployees are encouraged to report any conduct that breaches gramme, the students are guaranteed employment; the prothe Code via internal channels or alternately SpeakUp, the anony­ gramme is thus an important recruitment channel for our opermous communication channel. ations in Austria. The Code is implemented through repeated workshops Nobia’s production facility in Tidaholm took part in a projand e-learning, as well as in daily work. All management groups ect together with Tidaholm Municipality whose purpose was to have held workshops on the Code; to date, approximately 90 provide jobs for newly arrived refugees, thereby easing the path per cent of all employees have undergone the training. 32 cases into working life. Over the last year, Nobia has employed several (59) were reported in 2018, of which 14 (14) were via SpeakUp. newly arrived refugees at its facility in Tidaholm. The reported cases and other issues relating to the principles in the Code of Conduct have been handled and reported to the EQUA LIT Y A N D D I V E R S IT Y Board’s Audit Committee. We are convinced that the different perspectives that arise Anti-corruption and bribes are strictly controlled through through focusing on equality and diversity promotes the abilthe Code of Conduct. Nobia conducts annual self-evaluations, ity to understand and act on both customers’ and employees’ reviewed by external auditors, in all its business units. The evalu­ needs. Diversity and equality can also strengthen Nobia’s comations include a large number of questions dealing with internal petitive advantages and support our objective of being a good control. Some of these questions concern risks of corruption citizen and an attractive employer. in the sales and sourcing organisations, for example, the giving Nobia’s Code of Conduct maintains that no employee and taking of bribes. In reviewing of the evaluations for 2018, should be discriminated against due to age, ethnicity, social or nothing emerged that indicated any corruption. See also page national origin, skin colour, gender, sexual orientation, gender 93-94 and 105. identity or expression, religion, political views or disability. Discrimination issues are also an important focus area in our U N S U STA I N A B LE D E V E LO PM E NT GOA L S Code of Conduct training. Equality and diversity are an integral JÄMSTÄLLDHET ANSTÄNDIGA ARBETSVILLKOR part of our recruitment process, succession planning and leadOCH EKONOMISK TILLVÄXT ership development. We aim to work on creating an inclusive It is the culmination of nine years of hard work, and is a real team effort. Region UK received the prestigious Sword hard work, and is a real team effort. Everyof Honour award during the year. The one in Production & Logistics, together award demonstrates excellence in the with all support staff, were involved. While management of health and safety risks at I am very proud of our performance, I see work, from the shop-floor to the boardwe still have work to do. room. It is the culmination of nine years of J OA N N E B ROO K E S -W R I G HT, Head of Health, Safety and Environment at Region UK 40 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 FINANCIAL OVERVIE W FINANCIAL OVERVIEW The Board of Directors and the President of Nobia AB (publ) N O B I A G RO U P S U M M A RY Corporate Registration Number 556528-2752, hereby sub2017 2018 Change, % mit the annual report and corporate accounts for the fiscal year Net sales, SEK m 12,744 13,209 4 Gross margin, % 39.3 38.5 – 2018. The Board of Directors’ report can be found on pages Operating margin before depreciation/ 41–48, the financial statements on pages 50–89, the corporate amortisation and impairment, % 12.3 10.2 – governance report on pages 92–99 and the sustainability report Operating profit (EBIT), SEK m 1,286 1,018 -21 on pages 30–40 and 104–107. Operating profit (EBIT) excl. items affecting comparability, SEK m 1,286 1,084 -16 O PE R ATI O N S Operating margin, % 10.1 7.7 – Nobia is the leading kitchen specialist in Europe. Nobia sells Operating margin excl. items affecting comparability, % 10.1 8.2 – kitchens under some twenty strong brands, and as a contract Profit after financial items, SEK m 1,250 986 -21 manufacturer. The operation covers the entire value chain, from Profit after tax, SEK m 1,015 753 -26 development, manufacturing and installation to sales and disProfit after tax excl. items affecting compatribution, as well as associated service. A kitchen focus makes rability, SEK m 1,015 808 -20 it possible to leverage the joint know-how of the business units Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 6.02 4.46 -26 throughout the entire value chain. Earnings per share before dilution excl. Sales to consumers are conducted through own and franitems affecting comparability, SEK 6.02 4.79 -20 chise stores and through a network of retailers, including furniEarnings per share after dilution, SEK 6.02 4.46 -26 Earnings per share after dilution excl. items ture stores, builders’ merchants, DIY stores and independent affecting comparability, SEK 6.02 4.79 -20 kitchen specialists. The products are also sold to professional Operating cash flow, SEK m 706 599 -15 construction companies which, in turn, sell the kitchens to their end customers. cent (39.3). Operating profit for the year amounted to SEK 1,018 Nobia is organised in three geographic regions: the UK, million (1,286), corresponding to an operating margin of 7.7 per Nordic and Central Europe regions. cent (10.1). F I N A N C I A L TA RG E T S S I G N I F I C A NT E V E NT S Nobia’s operations are steered towards four financial targets Kim Lindqvist, Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing that aim to generate favourable returns for shareholders and Officer, left Nobia on 1 April as a result of the removal of the long-term value growth. role of Chief Marketing Officer. Growth: Sales are to grow organically and through acquisitions by Hans Eckerström was elected new member of the Board an average of more than 5 per cent per year. and Chairman at the Annual General Meeting on 10 April. Tomas Billing had declined re-election. All other Board memProfitability: The Nobia Group’s operating margin (EBIT margin) bers were re-elected. The Annual General Meeting appointed is to exceed 10 per cent over a business cycle. a Nomination Committee comprising Tomas Billing (Chairman) Financing: The debt/equity ratio (net debt/shareholders’ equity) representing Nordstjernan, Torbjörn Magnusson representis not to exceed 100 per cent. A temporary elevation of the ing If Skadeförsäkring, Mats Gustafsson representing Lannebo debt/equity ratio is acceptable in conjunction with acquisitions. funds and Arne Lööw representing the Fourth Swedish National Dividends: Dividends are, on average, to be within the interval of Pension Fund, and adopted the instructions for the Nomination 40-60 per cent of net profit after tax. When decisions about the Committee. amount of the dividend are made, the company’s capital strucOn 1 May, Fredrik Nyström took office as Executive Vice ture is to be taken into consideration. President and Head of Commercial Sweden and Ralph Kobsik­ took office as Executive Vice President and Head of Central STR ATEGY Europe. Nobia endeavours to create profitable growth by capitalising on In early May, based on the authorisation granted by the 2018 economies of scale and synergy effects, and developing the comAnnual General Meeting, the Board of Nobia decided to transpany’s customer offering and sales channels. The strategy is based fer bought-back shares under the Performance Share Plan 2015, on the platform of Efficiency, Growth and Facilitators and has six as resolved at the 2015 Annual General Meeting. focus areas: Product Development, Production Structure, OmniErkka Lumme, Executive Vice President and Head of Comchannel, Economy Segment, Employees and Acquisitions. mercial Finland, left Nobia on 20 May. In early July, Nobia agreed on a new syndicated bank loan of 2 018 SEK 2 billion, with a five-year term, with two banks. Nobia’s sales grew 4 per cent, mainly as a result of positive curOn 9 July, 5,000,000 treasury shares were cancelled in accord­ rency effects and the acquisition of Dutch kitchen company Briance with the resolution of the 2018 Annual General Meeting to bus, which has added income of SEK 350 million since the comreduce the share capital by withdrawing treasury shares. pany was consolidated on 1 July 2018. Organic sales growth was On 13 July, Nobia acquired 100 per cent of the shares in a negative 4 per cent (pos: 2). The gross margin was 38.5 per ­B ribus Holding B.V, a kitchen company with a leading position in N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 41 FINANCIAL OVERVIE W the Dutch project market for kitchens. The purchase considerIn the Central Europe region, operating profit excluding ation consisted of a remuneration of EUR 60 million on a cash items affecting comparability amounted to SEK 58 million (12). and debt-free basis, and a variable remuneration of a maximum The earnings improvement was mainly attributable to the acquiof EUR 5 million, conditional upon the development of the opersition of Bribus, but also the result of productivity. Currency ations until the end of 2020. effects had an impact of SEK 0 million (0) on operating profit The Swedish and Norwegian operations were negatively excluding items affecting comparability. impacted by production disruptions at the plant in Tidaholm in Group-wide items and eliminations amounted to an operthe second and third quarters. Maintenance was performed and ating loss excluding items affecting comparability of SEK 138 milthe problems were resolved. lion (loss: 143). Financial items amounted to an expense of SEK A cost saving programme was initiated in the fourth quarter 32 million (expense: 36). Net financial items included the net of in light of the increased uncertainty in our markets and to safereturn on pension assets and interest expense for pension liaguard our profitability. These measures include staff reductions bilities corresponding to an expense of SEK 28 million (expense: and the closure of 16 stores, primarily in the UK. The cost sav34). Net interest expense totalled SEK 4 million (expense: 2). ing programme is expected to generate annual savings of about Profit after financial items amounted to SEK 986 million (1,250). SEK 80 million. Tax expense amounted to SEK 233 million (256). Profit after Annika Vainio took office as Executive Vice President and tax including items affecting comparability amounted to SEK 753 Head of Commercial Finland on 1 December. million (1,015) and profit after tax excluding items affecting comNine own stores that sell kitchens under the Norema brand parability amounted to SEK 808 million (1,015). were converted to franchise stores during the year. The backEarnings per share for the year before and after dilution ground is Nobia’s assessment that Norema’s kitchen chain is not including items affecting comparability amounted to SEK 4.46 large enough to generate synergies and that the franchise model (6.02) and earnings per share for the year before and after diluhas proven successful in the Norwegian kitchen market. tion excluding items affecting comparability amounted to SEK 4.79 (6.02). CO N SO LI DATE D N E T SA LE S Net sales amounted to SEK 13,209 million (12,744) and were E A RN I N G S F RO M D I SCO NTI N U E D O PE R ATI O N S distributed as follows: Nordic region, SEK 6,705 million (6,516); No profit from discontinued operations was recognised in 2018. UK region, SEK 5,597 million (5,710); and Central Europe region, In 2017, profit after tax from discontinued operations amounted SEK 909 million (521). Sales to other regions are also included in to SEK 21 million and pertained to Poggenpohl, which was net sales for the region. divested on 31 January 2017. The Group’s organic growth, meaning the change in net sales for comparable units and adjusted for currency effects, totalled a ITE M S A F F EC TI N G CO M PA R A B I LIT Y negative 4 per cent (pos: 2). Organic growth in the Nordic region Nobia recognises items affecting comparability separately to diswas a negative 1 per cent (pos: 8). Organic growth in the UK tinguish the performance of the underlying operations. Items region was a negative 7 per cent (neg: 2) and the Central Europe affecting comparability refer to items that affect comparisons region’s organic growth was 1 per cent (neg: 5). in so far as they do not recur with the same regularity as other items. Operating profit for 2018 was negatively impacted by a TH E G ROU P ’ S E A RN I N G S non-cash item affecting comparability of SEK 66 million attribThe Group’s operating profit including items affecting comparautable to an additional pension cost in the fourth quarter as a bility regarding an additional pension expense of SEK 66 million result of a court ruling in the UK regarding defined-benefit penamounted to SEK 1,018 million (1,286). The operating margin sion plans in the 1990s. No items affecting comparability were including items affecting comparability was 7.7 per cent (10.1). recognised for 2017. Operating profit excluding items affecting comparability amounted to SEK 1,084 million (1,286) and the corresponding I N V E STM E NT S , C A S H F LOW A N D F I N A N C I A L operating margin excluding items affecting comparability was 8.2 POS ITI O N per cent (10.1). The decline in operating profit was the result of Investments in fixed assets amounted to SEK 414 million (319), decreased sales, higher prices of materials, lower productivity of which SEK 338 million (262) pertained to tangible fixed assets and non-recurring costs primarily attributable to the cost savand SEK 76 million (57) to intangible assets. ing programme initiated in the fourth quarter. Currency effects Operating cash flow amounted to SEK 599 million (706), had a negative impact of SEK 10 million (neg: 105) on operating adversely affected by lower profit generation and higher investprofit excluding items affecting comparability. ments compared with the preceding year, which were not offset In the Nordic region, operating profit excluding items affectby a positive change in working capital. ing comparability amounted to SEK 841 million (963). The decline The Group’s capital employed amounted to SEK 5,326 milin earnings was primarily due to lower sales volumes, higher lion (4,727) at the end of the period. prices of materials, production disruptions and non-recurring On 31 December 2018, net debt amounted to SEK 1,266 costs. Currency effects had a negative impact of SEK 20 million million (77) and the increase for the year was mainly due to the (0) on operating profit excluding items affecting comparability. acquisition of Bribus. Provisions for pensions, which are included In the UK region, operating profit excluding items affectin net debt, amounted to SEK 505 million (567). The debt/equity ing comparability amounted to SEK 323 million (454). The lower ratio at year-end amounted to 32 per cent (2). Shareholders’ earnings were mainly due to lower volumes, higher prices of equity on the same date amounted to SEK 3,897 million (4,154) materials and non-recurring costs. Currency effects had a posand the equity/assets ratio was 50 per cent (58). itive impact of SEK 10 million (neg: 105) on operating profit In early July 2018, Nobia agreed on a new syndicated bank excluding items affecting comparability. loan of SEK 2,000 million, valid until 2023, with two banks. 42 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 FINANCIAL OVERVIE W About SEK 840 million of this bank loan had been utilised at Götaland is the regulatory authority and decision-making year-end. body regarding permit applications. Nobia Production Sweden AB is certified to the ISO 14001 environmental management ACQU I S ITI O N S A N D D I V E STM E NT S ­s tandard. On 13 July 2018, Nobia acquired 100 per cent of the shares in BriAll of Nobia’s 14 production units, located in seven Eurobus Holding B.V, a Dutch kitchen supplier with a leading position pean countries, satisfy the environmental requirements deterin the Dutch project market for kitchens. Bribus supplies kitchens mined by each country and 11 of these have been awarded to professional customers in the Netherlands, primarily to social ISO14001 certification. housing providers and large-scale property investors. The kitchNobia works conscientiously with sustainability through the ens are manufactured at a production facility in Dinxperlo, the implementation of a Group-wide sustainability strategy. Nobia’s Netherlands, and the offering also includes installation and applikey sustainability-related performance indicators are presented ances. In 2017, Brisus generated income of about EUR 65 million on pages 104–107. Nobia’s statutory sustainability report can be and had an operating margin in line with Nobia’s financial targets. found on pages 30–40 and 104–107. The purchase consideration consisted of a remuneration of EUR 60 million on a cash and debt-free basis, and a variable PRO D UC T D E V E LO PM E NT remuneration of a maximum of EUR 5 million, conditional upon All product development for the Group-wide range is manthe development of the operations until the end of 2020. Bribus aged centrally. Work on producing new products is focused on has been included in Nobia’s accounts since 1 July 2018. a number of areas that meet specific customer requirements. No divestments took place in 2018. During the course of the process, prototypes are developed that are tested on consumers. S I G N I F I C A NT E V E NT S A F TE R TH E E N D O F TH E YEAR PA RE NT CO M PA N Y Nobia’s Nomination Committee announced on 12 February 2019 The Parent Company Nobia AB’s operations comprise Groupthat Lilian Fossum Biner, Christina Ståhl and Ricard ­Wennerklint wide functions and the ownership of subsidiaries. The limited had declined re-election and that the Nomination Committee liability company is domiciled in Sweden and the head office is proposes that the Board of Directors comprise seven members, located in Stockholm. entailing a reduction of two members. George Adams, Hans The Parent Company’s profit after financial items amounted Eckerström, Morten Falkenberg, Nora Førisdal Larssen, Jill Little to SEK 829 million (742) and mainly consisted of dividends from and Stefan Jacobson are proposed for re-election. Marlene subsidiaries. ­Forsell is proposed as a new Board member. The Nomination Committee also proposes that Hans Eckerström be re-elected TH E S H A RE A N D OW N E R S H I P STRUC TU RE Chairman of the Board. The Nobia share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since Dan Josefsberg took office as Executive Vice President and 2002. Nobia’s share capital amounted to SEK 56,763,597 Chief Strategy, Marketing and Customer Experience Officer on (58,430,237) on 31 December 2018, divided between 1 March 2019. 170,293,458 (175,293,458) shares with a quotient value of SEK 0.33. Nobia has only one class of share. Each share, with the F UTU RE OUTLOO K exception of bought-back treasury shares, entitles the holder Demand for kitchens normally follows the same business cycle to one vote, and carries the same entitlement to the company’s as other consumer discretionary products. capital and profits. The combination of macroeconomic uncertainty caused by In 2007 and 2008, Nobia bought back a total of 8,162,300 Brexit and the slowdown in the Nordic new-build sector means own shares at a value of SEK 468,056,934 under the authorithat market conditions and demand in 2019 are considered chalsation mandate granted by the 2007 and 2008 Annual Genlenging. However, the market outlook for our main markets in eral Meetings. The aim was to enable whole or partial acquisithe Central Europe region is deemed slightly more stable. tion financing through payment using treasury shares, but also to Nobia will continue to focus on increasing efficiency over adjust the company’s capital structure and thereby contribute to time, and taking greater advantage of the Group’s size, while also higher shareholder value. making significant investments in order to generate profitable The 2018 Annual General Meeting authorised the Board to growth. decide on the buy-back of up to 10 per cent of the total treasury shareholding and, for the period until the 2019 Annual PE R SO N N E L General Meeting, to decide on the transfer of treasury shares In 2018, the average number of employees was 6,178 (6,178). for the purpose of delivering shares under the Performance The number of employees at year-end was 6,081 (6,087). Bribus, Share Plan resolved in 2015. The 2018 Annual General Meetwhich was acquired in 2018, had 303 employees at year-end. ing also resolved to reduce Nobia’s share capital by withdrawing 5,000,000 treasury shares. E N V I RO N M E NT A N D S U STA I N A B I LIT Y At the start of May, the Board decided to transfer 103,003 Nobia conducts activities that require a permit under the Swedbought-back shares, comprising 0.06 per cent of the Parent ish Environmental Code through Nobia Production Sweden AB, Company’ share capital, based on the authorisation from the which includes Nobia’s Swedish operations in production, logisAnnual General Meeting. This decision to reduce share capitics and sourcing. In 2018, the production facility in Tidaholm tal was then executed on 9 July 2018 when 5,000,000 treasury affected the external environment through mainly noise and shares were withdrawn. Accordingly, the number of shares in emissions to air in conjunction with the surface treatment Nobia declined from 175,293,458 to 170,293,458 and the share of wooden items. The County Administrative Board of Västra capital was reduced from SEK 58,430,237 to SEK 56,763,597. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 43 FINANCIAL OVERVIE W No shares were bought back during the year. At the end of term remuneration plan is also expected to assist the company 2018, the number of treasury shares amounted to 1,606,568, in recruiting and retaining senior executives. corresponding to 0.9 per cent of the total number of shares. The Remuneration Committee’s evaluation shows that the These shares were acquired in 2007 and 2008 for a total conditions established for the Performance Share Plans are amount of SEK 92,112,918. deemed appropriate and relevant and, in the Remuneration At year-end, the ten largest owners held about 65.9 per Committee’s opinion, there is reason to continue with a longcent of the shares. The single largest shareholder, Nordstjernan, term share-based remuneration scheme. represented 22.7 per cent of the shares. If Skadeförsäkring held 10.7 per cent of the shares, the Fourth Swedish National PenPRO POSA L O N RE M U N E R ATI O N G U I D E LI N E S sion Fund 7.4 per cent and Swedbank Robur funds 6.2 per cent. A N D OTH E R E M PLOY M E NT CO N D ITI O N S FO R Nobia’s lenders have the option of terminating all loans if the G RO U P M A N AG E M E NT 2 019 control of the company were to be significantly altered. If any one The Board of Directors of Nobia AB proposes that the 2019 party, or jointly with other parties (under formal or informal forms) Annual General Meeting decide on the following guidelines for gains control of the company, the lenders are entitled to termidetermining remuneration and employment conditions for the nate all outstanding loans for payment. The term “control of the President and other members of Group management. Group company” pertains to control of more than half of the total nummanagement, including the President, currently comprises 12 ber of votes or capital, or the acquisition of direct and decisive influindividuals. ence over the appointment of the Board of Directors or members Basing its opinion on, for example, the follow-up and evaluof Group management. Control of the company is also deemed to ation performed by the Remuneration Committee, the Board arise if a party, alone or jointly with other parties, can exercise direct believes that the proposed proposal on remuneration guideand decisive influence over the company’s financial and strategic lines and other employment conditions for Group management position. If such a situation were to arise whereby the control of the – which essentially conforms to those guidelines adopted by the company were to be significantly altered, the lender and Nobia shall 2018 Annual General Meeting – represents an appropriate balbegin negotiations that shall last for a maximum of 30 days. ance between fixed cash salary, variable cash salary, long-term The aim of these negotiations is to reach an agreement share-based remuneration, pension conditions and other benebetween the lenders and Nobia. If an agreement is not reached, fits. Nobia’s salary policy stipulates that total remuneration is to the lender is entitled to terminate all outstanding loans for correspond to market levels. A continuous position evaluation is immediate payment. carried out to ensure market levels in each country. More information on the share and shareholders is preMembers of Group management receive both a fixed and sented on pages 100–101. a variable salary portion. The fundamental principle is that the variable salary portion may amount to a maximum of 40 per RE M U N E R ATI O N G U I D E LI N E S A N D OTH E R cent of fixed annual salary. The exception to this principle is E M PLOY M E NT CO N D ITI O N S FO R G ROU P the President, whose variable salary portion may amount to a M A N AG E M E NT 2 018 maxi­mum of 65 per cent of fixed annual salary. Exceptions may The guidelines for 2018 essentially correspond with the proalso be made for senior executives following decisions by the posed guidelines for 2019, as presented below. Board. The variable salary portion is normally divided between several targets, such as the Group’s earnings, earnings in the RE M U N E R ATI O N CO M M IT TE E business unit for which the manager is responsible and individual/ The Board of Directors appoints a Remuneration Committee from quantitative targets. The variable portion is based on an earning within its ranks. The Committee’s tasks include preparing proposals period of one year. The targets for the President are determined with respect to remuneration for the President, and to reach deciby the Board. The targets for the other senior executives are sions on remuneration proposals for managers who report directly established by the President following recommendations by the to the President. The Remuneration Committee performs annual Board’s Remuneration Committee. follow-ups and evaluations of the ongoing variable-remuneration In the event of a maximum outcome, which presupposes programmes, and the programmes completed during the year. The that all bonus-related targets are fulfilled, the variable salary Remuneration Committee also monitors and evaluates the applicosts for Group management are estimated to be approxication of the principles resolved by the Annual General Meeting for mately SEK 16,600,000 (excluding social security contributions). remuneration and other employment conditions for Group manThe calculation is based on the current composition of Group agement concerning remuneration structures and remuneration management and does not take into account any decreases in levels, and otherwise considers needs for changes. the maximum variable salary portion associated with participaFollowing on from its evaluations, the Remuneration Comtion in the long-term performance share plan. mittee stated that remuneration to senior executives in 2018 Members of Group management employed in Sweden are conformed to the remuneration guidelines resolved at the 2018 entitled to a pension under the ITP system or equivalent. The Annual General Meeting. In the opinion of the Remuneration age of retirement is 65. In addition to the ITP plan, following a Committee, the guidelines were appropriate and the application resolution by the Board, members of Group management are of them was correct. entitled to an increased occupational pension premium on salary Nobia has implemented long-term performance-based portions amounting to more than 30 basic amounts. remuneration plans, following a resolution at each Annual GenEmployment contracts for Group management include proeral Meeting since 2005 in order to link employee remuneravisions regulating remuneration and termination of employtion to the company’s future earnings and value trend and thus ment. According to these contracts, employment may ordinarily reward both shareholders and the relevant employees. A longbe terminated upon the employee’s request with a six-month 44 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 FINANCIAL OVERVIE W period of notice and at the company’s request with a 12-month The share rights are allocated free of charge and to be entiperiod of notice. tled to receive shares under the share rights, it is required, with A resolution was made at the 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 certain exemptions, that the participant remains employed Annual General Meetings to establish a long-term remunerawithin the Nobia Group. The participants are not entitled to tion scheme based on matching and performance shares. The transfer, pledge or dispose of the share rights or exercise any schemes, which encompassed some 100 individuals comprising shareholders’ rights regarding the share rights during the Vestsenior executives and senior managers, were based on the paring Period. If Nobia issues a dividend to shareholders, the particticipants investing in Nobia shares that were “locked into” the ipants of the Performance Share Plan 2019 will be compensated plan. Each Nobia share invested in under the framework of the by increasing the number of shares that each share right carries plan entitled the participant, following a vesting period of about entitlement to. These share rights are divided into Series A and three years and provided that certain conditions were fulfilled, Series B according to the various performance targets under the to allotment (for no consideration) of matching and perforPerformance Share Plan 2019. Half of each participant’s allotmance shares in Nobia. The conditions are linked to the particiment of share rights refers to Series A, and half to Series B. pant’s continued employment and ownership of invested shares, The number of share rights carrying entitlement to allotment and to fulfilment of a financial performance target. depends on fulfilment of the performance targets that apply The 2016 Annual General Meeting resolved to introduce a for each series of share. The Board sets a minimum level and a new long-term remuneration scheme directed to the same tarmaximum level for each performance target. The allotment of get group and with largely the same structure as the precedshare rights for Series A requires that target levels are achieved ing year’s programme, though without a requirement for investfor average operating profit in the 2019-2021 financial years. The ment of own shares and without the possibility of receiving allotment of share rights for Series B requires that target levels “matching shares.” The minimum level adopted by the Board during the period are achieved for annual average total sharefor allotment of shares under the Performance Share Plan 2016 holder return (TSR) on the Nobia share. was accumulated earnings per share, excluding items affecting For the President of the company, each Saving Share carcomparability for the 2016 and 2017 financial years, of SEK 11.75. ries entitlement to a maximum of seven share rights. For other The maximum level was set at SEK 13.75. Since the accumulated members of Group management, each Saving Share entitles the earnings per share excluding items affecting comparability for holder to a maximum of six share rights. For other senior execthe period amounted to SEK 11.69, the Board’s minimum target utives and managers, each Saving Share entitles the holder to figure for allotment was not achieved and no allotment of shares maximum of four share rights. Allotment of Nobia shares shall under the Performance Share Plan 2016 will take place. normally take place within two weeks of the announcement of At the 2017 and 2018 Annual General Meetings, decisions Nobia’s interim report for the first quarter of 2022. were made on long-term remuneration schemes with the same Costs are recognised as employee benefits in profit or loss structure as the remuneration scheme adopted at the 2016 over the vesting period in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Annual General Meeting. One of the requirements for allotPayment. Social security contributions will be expensed in profit ment of shares under the programs is meeting a financial perforor loss in accordance with UFR 7 over the vesting period. The mance target linked to accumulated earnings per share for Nobia amount of these costs will be calculated based on Nobia’s shareduring the 2017–2018 and 2018-2019 financial years. For the 2017 price trend over the vesting period and allotment of share rights. Plan, the Board adopted a minimum level for allotment of shares For more information about the proposed performance share related to accumulated earnings per share, excluding items affectplan, including estimated total costs for the programme, refer to ing comparability for the 2017 and 2018 financial years, of SEK the Board’s separate proposal to this effect. 12.00. The maximum level was set at SEK 13.75. Since the accumulated earnings per share excluding items affecting comparabilPRO POS E D A PPRO PRI ATI O N O F PRO F IT S ity for the period amounted to SEK 11.11, the Board’s minimum The following profits in the Parent Company are at the dispositarget figure for allotment was not achieved and no allotment of tion of the Annual General Meeting: shares under the Performance Share Plan 2017 will take place. Share premium reserve 52,225,486 The Board has again proposed a long-term performance Unappropriated profit brought forward  586,241,165 share plan to the 2019 Annual General Meeting. The PerforNet profit for the year  817,302,342 mance Share Plan 2019 mostly has the same structure as the Total SEK  1,455,768,993 remuneration scheme adopted at the 2018 Annual General Meeting. Performance Share Plan 2019 comprises approximately The Board of Directors proposes that all profits at the disposi100 employees consisting of senior executives and senior mantion of the Annual General Meeting be appropriated as follows: agers within the Nobia Group. Participation in the plan requires an employee’s private investment in Nobia shares. At the end Standard dividend of SEK 4.00 per of the vesting period, the participants will be allotted shares in share to be paid to shareholders  674,747,560 Nobia free of charge, provided that certain conditions are fulTo be carried forward  781,021,433 filled. The allotment of shares requires that the performance Total SEK  1,455,768,993 targets related to average operating profit (EBIT) and total shareholder return (TSR) on the company’s shares have been The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 4.00 per share (7.00) for achieved. However, if the EBIT performance target has been the 2018 financial year. The record date to be entitled to receive achieved but the TSR target on the Nobia share is negative, no a dividend is proposed as Monday, 6 May 2019. If the Annual allotment will take place. General Meeting resolves in accordance with the proposal, the dividend is expected to be paid on Thursday, 9 May 2019. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 45 R ISK S AND R ISK MANAGEMENT RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Nobia is exposed to both commercial and financial risks. Commercial risks can be divided into strategic, business development-related, operating, sustainability-related, political and legal risks as well as information and IT risks. Financial risks are attributable to currencies, interest rates, liquidity, borrowing and credit granting, financial instruments and pensions. All business operations are associated with risks. Risks that are declines. Nobia works continuously to transfer price increases well-managed can create opportunities, whereas risks that are on materials to consumers where possible. not managed correctly may lead to damage and losses. The aim Demand is deemed to have gradually slowed in the ­Nordic of Nobia’s risk management is to create awareness of risks and and Central Europe regions in 2018. The market outlook for the consequently limit, control and manage them, while safeguarding new-build segment in the Nordic market has weakened combusiness opportunities and strengthening profitability. pared with the preceding year. In the UK, which accounts for Identified materials risks are managed on an ongoing basis at about 42 per cent (45) of the Group’s total sales, the macro­ all levels in Nobia and in strategic planning. The Board of Direceconomic uncertainty resulting from Brexit had a negative tors is responsible to the shareholders for the company’s risk impact on the kitchen market. Nobia has made preparations in management. Company management regularly reports on risk the event of a no-deal Brexit, including building up a safety stock issues to the Board. of components and fronts. Nobia is continuing to capitalise on synergies and economies of scale through harmonisation of the STR ATEG I C RI S K S range, co-ordination of production and more efficient sourcing. Corporate-governance and policy risks Demand for Nobia’s products is influenced by trends in the Corporate-governance and policy risks are managed by Nobia housing market, whereby prices, the number of transactions and continuously developing the Group’s internal control. access to financing are key factors. Four-fifths of the European The internal dissemination of appropriate information is ensured kitchen market is estimated to comprise purchases for renovathrough the company’s management systems and processes. A tion, and one-fifth for new builds. Nobia’s strategy is based on more detailed description is provided in the Group management large-scale product supply, product development and the utilisasection of the Corporate Governance Report on page 98. tion of the positioning of the Group’s strong brands in the various markets and sales channels. Nobia’s various offerings are also B U S I N E S S D E V E LO PM E NT RI S K S based on the strategy of providing added value to customers in Risks associated with business development, such as acquisitions the form of complete solutions with accessories and installation. and major structural changes, are managed by the Group’s M&A department and central programme office, and by specific projCustomers ect groups organised for the various projects. Continuous folKitchens to end customers are sold through 248 own stores and low-ups are carried out compared with plans and expected outa network of franchise stores, as well as DIY stores, furniture comes. More long-term risks are initially addressed by the Board chains and other retailers. Conducting sales through own and in its Group strategy planning. In conjunction with this, Nobia’s franchise stores is a deliberate strategy to achieve greater influbusiness development is evaluated and discussed based on ence over the kitchen offering to end customers, which contribexternal and internal considerations. utes to better co-ordination of the Group’s supply chain. A risk with franchises is that retailers are unable to fulfil their contracO PE R ATI N G RI S K S tual commitments, which may have a negative effect on sales. However, the franchise solution involves lower fixed costs. Market and competition In 2018, nine Norema stores were converted to franchise Nobia operates in markets exposed to competition and mature stores and one Norema store was closed. All Norema stores markets, which means that underlying demand in normal marwere franchise stores at 31 December 2018. The background ket circumstances is relatively stable. The company’s cyclical to the decision to convert own stores under the Norema brand nature does not deviate from that of other companies in the to franchise stores is that this kitchen chain is not deemed large industry. Nobia has a structured and proactive method for folenough to generate synergies, and that the franchise model has lowing demand fluctuations. Robust measures and cost-savproven successful in the Norwegian kitchen market. ing programmes for adjusting capacity have proven that Nobia Sales to professional customers are conducted with regional can adjust its cost level when demand for the Group’s products and local construction companies via a specialised sales organi46 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 R ISK S AND R ISK MANAGEMENT sation or directly through the store network. Concentrating on Human capital risks these large separate customers entails an elevated risk of losing Nobia needs to attract and retain skilled and motivated employsales if a large customer is lost as well as increased credit risk. ees to conduct its business operations with high long-term profitability and endeavours to be an attractive employer. To ensure Supply chain availability of and skills development for motivated employees, Nobia’s cost structure in 2018 comprised about 61 per cent varimanager sourcing and managerial development is administered able costs (raw materials, components, accessories), about 29 by a central unit at Nobia. For a more detailed description, refer per cent semi-variable costs (personnel costs, marketing and to our sustainability report on pages 39-40. maintenance) and about 10 per cent fixed costs (rents, depreciation, insurance). The division of costs is relatively equal between S U STA I N A B I LIT YRE L ATE D C H A LLE N G E S A N D the main markets, except that the UK region has a slightly higher O PPO RTU N ITI E S percentage of fixed costs due to its extensive store networks. Sustainability risks are related to all four areas of the UN Global Nobia’s proprietary manufacturing mainly comprises the Compact: environment, human rights, labour and anti-corrupproduction and installation of cabinets and doors, together with tion. Risks related to climate change and global warming, the purchased components. risk of shortcoming in the controls of subcontractors and suppliIn 2018, Nobia purchased materials and components valued ers, work-related accidents or serious environmental incidents at about SEK 5.4 billion, of which some 21 per cent pertained to at Nobia’s workplaces, and unforeseen increased customer raw materials (such as chipboard and packaging materials), about demand for sustainable products and production processes are 53 per cent to components (such as handles, worktops and relevant risks for Nobia. Managing sustainability risks is an intehinges) and about 26 per cent to goods for resale (such as appligrated part of existing central processes and a parameter in the ances). The underlying raw materials to which the Group is pricentral risk analysis. For a more detailed description, refer to our marily exposed are wood, steel, aluminium and plastics. Cost sustainability report on pages 30-40 and 104-105. variations can be caused by changes in the prices of raw materials in the global market or suppliers’ ability to deliver. PO LITI C A L A N D LEGA L RI S K S Nobia’s sourcing organisation works closely with its suppliNobia operates in seven countries and is thus affected by country-­ ers to ensure efficient flows of materials. In 2018, market prices specific rules and regulations between countries. These include increased for board material and components, as well as other general regulations on trade barriers, taxes and financial reporting, raw materials, such as metals, oil, wood products and packaging but also more specific rules, such as subsidies for new builds materials. Demand for board material is expected to increase and/or renovation or changes to the taxation of residential for reasons including higher demand from the housing construc­properties, may influence demand. Tax deductions on labour tion industry, and weak competition and limited manufacturing for home renovations, for example, have had a positive effect ­ capacity among suppliers. The Group’s sourcing and production on demand in several Nordic countries. All Nobia units are functions are continuously evaluated to reduce product costs. responsible within their individual area to monitor and evaluate Property risks in the form of loss of production, for examchanges in the business world and changes to legislation. ple, in the event of a fire at manufacturing units, are minimised by Nobia conducting annual technical risk inspections jointly I N FO RM ATI O N A N D IT RI S K S with the Group’s insurers and the risk consulting firm AON that Nobia is dependent on IT systems in its daily operations. Disrup­ reports on deviations from Nobia’s “Standard for Loss-Preventions or errors in critical systems may have a direct impact on tion Measures.” Preventive measures are continuously impleproduction. Incorrect handling of financial systems could impact mented to reduce the risk of disruptions in the operations. the reporting of the company’s results. Risks linked to cyber security have generally increased in importance and could have a Strategy and restructuring significant impact on our operations. The General Data ProtecNobia’s ability to increase profitability and returns for sharetion Regulation (GDPR) sets strict requirements on how comholders is heavily dependent on the Group’s success in developpanies process personal data. Non-compliance with the Regulaing innovative products, maintaining cost-efficient manufacturing tion could result in high fines. and capitalising on synergies. Managing restructuring measures Nobia has established an IT model that includes governance, is a key factor in maintaining and enhancing Nobia’s competistandardised IT processes and an information security organisativeness. In 2018, the Group’s brand portfolio, innovation, product-­ tion. Standardised processes are in place for implementing and range development, production and sourcing continued to be changing systems and IT services, as well as the daily operations. co-ordinated. In 2018, Nobia continued to invested in digital Nobia’s IT system landscape is based on well-known products, aids, such as drawing tools and e-commerce services that allow such as SAP. customers to both draw and purchase their kitchen online. In 2017, Nobia launched a new store concept aimed at increasing F I N A N C I A L RI S K S customer participation, improving the customer experience and In addition to strategic and operating risks, Nobia is exposed to enhancing sales efficiency. This venture continued in 2018. The various financial risks. These are mainly attributable to currenstrategic direction is described in more detail on pages 14–17. cies, interest rates, liquidity, borrowing and credit granting, finanThe implementation of these plans entails operating risks, cial instruments and pensions. All of these risks are managed which are addressed every day in the ongoing change process. in accordance with the finance policy, which has been adopted Restructuring is a complex process that requires the manageby the Board. For a more detailed description, refer to Note 2 ment of a series of different activities and risks. Financial risks on pages 67-69. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 47 R ISK S AND R ISK MANAGEMENT Currency exposure C H A N G E S I N VA LU E I N BA L A N C E S H E E T Transaction flows have the greatest impact on currency – when In addition to the financial risks that are regulated in the finance costs for sourcing or production are in one currency, and sales policy adopted by the Board, there is also a risk for changes in are conducted in another. The Group uses currency derivatives value in the balance sheet. to hedge a portion of the currency exposure that arises. CurA structured work model is applied to test the value of rency hedging means that the impact of currency movements assets and liability items in the balance sheet. occurring today will be delayed to some extent. Nobia is also affected by translation differences when consolidated sales and Impairment testing of goodwill operating income are translated into SEK. For a more detailed Nobia’s balance sheet includes acquisition goodwill totalling description, refer to Note 2 Financial risks on pages 67-69. SEK 2,887 million (2,361). The value of this asset item is tested annually and more often if there is any indication of impairment Sensitivity analysis – transaction effects of currencies requirement. In 2018, the testing did not indicate any impairThe diagram shows the major currency pairs and the trend since ment requirement. 2010. The impact of a weak EUR and DKK, and a strong NOK For a more detailed description, refer to Note 1 Signifiand GBP, on Nobia’s earnings is generally favourable. cant accounting policies on pages 60–66 and Note 14 Intangible A significant portion of the UK operation’s components are assets on page 75. purchased in EUR, while finished products are subsequently sold in GBP. The net effect of this currency pair means that a strong Calculation of pension liabilities EUR against the GBP is negative for the Group. Nobia’s balance sheet includes pension liabilities of SEK 505 milA proportion of the Swedish operation’s costs for matelion (567) that pertain to defined-benefit pension plans in the rial purchases are conducted in EUR. A strong SEK against the UK, Austria and Sweden. All pension plans are calculated every EUR is therefore positive for the Group. A significant portion of year by actuaries in accordance with IAS 19. the Swedish production of components and finished products is For a more detailed description, refer to Note 1 Significant sold in Norway. A weak SEK against the NOK is therefore posiaccounting policies on pages 60–66 and Note 25 Provisions for tive for the Group. pensions on pages 80–81 . The Danish unit conducts a significant portion of its sales in Norway, but also in Sweden. A weak DKK against the NOK and the SEK is therefore positive for the Group. For a more detailed description and a sensitivity analysis, refer to Note 2 Financial risks on pages 67–69 . E U R /G B P/ ±5% = S E K ±55 m +  E U R / S E K / ±5% = S E K ±24 m +  1.0 12.0 0.9 11.0 0.8 10.0 0.7 9.0 0.6 8.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 N O K / S E K / ±5% = S E K ±16 m +  N O K / D K K / ±5% = S E K ±21 m +  1.3 1.1 1.2 1.0 1.1 0.9 1,,0 0.8 0.9 0.7 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 48 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S [ U P P DAT E R A S ] FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated income statement 50 Note 14 Intangible assets 75 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 51 Note 15 Tangible fixed assets 76 Comments and analysis of income statement 52 Note 16 Financial fixed assets 76 Consolidated balance sheet 54 Note 17 Shares and participations in subsidiaries 77 Comments and analysis of balance sheet 55 Note 18 Derivative instruments 78 Change in consolidated shareholders’ equity 56 Note 19 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 78 Consolidated cash-flow statement and comments 57 Note 20 C ash and cash equivalents 78 Parent Company 58 Note 21 Share capital 78 Notes60 Note 22 Reserves in shareholders’ equity 78 Note 1 Significant accounting policies 60 Note 23 Earnings per share 79 Note 2 Financial risks 67 Note 24 A ppropriation of company’s profit or loss 79 Note 3 Operating segments and Net sales 69 Note 25 Provisions for pensions 80 Note 4 C  osts for employee benefits and remuneration Note 26 Deferred tax  82 to senior executives 70 Note 27 O ther provisions  83 Note 5 Average number of employees 73 Note 28 Liabilities to credit institutions  83 Note 6 Remuneration to auditors 73 Note 29 Accrued expenses and deferred income 83 Note 7 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment by activity 73 Note 30 Financial assets and liabilities 83 Note 8 Other operating income 73 Note 31 Pledged assets, contingent liabilities and commitments 85 Note 9 Other operating expenses 73 Note 32 Discontinued operations  85 Note 10 Specification by type of cost 73 Note 33 Company acquisitions 85 Note 11 Operating leases 74 Note 34 Related-party transactions 86 Note 12 Financial income and expenses  74 Note 35 Specifications for statement of cash flows 86 Note 13 Tax on net profit for the year 74 Note 36 Events after the closing date 87 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 49 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT SEK m Note 2017 2018 Net sales 3 12,744 13,209 Cost of goods sold 4, 7, 10, 11, 25 -7,730 -8,119 Gross profit 5,014 5,090 Selling expenses 4, 7, 10, 11, 25 -3,022 -3,255 Administrative expenses 4, 6, 7, 10, 11, 25 -729 -776 Other operating income 8 129 149 Other operating expenses 9 -106 -190 Operating profit 1,286 1,018 Financial income 12 9 10 Financial expenses 12 -45 -42 Profit after financial items 1,250 986 Tax on net profit for the year 13, 26 -256 -233 Net profit for the year from continuing operations 994 753 Profit from discontinued operations, net after tax 32 21 – Net profit for the year 1,015 753 Net profit for the year attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 1,015 753 Non-controlling interests 0 – Net profit for the year 1,015 753 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK1) 23 6.02 4.46 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK1) 23 6.02 4.46 Earnings per share from continuing operations, before dilution, SEK 23 5.89 4.46 Earnings per share from continuing operations, after dilution, SEK 23 5.89 4.46 Number of shares before dilution2) 23 168,583,887 168,686,890 Average number of shares before dilution2) 23 168,547,081 168,652,556 Number of shares after dilution2) 23 168,712,248 168,686,890 Average number of shares after dilution2) 23 168,702,097 168,686,890 1) Earnings/loss per share attributable to Parent Company shareholders. 2) Shares outstanding, less bought-back shares. 50 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SEK m Note 2017 2018 Net profit for the year 1,015 753 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Exchange-rate differences attributable to translation of foreign operations1 22 -18 98 Cash-flow hedges before tax 2) 22 14 -7 Tax attributable to hedging reserve for the period3) 22 -3 2 -7 93 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined-benefit pension plans 25 277 100 Tax attributable to remeasurements of defined-benefit pension plans -46 -17 231 83 Other comprehensive income for the year 224 176 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,239 929 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 1,239 929 Non-controlling interests 0 – Total comprehensive income for the year 1,239 929 1) Of which a negative SEK 44 million in 2017 refers to accumulated exchange-rate differences for the Poggenpohl operations. 2) Reversal recognised in profit or loss of a negative SEK 10 million (pos: 5). New provision amounts to SEK 3 million (9). 3) Reversal recognised in profit or loss of SEK 3 million (neg: 1). New provision amounts to a negative SEK 1 million (neg: 2). N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 51 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S COMMENTS AND ANALYSIS OF INCOME STATEMENT Net sales rose 4 per cent to SEK 13,209 million (12,744). For comparable units and adjusted for currency effects, the change in net sales was a negative 4 per cent. The relationship is shown in the table below. A N A LYS I S O F N E T SA L E S QUARTER JAN-DEC % I II III IV SEK m 2017 12,744 Organic growth -6 -2 -5 -2 -4 -469 – of which Nordic region1) -1 1 -1 -3 -1 -69 – of which UK region1) -12 -6 -9 0 -7 -404 – of which Central Europe region1) 1 10 3 -11 1 4 Currency effect 2 4 8 5 5 584 Acquired companies – – 5 7 3 350 2018 -4 3 8 9 4 13,209 1) Organic growth for each organisational region. N E T SA L E S A N D PRO F IT BY R EG I O N Nordic UK Central Europe Group-wide and region region region eliminations Group SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Net sales from external customers 6,515 6,705 5,710 5,597 519 907 – – 12,744 13,209 Net sales from other regions 1 0 – – 2 2 -3 -2 – – Total net sales 6,516 6,705 5,710 5,597 521 909 -3 -2 12,744 13,209 Gross profit 2,638 2,590 2,172 2,190 152 256 52 54 5,014 5,090 Gross margin, % 40.5 38.6 38.0 39.1 29.2 28.2 – – 39.3 38.5 Operating profit/loss 963 841 454 257 12 58 -143 -138 1,286 1,018 Operating profit/loss excl. items affecting comparability 963 841 454 323 12 58 -143 -138 1,286 1,084 Operating margin, % 14.8 12.5 8.0 4.6 2.3 6.4 – – 10.1 7.7 Operating margin excl. items affecting comparability, % 14.8 12.5 8.0 5.8 2.3 6.4 – – 10.1 8.2 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of fixed assets for the year recognised in operating profit amounted to SEK 326 million (287). I M PAC T O F E XC H A N G E R ATE S (O PE R ATI N G PRO F IT E XC LU D I N G ITE M S A F F EC TI N G CO M PA R A B I L IT Y ) Translation effect Transaction effect Total effect 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Nordic region 15 35 -15 -55 0 -20 UK region -25 15 -80 -5 -105 10 Central Europe region 0 5 0 -5 0 0 Group -10 55 -95 -65 -105 -10 52 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Q UA RTE R LY DATA PE R R EG I O N 2017 2018 I II III IV I II III IV Net sales, SEK m Nordic 1,672 1,756 1,398 1,690 1,682 1,851 1,474 1,698 UK 1,527 1,520 1,377 1,286 1,367 1,498 1,378 1,354 Central Europe 116 133 131 141 124 155 291 339 Group-wide and eliminations 0 -1 -1 -1 0 -1 0 -1 Group 3,315 3,408 2,905 3,116 3,173 3,503 3,143 3,390 Gross profit, SEK m Nordic 671 721 565 681 669 731 557 633 UK 570 588 518 496 543 599 543 505 Central Europe 36 42 41 33 35 50 70 101 Group-wide and eliminations 14 10 17 11 13 13 14 14 Group 1,291 1,361 1,141 1,221 1,260 1,393 1,184 1,253 Gross margin, % Nordic 40.1 41.1 40.4 40.3 39.8 39.5 37.8 37.3 UK 37.3 38.7 37.6 38.6 39.7 40.0 39.4 37.3 Central Europe 31.0 31.6 31.3 23.4 28.2 32.3 24.1 29.8 Group 38.9 39.9 39.3 39.2 39.7 39.8 37.7 37.0 Operating profit, SEK m Nordic 212 297 208 246 213 278 185 165 UK 96 154 137 67 79 134 105 -61 Central Europe 4 5 7 -4 2 9 10 37 Group-wide and eliminations -39 -43 -34 -27 -39 -34 -33 -32 Group 273 413 318 282 255 387 267 109 Operating profit excl. items affecting comparability, SEK m Nordic 212 297 208 246 213 278 185 165 UK 96 154 137 67 79 134 105 5 Central Europe 4 5 7 -4 2 9 10 37 Group-wide and eliminations -39 -43 -34 -27 -39 -34 -33 -32 Group 273 413 318 282 255 387 267 175 Operating margin, % Nordic 12.7 16.9 14.9 14.6 12.7 15.0 12.6 9.7 UK 6.3 10.1 9.9 5.2 5.8 8.9 7.6 -4.5 Central Europe 3.4 3.8 5.3 -2.8 1.6 5.8 3.4 10.9 Group 8.2 12.1 10.9 9.1 8.0 11.0 8.5 3.2 Operating margin excl. items affecting comparability, % Nordic 12.7 16.9 14.9 14.6 12.7 15.0 12.6 9.7 UK 6.3 10.1 9.9 5.2 5.8 8.9 7.6 0.4 Central Europe 3.4 3.8 5.3 -2.8 1.6 5.8 3.4 10.9 Group 8.2 12.1 10.9 9.1 8.0 11.0 8.5 5.2 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 53 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S CONSOLIDATED BAL ANCE SHEET SEK m Note 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 SEK m Note 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 ASSETS S H A R E H O L D E R S ’ EQ U IT Y Intangible assets 14 A N D L I A B I L ITI E S Goodwill 2,361 2,887 Attributable to Parent Company shareholders Other intangible assets 149 184 Share capital 21 58 57 2,510 3,071 Other contributed capital 1,486 1,484 Reserves 22 -264 -171 Tangible fixed assets 15 Profit brought forward 2,874 2,527 Land and buildings 585 650 Total shareholders’ equity 4,154 3,897 Investments in progress and advance payments 110 127 Machinery and other technical equipProvisions for guarantees 8 9 ment 440 469 Provisions for pensions (IB) 25 567 505 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 232 301 Deferred tax liabilities 26 89 75 1,367 1,547 Other provisions 27 32 33 Liabilities to credit institutions (IB) 2, 28 – 842 Interest-bearing long-term receivables Other liabilities (IB) 2 5 8 (IB) 16 5 2 Other liabilities, non-interest-bearing 2 – 44 Other long-term receivables 16 34 42 Total long-term liabilities 701 1,516 Deferred tax assets 26 118 97 Total fixed assets 4,034 4,759 Liabilities to credit institutions (IB) 2, 28 1 – Overdraft facilities (IB) 2, 20 – 74 Inventories Other liabilities (IB) 2 0 – Raw materials and consumables 258 296 Advance payments from customers 132 201 Products in progress 59 69 Accounts payable 2 1,106 1,050 Finished products 475 506 Provisions 27 – 36 Goods for resale 116 91 Current tax liabilities 109 94 908 962 Derivative instruments 2, 18 26 9 Other liabilities 2 378 356 Current receivables Accrued expenses and deferred income 29 573 533 Current tax assets 5 7 Total current liabilities 2,325 2,353 Accounts receivable 2 1,282 1,426 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 7,180 7,766 Derivative instruments 2.18 39 13 Interest-bearing current receivables (IB) 18 33 Of which interest-bearing items (IB) 573 1,429 Other receivables 2 48 45 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 19 373 393 Information on consolidated pledged assets and contingent liabilities is 1,765 1,917 provided in Note 31 on page 85. Cash and cash equivalents (IB) 20 473 128 Total current assets 3,146 3,007 Total assets 7,180 7,766 Of which interest-bearing items (IB) 496 163 54 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S COMMENTS AND ANALYSIS OF BAL ANCE SHEET G OO DW I L L The components of net debt are shown in the table below. Information on goodwill, including comments, is provided in Note 14 on page 75. CO M P O N E NT S O F N E T D E BT Group FINANCING SEK m 2017 2018 Net debt increased to SEK 1,266 million (77) at the end of the period. A positive operating cash flow of SEK 599 million and remeasurements Bank loans, etc. 1 842 of defined-benefit pension plans of SEK 100 million reduced net debt. Overdraft facilities – 74 The increase in net debt derived from acquisition of operations with a Provisions for pensions 567 505 total effect of SEK 618 million, change in pension liabilities of SEK 85 million, interest paid of SEK 11 million and dividends of SEK 1,180 million. The Leasing 5 8 SEK 85 million change in pension liabilities was primarily due to an adjustCash and cash equivalents -473 -128 ment as a result of a court ruling in the UK regarding defined-benefit penOther financial receivables -23 -35 sion plans in the 1990s. The debt/equity ratio was 32 per cent at the end of the year (2 per cent at the beginning of the year). The change in net debt is Total 77 1,266 shown in the table below. A N A LYS I S O F N E T D E BT Group SEK m 2017 2018 Opening balance 493 77 Acquisition of operations – 618 Divestment of operations 30 – Translation differences -3 -6 Operating cash flow -706 -599 Interest 7 11 Remeasurements of defined-benefit pension plans -277 -100 Change in pension liabilities 28 85 Dividends 505 1,180 Closing balance 77 1,266 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 55 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S CHANGE IN CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUIT Y Attributable to Parent Company shareholders Exchange-rate differences attributable Other to translation Cash-flow NonTotal contributed of foreign hedges after Profit brought controlling shareholders’ SEK m Share capital capital operations tax forward Total interests equity Opening balance, 1 January 2017 58 1,481 -253 -4 2,133 3,415 4 3,419 Net profit for the year – – – – 1,015 1,015 0 1,015 Other comprehensive income for the year – – -18 11 231 224 0 224 Total comprehensive income for the year – – -18 11 1,246 1,239 0 1,239 Dividends1) – – – – -505 -505 – -505 Change in non-controlling interests – – – – – – -4 -4 Allocation of performance share plan – 5 – – – 5 – 5 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 58 1,486 -271 7 2,874 4,154 – 4,154 Opening balance, 1 January 2018 58 1,486 -271 7 2,874 4,154 – 4,154 New accounting policy, financial instruments2) – – – – -4 -4 – -4 Restated opening balance, 1 January 2018 58 1,486 -271 7 2,870 4,150 – 4,150 Net profit for the year – – – – 753 753 – 753 Other comprehensive income for the year – – 98 -5 83 176 – 176 Total comprehensive income for the year – – 98 -5 836 929 – 929 Cancellation of treasury shares -1 – – – 1 – – – Dividends3) – – – – -1,180 -1,180 – -1,180 Allocation of performance share plan – -2 – – – -2 – -2 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 57 1,484 -173 2 2,527 3,897 – 3,897 1) The 2017 Annual General Meeting resolved on dividends of SEK 505 million, corresponding to SEK 3 per share. 2) Refer to Note 1 and the section IFRS 9 Financial instruments on page 60. 3) The 2018 Annual General Meeting resolved on dividends of SEK 1,180 million, corresponding to SEK 7 per share (of which SEK 3.5 per share comprised an extra dividend). 56 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT AND COMMENTS SEK m Note 2017 2018 CO M M E NT S O N TH E C A S H F LOW S TATE M E NT Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 1,001 million (987). Operating activities Working capital reduced cash flow by SEK 208 million (neg. 328) and was Operating profit 1,286 1,018 primarily attributable to lower current liabilities. Adjustments for nonOperating profit for discontinued cash items amounted to SEK 126 million (neg: 30) as specified in the table operations 20 – below. Depreciation/amortisation/impairA D J U S TM E NT S F O R N O N C A S H ITE M S ment 14, 15 287 326 SEK m 2017 2018 Other adjustments for non-cash items -30 126 Capital gains/losses on fixed assets -6 -6 Income tax paid -248 -261 Provisions -27 131 Change in inventories -68 4 Other 3 1 Change in operating receivables -160 7 Total -30 126 Change in operating liabilities -100 -219 Investments in fixed assets amounted to SEK 414 million (319). Operating Cash flow from operating activities 987 1,001 cash flow, that is, the cash flow after investments but excluding the acquisitions and divestments of operations, interest and increases/decreases in Investing activities interest-bearing assets, amounted to SEK 599 million (706). Investments in tangible fixed assets -262 -338 Investments in intangible assets -57 -76 Sale of tangible fixed assets 43 18 Interest received 3 2 Increase/decrease in interest-bearing assets -19 -12 Other items in investing activities -5 -6 Acquisition of operations 34 – -558 Divestment of operations -93 – Cash flow from investing activities -390 -970 Operating cash flow before acquisitions/divestments of subsidiaries, interest, increase/decrease in interest-bearing assets 706 599 Operating cash flow after acquisitions/divestments of subsidiaries, interest, increase/decrease in interest-bearing assets 597 31 Financing activities Interest paid -10 -13 Change in interest-bearing liabilities -8721 8182 Dividends -505 -1,180 Cash flow from financing activities -1,387 -375 Cash flow for the year excluding exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents -790 -344 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,266 473 Cash flow for the year -790 -344 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents -3 -1 Cash and cash equivalents at yearend 473 128 1) Repayment of loans comprising SEK 800 million. The remaining amount mainly consists of pension payments. 2) R aising and repayment of loans comprising a net SEK 802 million. The remaining change comprised pension payments and utilisation of overdraft facilities. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 57 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S PARENT COMPANY PA R E NT CO M PA N Y I N CO M E S TATE M E NT PA R E NT CO M PA N Y BA L A N C E S H E E T SEK m Note 2017 2018 SEK m Note 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 Net sales 224 254 ASSETS Administrative expenses 4, 6, 11, 25 -267 -265 Fixed assets Other operating income 8 5 3 Financial fixed assets Other operating expenses 9 -9 -3 Shares and participations in Group Operating profit -47 -11 companies 16, 17 1,379 1,378 Other securities held as fixed assets 5 4 Profit from participations in Group Total fixed assets 1,384 1,382 companies 12 791 800 Financial income 12 7 48 Current assets Financial expenses 12 -9 -8 Current receivables Profit after financial items 742 829 Accounts receivable 1 26 Group contributions received 230 220 Receivables from Group companies 2,839 2,483 Group contributions paid -52 -227 Other receivables 18 44 56 Tax on net profit for the year 13 -31 -5 Prepaid expenses and accrued Net profit for the year 889 817 income 19 52 62 Cash and cash equivalents 20 334 38 PA R E NT CO M PA N Y S TATE M E NT O F Total current assets 3,270 2,665 CO M PR E H E N S I V E I N CO M E TOTAL ASSETS 4,654 4,047 SEK m Note 2017 2018 Net profit for the year 889 817 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY, PROOther comprehensive income for the year – – VISIONS AND LIABILITIES Comprehensive income for the year 889 817 Shareholders’ equity Restricted shareholders’ equity PA R E NT CO M PA N Y C A S H F LOW S TATE M E NT Share capital1) 21 58 57 SEK m Note 2017 2018 Statutory reserve 1,671 1,671 Operating activities 1,729 1,728 Operating profit -47 -11 Adjustments for non-cash items 1 0 Non-restricted shareholders’ equity Dividends received 12 800 800 Share premium reserve 52 52 Group contributions received 230 220 Buy-back of shares -385 -92 Group contributions paid -52 -227 Profit brought forward 1,262 678 Interest received 12 7 48 Net profit for the year 889 817 Interest paid 12 -9 -8 1,818 1,455 Tax paid -4 -38 Total shareholders’ equity 3,547 3,183 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 926 784 Provisions Change in liabilities -304 -236 Provisions for pensions 25 17 19 Change in receivables -17 309 Deferred tax liabilities 5 5 Cash flow from operating activities 605 857 Total provisions 22 24 Investing activities Divestment of subsidiaries 84 0 Current liabilities Provisions for pensions 1 2 Overdraft facilities 28 – 25 Cash flow from investing activities 85 2 Accounts payable 23 24 Liabilities to Group companies 956 729 Financing activities Current tax liabilities 44 11 Increase in interest-bearing liabilities 0 25 Other liabilities 42 33 Dividends -505 -1,180 Accrued expenses and deferred Repayment of loans -800 0 income 18 20 18 Cash flow from financing activities -1,305 -1,155 Total current liabilities 29 1,085 840 Cash flow for the year -615 -296 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY, PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES 4,654 4,047 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 949 334 1) The number of shares outstanding was 168,686,890 (168,583,887). Cash flow for the year -615 -296 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 334 38 58 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S PA R E NT CO M PA N Y C H A N G E I N S H A R E H O L D E R S ’ EQ U IT Y Share premium Profit brought Total shareholders’ SEK m Share capital Statutory reserve1) reserve Buy-back of shares forward equity Opening balance, 1 January 2017 58 1,671 52 -391 1,769 3,159 Net profit for the year – – – – 889 889 Comprehensive income for the year – – – – 889 889 Dividends – – – – -505 -505 Treasury shares, reissued – – – 6 -6 – Allocation of performance share plan – – – – 4 4 Shareholders’ equity, 31 December 2017 58 1,671 52 -385 2,151 3,547 Opening balance, 1 January 2018 58 1,671 52 -385 2,151 3,547 Net profit for the year 817 817 Comprehensive income for the year – – – – 817 817 Cancellation of treasury shares -1 – – 287 -286 0 Dividends – – – – -1,180 -1,180 Treasury shares, reissued – – – 6 -6 0 Allocation of performance share plan – – – – -1 -1 Shareholders’ equity, 31 December 2018 57 1,671 52 -92 1,495 3,183 1) Of the Parent Company’s statutory reserve, SEK 1,390 million (1,390) comprises contributed shareholders’ equity. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 59 N OT E S NOTES NOTE 1 S I G N I F I C A N T ACCO U N T I N G P O L I C I E S CO M PL I A N C E W ITH S TA N DA R D S A N D L EG I S L ATI O N The Group’s deferred tax assets amounted to SEK 97 million (118) on 31 Nobia’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with December 2018. International Financial reporting Standards, IFRS, as published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as adopted by the European Defined-benefit pensions Union (EU). The Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation The Group’s defined-benefit pension plans are recognised according to RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups was also applied. common principles and calculation methods and are calculated by assessThe Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the Group ing future salary increases and inflation. The Group’s pension liabilities except in the cases described below under the section entitled “Parent amounted to SEK 505 million (567) on 31 December 2018. Company accounting policies.” The Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors C H A N G E D ACCO U NTI N G P O L I C I E S and President on 5 April 2019. The changed accounting policies applied by the Group from 1 January 2018 are described below. Other IFRS changes applied from 1 January 2018 did PR I N C I PL E S A PPL I E D I N TH E PR E PA R ATI O N O F TH E not have any material effect on the consolidated financial statements. The F I N A N C I A L S TATE M E NT S Group applies IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 for the first time from 1 January 2018. Assets and liabilities are recognised at historic acquisition value (cost), The transition methods that the Group has chosen to apply in the transiexcept for certain financial assets and liabilities and fixed assets held for tion to IFRS 9 and 15 entail that comparative information in the financial sale. Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value comprise derivastatements has not been restated to reflect the requirements of the new tive instruments. Fixed assets held for sale are recognised at the lower of standards. the carrying amount and fair value, less selling expenses. The transition effects from initial application of these standard are priReceivables and liabilities and income and expenses are offset only if marily related to: required or expressly permitted in an accounting recommendation. • earlier recognition of income relating to goods for project sales, the time The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), between delivery and installation is very short which entails insignificant which is also the presentation currency for the Parent Company and effects, about negative SEK 5 million. The revenue for the 2017 financial Group. Accordingly, the financial statements are presented in SEK. All year has not been restated for comparison with 2018, since the true and amounts are stated in SEK million (SEK m), unless otherwise stated. fair view, and thus our stakeholders’ assessment, of Nobia’s historical or The most significant accounting policies stated below are applied confuture financial performance is not deemed to be impacted. sistently to all of the periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. • an increase in impairment of financial assets relating to credit losses on Preparing the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires that accounts receivable amounting to approximately SEK 5 million. company management make assessments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the recognised amounts I F R S 9 F I N A N C I A L I N S TRU M E NT S of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. The actual outcome may difIFRS 9 establishes principles for the recognition and measurement of finanfer from these estimates and assessments. Estimates and assumptions are cial assets, financial liabilities and certain contracts for the purchase and regularly reviewed. Changes to estimates are recognised in the period in sale of non-financial instruments. This standard replaces IAS 39 Financial which the change is made if the change affects only that period, or in the Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. period in which the change is made and future periods if the change affects IFRS 9 contains three principle classification categories for financial both current periods and future periods. Assessments made by company assets: Measured at fair value through profit or loss, amortised cost or fair management in the application of IFRS that have a material impact on the value through other comprehensive income. financial statements and estimates made that may lead to significant adjustAssessments of the IFRS 9 classification of debt instruments are based ments in the financial statements of future financial years are primarily the on two criteria: (a) the company’s business model for holding the financial following: asset and (b) the instrument’s contractual cash flow characteristics. Equity instruments are classified at fair value through profit or loss, Impairment testing of goodwill except for when the company has decided to present the instruments at Goodwill is recognised at cost less any accumulated impairment. The fair value through other comprehensive income. Group regularly (at least once a year) performs impairment tests of goodThe rules on the recognition and measurement of financial liabilities are will, and when indicators of impairment exist, in accordance with the largely unchanged compared with IAS 39. accounting policies described under Note 14 Intangible assets on page 75. IFRS 9 replaces the “occurred loss model” from IAS 39 with an The assumptions and assessments made pertaining to expected cash flows “expected credit loss model.” Expected credit losses remove the requireand the discount rate in the form of weighted average cost of capital are ment of identifying an occurred loss event and introduces an expected loss described under Note 14 Intangible assets. Recognised goodwill amounted impairment model. This model establishes three step based on whether a to SEK 2,887 million (2,361) on 31 December 2018. significant increase in credit risk has occurred. For financial assets for which there is no significant increase in credit risk, a credit loss is to be reserved Deferred tax assets for the loss that is expected to occur within 12 months (“loss allowThe Group’s loss carryforwards for which deferred tax assets have been ance”). For financial assets for which a significant increase in credit risk has capitalised have a carrying amount of SEK 0 million (0). Deferred tax assets occurred and for those that are doubtful, a credit loss is to be recognised pertaining to loss carryforwards are capitalised to the extent it is prob­­for the loss that is expected to occur for full lifetime of the asset. ­able that carryforwards can be offset against surpluses in future taxation. From 2018, Nobia bases any impairment on expected credit losses and Particularly high demands are placed on the assessment if the company, impairment is no longer based solely on past events. However, impairment to which the loss carryforwards are attributable, has recognised losses in of accounts receivable may continue if unforeseen events have occurred. recent years. The amounts of capitalised and non-capitalised loss carry­ Such impairment is initially recognised for each individual receivable, but forwards in the Group are presented in Note 26 Deferred tax. If the may also be made collectively for a group of receivables of similar credit probability that non-capitalised loss carryforwards could be utilised in characteristics. future taxation in future annual accounts is deemed to be high, additional When calculating the expected credit losses, Nobia takes into considamounts may be capitalised, with a corresponding positive amount receration historical bad debt losses, performs an analysis of respective cusognised in profit or loss. The reverse applies if markets were to signifitomer segments, and observes macroeconomic effects on customers’ concantly deteriorate in forthcoming years. The current assessment is that the ditions such as the impact of Brexit on the local market. probability of such increases or declines in the value in the balance sheet Hedge accounting: The rule permit companies to better reflect the comduring the forthcoming year is not high, although this cannot be ruled out pany’s risk-management activities in the financial statements and introduce if conditions in the kitchen markets were to change more than expected. less detailed rules for assessing the effectiveness of hedges. 60 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 N OT E S Not 1 continued IFRS 9 largely retains the same requirements for the recognition and ments. There are exemptions for short-term leases and low-value assets. measurement of financial liabilities as IAS 39. The introduction of IFRS 9 Recogni­tion for the lessor is similar to the current standard, meaning that did not have any material effect on the Group’s accounting policies related the lessor continues to clarify leases as finance or operating leases. to financial liabilities and derivative instruments. IFRS 16 Leases will replace existing IFRSs related to recognising leases such as IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Transition Contains a Lease, SIC 15 Operating Leases – Incentives and SIC 27 Evaluating The following table summarises the effect, net after tax, of the transithe Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease. tion to IFRS 9 on opening balances, profit brought forward. As the transition method, Nobia chose to utilise the exception to not restate comparaLeases in which the Group is lessee ble information for previous years regarding recognition and measurement During the current year, the Group identified material leases that are (including impairment). Differences in carrying amount attributable to deemed to be affected by IFRS 16 Leases. These contracts have been financial assets and liabilities are recognised in profit brought forward at 1 divided into the asset classes of premises, vehicles and other. In order to January 2018 according to the table below. provide the necessary information on how IFRS 16 Leases impacts the Group’s accounts, it implemented system support that collates informaBefore After tion about all material leases. The system will be continuously updated. 31 Dec 2017 (SEK m) adjustment Adjustment adjustment Based on the review of the leases, the Group has concluded that premAccounts receivable 1,282 -5 1,277 ises is the class of asset that will have the greatest impact on the carrying Deferred tax assets 118 1 119 amount of assets and liabilities due to the introduction of IFRS 16 Leases. Profit brought forward 2,874 -4 2,870 The Group also intends to direct its subsidiaries to make as similar assessments as possible by applying a number of Group-wide guidelines on, for For other disclosures regarding financial instruments, refer to Note 30. example, extension options, interest and lease payments. The Group will recognise new assets and liabilities for operating leases for premises, vehiI F R S 15 R E V E N U E F RO M CO NTR AC T S W ITH cles and other. Costs for these leases will be changed since the Group will C U S TO M E R S recognise impairment for right-of-use assets and interest expense for lease IFRS 15 is a comprehensive standard for determining the amount of reveliabilities. nue to be recognised and when this revenue is to be recognised. It replaces The Group previously recognised operating lease costs straight-line over IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and associated interpretathe lease period and recognised assets (prepaid lease payments) and liations. Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised when control of the goods or bilities (accrued lease payments) only to the extent that there was a differservices is passed to the customer. Determining when control has passed ence between the actual lease payments and recognised cost. There is not to the customer, meaning a point in time or over time, requires assessexpected to be any material effect on the Group’s finance leases. ments to be made. At the start of 2019, the Group will recognise additional lease liabiliNobia applies IFRS 15 retrospectively with the total effect recognised ties of approximately SEK 2,700 million (after adjustment for prepaid lease in shareholders’ equity on 1 January 2018, known as the cumulative payments recognised on 31 December 2018) and right-of-use assets of approach. Accordingly, the information recognised in 2017 is not restated, approximately SEK 2,800 million. meaning that it is recognised as previously in accordance with IAS 18, IAS 11 and associated interpretations. In addition, the disclosure requirements Transition and exemption rules in IFRS 15 were not applied to comparative information. The Group will apply the modified retrospective approach. This means that the accumulated effect of IFRS 16 Leases will be recognised in profit Sale of goods brought forward in the opening balance for 1 January 2019 without restatFor sales of kitchen, revenue is recognised under IFRS 15 when control of ing comparative figures. The Group plans to measure the right-of-use (the the goods passes to the customer. Revenue for kitchen products and other asset) at the amount corresponding to the lease liability (before adjustproducts is recognised at a point in time, while installations are recognised ment for advance payments), which entails that the accumulated effect in over time as the installation is performed. Installation services comprise profit brought forward in the opening balance will not arise. about 5-6 per cent of Nobia’s total sales. The Group will apply the exemption rule of “grandfathering” the former Nobia does not have any contract assets. Contract liabilities exist in definition of leases existing at transition. This means that the Group will the form of advance payments from customers for the delivery of kitchen apply IFRS 16 Leases for all leases signed before 1 January 2019 and that products or installation. The term of advance payments is less than one have been identified as leases according to IAS 17 and IFRIC 4. The Group year and the closing balance on 31 December 2018 amounted to SEK 201 will also apply the exemption rule of using the same discount rate for a million (132). Advance payments are recognised as revenue when Nobia portfolio of leases with similar characteristics, entailing that the same dishas satisfied it obligation to the customer in the form of delivered kitchen count rate will be used for all of the Group’s leases in the same currency. products or completed installation. The contract liabilities that existed in Leases of low value (assets valued at less than about SEK 50,000 in new the balance sheet on 31 December 2017 were recognised as revenue in condition) – mainly comprising computers, printers/photocopiers and cofthe 2018 financial year. fee machines – will not be included in the lease liability but will continue to The aggregate effect of the transition to IFRS 15 on revenue in the be expensed straight-line over the lease term. The Group is not deemed Group for 2017 has been estimated at approximately negative SEK 5 milto have any short-term leases (leases with a term of a maximum of 12 lion, and on closing equity at approximately negative SEK 2 million, which months). The Group also applies the exemption rule of not including longis not deemed to be material in relation to the Group’s total revenue of term leases with a remaining lease term of 12 months or less from the date SEK 12,744 million for 2017. The reason for the reduced sales in 2017 is due of initial application in the lease liability. to the revenue recognised in the first quarter of 2017, which should have The nominal value of the contracted future lease payments according to been reported in 2016 according to IFRS 15, being greater than the revNote 11 in this Annual Report deviates from the calculated liability under enue that will be recognised in the first quarter of 2018 but should have IFRS 16 Leases at the start of 2019. The deviation is summarised in the been recognised in 2017. The revenue for the 2017 financial year has not table below been restated, since the true and fair view of Nobia’s historical or future financial performance is not deemed to be impacted. Lease liability recognised on transition to IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019 2,800 N E W I F R S S TH AT H AV E N OT Y E T B E E N A PPL I E D Adjustment for prepaid lease payments recognised on 31 A number of new or amended IFRSs will come into effect during the curDecember 2018 -100 rent financial year, and have not been applied in advance when preparDiscounting lease liability recognised on transition to IFRS ing these financial statements. There are no plans to apply any new or 16 on 1 January 2019 350 amended accounting policies with future application in advance. Adjustments of leases expiring 1-5 years due to different handling of extension options -600 I F R S 16 L E A S E S Adjustment of leases expiring after 5 years due to different The Group will apply IFRS 16 Leases from 1 January 2019. IFRS 16 Leases handling of extension options -550 introduces a standardised lease recognition model for lessees. A lessee Commitments for operating leases on recognises a right-of-use asset that represents a right to use the under­ 31 December 2018 1,900 lying asset and a lease liability that represents an obligation to pay lease payN O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 61 N OT E S Not 1 continued The Group does not expect the introduction of IFRS 16 Leases to impact TR A N S L ATI O N O F F O R E I G N S U B S I D I A R I E S its ability to satisfy the revised maximum debt/equity ratio stated in the The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared in the local currency, or Group’s loan covenants. The weighted average incremental borrowing the functional currency used in the country in which the company conducts rate used on the date of initial application (1 January 2019) is 1.96 per cent. operations. Swedish kronor, SEK, is utilised in the consolidated financial statements, which is the Parent Company’s functional currency and also the OTH E R N E W O R A M E N D E D I F R S S A N D Group’s presentation currency. This means that the earnings and financial I NTE R PR E TATI O N S position of all Group companies that have a functional currency that is differOther amendments to accounting policies with future application are not ent to the presentation currency are translated to the Group’s presentation deemed to have any material effect on the consolidated financial statements. currency of SEK. Foreign subsidiaries’ assets and liabilities are translated at the closing-date rate and all items recognised in profit or loss and other comC L A S S I F I C ATI O N prehensive income are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. Fixed assets essentially comprise amounts that are expected to be recovTranslation differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and ered more than 12 months after the closing date. Current assets essenare accumulated in a separate reserve in consolidated shareholders’ equity. tially comprise amounts that are expected to be recovered within the 12 months after the closing date. Long-term liabilities comprise liabilities that S I G N I F I C A NT E XC H A N G E R ATE S Nobia intends, and has an unconditional right, to pay later than 12 after the Closing-date rate Average closing date. Other liabilities comprise current liabilities. 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 2017 2018 DKK 1.32 1.38 1.29 1.38 CO N SO L I DATI O N PR I N C I PL E S A N D B U S I N E S S EUR 9.85 10.28 9.63 10.26 CO M B I N ATI O N S GBP 11.10 11.35 10.99 11.59 Subsidiaries NOK 1.00 1.02 1.03 1.07 Subsidiaries are companies subject to the controlling interest of Nobia AB. USD 8.23 8.97 8.54 8.69 A controlling interest exists if Nobia AB has influence over the investment object, is exposed to or has the right to variable returns for its involvement and can use its influence over the investment to influence this return. S EG M E NT R E P O RTI N G When assessing whether a controlling interest exists, potential voting An operating segment is a part of the Group that conducts business activities shares are taken into account and whether de facto control exists. from which it can generate income and incur expenses and for which indepenBusiness combinations are recognised in accordance with the acquisition dent financial information is available. Furthermore, the results of an operatmethod. According to this method, an acquisition of a subsidiary is considing segment are monitored by the company’s chief operating decision-maker ered a transaction through which the Group indirectly acquires the subsidto evaluate them and to allocate resources to the operating segment. Nobia’s iary’s assets and assumes its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The Groupoperating segments are the Group’s three regions: the UK, Nordic and Cenwise cost is determined by an acquisition analysis in conjunction with the tral Europe regions. The division of the units per region is based on the geoacquisition. The analysis determines the cost of the participations or busigraphic domicile of the units. Refer to Note 3 on page 69 for a more detailed ness activities, and the fair value of the acquired identifiable assets and description of the division and presentation of the operating segments. assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities on the acquisition date. Goodwill in business combinations is calculated as the total of the conR E V E N U E R ECOG N ITI O N sideration transferred, any non-controlling interests (previously termed The Group’s revenue derives from the following activities: minority interests) and fair value of previously owned participations (for • Sales of kitchen products and other products. step acquisitions) less the fair value of the subsidiary’s identifiable assets • Revenue for installation services for kitchen products and other prodand assumed liabilities. When the difference is negative, it is recognised ucts sold. directly in net profit for the year. Transaction costs attributable to business combinations are expensed. Revenue is measured based on the remuneration specified in contracts Contingent consideration in acquisitions is measured at fair value on with customers, meaning net after VAT, discounts and returns. Revenue both the acquisition date and continuously thereafter, with changes in for sales of goods and services is recognised in profit or loss when control value recognised in profit or loss. of the goods and services is passed to the customer. For acquisitions of subsidiaries involving non-controlling interests, the Group recognises net assets attributable to non-controlling interests either at fair Sales of kitchen products and other products value of all of the net assets except goodwill, or at fair value of all net assets The Group sells kitchen products and other products through a number including goodwill. The principle is decided individually for each acquisition. of different sales channels, such as own stores, franchise stores, builders’ Ownership in companies that grow through acquisitions on several merchants, DIY chains and other retailers. Accordingly, sales take place occasions are recognised as step acquisitions. For step acquisitions that both directly to end customers but also via retailers. All guarantees prolead to a controlling interest, the previously acquired participations are vided, aimed at ensuring that sold products comply with the agreed specremeasured according to the most recent acquisition and the arising gains ifications, are included in the standard sales price. It is not possible to puror losses are recognised in profit or loss. chase offered guaranteed or additional guarantees, which is why these are When controlling interests are achieved, changes in ownership are recrecognised in accordance with IAS 37. Revenue for kitchen products and ognised as a reallocation of shareholders’ equity between the Parent other products is recognised at a point in time when control is passed to Company’s owners and the non-controlling interest, without any remeathe customer and the Group has satisfied it performance obligation, which surement of the subsidiary’s net assets. is usually when the goods are delivered to the agreed place. If ownership is reduced to such an extent that controlling interests are In a small number of the Group’s contracts, the customers is offered lost, any remaining holdings are recognised at fair value and the change in the option of returning ordered goods. A provision is recognised on the value is recognised in profit or loss. sales date corresponding to the expected level of returns with the correWhen acquisitions of subsidiaries involve acquisitions of net assets that sponding reduction in revenue. No adjustment is made to the costs since are not part of the operations, the acquisition cost is distributed between it is uncertain whether the returned goods will be in saleable condition. the individual identifiable assets and liabilities based on their fair value on The Group bases the above adjustments on past experience and manages the acquisition date. these at portfolio level measured at the expected amount. Furthermore, The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated the Group believes that there is no risk of material reversals since the level financial statements from the date that the controlling interest arises and of these items has been has been low in the past and there are currently no are included in the consolidated financial statements until the date on indications that this situation will change. which the controlling interest ceases. Revenue for installation services for kitchen products and other TR A N SAC TI O N S TH AT A R E E L I M I N ATE D TH RO U G H products sold. CO N SO L I DATI O N Revenue for installation services is deemed to be a distinct service and is Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, income or expenses and unrealised thus handled as a separate performance obligation. Regardless of whether gains or losses that arise from intra-Group transactions between Group installation is included in the sales price of kitchen products and other companies, are eliminated in their entirety in the preparation of the conproducts sold or if it is priced as a separate service, the portion of the solidated financial statements. transaction price that refers to installation will be recognised separately 62 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 N OT E S Not 1 continued from revenue linked to the sale of kitchen and other products. If the instal• Buildings 15-40 years lation service is included in the sales prices, a share of the total sales price • Machinery and other technical equipment 6-12 years will be allocated to the installation performance obligation. Such allocation will be based on the market price of such services. • Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 6-12 years Revenue for installation services is recognised separately, and recognised over time as the installation is performed. Given that this normally involves Land is not depreciated. a relative short period of time, such revenue is recognised stright-line during the period in which installation is performed. F I X E D A S S E T S / D I S P O SA L G RO U P S H E L D F O R SA L E A N D D I S CO NTI N U E D O PE R ATI O N S G OV E R N M E NT A S S I S TA N C E Discontinued operations comprise important operations that have been Government subsidies are recognised in the balance sheet as deferred divested or comprise a disposal group held for sale as well as subsidiaries income when there is reasonable assurance that the subsidy will be that are acquired for the purpose of subsequently being sold. Profit after received and the Group will fulfil the conditions associated with the subtax from discontinued operations including changes in value is recognised sidy. Subsidies are allocated systematically in the income statement in the on a separate line in profit or loss. same manner and over the same periods as the costs for which the subsiThe significance of a group of assets and liabilities being classified as held dies are intended to cover. for sale is that the carrying amounts are recovered primarily by being sold and not by being used. All assets included in the group are presented on F I N A N C I A L I N CO M E A N D E X PE N S E S a separate line among assets and all of the group’s liabilities are presented Financial income and expenses comprise interest income on bank balon a separate line among liabilities. The group is valued at the lower of the ances and receivables, dividend income, interest expense on loans and carrying amount and fair value, less selling expenses. pension liabilities, as well as exchange-rate differences on financial items. In the third quarter of 2017, Nobia reclassified the two stores that were Interest income or interest expense are recognised according to the effecpreviously recognised as Discontinued operations and disposal groups tive interest rate method. Dividends are recognised in profit or loss on the held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5. At that time, Nobia made the date when the Group’s right to payment is established. The effective interassessment that the stores would not be sold within the next 12 months. est rate is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future inward and Earnings for the January – December 2017 period are included in conoutward payments during the expected life of the financial instrument to: tinuing operations and the balance-sheet items were recognised on the respective lines of the balance sheet from 30 September 2017. • gross carrying amount of the financial asset, or • the amortised cost of the financial liability. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill comprises the amount by which the cost of the acquired operFor financial assets that are credit-impaired after initial recognition, interation exceeds the established fair value of identifiable net assets, as recest income is calculated by applying the effective interest rate to the finanognised in the acquisition analysis. In connection with the acquisition of cial asset’s amortised cost. If the asset is no longer credit-impaired, interest operations, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units. Since goodincome is re-calculated by applying the effective interest rate to the gross will has an indeterminable useful life, it is not amortised. Instead, goodwill carrying amount. is tested for impairment at least annually and when an indicator of impairment exists. The carrying amount comprises the cost less any accumulated TA X impairment losses. A description of the method and assumptions used in Income tax for the year comprises current tax and deferred tax. Income impairment testing can be found in Note 14 Intangible Assets on page 75. tax is recognised in profit or loss except when the underlying transaction Other intangible assets are recognised at cost less accumulated amortiis recognised in other comprehensive income or in shareholders’ equity, sation and any impairment. It also includes capitalised costs for purchases whereby the associated tax effects are recognised in other comprehensive and internal and external costs for the development of software for the income or in shareholders’ equity. Group’s IT operations, patents and licences. Amortisation takes place Current tax is tax that is to be paid or received regarding the current according to the straight-line method based on the estimated useful life of year, by applying the tax rates determined or that have been determined the asset (three to six years). in principle on the closing date. This item also includes adjustments to current tax attributable to previous periods. R E S E A RC H A N D PRO D U C T D E V E LO PM E NT Deferred tax is calculated according to the balance-sheet method on Costs for product development are expensed immediately as and when all temporary differences arising between recognised and fiscal values of they arise. assets and liabilities. Product development within the Group is mainly in the form of design The tax effect attributable to tax loss carryforwards that could be utidevelopment and is conducted continuously to adapt to current style lised against future profits is capitalised as a deferred tax asset. This applies trends. to both accumulated loss carryforwards at the acquisition date and losses This development is relatively fast, which is the reason that no portion arising thereafter. of the costs for product development is recognised as an intangible asset. Valuations take place at the tax rate applying on the closing date. The Group does not carry out research and development in the true Deferred tax is recognised in the balance sheet as a fixed asset or longsense of such work, or to any significant extent. term liability. The income tax liability is recognised as a current receivable or liability. LEASES If the actual outcome differs from the amounts first recognised, the difLeases concerning fixed assets in which the Group essentially carries the ferences will affect current tax and deferred tax in the period in which same risks and enjoys the same benefits that direct ownership would these calculations are made. entail are classified as financial leases. Financial leases are recognised at the start of the leasing period at the lower of the leasing object’s fair value TA N G I B L E F I X E D A S S E T S and the present value of minimum leasing fees. Financial leases are recTangible fixed assets are recognised at cost with deductions for depreognised in the balance sheet as fixed assets and financial liabilities, respecciation and any impairment. Cost includes expenses that can be directly tively. Future leasing payments are divided between repayment of the liaattributed to the acquisition. The borrowing costs of the cost of any assets bilities and financial expenses whereby each accounting period is charged established that comprise qualifying assets are expensed. Costs for repairs, with an amount of interest corresponding to a fixed-interest rate on the maintenance and any interest expenses are recognised as costs in profit or liability recognised during the respective period. Leasing assets are amorloss in the period in which they arise. tised according to the same principles that apply to other assets of the In the event that an asset’s carrying amount exceeds its estimated recovsame type. Costs for leases are divided between amortisation and interest erable amount, the asset is written down to its recoverable amount, which in the income statement. is charged to operating profit. Leasing of assets, where the lessor is essentially exposed to the risks and In the income statement, operating profit is charged with straight-line rewards of the asset, is classified as operating leases. Leasing fees are recdepreciation, which is calculated on the original cost and is based on the ognised on a straight-line basis during the leasing period. Operating leases estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: are recognised in profit or loss as an operating expense. Leasing of cars • Kitchen displays 2-4 years and computers is normally treated as operating leases. The value of these leases is not considered to be significant. • Office equipment and vehicles 3-5 years N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 63 N OT E S Not 1 continued I N V E NTO R I E S Financial liabilities Inventories comprise finished and semi-manufactured products and raw Liabilities (except for derivative instruments with negative values) are meamaterials. Inventories are valued according to the first-in, first-out (FIFO) sured at amortised cost or fair value through profit or loss. A financial lia­principle, at the lower of the cost and net sales value on the closing date. ­ bility is measured at fair value through profit or loss if it is classified as The net sales value comprises the estimated sales value in the ongoing opera­ held for trading, a derivative instrument to which hedge accounting is not tions less selling expenses. Finished and semi-manufactured products are applied, an additional purchase consideration in a business combination ­valued at manu­facturing cost including raw materials, direct labour, other direct classified as a financial liability or if it is initially classified as a financial liability expenses and production-related overheads based on normal production. that is measured at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities meaDeductions are made for inter-Group profits arising in conjunction with sured at fair value through profit or loss are continuously measured at fair deliveries between companies in the Group. value with changes in value recognised in profit or loss. Other financial liabilities are continuously measured at amortised cost by applying the effecF I N A N C I A L I N S TRU M E NT S tive interest rate method. Financial instruments recognised in the balance sheet include cash and cash equivalents, loans receivable, accounts receivable, interim items that Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies will be settled using cash and cash equivalents as well as derivative instruReceivables and liabilities in foreign currencies are valued at the closing-date ments on the asset side. The liabilities side includes accounts payable, loan rate. Exchange-rate fluctuations pertaining to operating receivables and liabilities, interim items that will be settled using cash and cash equivalents liabilities are recognised in operating profit, while exchange-rate fluctuaas well as derivative instruments. tions pertaining to financial receivables and liabilities are recognised in net financial items. Recognition and measurement A financial asset or a financial liability is entered in the balance sheet when Cash and cash equivalents the company becomes a party in accordance with the contractual terms Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash and bank balances and of the instrument. A financial asset is derecognised from the balance sheet short-term investments with maturities not exceeding three months from when all rewards and risks associated with ownership have been transthe acquisition date. ferred. A financial liability is derecognised from the balance sheet when the obligation resulting from the agreement has been realised or is extinCash-flow hedges of uncertainty in forecasted sales and material guished in some other manner. purchases in foreign currency Financial instruments are initially measured at fair value and subsequently To reduce the Group’s exchange-rate exposure, Nobia uses derivative continuously at fair value or amortised cost depending on classification. instruments in the form of currency forward contracts that are linked to Financial instruments recognised at cost are initially recognised at an amount forecast purchases and sales of goods. Derivative instruments are held corresponding to the instrument’s fair value plus transaction costs. Financial only for hedging purposes and not for speculative transactions. If derivative instruments measured at fair value are initially recognised at an amount corinstruments do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting, they are mearesponding to the instrument’s fair value. On initial recognition, a financial sured at fair value through profit or loss. Derivative instruments that meet instrument is classified on the basis of the purpose underlying the acquisition the criteria for hedge accounting are designated as cash-flow hedges and of the instrument. This classification determines how the financial instrumeasured at fair value with the change in value in other comprehensive ment is measured after initial recognition, in the manner described below. income with the accumulated effect in shareholders’ equity. This reserve All financial derivative instruments are continuously recognised at fair is reversed to profit or loss when the hedged underlying transactions take value. Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the transacplace. For other disclosures regarding cash-flow hedges, refer to Note 2. tion date, which is the day on which the Group undertakes to purchase or sell the asset. From 1 January 2018, the Group applies the policy of recogI M PA I R M E NT nising a reserve for expected credit losses (“loss allowance”) for financial The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are tested annually for indiassets and receivables classified at amortised cost. cations of any impairment requirement. IAS 36 is applied for the impairment testing of assets other than financial assets, which are tested accordClassification of financial instruments ing to IFRS 9, assets held for resale and disposal groups that are recognised Financial assets according to IFRS 5, inventories, plan assets used for the financing of Debt instruments: classification of financial assets that are debt instruemployee benefits and deferred tax assets. For the exempted assets menments is based on the Group’s business model for managing the asset and tioned above, the carrying amount is tested in accordance with the relethe characteristics of the asset’s contractual cash flows. vant standard. Instruments are classified at: Impairment testing of tangible and intangible assets, and • amortised cost participations in subsidiaries If there is an indication of an impairment requirement, the recoverable • fair value through other comprehensive income, or amount of the asset is tested in accordance with IAS 36 (see below). For • fair value through profit or loss goodwill, the recoverable amount is calculated annually. When testing for impairment requirements, if it is not possible to establish essentially indeFinancial assets classified at amortised cost are initially measured at fair value pendent cash flows for an individual asset, the assets must be grouped at plus transaction costs. Accounts receivable are initially measured at the the lowest level at which it is possible to identify essentially independent invoiced amount. Following initial recognition, the assets are measured accordcash flows, known as cash-generating units. Impairment losses are recing to the effective interest rate method. Assets classified at amortised cost ognised when the carrying amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit are held under the business model of collecting contractual cash flows that are (group of units) exceeds the recoverable amount. Impairment losses are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. charged against profit or loss. Impairment losses related to assets attribThese assets are subject to a loss allowance for expected credit losses. utable to a cash-generating unit are primarily allocated to goodwill. SubFair value through profit or loss is all other debt instruments that are not measequently, a proportional impairment of other assets included in the unit sured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income. (group of units) is effected. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair Financial instruments in this category are initially measured at fair value. value less selling expenses and value in use. When calculating the value in Changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss. The Group’s debt instruuse, future cash flows are discounted using a discounting factor that takes ments are classified at amortised cost apart from debt instruments held for into account the risk-free interest rate and the risk associated with the spetrading. No debt instruments were measured at far value during the year. cific asset or cash-generating unit (group of units). Derivatives: Derivative instruments are recognised in the balance sheet on the contract date and measured at fair value, both initially and when Impairment testing of financial assets subsequently remeasured. Derivatives that are not identified as hedging At every reporting occasion, the company evaluates whether there is any instruments are classified in the balance sheet as financial assets and liabilobjective evidence to suggest that a financial asset or group of assets is ities measured at fair value through profit or loss. Gains and losses due to subject to an impairment requirement. Nobia has applied IFRS 9 since 1 changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss under financial items in January 2018. Impairment of credit losses under IFRS 9 is prospective and a the period in which they arise. loss allowance is established when there is exposure to credit risk, usually in connection with initial recognition. Expected credit losses reflect the 64 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 N OT E S Not 1 continued present value of all deficits in cash flows attributable to payment cancellashare after dilution, the average number of shares outstanding is adjusted to tions. When calculating the expected credit losses, Nobia takes into contake into account the dilutive effects of potential ordinary shares. During the sideration historical bad debt losses, an analysis of the respective customer recognised periods, potential ordinary shares comprise share rights (matchsegments, and observed macroeconomic effects on customers’ conditions ing and performance share rights). Matching share rights held by employees on such as the impact of Brexit on the local market. the reporting date are considered dilutive. Performance share rights are diluThe simplified model is applied to accounts receivable. Under the simplitive to the extent that profit targets have been fulfilled on the reporting date. fied model, a loss allowance is recognised for the expected full lifetime of To calculate the dilutive effect, an exercise price for the share rights is applied the receivable or asset. Refer also to Note 2.When determining whether that corresponds to the value of future services per outstanding share right a financial asset’s credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognicalculated as remaining cost to recognise in accordance with IFRS 2. tion and when calculating expected credit losses, the Group uses reasonable and verifiable information that is relevant and available. E M PLOY E E B E N E F IT S However, impairment of accounts receivable may continue if unforeseen Pensions events have occurred. Such impairment is initially recognised for each individThe Group has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension ual receivable, but may also be made collectively for a group of receivables of plans. In Sweden, the UK and Austria, employees are covered by defined­ similar credit characteristics. The financial assets are recognised in the balance benefit pension plans. In other countries and companies, employees are sheet at amortised cost, meaning the net of gross amount and the loss allow­covered by defined-contribution plans. Effective 2010, all new vesting in ance. Changes in the loss allowance are recognised in profit or loss under the UK comes under defined-contribution plans. operating profit for accounts receivable and as a financial expense or income Plans for which the company’s obligations are limited to the fees the company for other reserves. The Group’s credit exposure is stated in Notes 2 and 30. has undertaken to pay are classified as defined-contribution pension plans. The company’s obligations for defined-contribution plans are recognised as a cost ­ Comparative year in earnings at the rate at which they are vested by the employees performing Financial instruments for the comparative year 2017 are recognised by services on behalf of the company for a period of time. applying IAS 39. Detailed information about previous recognition is proThe Group’s defined-benefit pension plans state the amount of pension vided in the 2017 Annual Report. benefit that an employee, or a former employee, will receive after retirement based upon their salary and the number of years of service. Pension Impairment reversal liabilities for defined-benefit plans are recognised according to common An impairment loss on assets that come under the scope of IAS 36 is principles and calculation methods and are calculated by considering future reversed if there is an indication that the impairment requirement is no salary increases and inflation, among other factors. The Group carries the longer pertinent and that there has been a change in the assumptions upon risk that the promised benefit will be paid. which the calculation of the recoverable amount was based. However, There are both funded and unfunded defined-benefit pension plans an impairment loss on goodwill is never reversed. A reversal is only perwithin the Group. Funded pension plans are mainly financed on the basis of formed to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset after the revercontributions paid to pension funds. sal does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been recognised, Regarding defined-benefit plans, the pension commitment is calculated less depreciation wherever applicable, if no impairment had been posted. in accordance with the Projected Unit Credit method. This method alloAn impairment loss on loans and accounts receivable recognised at cates the cost of pension at the rate at which the employees perform serv­ amortised cost is reversed if the previous reasons for the impairment loss ices for the company that increase their entitlement to future remunerano longer exist and full payment can be expected to be received from the tion. This calculation is performed annually by independent actuaries. The customer. company’s obligations are valued at the present value of expected future cash flows using a discount rate. This discount rate corresponds to the PROV I S I O N S interest on high-quality corporate bonds, where a market with sufficient Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet among current and longdepth exists, or government bonds if no such market exists. term liabilities, when the Group has a legal or informal obligation deriving The rate in Sweden is determined based on mortgage bonds, while in from an occurred event and that it is probable that an outflow of resources the UK and Austria, the rate is based on corporate bonds. will be required to settle the obligation and the amount concerned can be Actuarial gains and losses may arise when the present value of commitreliably estimated. A provision differs from other liabilities since the date of ments is established and a difference arises when the actual return on plan payment or the amount required to settle the provision is uncertain. assets is established compared with the return calculated at the beginning of the period, based on the discount rate of the commitments. These actuRestructuring arial gains and losses and this different in the return on plan assets are entiA provision for restructuring is recognised once a detailed and formal tled remeasurements. These remeasurement effects arise either because restructuring plan has been adopted and the restructuring process has the fair value differs from the previously made assumption or because the either commenced or been publicly announced. No provisions are estabassumptions have changed. The remeasurement effects are recognised in lished for future operating expenses. other comprehensive income. For funded plans, the Group recognises pension commitments in the Guarantees consolidated balance sheet as a liability comprising the net of the estimated A provision for guarantees is recognised when the underlying products present value of the commitments and the fair value of plan assets. Funded or services are sold. The provision is based on historical data and a total plans with net assets, that is, plans with assets exceeding the pension comappraisal of the potential outcomes in relation to the probabilities associmitment, are recognised as fixed assets. ated with the outcomes. The net amount of interest on pension liabilities and the expected return on accompanying plan assets is recognised as part of net financial items. CO NTI N G E NT L I A B I L ITI E S The special employer’s contribution comprises a portion of the actuarA contingent liability is disclosed when the company has a possible obligation ial assumptions and thus is recognised as a portion of the net commitment/ deriving from an occurred event whose existence will be confirmed only by asset. The portion of the special employer’s contribution that is calculated one or more uncertain future events, or when there is an obligation that has based on the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act in legal entities is not been recognised as a liability or provision because it is not probable that recognised, for simplicity, as accrued expenses instead of as a portion of an outflow of resources will be required, or alternatively because it is not net commitment/asset. possible to sufficiently reliably estimate the amount concerned. Tax on returns is recognised continuously in profit or loss for the period to which the tax pertains and thus is not included in the liability calculation. S H A R E H O L D E R S ’ EQ U IT Y For funded plans, the tax is charged to the return on plan assets and recWhen shares are bought back, shareholders’ equity is reduced by the ognised in other comprehensive income. For unfunded or partly unfunded entire amount paid. Dividends are recognised as a liability after the Annual plans, tax is charged to profit or loss. General Meeting has approved the dividend. Other long-term remuneration E A R N I N G S PE R S H A R E The Group operates schemes for remuneration of employees for long service. The calculation of earnings per share is based on consolidated net profit attribActuarial gains and losses may arise when the present value of comutable to the Parent Company shareholders and on the weighted average mitments and the fair value of plan assets are established, which are recnumber of shares outstanding during the year. When calculating earnings per ognised in operating profit. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 65 N OT E S Not 1 continued The discount rate is established on the basis of high-quality corporate Parent Company described below were applied consistently to all periods bonds issued in the same currency as the remuneration that is to be paid presented in the Parent Company’s financial statements. and with maturities equivalent to the commitments in question. Changed accounting policies Share-based remuneration schemes Changes to accounting policies applied from 2018 did not have any effect Share-based remuneration pertains to employee benefits, including senior on the Parent Company’s financial statements. executives in accordance with the Performance Share Plans that Nobia initiated between 2014 and 2018. Costs for employee benefits are recClassification and presentation form ognised as the value of services received, allocated over the vesting periAn income statement and statement of comprehensive income are preods for the plans, calculated as the fair value of the allotted equity instrusented for the Parent Company and the Group. The Parent Company’s ments (IFRS 2). The fair value is determined on the allotment date, or the income statement and balance sheet are presented following the format date on which Nobia and the employees have agreed on the terms and stipulated in the Annual Accounts Act, while the statement of comprehenconditions of the plans. Since the plans are regulated with equity instrusive income, the statement of changes in shareholders’ equity and cashments, they are classified as “equity settled” and an amount correspondflow statement are based on IAS 1 presentation of Financial Statements and ing to the recognised cost for employee benefits is recognised directly in IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows. The differences in the Parent Company’s shareholders’ equity (other contributed capital). income statement and the balance sheet compared with the presentation The Performance Share Plans 2014-2015 contain two types of rights. of the consolidated financial statements primarily pertain to the recognition Matching share rights give entitlement to Nobia shares if the participant of financial income and expenses, fixed assets, shareholders’ equity and the remains in employment and retains the saving share that must initially be existence of provisions as a separate heading in the balance sheet. purchased. Performance share rights give entitlement to shares under the same conditions and if the accumulated earnings per share are sufficiently Subsidiaries high during the vesting period. The recognised cost is initially based on, Participations in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company in and regularly adjusted in relation to, the number of share rights that are accordance with the cost method. In the consolidated financial statements, expected to be vested by considering how many participants are expected transaction costs are recognised directly in profit or loss when they arise. to remain in service during the vesting period and the expected and Contingent consideration is valued based on the probability of the conactual fulfilment of the terms and conditions for earnings per share. Such sideration being paid. Any changes to the provisions/receivable are added an adjustment is not carried out when participants lose share rights due to/deducted from the cost. In the consolidated financial statements, conto selling the saving shares that they were required to purchase and must tingent considerations are measured at fair value with changes in value recretain. In this case, the entire remaining cost is immediately recognised ognised in profit or loss. instead. No matching share rights were allotted in the Performance Share Bargain purchases corresponding to future losses and costs are reversed Plan 2016, 2017 and 2018 and saving shares do not need to be purchased during the expected periods in which the losses and costs arise. Bargain purand retained. The vesting conditions are the same as the 2014-2015 Plans chases arising for other reasons are recognised as a provision to the extent and, consequently, recognition takes place as described above. that the purchase does not exceed the fair value of the acquired, identifiable When share rights are vested and shares allotted, social security connon-monetary assets. The portion that exceeds this fair value is recognised in tributions are paid in certain countries for the value of the employee’s profit or loss immediately. The portion that does not exceed the fair value of benefits. An expense and a provision are recognised, allocated over the acquired, identifiable non-monetary assets is recognised in profit or loss sysvesting period, for these social security contributions. The provision for tematically over a period calculated as the remaining weighted average useful social security contributions is based on the number of share rights that life of the acquired identifiable assets that are depreciable. In the consolidated are expected to be vested and the fair value of the share rights on each financial statements, bargain purchases are recognised directly in profit or loss. reporting date and finally, for the allotment of shares. Leased assets Short-term remuneration All leases in the Parent Company are recognised in accordance with operShort-term remuneration of employees is calculated without discountating leases regulations. ing and is recognised as a cost when the related services are obtained. A provision is posted for the anticipated cost of profit shares and bonus payEmployee benefits ments when the Group has a current legal or informal obligation to make The Parent Company applies other principles for the calculation of such payments, due to the services being obtained from the employees defined-benefit plans than those stipulated in IAS 19. The Parent Comand it being possible to reliably estimate the obligation. pany follows the provisions of the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and the Swedish Financial Supervisory authority’s regulations since this is a Payments in connection with employment termination condition for eligibility for rights to tax deductions. The significant differA cost for payments arising in connection with the laying-off of employees ences compared with the IAS 19 regulations pertain to how the discount is recognised only if the company is legally obliged to terminate employrate is determined, that the calculation of defined-benefit commitments ment in advance of the normal date. When such payment is made as an based on current salary levels with no assumptions regarding future salary offering to encourage voluntary retirement, it is recognised as a cost if it increases and that all actuarial gains and losses are recognised in profit or is probable that the offer will be accepted and the number of employees loss when they arise. who will accept the offering can be reliably estimated. The Parent Company recognises the fair value of Performance Share Plans issued to employees of subsidiaries as shareholders’ contributions by PA R E NT CO M PA N Y ACCO U NTI N G P O L I C I E S recognition in shareholders’ equity and the value of the shares in the subThe Parent Company has prepared its Annual Report in accordance with sidiary. the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. Group contributions The Financial Reporting Board’s statements for listed companies were also The Parent Company applies the alternative rule to Group contributions paid applied. RFR 2 entails that the Parent Company applies all IFRSs adopted and received and recognises these as appropriations in profit or loss. Prior to by the EU and statements to the Annual Report of the legal entity as far as 2011, Group contributions were recognised directly in shareholders’ equity. possible under the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and with respect to the connection Anticipated dividends between accounting and taxation. The recommendation states the excepAnticipated dividends from subsidiaries are recognised if the Parent Comtions and additions to IFRS that are to be made. Overall, the recommenpany has the sole right to decide the amount of the dividend and the Pardation entails differences between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s ent Company has made a decision on the amount of the dividend prior to accounting policies in the areas stated below. The accounting policies for the the publication of the Parent Company’s financial statements. 66 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 N OT E S NOTE 2 F I N A N C I A L R I S K S G U I D E L I N E S F O R N O B I A’ S M A N AG E M E NT O F loans are raised in local currencies. Matched external borrowing minimises FINANCIAL RISKS the effects of exchange-rate fluctuations on earnings. As a supplemenThe Group’s finance policy for managing financial risks has been prepared tary measure, currency contracts may be entered into to avoid exposure. by the Board and forms a framework of guidelines and rules in the form of Given the current debt/equity ratio and currency distribution of capital risk mandates and limits for the finance operations. Responsibility for the employed, approximately 21 per cent of foreign capital employed must be Group’s financial transactions and risks is managed centrally by the Group’s financed through borrowing in local currencies. In combination with this finance function, found in the Parent Company. The overall objective of policy, other forms of capitalisation may be utilised in each country to optithe finance function is to provide cost-efficient financing and to minimise mise the Group’s tax situation. Nobia’s financial exposure policy does not negative effects on the Group’s earnings that derives from market risks. involve hedging shareholders’ equity. F O R E I G N E XC H A N G E R I S K 2017 2018 Derivative instruments are held only for hedging purposes and not for Capital Interest-bearing Capital Interest-bearing speculative transactions. Nobia’s overall strategy is to reduce the Group’s employed per loans and lease employed per loans and lease exchange-rate exposure linked to forecast purchases and sales of goods SEK m currency liabilities currency liabilities and uses derivative instruments in the form of currency forward contracts SEK -164 146 -429 210 for this purpose. If derivative instruments do not meet the criteria for EUR 659 58 1,351 197 hedge accounting, they are measured at fair value through profit or loss. GBP 2,826 365 2,941 316 Derivative instruments that meet the criteria for hedge accounting are DKK 1,024 4 1,055 670 designated as cash-flow hedges and measured at fair value with the change NOK 382 0 408 36 in value in other comprehensive income with the accumulated effect in Total 4,727 573 5,326 1,429 shareholders’ equity. This reserve is reversed to profit or loss when the hedged underlying transactions take place. Nobia’s policy is to hedge approximately 80 per cent of the forecast I NTE R E S TR ATE R I S K flows, 0-3 months in the future, 60 per cent 4-6 months in the future, 40 Interest-rate exposure is managed centrally, meaning that the head office per cent 7-9 months in the future and 100 per cent of contracted projis responsible for identifying and managing interest-rate risks. Nobia norects. The principal currency combinations were the EUR against the GBP, mally uses short, fixed-interest terms. The fixed-interest term was 3 the NOK against the DKK and the SEK against the NOK. Total exposure in months. 2018, expressed in SEK and after offsetting counteracting flows, amounted to SEK 2,667 million (2,497), of which SEK 1,879 million (1,351) was REFINANCING RISK hedged. At year-end 2018, the hedged volume amounted to SEK 1,066 Nobia applies a centralised approach to the Group’s financing, which million (746). Unrealised gains and losses recognised as cash-flow hedges means that all financing takes place in Nobia AB or Nobia Sverige AB. In in shareholders’ equity will be transferred to the income statement at vari2018, the company also raised a syndicated loan facility of SEK 2,000 milous points in time within 12 months. lion with two banks, which replace the previous facility of SEK 1,000 million. The term is five years. The loan has two covenants: leverage (net debt TR A N S L ATI O N E X P O S U R E to EBITDA), and interest cover (EBITDA to net interest expenses). Nobia The Group’s policy is not to hedge translation exposure in foreign currenmeets all covenants with a satisfactory margin. Nobia’s policy is to obtain cies. A 10-per cent strengthening of the SEK compared with other currenlong-term lines of credit that are compatible with Nobia’s long-term stratcies on 31 December 2018 would entail a decrease in shareholders’ equity egy, while simultaneously balancing the needs for low credit costs. In addiof SEK 564 million (decrease: 461) and a decrease in profit of SEK 72 miltion to these loans, Nobia has access to local cash advances. lion (decrease: 87). The sensitivity analysis is based on the assumption that The table below shows the maturity of all of Nobia’s loans: all other factors (for example, interest) are unchanged. The same condi2017 2018 tions were applied to 2017. Year of maturity 2019 2023 Loans and lines of credit, SEK m 1,000 2,000 C R E D IT R I S K Of which utilised, SEK m – 842 Nobia is active in many markets and in several distribution channels. Depending on the type of distribution channel, the customer base comprises both professional customers and consumers. For these reasons, C A PITA L M A N AG E M E NT credit management and payment terms must be adapted to each business The debt/equity ratio is not to exceed 100 per cent. A temporary elevaunit’s business logic and distribution channels within the framework of the tion of the debt/equity ratio is acceptable. Dividends are, on average, to credit policy established by the Group. The credit policy stipulates that be within the interval of 40-60 per cent of net profit after tax. The debt/ credit ratings are to be based on at least one credit report from a repu­table equity ratio at year-end amounted to 32 per cent (2). Nobia considers reccredit rating institute. Credit assessments are continuously performed ognised shareholders’ equity of SEK 3,897 million (4,154) to be capital. on customers who make regular purchases. Credit insurance is utilised for certain markets and customer categories. Collateral is often required L I Q U I D IT Y R I S K when credit is granted to customers with low buying frequencies. CounDaily liquidity is tracked with the help of carefully prepared liquidity foreterparty risk pertaining to banks is deemed to be very minor. The total casts. Liquidity is controlled centrally with the aim of using available liquidcredit risk amounted to SEK 1,696 million (1,904). The credit quality of ity effectively, at the same time as necessary reserves are available. Availfinancial assets that have neither fallen due for payment nor are subject to able liquidity including unutilised overdraft facilities comprised SEK 1,563 impairment is high. million (1,772). FINANCIAL EXPOSURE F I X E D I NTE R E S T TE R M S – BO R ROW I N G , G RO U P Nobia’s policy for financing foreign assets involves financing capital 2017 2018 employed with external borrowings in the corresponding currency in SEK m 0-3 months 0-3 months order to minimise the impact of exchange-rate fluctuations on the debt/ SEK – 842 equity ratio. Group loans are handled by Nobia’s head office. The head office supplies the subsidiaries with funds through an internal bank. These N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 67 N OT E S Not 2 continued CO M M E RC I A L E X P O S U R E 2017 2018 USD EUR NOK SEK DKK USD EUR NOK SEK DKK Currency contracts on closing date Local currency 2 50 -175 20 35 1 63 -160 0 40 Total, SEK m1) 13 491 -176 20 46 8 647 -164 0 55 Fair value, SEK m 0 4 5 4 0 0 -1 4 2 -1 Net flow calendar year Net flow, local currency -7 -1383) 392 -16 -142 -5 -1294) 393 -2 -150 Net flow, SEK m2) -68 -1,3313) 405 -16 -184 -45 -1,3264) 420 -2 -206 Hedged volume, SEK m2) 32 -905 328 -15 -72 -25 -943 363 -63 -86 1) Flows restated at closing-date rate, SEK. 2) Restated at average rate in 2017, 2018. 3) In addition, EUR 48 million pertains to flows against DKK, corresponding to SEK 467 million. 4) In addition, EUR 35 million pertains to flows against DKK, corresponding to SEK 360 million. S E N S ITI V IT Y A N A LYS I S 2017 2018 Impact on Impact on Impact on profit shareholders’ equity3, Impact on profit shareholders’ Currencies and interest rates 1 2) Change before tax, SEK m SEK m Change before tax, SEK m equity3), SEK m EUR/SEK 5% 14.2 11.1 5% 14.4 11.3 SEK/NOK 5% 8.9 7.0 5% 9.9 7.7 EUR/GBP 5% 24.5 19.6 5% 31.6 25.6 NOK/DKK 5% 12.0 9.4 5% 12.9 10.0 SEK/DKK 5% 11.3 8.8 5% 8.3 6.5 Interest-rate level 100 points – – 100 points 8.4 6.6 1) Transaction effects after hedges. 2) After interest-rate hedging. 3) Corresponds to profit after tax. A N A LYS I S O F M AT U R IT Y F O R F I N A N C I A L L I A B I L ITI E S I N C LU D I N G ACCO U NT S PAYA B L E , G RO U P 2017 2018 Nominal Nominal amount, Within 3 5 years amount, Within 3 5 years original 1 1-3 months 1-5 or original 1 1-3 months 1-5 or SEK m Currency currency Total month months -1 year years longer currency Total month months -1 year years longer Bank loans (IB) Bank loans SEK – – – – – – – – 878 0 1 4 873 – Other liabilities Forward agreements1) SEK 5 1 1 3 – – 3 0 1 2 – – Forward agreements1) EUR 13 2 4 7 – – 5 1 2 2 – – Forward agreements1) NOK 7 1 2 4 – – 0 0 0 0 – – Forward agreements1) DKK 1 0 0 1 – – 1 0 0 1 – – Forward agreements1) USD 0 0 0 0 – – – 0 0 0 – – Currency swaps2) 17 17 – – – – 10 – 10 – – – Current account credit (IB) SEK – – – – – – 49 49 – – 49 – – Current account credit (IB) GBP – – – – – – 2 25 – – 25 – – Financial lease liabilities (IB) DKK 3 4 – – 3 1 – 5 7 0 0 4 3 – Financial lease liabilities (IB) GBP 0 1 0 0 0 1 – 0 1 0 0 1 – – Other liabilities (IB) GBP – 1 – 1 – – – – – – – – – – Accounts payable and other liabilities SEK 1,467 1,089 243 105 30 – 1,440 998 277 95 70 – Total 1,516 1,110 251 123 32 – 2,419 999 291 183 946 – Interest-bearing liabilities (IB) 6 924 Amounts that are undiscounted include amortisation and interest. 1) The value of forward agreements is included in the item “Derivative instruments” in the balance sheet. 2) Recognised under other liabilities. 68 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 N OT E S Not 2 continued AG E A N A LYS I S , ACCO U NT S R EC E I VA B L E A N D OTH E R Credit quality is essentially deemed to be high for outstanding accounts R EC E I VA B L E S receivable. There was no significant concentration of credit exposure on 2017 2018 the closing date. The maximum exposure for credit risk is seen in the carOf which rying amount in the statement of financial position for each financial asset. Of which expected From 2018, Nobia bases any impairment on a model for expected credit impaircredit Of which losses and impairment is no longer based solely on past events. However, SEK m Gross ment Gross losses impairment impairment of accounts receivable may continue if unforeseen events have Non-due accounts occurred. Such impairment is initially recognised for each individual receivreceivable 1,018 – 1,123 5 – able, but may also be made collectively for a group of receivables of similar Past due accounts receivcredit characteristics. When calculating the expected credit losses, Nobia able 0-30 days 129 0 195 1 2 takes into consideration historical bad debt losses, an analysis of the respecPast due accounts receivtive customer segments, and observed macroeconomic effects on customable >30 days-90 days 146 1 93 0 1 ers’ conditions such as the impact of Brexit on the local market. In the table Past due accounts receivabove, SEK 6 million (-) refers to expected losses and SEK 21 million (18) to able >90 days-180 days 32 2 45 0 5 reserved receivables. Past due accounts receivable >180 days-360 days 11 5 24 0 5 O F F S E T TI N G O F F I N A N C I A L I N S TRU M E NT S Past due accounts receivNobia has binding framework agreements for derivatives trading, which able >360 days 12 10 18 0 8 entails that financial liabilities can be offset – or “netted” – in the event Total receivables 1,348 18 1,498 6 21 of insolvency or a similar situation. The tables below show the amounts encompassed by netting agreements at 31 December 2018 and 31 D E P O S IT ACCO U NT F O R I M PA I R M E NT O F ACCO U NT S December 2017. R EC E I VA B L E A N D OTH E R R EC E I VA B L E S O F F S E T AG R E E M E NT S SEK m 2017 2018 Financial Financial 2018, SEK m assets liabilities Opening balance 26 18 Recognised amounts in statement of financial position 13 19 Expected credit losses – 5 Amounts encompassed by netting -13 -13 Reversal of previously recognised impairment losses -7 -4 Amounts after netting 0 6 Changed assessment of expected credit losses – 1 Impairment for the year 15 15 Financial Financial Confirmed losses -16 -11 2017, SEK m assets liabilities Translation differences 0 1 Recognised amounts in statement of financial posiAcquisition of operations – 2 tion 50 43 Closing balance 18 27 Amounts encompassed by netting -43 -43 Amounts after netting 7 0 NOTE 3 O PE R AT I N G S E G M E N T S A N D N E T S A L E S The Group’s business activities are divided into operating segments based tured so that Group management can monitor the performance and earnon a management approach, meaning the parts of the operations moniings of all of the regions. The following operating segments were identified: tored by the company’s chief operating decision-maker. The Group’s operNordic region, UK region and Central Europe region. ations are organised such that Group management monitors the earnings, Nobia considers the Group’s income from kitchens, bathrooms and returns and cash flow generated by the Group’s regions. These regions storage to comprise a single product group since bathrooms and storcomprise the Group’s operating segments since Group management monage represent such a small percentage of the Group’s total balance sheet, itors the operations’ earnings and decides on the allocation of resources income statement and cash-flow statement. based on the regions. Accordingly, the Group’s internal reporting is strucN E T SA L E S A N D PRO F IT BY R EG I O N Nordic UK Central Group-wide and region region Europe region eliminations Group SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Net sales from external customers 6,515 6,705 5,710 5,597 519 907 – – 12,744 13,209 Net sales from other regions 1 0 – – 2 2 -3 -2 – – Total net sales 6,516 6,705 5,710 5,597 521 909 -3 -2 12,744 13,209 Depreciation/amortisation -131 -136 -119 -122 -17 -29 -18 -28 -285 -315 Operating profit 963 841 454 257 12 58 -143 -138 1,286 1,018 Financial income 9 10 Financial expenses -45 -42 Profit before tax and discontinued operations 1,250 986 Impairment -2 -3 – -8 – – – – -2 -11 TOTA L L I A B I L ITI E S A N D A S S E T S PE R R EG I O N Nordic UK Central Group-wide and region region Europe region eliminations Group SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Total operating assets 1,919 2,031 2,769 2,812 226 462 1,770 2,2981 6,684 7,603 Total operating assets include: Investments in fixed assets 135 182 116 149 20 16 48 67 319 414 Total operating liabilities 1,207 1,245 945 843 109 170 192 1822 2,453 2,440 1) Primarily comprises goodwill of SEK 1,969 million (1,480), consolidated surplus values on fixed assets of SEK 69 million (74) and fixed assets in the Parent Company of SEK 120 million (75). Elimination of internal receivables amounted to a negative SEK 19 million (neg: 21). 2) Elimination of internal liabilities amounted to a negative SEK 19 million (neg: 21). N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 69 N OT E S Not 3 continued G EOG R A PH I C A R E A S , G RO U P Income from external customers1) Fixed assets2) SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 Sweden (domicile) 1,678 1,704 325 377 Denmark 2,358 2,474 688 735 Norway 1,600 1,500 134 146 Finland 851 995 157 154 UK 5,714 5,603 2,208 2,272 France 0 – – – Germany 51 53 – 1 Netherlands – 351 – 558 Austria 411 448 365 375 Other countries 81 81 – – Total 12,744 13,209 3,877 4,618 1) N et sales from external customers based on customers’ geographic domicile. There are no individual customers that account for more than 10 per cent of the Group’s total sales. 2) F ixed assets that are not financial instruments, deferred tax assets, assets associated with benefits after employment termination or rights under insurance agreements. CO M PA R ATI V E DATA PE R PRO D U C T G RO U P Net sales per product group Nordic UK Central region region Europe region Group % 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Kitchen furnishings 65 67 60 62 91 72 64 65 Installation services 6 6 7 6 0 7 6 6 Other products 29 27 33 32 9 21 30 29 Total 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Nobia recognises revenue when control of the goods has passed to the products or installation. The term of advance payments is less than one customer. Revenue for kitchen products and other products is recognised year and the closing balance on 31 December 2018 amounted to SEK 201 at a point in time, while installations are recognised over time as the instalmillion (132). Advance payments are recognised as revenue when Nobia lation is performed. Installation services comprise about 5-6 per cent of has satisfied it obligation to the customer in the form of delivered kitchen Nobia’s total sales. products or completed installation. The contract liabilities that existed in Nobia does not have any contract assets but contract liabilities exist in the balance sheet on 31 December 2017 were recognised as revenue in the form of advance payments from customers for the delivery of kitchen the 2018 financial year. NOTE 4 C  OS T S F O R E M P LOY E E B E N E F I T S A N D R E M U N E R AT I O N TO S E N I O R E X E C U T I V E S 2017 2018 Salaries and other Salaries and other SEK m remuneration Social security costs Total remuneration Social security costs Total Total subsidiaries1) 2,345 505 2,850 2,485 557 3,042 – of which pension costs 220 220 241 241 Parent Company1) 54 30 84 61 34 95 – of which pension costs 13 13 15 15 Group1) 2,399 535 2,934 2,546 591 3,137 – of which pension costs 233 233 256 256 1) Excludes costs for share-based remuneration. TOTA L CO S T S F O R E M PLOY E E B E N E F IT S SA L A R I E S A N D OTH E R R E M U N E R ATI O N F O R TH E SEK m 2017 2018 PA R E NT CO M PA N Y Salaries and other remuneration 2,399 2,546 SEK m 2017 2018 Social security costs 302 335 Senior executives1) 18 17 Pension costs – defined-contribution plans 184 212 Other employees 36 44 Pension costs – defined-benefit plans 41 36 Total Parent Company2 54 61 Costs for special employer’s contributions and tax 1) In 2018, the number of individuals was 4 (5). 2) Excludes costs for share-based remuneration. on returns from pension 8 8 Costs for the Performance Share Plan SA L A R I E S A N D OTH E R R E M U N E R ATI O N F O R 2014–2017 1 – SUBSIDIARIES 2015–2018 3 1 SEK m 2017 2018 2016–2019 -2 – Presidents of subsidiaries1) 31 31 2017–2020 3 -3 Other employees of subsidiaries 2,314 2,454 2018–2021 – – Total subsidiaries2) 2,345 2,485 Total costs for employees 2,939 3,135 1) In 2018, the number of individuals was 11 (16). 2) Excludes costs for share-based remuneration. 70 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 N OT E S Not 4 continued R E M U N E R ATI O N A N D OTH E R B E N E F IT S , 2 018 Basic salary, Variable Other Pension Share-based Other Pension SEK m Directors’ fees remuneration benefits costs remuneration remuneration Total commitments Chairman of the Board Hans Eckerström (from 10 April 2018) 0.90 – – – – – 0.90 – Tomas Billing (until 10 April 2018) 0.28 – – – – – 0.28 – Board members Nora Førisdal Larssen (member of Audit Committee) 0.52 – – – – – 0.52 – Lilian Fossum Biner (Chairman of Audit Committee) 0.55 – – – – – 0.55 – Stefan Jacobsson 0.40 – – – – – 0.40 – Ricard Wennerklint 0.40 – – – – – 0.40 – Christina Ståhl 0.40 – – – – – 0.40 – Jill Little 0.40 – – – – – 0.40 – George Adams 0.40 – – – – – 0.40 – President Morten Falkenberg 7.83 – 0.17 2.40 -0.40 – 10.00 – Other members of Group management1) 25.13 0.48 1.33 5.60 -0.20 – 32.34 1.58 – of whom, from subsidiaries2) 16.45 0.48 1.07 2.50 -0.10 – 20.40 1.26 Total 37.21 0.48 1.50 8.00 -0.60 – 46.59 1.58 1) Number of individuals 10. 2) Number of individuals 7. R E M U N E R ATI O N A N D OTH E R B E N E F IT S , 2 017 Basic salary, Variable Other Pension Share-based Other Pension SEK m Directors’ fees remuneration benefits costs remuneration remuneration Total commitments Chairman of the Board Tomas Billing 1.10 – – – – – 1.10 – Board members Nora Førisdal Larssen (member of Audit Committee) 0.46 – – – – – 0.46 – Lilian Fossum Biner (Chairman of Audit Committee) 0.51 – – – – – 0.51 – Stefan Jacobsson 0.39 – – – – – 0.39 – Fredrik Palmstierna until 6 April 2017 0.10 – – – – – 0.10 – Thore Ohlsson (member of Audit Committee) until 6 April 2017 0.12 – – – – – 0.12 – Ricard Wennerklint 0.39 – – – – – 0.39 – Christina Ståhl 0.39 – – – – – 0.39 – Jill Little from 6 April 2017 0.29 – – – – – 0.29 – George Adams from 6 April 2017 0.29 – – – – – 0.29 – President Morten Falkenberg 7.77 1.52 0.08 2.40 0.57 – 12.34 – Other members of Group management1) 27.47 2.82 0.97 4.15 2.04 – 38.60 0.37 – of whom, from subsidiaries2) 17.58 2.00 0.79 2.09 1.48 – 24.85 – Total 39.28 4.34 1.05 6.55 2.61 – 54.98 0.37 1) Number of individuals 12. 2) Number of individuals 8. The average number of employees and number of men and women notice if employment is terminated by Nobia. If employment is terminated among Board members and senior executives are described in Note 5, see by the President, six months’ notice must be given. page 73. Other Group management R E M U N E R ATI O N TO S E N I O R E X EC UTI V E S Group management, which comprised 10 individuals (11) at the end of 2018, Board and Chairman of the Board of whom three (four) are employed in the Parent Company, received salaRemuneration to the Chairman and members of the Board is determined ries and benefits during the financial year amounting to SEK 26,462,154 plus by resolutions taken at the Annual General Meeting. Board members who variable salary portions based on the results for 2018 of SEK 476,726. Group are employed by Nobia do not receive a separate Directors’ fee. Board management has the right to ITP pensions or an equivalent scheme. The age members elected by the Annual General Meeting received a fixed fee of of retirement is 65. In addition, management in Sweden has the right to an SEK 410,000 per member and the Chairman received SEK 1,200,000. In increased occupational pension premium of 20 per cent on salary portions addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee received SEK 150,000 amounting to more than 30 basic amounts, following a Board decision. and Committee members SEK 125,000. The Board received a total of SEK 4,272,500. Employee representatives receive a study and preparation fee Variable salary portion of SEK 26,000 per person per year. The fundamental principle for the variable salary portion for the unit managers and Group management is that such portions may amount to a maximum President bonus of 40 per cent of fixed annual salary. The exception to this principle is In the 2018 financial year, the President received SEK 8,003,492 in salary the President, whose variable salary portion may amount to a maximum of 65 and benefits. No variable salary portion related to the results for 2018 was per cent of fixed annual salary. Exceptions may also be made for other senior paid. In addition to the normal pension in accordance with the Swedish executives following a resolution by the Board. The variable portion is based National Insurance Act (ATP and AFP), the President has pension beneon an earning period of one year. The outcome depends on the extent to fits corresponding to 30 per cent of pensionable salary. Pensionable salary which predetermined targets are met. The targets for the President are set by means fixed annual salary. For 2018, the premium cost was SEK 2,378,594. the Board of Directors. The President sets the targets for other senior managThe age of retirement is 65. The President has the right to 12 months’ ers following recommendations from the Board Remuneration Committee. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 71 N OT E S Not 4 continued Remuneration Committee to three performance shares. For the 2014-2017 Plans, an additional five The Board of Directors appoints a Remuneration Committee from within to six individuals subordinate to the President are entitled to two perforits ranks. The Committee’s tasks include preparing proposals with respect mance shares. Other plan participants are entitled to one performance to remuneration for the President, and to reach decisions on remunershare. Group management received SEK 2,940,354 in benefits during the ation proposals for managers that report directly to the President. For 2018 financial year in connection with the matching of shares under the information about the Committee and its members, see pages 92–95. framework of the Performance Share Plan 2015, of which SEK 606,965 was a benefit for the President. Group management’s employee contracts The contracts include provisions regarding remuneration and termination Performance Share Plans 2016-2021 of employment. Under these agreements, employment may be terminated A resolution was made at the 2016, 2017 and 2018 Annual General Meetings in by the employee with a six-month period of notice and by the company accordance with the Board’s proposal to established a remuneration scheme with a 12-month period of notice. in the form of a Performance Share Plan. The Performance Share Plans encompass about 100 individuals, consisting of senior executives and senior managPerformance Share Plans 2014-2018 ers, as appointed by Nobia senior management. Participation in the PerforAt the 2014 and 2015 Annual General Meetings, resolutions were made in mance Share Plans entails that the maximum short-term variable remuneration accordance with the Board’s proposal to introduce remuneration schemes in for participants in 2016, 2017 and 2018 respectively is adjusted downwards by the form of Performance Share Plans. The Performance Share Plans encomten percentage points (for the President), five percentage points (Group manpass about 100 individuals, consisting of senior executives and senior management) and three percentage points (other senior executives and managers). agers, as appointed by Nobia senior management. Participation in the plan At the end of the vesting period, the participants will be allotted shares in Nobia required an investment in Nobia shares corresponding to 25, 50, 75 or 100 free of charge, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled. Entitlement to allotper cent of the employee’s monthly salary (gross). At the end of the vestment of shares requires that the participant remain an employee of the Nobia ing period, the participants will be allotted shares in Nobia free of charge, Group during the vesting period. Allotment of shares also requires that a finanprovided that certain conditions are fulfilled. A participant’s entitlement to cial performance target linked to accumulated earnings per share for Nobia receive shares in Nobia for matching share rights requires continued employduring the present and future financial years is achieved. Participants are not ment in the Nobia Group during the vesting period, and that entire investcompensated for regular dividends paid during the vesting period. ment in Nobia shares has remained during the same period. Matching takes The maximum number of shares that can be allocated under the plans is place at a ratio of 1:1. Allotment of shares based on performance share rights 1,500,000. also requires fulfilment of a financial performance target linked to accumuThe Board determines an allocation value for each participant relalated earnings per share for current and future financial years, adjusted for tive to the participant’s annual salary. The allocation value for the Presiitems affecting comparability during the same period. Participants are not dent amounts to 50 per cent of annual salary and for the other members of compensated for dividends paid during the vesting period. Group management, about 10 individuals, the allocation value is 30 per cent The maximum number of shares that can be allotted under each of the of annual salary. The allocation value for other managers in senior positions two plans is 1,500,000. amounts to 20 per cent of annual salary. The share price forming the basis The President is entitled to a maximum of four performance shares for of the calculation of the number of share rights corresponds to an average every saving share. Other members of Group management are entitled volume-weighted price paid measured during a specific time period. PL A N Performance Share Plans 2014–2017 2015–2018 2016–2019 2017–2020 2018–2021 May 2014– May 2015– May 2016– May 2017– May 2018– Vesting period April/May 2017 April/May 2018 April/May 2019 April/May 2020 April/May 2021 Accumulated earnings Accumulated earnings Accumulated earnings Accumulated earnings Accumulated earnings Performance targets per share 2014–2015 per share 2015–2016 per share 2016–2017 per share 2017–2018 per share 2018–2019 Fair value per share right 53.50 kr 82.60 kr 73.60 kr 84.60 kr 58.00 kr Accumulated earnings per share are adjusted for items affecting comparability. The fair value is calculated as the share price on the plan’s date of the allotment, in May at the start of the vesting period, reduced by the present value of expected dividends during the vesting period. The costs of the Performance Share Plans are presented in the table below: Accumulated costs 20171 20182 IFRS 23 Social security Total IFRS 23 Social security Total IFRS 23 Social security Total cost contributions cost cost contributions cost cost contributions cost 2014–2017 6 2 8 1 0 1 – – – 2015–2018 9 1 10 3 0 3 1 0 1 2016–2019 – – – -2 0 -2 – – – 2017–2020 – – – 3 0 3 -3 0 -3 2018–2021 – – – – – – – – – 15 3 18 5 0 5 -2 0 -2 1) Price on 31 December 2017 = SEK 69.40 per share 2) Price on 31 December 2018 = SEK 49.20 per share 3) See Note 1 on pages 60–66. Changes in the number of outstanding share rights are as follows: Outstanding share rights at year-end had the following expiry dates: No. of share rights No. of share rights 2017 2018 Expiry date 2017 2018 As per 1 January 357,905 311,754 April/May 2018 110,219 – Allotted 276,879 346,858 April/May 2019 – – Exercised -110,4191 -103,0031 April/May 2020 201,535 – Forfeited -212,611 -555,609 April/May 2021 – – As per 31 December 311,754 – 311,754 – 1) Share price on exercise was SEK 68.16 per share (91.65 per share). 72 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 N OT E S NOTE 5 A  V E R AG E N U M B E R O F NOTE 7 D  E PR E C I AT I O N / E M PLOY E E S A M O RT I S AT I O N A N D 2017 2018 I M PA I R M E N T BY AC T I V I T Y Average Average number of Of whom, number of Of whom, Depreciation/ employees men employees men amortisation Impairment Group, SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 Subsidiaries in: Cost of goods sold -140 -149 – – Sweden 769 538 774 545 Selling expenses -102 -111 -2 -11 Denmark 1,321 944 1,321 954 Administrative expenses -43 -55 – – Norway 291 113 252 105 Total depreciation/ Finland 400 293 379 274 amortisation and Germany 31 22 0 0 impairment -285 -315 -2 -11 Austria 365 287 373 288 UK 2,945 2,198 2,879 2,145 France 0 0 – – USA Switzerland 5 3 2 2 – – – – NOTE 8 O T H E R O PE R AT I N G I N CO M E Netherlands 0 0 151 116 Group Parent Company Japan 0 0 – – SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 Total subsidiaries 6,130 4,399 6,129 4,427 Gains attributable to sale of Parent Company 48 18 49 22 fixed assets 7 6 – – Group 6,178 4,417 6,178 4,449 Exchange-rate gains from operating receivables/lia2017 2018 bilities 103 115 5 3 Number Other 19 28 – – on closing Of whom, Number on Of whom, Total other date men, % closing date men, % operating income 129 149 5 3 Board members 63 81 71 87 President and other senior executives 94 83 134 79 Group 157 82 205 82 NOTE 9 O  T H E R O PE R AT I N G Several people are members of more than one of the subsidiaries’ Boards of Directors or management groups. E X PE N S E S Group Parent Company 2017 2018 SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 Number on closing Of whom, Number on Of whom, Exchange-rate losses from date men, % closing date men, % operating receivables/liaBoard members 11 55 11 55 bilities -104 -115 -9 -3 President and other senior Loss attributable to sale of executives 11 82 11 91 fixed assets -1 – – – Parent Company 22 68 22 73 Pensionadjustment for defined-benefit plans in UK – -66 – – Other -1 -9 – – Total other NOTE 6 R  E M U N E R AT I O N TO operating expenses -106 -190 -9 -3 AU D I TO R S SEK m Group 2017 2018 Parent Company 2017 2018 NOTE 10 S PE C I F I C AT I O N BY Deloitte AB T Y PE O F COS T Audit assignment 5 6 2 1 Audit activities other than Group, SEK m 2017 2018 audit assignment 0 0 0 0 Costs for goods and materials -5,141 -5,236 Tax advice 0 0 0 0 Costs for remuneration of employees -2,878 -3,104 Other assignments 0 3 0 2 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment (Note 7) -287 -326 KPMG Freight costs -604 -693 Audit assignment 2 1 0 – Operating lease costs, Audit activities other than primarily stores -490 -545 audit assignment 1 0 1 – Other operating expenses -2,187 -2,436 Tax advice 1 0 0 – Total operating expenses -11,587 -12,340 Other assignments 1 0 0 – Audit assignment refers to the statutory audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements and accounting, the administration of the Board and the President and other examinations performed by agreement or contract. This includes other duties that fall upon the company’s auditor to perform and providing advisory services or other assistance due to observations made during such an audit or while performing other such duties. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 73 N OT E S NOTE 11 O P E R AT I N G L E A S E S NOTE 13 T  A X O N N E T PRO F I T F O R The nominal values of contracted future leasing fees where the remaining THE YEAR term exceeds one year, are specified as follows (pertains mainly to rental Group Parent Company contracts for premises): SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 Group Parent Company SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 Current tax expenses for the period -246 -240 -31 -5 Expensed during the year 490 545 3 4 Deferred tax -10 7 0 0 Tax on net profit for the Falling due for payment year -256 -233 -31 -5 within one year 432 433 1 4 Falling due for payment between R ECO N C I L I ATI O N O F E F F EC TI V E TA X one and five years 1,313 1,084 1 25 Parent Company, % 2017 2018 Falling due for payment later 57 409 0 3 Tax rate in the Parent Company 22.0 22.0 Total 1,802 1,926 2 32 Taxes attributable to earlier periods 0.0 -0.1 Non-tax deductible income – – The nominal values of rental contracts that are re-let, where the remaining Non-deductible costs 0.5 0.1 term exceeds one year, are specified as follows: Non-tax deductible dividend -19.1 -21.4 Group Parent Company Utilisation of non-capitalised loss carryforwards – – SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 Other – – Falling due for payment Recognised effective tax 3.4 0.6 within one year 49 86 – – The difference between the nominal and effective tax rates for the Parent Falling due for payment Company primarily pertains to dividends to subsidiaries. between one and five years 92 90 – – Tax expense on net profit for the year for the Group comprised 23.7 per Falling due for payment later 3 2 – – cent of profit before tax for continuing operations. In 2017, tax expense Total 144 178 – – accounted for 20.5 per cent of profit before tax for continuing operations. On 1 January 2019, the corporation tax rate in Norway was lowered from 23.0 per cent to 22.0 per cent. On 1 January 2019, the corporation tax rate in Sweden was lowered from 22.0 per cent to 21.4 per cent. The corNOTE 12 F I N A N C I A L I N CO M E poration tax rate will be lowered again to 20.6 per cent in 2021. Nobia’s deferred tax liabilities and assets from these countries are thus recognised A N D E X PE N S E S at the new tax rate as per 31 December 2018, with a marginal effect in the income statement and the balance sheet. The difference between Group Parent Company recognised tax (23.7 per cent) and anticipated tax in consolidated profit SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 before tax calculated using the local tax rate for Sweden (22.0 per cent) is Profit from participations in explained in the table below. Group companies Dividends – – 800 800 R ECO N C I L I ATI O N O F E F F EC TI V E TA X Impairment of Group, % 2017 2018 subsidiary shares – – -9 – Local tax rate in Sweden 22.0 22.0 Financial income Different local tax rates -0.7 -1.0 Interest income, current 3 2 6 7 Taxes attributable to earlier periods -1.4 0.4 Exchange-rate differences 6 8 1 41 Non-tax deductible income -0.2 -0.3 Financial expenses Non-deductible costs 0.9 2.1 Interest expense -9 -14 -9 -8 Non-capitalised loss carryforwards 0.0 0.4 Interest expense pertaining Changed tax rate -0.1 0.1 to pension liabilities -34 -28 0 0 Recognised effective tax 20.5 23.7 Exchange-rate differences -2 0 0 0 Note 26 on page 82 explains the calculation of deferred tax assets and liaTotal -36 -32 789 840 bilities. 74 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 N OT E S NOTE 14 I N TA N G I B L E A SS E T S G ro u p Assumptions for calculating the recoverable amount: Goodwill, SEK m 2017 2018 Group Opening carrying amount 2,359 2,361 Discount rate before tax, % 2017 2018 Acquisition of operations – 468 Nobia UK 11.4 8.2 Translation differences 2 58 Nobia DK 9.9 6.6 Closing carrying amount 2,361 2,887 Nobia SweNo 10.7 7.3 Other 10,0-10,4 6,9-7,1 Impairment testing of goodwill At the end of 2018, recognised goodwill amounted to SEK 2,887 million Group (2,361). The carrying amount of goodwill is specified by cash-generating Other intangible assets, SEK m 2017 2018 units as follows: Opening cost 339 406 G ro u p Investments for the year 57 76 SEK m 2017 2018 Sales and scrapping 0 -1 Nobia UK 1,581 1,616 Acquisition of operations – 10 Nobia DK 339 351 Reclassification 6 2 Nobia SweNo 143 144 Translation differences 4 8 Bribus – 464 Closing accumulated cost 406 501 Other 298 312 Total 2,361 2,887 Opening amortisation 213 257 Sales and scrapping 0 -1 Goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units (CGU) when these units were acquired. Nobia has six CGUs, which in organisational terms Amortisation for the year 41 50 correspond to the company’s business units. Goodwill is subject to an Acquisition of operations – 4 annual impairment test by calculating the expected recoverable amount Reclassification – 0 of each CGU. The recoverable amount is calculated as the expected cash Translation differences 3 7 flow discounted by a weighted average cost of capital (WACC) after tax Closing accumulated amortisation 257 317 for each CGU, which forms the basis for deriving the discount rate before Closing carrying amount 149 184 tax. The recoverable amount calculated in conjunction with this is comOf which: pared with the carrying amount, including goodwill, for each CGU. Software 117 158 The starting point of the calculation is the estimated future cash flows Brands 15 8 based on the financial budget for the forthcoming financial year. A foreLicences 15 13 cast for the next four years is prepared based on this budget and expecOther 2 5 tations regarding market trends in the years ahead, which reflects previClosing carrying amount 149 184 ous experience. When calculating the expected cash flow, significant assumptions applied include expected sales growth, operating margin and working capital requirements. Various economic indicators are used to analyse the business climate, as well as external and internal analyses of these. The assumptions are also based on the effects of the Group’s long-term strategic initiatives, comprising differentiated brands, a Group-wide range, central sourcing and product development. In order to extrapolate the cash flows outside the first five years, a growth rate of 2 per cent (2) is applied to all CGUs. The weighted average cost of capital is calculated on the average debt/ equity ratio for large companies in similar industries and costs for borrowed and shareholders’ equity. The cost of shareholders’ equity is determined on the basis of the assumption that all investors require at least the same level of return as for risk-free government bonds, with an additional risk premium for the estimated risks assumed when they invest in cash-generating units. The risk premium has been established based on the long-term historical return on the stock market for large companies in similar industries by taking into consideration the risk profile of each business unit. The required return on debt-financed capital is also calculated on the return on risk-free government bonds and by applying a borrowing margin based on an estimated company-specific risk. The required return and tax rate for each CGU is influenced by the interest and tax rates in different countries. In 2018, the Group’s weighted cost of capital before tax amounted to 8.7 per cent (10.6) and after tax to 7.2 per cent (8.7). In total, the utilised cost of capital after tax for 2018 is within the interval of 6.6-8.2 per cent (8.1-9.5). Testing of goodwill did not lead to any impairment in 2018. Company management has made the assessment that reasonable changes in important assumptions/key variables will not lead to the calculated total recoverable amount of the units being lower than their total carrying amount. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 75 N OT E S NOTE 15 TA N G I B L E F I X E D A SS E T S G ro u p G ro u p Buildings, SEK m 2017 2018 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings, SEK m 2017 2018 Opening cost 1,357 1,369 Opening cost 949 1,025 Investments for the year 71 121 Investments for the year 109 143 Sales and scrapping -76 -4 Sales and scrapping -54 -24 Reclassification 6 1 Acquisition of operations – 73 Translation differences 11 36 Reclassification 13 9 Closing cost including Translation differences 8 29 written-up amount 1,369 1,523 Closing cost 1,025 1,255 Opening depreciation and impairment 887 900 Opening depreciation and impairment 743 793 Sale and scrapping -61 -2 Sales and scrapping -39 -14 Reclassification 0 0 Acquisition of operations – 49 Depreciation for the year 66 70 Reclassification 1 0 Translation differences 8 24 Depreciation for the year 80 93 Closing depreciation and impairment 900 992 Impairment 2 11 Closing carrying amount 469 531 Translation differences 6 22 Closing accumulated depreciation 898 990 Closing depreciation and impairment 793 954 Closing carrying amount 232 301 G ro u p Closing accumulated depreciation 768 919 Land and land improvements, SEK m 2017 2018 Opening cost 141 137 G ro u p Investments for the year 3 0 Advance payments for tangible fixed assets, SEK m 2017 2018 Sales and scrapping -9 – Opening balance 18 0 Translation differences 2 4 Expenses during the year 4 0 Closing cost including Reclassification -22 0 written-up amount 137 141 Closing carrying amount 0 0 Opening depreciation and impairment 25 21 Impairment for the year for tangible fixed assets amounted to SEK 11 milSales and scrapping -6 – lion (2) and no reversals of previous impairment took place during the year (0). Minor reclassifications were made during the year between classes of Depreciation for the year 1 1 fixed assets and to other intangible assets. Translation differences 1 0 Closing depreciation and impairment 21 22 Closing carrying amount 116 119 Closing accumulated depreciation 21 22 NOTE 16 F I N A N C I A L F I X E D A SS E T S G ro u p G ro u p Investments in progress, SEK m 2017 2018 Other long-term receivables, SEK m 2017 2018 Opening balance 133 110 Deposits 28 29 Investments initiated during the year 14 34 Long-term loans to retailers1) 5 9 Acquisition of operations – 3 Other interest-bearing receivables – – Investments completed during the year1) -37 -23 Other 6 6 Translation differences 0 3 Total 39 44 Closing carrying amount 110 127 1) Of which SEK 2 million (5) is interest-bearing. 1) Assets reclassified as other tangible fixed assets. G ro u p P a re n t C o m p a ny Machinery and other technical equipment, SEK m 2017 2018 Shares and participations in Group companies, SEK m 2017 2018 Opening cost 1,821 1,837 Opening cost 1,469 1,379 Investments for the year 61 40 Divestment -93 – Sales and scrapping -99 -38 Shareholders’ contribution – – Acquisition of operations – 132 Impairment of subsidiary shares – – Reclassification 36 10 Other changes 3 -1 Translation differences 18 46 Closing cost 1,379 1,378 Closing cost including written-up amount 1,837 2,027 Opening depreciation and impairment 1,380 1,397 Sales and scrapping -96 -37 Acquisition of operations – 63 Reclassification – -1 Depreciation for the year 97 101 Translation differences 16 35 Closing depreciation and impairment 1,397 1,558 Closing carrying amount 440 469 Closing accumulated depreciation 1,390 1,550 76 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 N OT E S NOTE 17 S H A R E S A N D PA RT I C I PAT I O N S I N S U B S I D I A R I E S Nobia AB’s holdings of shares and participations in operating Group companies, %. Carrying amount Corp. Reg. No. Domicile Share of equity, % No. of shares 2017 2018 Nobia Sverige AB 556060-1006 Stockholm 100 100 1,256 1,256 Nobia Norway AS Trollåsen 100 Nobia Production Sweden AB 556038-0072 Tidaholm 100 Nobia Denmark A/S Ølgod 100 HTH Kök Svenska AB 556187-3190 Helsingborg 100 Nobia Denmark Retail A/S Ølgod 100 Invita Retail A/S Ølgod 100 Novart OY Nastola 100 Nobia Holding (UK) Limited Darlington 100 Nobia UK Trustee’s Ltd Darlington 100 Magnet Ltd Darlington 100 Larkflame Ltd1 Darlington 100 Magnet (Isle of Man) Limited Isle of Man 100 Aqua Ware Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Group Trustees Ltd Darlington 100 Magnet Group Ltd1) Darlington 100 Flint Properties Ltd1) Darlington 100 Eastham Ltd1) Darlington 100 Hyphen Fitted Furniture Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Distribution Ltd1) Darlington 100 The Penrith Joinery Company Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet & Southerns Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Furniture Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Joinery Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Manufacturing Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Retail Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Supplies Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Industries Ltd1) Darlington 100 Magnet Kitchens Ltd1) Darlington 100 Firenzi Kitchens Ltd1) Darlington 100 Gower Group Ltd Halifax 100 Gower Furniture Ltd Halifax 100 Charco Ninety-Nine Ltd Halifax 100 WOR Ltd1 Halifax 100 Gower Windows Ltd1) Halifax 100 Eurostyle Furniture Ltd1) Halifax 100 Beverly Doors Ltd1) Halifax 100 Working Systems Ltd1) Halifax 100 Perfectshot Ltd1) Halifax 100 Addspace Products Ltd1) Halifax 100 Gower Garden Furniture Ltd1) Halifax 100 Rollfold Holdings Ltd Dewsbury 100 Rollfold Group Ltd Dewsbury 100 Rixonway Kitchens Ltd Dewsbury 100 Commodore Kitchens Ltd Grays 100 CIE UK (Holdings) Ltd Ingatestone 100 CIE PLC Grays 100 Essenza Interiors Ltd1) Grays 100 Lovene Dörr AB1) 556038-1724 Stockholm 100 HTH Küchen GmbH Herford 100 Swedoor Bauelementevertrieb Gmbh1) Herford 100 Nobia Svenska Kök AB 556048-3256 Tidaholm 100 30,000 92 92 Nobia Beteiligungs-GmbH Wels 100 2 2) 2 2) Nobia Liegenschaftsund Anlagenverwaltungs-GmbH Wels 100 12) 12) EWE Küchen GmbH Wels 100 FM Küchen GmbH Linz 100 Bribus Holding B.V. Amsterdam 100 Bribus B.V. Dinxperlo 100 Bribus Extra B.V. Dinxperlo 100 Aannemingsen Onderhoudsbedrijf D. de Jong B.V. Rotterdam 100 Other 28 27 Total 1,379 1,378 1) The company is dormant. 2) The company is 1 per cent owned by Nobia AB and 99 per cent owned by the subsidiary, Nobia Sverige AB. The details concern the 1 per cent holding. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 77 N OT E S NOTE 18 D E R I VAT I V E I N S T R U M E N T S NOTE 21 S H A R E C A P I TA L Group Parent Company No. of shares Carrying Carrying No. of registered shares outstanding amount Fair value amount Fair value As per 1 January 2017 175,293,458 168,473,468 SEK m 2018 2018 2018 2018 As per 31 December 2017 175,293,458 168,583,887 Forward agreements, transAs per 31 December 2018 170,293,458 168,686,890 action exposure – assets 13 13 21 21 Bought-back own shares 2017 2018 Forward agreements, transaction exposure Opening balance 6,819,990 6,709,571 – liabilities -9 -9 -21 -21 Divestments for the year -110,419 -103,003 Total 4 4 0 0 Cancellation of treasury shares – -5,000,000 Closing balance 6,709,571 1,606,568 In addition to the forward agreements above, the company also has currency swaps at a carrying amount and fair value for assets of SEK 0 milThe share capital amounts to SEK 56,763,597 (58,430,237). The share’s lion (11) and liabilities of SEK 10 million (17), which are recognised under quotient value is SEK 0.33. All of the registered shares are fully paid. All other assets and liabilities. Unrealised gains and losses totalling a net gain shares are ordinary shares of the same type. Nobia owned 1,606,568 treaof SEK 2 million in shareholders’ equity as per 31 December 2018 will be sury shares (6,709,571) on 31 December 2018. Divestments for the year recognised in profit or loss at different times within 12 months of the clospertained to allotment of shares for the Performance Share Plans 2015 ing date. For information about forward agreements, see Note 2 Finan(2014). 5,000,000 treasury shares in Nobia were cancelled on 9 July 2018 cial risks on pages 67–69. The preceding year’s unrealised gains and losses in accordance with the resolution of the 2018 AGM to reduce the share totalling a net profit of SEK 7 million were reversed in profit or loss in their capital by withdrawing treasury shares. entirety in 2018. Bought-back shares are not reserved for issue according to the option agreement or other sale. NOTE 19 P  R E PA I D E X PE N S E S A N D NOTE 22 R  E S E RV E S I N ACC R U E D I N CO M E S H A R E H O L D E R S’ E Q U I T Y Group Parent Company SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 A specification of changes in shareholders’ equity is provided on pages 56 Prepaid rent 66 74 – 0 and 59. Translation Hedging Bonus from suppliers 110 95 39 38 SEK m reserve reserve Total Accrued customer income 73 73 – – Opening balance, 1 January 2017 -253 -4 -257 Prepaid bank charges 1 11 – – Exchange-rate differences attributInsurance policies 38 10 1 3 able to translation of foreign operOther 85 130 12 21 ations -18 – -18 Total 373 393 52 62 Cash-flow hedges before tax1 – 14 14 Tax attributable to change in hedging reserve for the year2 – -3 -3 Closing balance, NOTE 20 C  ASH AND CASH 31 December 2017 -271 7 -264 E Q U I VA L E N T S Opening balance, 1 January 2018 -271 7 -264 Group Parent Company Exchange-rate differences attributSEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 able to translation of foreign operCash and bank balances 473 128 334 38 ations 98 – 98 Unutilised overdraft facilities, which are not included in cash and cash Cash-flow hedges before tax1 – -7 -7 equivalents, totalled SEK 277 million (299) in the Group, and SEK 226 milTax attributable to change in hedglion (249) in the Parent Company at year-end. In addition to the overdraft ing reserve for the year2 – 2 2 facilities, the company has unutilised credit commitments of SEK 1,158 milClosing balance, lion (1,000). 31 December 2018 -173 2 -171 1) Reversal recognised in profit or loss of a negative SEK 10 million (pos: 5). New provision amounts to SEK 3 million (9). 2) Reversal recognised in profit or loss of SEK 3 million (neg: 1). New provision amounts to a negative SEK 1 million (neg: 2). TR A N S L ATI O N R E S E RV E The translation reserve includes all exchange-rate differences arising in conjunction with the translation of financial statements from foreign operations that have prepared their financial statements in a different currency to the currency in which the consolidated financial statements are prepared. The Parent Company and Group present their financial statements in SEK. H E DG I N G R E S E RV E The hedging reserve includes the effective portion of the accumulated net change in fair value of a cash-flow hedging and interest-rate hedging instrument attributable to hedging transactions that have not yet occurred. 78 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 N OT E S NOTE 23 E A R N I N G S PE R S H A R E NOTE 24 A  P PRO P R I AT I O N O F E A R N I N G S PE R S H A R E B E F O R E D I LU TI O N CO M PA N Y ’ S PRO F I T Earnings per share before dilution are calculated by dividing profit attributO R LOSS able to the Parent Company shareholders by the weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares during the period. PRO P O S E D A PPRO PR I ATI O N O F CO M PA N Y ’ S PRO F IT 2017 2018 O R LO S S Profit attributable to Parent Company shareThe following profits in the Parent Company are at the disposition of the holders, SEK m 1,015 753 Annual General Meeting: Profit from continuing operations, SEK m1 994 753 Profit from discontinued operations, SEK m1 21 – Share premium reserve 52,225,486 Weighted average number of outstanding Unappropriated profit brought forordinary shares before dilution 168,547,081 168,652,556 ward 586,241,165 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 6.02 4.46 Net profit for the year 817,302,342 Earnings per share before dilution from conTotal SEK 1,455,768,993 tinuing operations, SEK 5.89 4.46 The Board of Directors proposes that all profits at the disposition of the Earnings per share before dilution from disAnnual General Meeting be appropriated as follows: continued operations, SEK 0.13 – 1) Attributable to Parent Company shareholders Standard dividend of SEK 4 per share to be paid to shareholders 674,747,560 E A R N I N G S PE R S H A R E A F TE R D I LU TI O N To be carried forward 781,021,433 To calculate earnings per share after dilution, the weighted average numTotal SEK 1,455,768,993 ber of outstanding ordinary shares is adjusted for the dilutive effect of all potential ordinary shares. These potential ordinary shares are attributable to the Performance Share Plans that were introduced in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. Refer to Notes 4 and 21, on pages 70 and 78. Various circumstances may entail that the share rights do not lead to any dilution. If net profit for the year from continuing operations is negative, the share rights are not considered dilutive. Share rights are also not dilutive if the value of remaining future services to report during the vesting period correspond to an exercise price that exceeds the average share price for the period. Furthermore, the performance share rights do not lead to dilution if the achieved earnings per share are insufficient to entitle shares at the end of the vesting period. 2017 2018 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares 168,547,081 168,652,556 Performance Share Plan 20141 36,806 – Performance Share Plan 20151 97,906 34,334 Performance Share Plan 2016 – – Performance Share Plan 2017 20,304 – Performance Share Plan 2018 – – Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares after dilution 168,702,097 168,686,890 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 6.02 4.46 Earnings per share after dilution from continuing operations, SEK 5.89 4.46 Loss per share after dilution from discontinued operations, SEK 0.13 – 1) Pertains to dilution until redemption. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 79 N OT E S NOTE 25 P ROV I S I O N S F O R PE N S I O N S D E F I N E D B E N E F IT PE N S I O N PL A N S , G RO U P in the form of the collective consolidation rate, amounted to 142 per cent Provisions for pensions, SEK m 2017 2018 (154 per cent on 31 December 2017). The collective consolidation rate Defined-benefit pension plans 567 505 comprises the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurThere are several defined-benefit pension plans within the Group, ance commitments produced in accordance with Alecta’s actuarial calculawhereby the employee’s right to remuneration after termination of tion assumptions, which are not in agreement with IAS 19. employment is based upon final salary and period of service. These plans are found in the UK, Sweden and Austria. The plan in the UK has already The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet have been concluded and no new benefits can be earned. These pension plans been calculated as follows, Group: SEK m 2017 2018 have been replaced by defined-contribution plans. Commitments for old-age pensions and family pensions for salaried Present value of funded obligations 2,894 2,739 employees in Sweden are secured on the basis of the FPG/PRI system Fair value of plan assets -2,531 -2,449 and insurance, primarily with Alecta. According to statement UFR 3 from 363 290 the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, the insurance with Alecta is a Present value of unfunded obligations 204 215 multi-employer defined-benefit plan. Since the Group did not have access Net debt in provisions for pensions 567 505 to information in the 2018 financial year that would make it possible to recognise this plan as a defined-benefit plan, ITP pension plans secured on the The net debt for defined-benefit plans amounting to SEK 505 million (567) basis of insurance with Alecta have been recognised as defined-contribuis recognised in the “Provisions for pensions” item in the consolidated baltion plans. Fees for pension insurance with Alecta for the year amounted ance sheet. The net debt at year-end was as follows: UK 57 per cent, Sweto SEK 4.1 million (4.2). On 31 December 2018, Alecta’s surplus, which den 32 per cent and Austria 11 per cent. can be distributed between the policy holder and/or the persons insured Changes in the defined-benefit pension commitments during the year were as follows: Defined-benefit obligation Plan assets Net debt 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 At beginning of the year 3,294 3,098 -2,400 -2,531 894 567 Recognised in profit or loss Costs for service during current year 7 8 – – 7 8 Pension adjustment for defined-benefit plans in UK – 66 – – – 66 Interest expense (+)/income (-) 86 82 -52 -54 34 28 93 156 -52 -54 41 102 Recognised in other comprehensive income Remeasurements Actuarial gains/losses due to – demographic assumptions -168 7 – – -168 7 – financial assumptions 7 -124 – – 7 -124 – experience-based adjustments 9 -116 – – 9 -116 Return on plan assets excluding interest income – – -125 133 -125 133 Exchange-rate differences -23 69 14 -58 -9 11 -175 -164 -111 75 -286 -89 Other Employer contributions – – -78 -68 -78 -68 Benefits paid -114 -136 110 129 -4 -7 -114 -136 32 61 -82 -75 At year-end 3,098 2,954 -2,531 -2,449 567 505 80 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 N OT E S Not 25 continued Costs in the consolidated income statement are divided between Sensitivity analysis the following items: The table below presents the possible changes in actuarial assumptions Group, SEK m 2017 2018 at year-end, all other assumptions being unchanged, and how they would Cost of goods sold 1 1 affect the defined-benefit commitments. Selling expenses 1 1 Group Administrative expenses 5 6 SEK m Increase Decrease Other operating expenses – 66 Discount rate (1% change) -392 603 Net financial items 34 28 Expected mortality (1-year change) 137 -31 Total pension costs 41 102 Future salary increase (1% change) 69 40 Future increase in pension (1% change) 262 -231 The actual return on the plan assets of the pension plans amounted to: Group, SEK m 2017 2018 Total pension costs recognised in the consolidated income Interest income 52 54 statement were as follows: Return on pension assets excluding interest income 125 -133 Group Total actual return on plan assets 177 -79 Pension costs, SEK m 2017 2018 Total costs for defined-benefit plans 41 36 Pension adjustment for defined-benefit plans in UK – 66 Principal actuarial assumptions: Group, % 2017 2018 Total costs for defined-contribution plans 184 212 Costs for special employer’s contributions and tax Discount rate: on returns from pension 8 8 UK 2.60 2.90 Total pension costs 233 322 Austria 1.60 1.90 Sweden 2.60 2.54 Future annual salary increases: Defined-benefit pension plans, Parent Company: Parent Company UK – – Provisions for pensions, SEK m 2017 2018 Austria 2.30 2.30 Provisions in accordance with Pension Obligations Sweden 2.50 2.50 Vesting Act, FPG/PRI pensions1 33 38 Future annual pension increases: 1) According to IAS 19. UK 2.90 3.00 Austria – – The costs are recognised in the income statement as follows: Sweden 2.50 2.50 Parent Company Defined-benefit plans, SEK m 2017 2018 Life expectancy Administrative expenses 2 1 The expected average number of years of life remaining after retirement at 65 years of age is as follows, Group: Total pension cost recognised in the income statement is as follows: 2017 2018 Parent Company On closing date Pension costs, SEK m 2017 2018 Men 21.0-23.0 21.0-23.0 Total costs for defined-benefit plans 2 2 Women 23.7-25.0 23.7-25.0 Total costs for defined-contribution plans 9 11 Costs for special employer’s contributions and tax 20 years after closing date on returns from pension 2 2 Men 22.8-24.2 22.8-26.2 Total pension costs 13 15 Women 25.6-27.3 25.6-28.4 Parent Company pension liabilities are calculated at a discount rate of 2.54 Plan assets comprise the following: per cent (2.6). The assumptions are calculated on the basis of the salary 2017 2018 levels applicable on the closing date. SEK 330,000 (328,000), pertaining to Listed Listed defined-benefit pension plans in the Parent Company, is expected to be price on price on paid in 2018. an active Unlisted an active Unlisted Group, SEK m market price market price Cash and cash equivalents 33 – 89 – High-quality corporate bonds 826 – 893 – Mutual funds, Western Europe 169 – – – Mutual funds, growth markets 34 – – – Mutual funds, global 505 – 376 – Hedge funds 203 – 181 – Fixed-income funds, term 7–20 years 761 – 910 – Total 2,531 – 2,449 – Contributions to post-employment remuneration plans are expected to amount to SEK 71 million (70) for the 2018 financial year. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 81 N OT E S NOTE 26 D E F E R R E D TA X The change in deferred tax assets/tax liabilities for the year, Group 2017 2018 Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax SEK m assets liabilities Net assets liabilities Net Opening balance 176 84 92 118 89 29 Recognised in profit or loss -7 3 -10 -3 -10 7 Remeasurements of defined-benefit pension plans -46 – -46 -17 – -17 Changes in forward agreements 1 4 -3 -4 -6 2 Recognised directly against shareholders’ equity -1 – -1 1 0 1 Offset/Reclassification -4 -4 0 0 0 0 Translation differences -1 2 -3 2 2 0 Closing balance 118 89 29 97 75 22 TH E C H A N G E I N D E F E RRE D TA X A S S E T S / TA X LI A B I LITI E S FO R TH E Y E A R Deferred tax assets Defined-benefit penOther temporary Loss carryforwards, sion plans differences etc. Total As per 1 January 2017 136 40 0 176 Recognised in profit or loss -8 1 – -7 Recognised in other comprehensive income -46 1 – -45 Recognised directly against shareholders’ equity – -1 – -1 Reclassification 1 -1 – 0 Offset – -4 – -4 Translation differences -1 0 – -1 As per 31 December 2017 82 36 0 118 As per 1 January 2018 82 36 0 118 Recognised in profit or loss 3 -6 – -3 Recognised in other comprehensive income -17 -4 – -21 Recognised directly against shareholders’ equity – 1 – 1 Reclassification 0 0 – 0 Offset 0 0 – 0 Translation differences 1 1 – 2 As per 31 December 2018 69 28 0 97 Deferred tax liabilities Temporary differences in fixed assets Other Total As per 1 January 2017 58 26 84 Recognised in profit or loss -3 6 3 Recognised in other comprehensive income – 4 4 Offset -4 – -4 Translation differences 1 1 2 As per 31 December 2017 52 37 89 As per 1 January 2018 52 37 89 Recognised in profit or loss -4 -6 -10 Recognised in other comprehensive income – -6 -6 Offset 0 0 0 Translation differences 1 1 2 As per 31 December 2018 49 26 75 On 1 January 2019, the corporation tax rate in Norway was lowered from The value of the loss carryforwards for which a deferred tax asset is not 23.0 per cent to 22.0 per cent. Nobia’s deferred taxes pertaining to Norrecognised amounted to SEK 6 million (-) and was primarily attributable to way are recognised at the new tax rates as per 31 December 2018, with a Austria. Nobia does not recognise any deferred tax attributable to temmarginal effect in the income statement and the balance sheet. On 1 Janu­ porary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries or associated ary 2019, the corporation tax rate in Sweden was lowered from 22.0 per companies. Any future effects (withholding tax and other deferred tax for cent to 21.4 per cent and will be reduced again to 20.6 per cent in 2021. profit taking within the Group) are recognised when Nobia is no longer Nobia’s deferred taxes pertaining to Sweden are recognised at the new able to govern the reversal of such differences or when, for other reasons, tax rates as per 31 December 2018, with a marginal effect in the income it is no longer improbable that reversals will be made in the foreseeable statement and the balance sheet. future. These possible future effects are not deemed to have any relation to the overall amount of the temporary differences. 82 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 N OT E S NOTE 27 OT H E R P ROV I S I O N S Unutilised tenancy Other long-term Items affecting SEK m rights Dilapidations employee benefits comparability Other Total As per 1 January 2018 6 16 4 1 5 32 Expensed in consolidated income statement – Additional provisions 20 28 2 – 15 65 – Reversed unutilised amounts -3 -13 – – – -17 Utilised during the year – -10 – -1 -1 -11 Translation differences 0 0 0 0 0 0 As per 31 December 2018 23 21 6 – 19 69 NOTE 28 L I A B I L I T I E S TO C R E D I T NOTE 29 A CC R U E D E X PE N S E S A N D INSTITUTIONS D E F E R R E D I N CO M E M ATU R IT Y STRU C T U R E Group Parent Company Group Parent Company SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 Bonus to customers 134 136 – – Within 1 year 1 – – – Accrued salary-related costs 198 204 17 15 Between 1 and 5 years – 842 – – Accrued interest – 0 – – Longer than 5 years – – – – Insurance policies 21 22 – – Total 1 842 – – Rents 4 4 – – Other 216 167 3 3 Total 573 533 20 18 NOTE 30 F I N A N C I A L A SS E T S A N D L I A B I L I T I E S As a result of the introduction of IFRS 9, the Group has introduced changed forms of presentation to reflect the new recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities. The presentation form for financial assets and liabilities for 2017 follows IAS 39. Additional information is provided in the accounting policies on page 60. Measured at fair value through other comprehensive Measured at fair value income through profit or loss Amortised cost Non-hedgeFinancial accounting instruments Accounts Total Derivatives used in derivative initially identified Interim and loans Other carrying Group 2018, SEK m Note hedge accounting instruments at fair value items receivable liabilities amount1) Financial assets Long-term interest-bearing receivables 16 – – – – 2 – 2 Other long-term receivables 16 – – – – 42 – 42 Accounts receivable 2 – – – – 1,426 – 1,426 Current interest-bearing receivables – – – – 33 – 33 Other receivables 2, 18, 19 13 – – 168 45 – 226 Total 13 – – 168 1,548 – 1,729 Financial liabilities Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 28 – – – – – 850 850 Current interest-bearing liabilities 2 – – – – – 74 74 Accounts payable 2 – – – – – 1,050 1,050 Additional purchase consideration 2, 33 – – 51 – – – 51 Other liabilities 2, 18, 29 9 10 – 529 – 339 887 Total 9 10 51 529 – 2,313 2,912 1) The carrying amount is considered to essentially correspond to the fair value. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 83 N OT E S Not 30 continued Derivatives Non-hedgeFinancial used in accounting instruments Total hedge derivative initially identified Accounts and carrying Group 2017, SEK m accounting instruments at fair value loans receivable Interim items Other liabilities amount1) Financial assets Long-term interest-bearing receivables – – – 5 – – 5 Other long-term receivables – – – 34 – – 34 Accounts receivable – – – 1,282 – – 1,282 Current interest-bearing receivables – – – 18 – – 18 Other receivables 39 11 – 37 183 – 270 Total 39 11 – 1,376 183 – 1,609 Financial liabilities Long-term interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – 5 5 Current interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – 1 1 Accounts payable – – – – – 1,106 1,106 Other liabilities 26 17 – – 569 361 973 Total 26 17 – – 569 1,473 2,085 1) The carrying amount is considered to essentially correspond to the fair value. Exchange-rate gains and losses pertaining to the operations were recFinancial exchange-rate gains and losses were recognised in net financial ognised in other operating income and operating expenses in the net items in the amount of SEK 8 million (4). amount of SEK 0 million (neg: 1). Measured at fair value through other comprehensive Measured at fair value income through profit or loss Amortised cost Financial Non-hedge-acinstruments Accounts Total Derivatives used in counting derivainitially identified Interim and loans Other carrying Parent Company 2018, SEK m Note hedge accounting tive instruments at fair value items receivable liabilities amount1) Financial assets Long-term interest-bearing receivables – – – – – – – Other long-term receivables – – – – 4 – 4 Accounts receivable – – – – 26 – 26 Current interest-bearing receivables – – – – – – – Other receivables 18, 19 – 21 – 38 2,518 – 2,577 Total – 21 – 38 2,548 – 2,607 Financial liabilities Long-term interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – 19 19 Long-term non-interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – 5 5 Current interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – 754 754 Accounts payable – – – – – 24 24 Other liabilities 18, 29 – 30 – 18 – 14 62 Total – 30 – 18 – 816 864 1) T h e c a r r y i n g a m o u n t i s co n s i d e r e d t o e s s e n t i a l l y co r r e s p o n d t o t h e f a i r v a l u e . Non-hedgeDerivatives used in accounting derivative Accounts and loans Total carrying Parent Company 2017, SEK m hedge accounting instruments receivable Other liabilities Interim items amount1 Financial assets Accounts receivable – – 1 – – 1 Other receivables 22 – 2,861 – 39 2,922 Total 22 – 2,862 – 39 2,923 Financial liabilities Long-term interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – – Current liabilities to Group companies – – – 956 – 956 Accounts payable – – – 23 – 23 Other liabilities 22 17 – 47 20 106 Total 22 17 – 1,026 20 1,085 1) The carrying amount is considered to essentially correspond to the fair value. D E TE R M I N ATI O N O F FA I R VA LU E O F F I N A N C I A L The measurement of derivative instruments is included in Level 2 and I N S TRU M E NT S based on market listings or the counterparty’s measurement. Derivative Level 1 According to prices listed in an active market for the same instruinstruments amounted to SEK 13 million (39) in assets and SEK 19 million ment. (26) in liabilities. For disclosures regarding liabilities for additional purchase Level 2 B ased directly or indirectly on observable market information not considerations for business combinations, which are measured under included in Level 1. Level 3, refer to Note 33 on page 85. In an estimate of fair value, the comLevel 3 Based on input that is not observable in the market. pany’s long-term loans are not deemed to significantly deviate from their carrying amounts. 84 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 N OT E S NOTE 31 P  L E D G E D A SS E T S , NOTE 33 C O M PA N Y ACQ U I S I T I O N S CO N T I N G E N T L I A B I L I T I E S On 13 July 2018, Nobia acquired 100 per cent of the shares and votes in A N D CO M M I T M E N T S Bribus Holding B.V, a Dutch kitchen supplier with annual sales of approximately SEK 650 million. Bribus supplies kitchens to professional customers The Group has not currently pledged any floating charges or property in the Netherlands, primarily to social housing providers and large-scale mortgages or other collateral as guarantees for its commitments. The property investors. The acquisition is the first step in Nobia’s growth stratGroup has contingent liabilities pertaining to sub-contractor guarantees, egy of expanding into attractive and adjacent markets. pension liabilities, bank guarantees for loans and other guarantees and Bribus was consolidated on 1 July and has reported sales of SEK 350 million other considerations that arise in normal commercial operations. No sigafter the acquisition. Sales from the beginning of the year totalled approxinificant liabilities are expected to arise through these contingent liabilimately SEK 685 million. Transaction costs for the acquisition amounted to ties. Based on the company’s assessment, no provision has been posted for SEK 9 million and are recognised in the Group’s other income and expenses. ongoing tax cases. The amounts involved are not considered to have any The additional purchase consideration of a maximum SEK 51 million (EUR material effect on the company’s results or financial position. 5 million) at the closing day rate is conditional upon the business performance for the 2018, 2019 and 2020 financial years and is measured according In their normal business activities, the Group and the Parent Company to level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The additional purchase consideration pledged the following guarantees and contingent liabilities. amounted to SEK 52 million on the acquisition date. The additional purchase consideration, which will be paid out in three annual portions beginning in Group Parent Company 2019, is recognised as both a current and long-term non-interest-bearing SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 financial liability and measured at fair value based on Nobia’s best estimate of Securities for pension comfuture payments. Currently, the assessment is an outcome of 100 per cent. mitments 2 2 21 23 The acquisition analysis below is preliminary, since the acquisition Other contingent liabilities 182 226 164 1,007 amounts at fair value have not been finally determined. Total 184 228 185 1,030 Acquired net assets and goodwill, SEK m 2017 2018 Purchase consideration – 560 Additional purchase consideration – 52 NOTE 32 D  I SCO N T I N U E D Fair value of acquired net assets Goodwill – – -144 468 O PE R AT I O N S Goodwill is attributable to Bribus’s underlying earnings, the expected The Group does not report any discontinued operations for 2018. growth in the project market in the next few years and synergies that are Poggenpohl’s operations that were sold in the first quarter of 2017 were expected to be achieved through additional co-ordination of sourcing, recognised as discontinued operations in accordance with IFRS 5. production, distribution and administration. At the start of 2017, Nobia held two stores that were acquired from franchisees, one in Denmark and one in Sweden, with the intention of selling them on. In the third quarter of 2017, these stores were reclassified and Assets and liabilities included in the acquisition, SEK m 2017 2018 recognised in continuing operations. Cash – 2 Tangible fixed assets – 96 For further information, refer to Note 1 on pages 60–66. Profit/loss from Intangible fixed assets – 6 discontinued operations Inventories – 39 SEK m, Group 2017 2018 Accounts receivable – 134 Profit/loss from business activities of discontinLiabilities – -72 ued operations Interest-bearing liabilities – -60 Income 47 – Tax – -1 Expenses -81 – Deferred taxes, net – 0 Loss before tax -34 – Acquired net assets – 144 Tax 1 – Loss after tax -33 – SEK m 2017 2018 Profit/loss in conjunction with divestment of disPurchase consideration paid in cash – 560 continued operations Cash and cash equivalents in acquired subsidiaries – 2 Capital gains/losses in conjunction with divestReduction in the Group’s cash and cash equivament of lents in conjunction with acquisition – 558 discontinued operations 54 – Tax attributable to aforementioned capital gains/ losses 0 – Profit from divestment after tax 54 – Total profit from discontinued operations after tax 21 – Earnings per share from discontinued operations before dilution (SEK) 0.13 – after dilution (SEK) 0.13 – In 2017, profit from discontinued operations of SEK 21 million was attributable to the Parent Company’s owners. No profit from discontinued operations was recognised in the Group for 2018. 2017 2018 Cash flow from operating activities -18 – Cash flow from investing activities -90 – Cash flow from financing activities1) 0 – Net cash flow from discontinued operations -108 – 1) Cash flow from financing activities primarily pertains to intra-Group transactions. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 85 N OT E S NOTE 34 R E L AT E D PA RT Y T R A N S AC T I O N S No sales of goods were made to and no purchases of goods were made A specification of subsidiaries is presented in Note 17 on page 77. from the Parent Company to other Group companies during the year. Remuneration was paid to senior executives during the year, refer to Group-wide services are invoiced to subsidiaries. Note 4 on page 70. S U M M A RY O F R E L ATE D PA RT Y TR A N SAC TI O N S Sale of goods/ Purchase of goods/ Other Receivables from services from services from Invoicing Group(such as interest, related parties per Liabilities to related Parent Company, SEK m Year related parties related parties wide services dividends) 31 Dec parties per 31 Dec Related parties Subsidiaries 2018 – 45 253 793 2,483 729 Subsidiaries 2017 – 51 216 978 2,839 956 NOTE 35 S P E C I F I C AT I O N S F O R S TAT E M E N T O F C A S H F LOW S C A S H A N D C A S H EQ U I VA L E NT S D I V E S TM E NT O F S U B S I D I A R I E S A N D OTH E R Group Parent Company B U S I N E S S U N IT S SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 Group Parent Company Cash and bank balances 161 90 1 0 SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 Balance of Group account Divested assets and liabilities with the Parent Company 312 38 333 38 Intangible fixed assets – – – – Short-term investments, Tangible fixed assets – – – – equivalent to cash and cash Financial fixed assets – – -172 – equivalents – – – – Inventories -71 – – – Total according to balance Operating receivables -167 – – – sheet 473 128 334 38 Cash and cash equivalents -251 – – – Total assets -489 – -172 – Short-term investments have been classified as cash and cash equivalents based on the following: Long-term provisions -61 – – – Long-term interest-bearing • They have an insignificant risk of changes in value. liabilities -2 – – – • They can be easily converted to cash funds. Deferred tax liabilities 2 – – – • They have a term of a maximum of three months from the acquisition Short-term provisions -1 – – – date. Short-term operating liabilities including tax liabilities -282 – – – I NTE R E S T PA I D A N D D I V I D E N D S R EC E I V E D Total, provisions and liaGroup Parent Company bilities -344 – – – SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 Dividends received – – 800 800 Purchase consideration received 165 – 165 – Interest received 3 2 7 48 Other transaction costs -7 – -7 – Interest paid -10 -13 -9 -8 Less: Cash and cash equivaTotal according to cash-flow lents in divested operations -251 – – – statement -7 -11 798 840 Impact on cash and cash equivalents -93 – 158 – ACQ U I S ITI O N S O F S U B S I D I A R I E S A N D OTH E R B U S I N E S S U N IT S Group Parent Company SEK m 2017 2018 2017 2018 Acquired assets and liabilities Intangible fixed assets – 6 – – Tangible fixed assets – 96 – – Financial fixed assets – – – – Inventories – 39 – – Operating receivables – 134 – – Cash and cash equivalents – 2 – – Total assets – 277 – – Long-term provisions – 2 – – Long-term interest-bearing liabilities – 60 – – Deferred tax liabilities – 0 – – Short-term provisions – – – – Short-term operating liabilities including tax liabilities – 71 – – Total, provisions and liabilities – 133 – – Purchase consideration paid in cash – -560 – – Cash and cash equivalents in acquired subsidiaries – 2 – – Impact on cash and cash equivalents – -558 – – 86 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 N OT E S Not 35 continued R ECO N C I L I ATI O N O F L I A B I L ITI E S D E R I V I N G F RO M F I N A N C I N G AC TI V ITI E S Closing balance Closing balance 2017 Cash flows Changes that do not impact cash flow 2018 Acquisition of Divestment of Exchange-rate Group, SEK m operations operations New leases differences Overdraft facilities – 74 – – – 0 74 Interest-bearing liabilities 6 802 60 – – -18 850 Lease liabilities – – – – – – – Total liabilities deriving from financing activities 6 876 60 – – -18 924 Parent Company, SEK m Overdraft facilities – 25 – – – – 25 Interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – – – Lease liabilities – – – – – – – Total liabilities deriving from financing activities – 25 – – – – 25 NOTE 36 E V E N T S A F T E R T H E C LOS I N G DAT E Nobia’s Nomination Committee announced on 12 February 2019 that Jill Little and Stefan Jacobson are proposed for re-election. Marlene Forsell ­Lilian Fossum Biner, Christian Ståhl and Ricard Wennerklint had declined is proposed as a new Board member. The Nomination Committee also re-election and the Nomination Committee proposes that the Board of proposes that Hans Eckerström be re-elected Chairman of the Board. Directors comprise seven members, entailing a reduction of two members. Dan Josefsberg took office as Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy, George Adams, Hans Eckerström, Morten Falkenberg, Nora Førisdal Larssen, Marketing and Customer Experience Officer on 1 March 2019. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 87 R E C O N C I L I AT I O N O F A L T E R N AT I V E P E R F O R M A N C E M E A S U R E S RECONCILIATION OF ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE ME ASURES Nobia presents certain financial performance measures in the Annual PRO F IT A F TE R TA X E XC LU D I N G ITE M S A F F EC TI N G Report that are not defined according to IFRS, known as alternative perCO M PA R A B I L IT Y, J A N D EC formance measures. Nobia believes that these measures provide valuable 2016 2017 2018 complementary information to investors and the company’s management Profit after tax 455 1,015 753 since they facilitate assessments of trends and the company’s performance. Items affecting comparability net after tax 4481 – 552 Because not all companies calculate performance measures in the same Profit after tax excluding items affecting way, these are not always comparable with those measures used by other comparability 903 1,015 808 companies Consequently, the performance measures are not to be seen 1) Recognised on the line “Gains from discontinued operations, net after tax” and pertained to as replacements for measures defined according to IFRS For definitions of impairment of Poggenpohl. the performance measures that Nobia uses, see pages 103. 2) R ecognised on the line “Other operating expenses” and pertained to pension adjustments in the UK. A N A LYS I S O F N E T SA L E S N O R D I C R EG I O N , J A N D EC % SEK m N E T D E BT, 31 D EC SEK m 2017 2018 2017 6,515 Provisions for pensions (IB) 567 505 Organic growth -1 -69 Other long-term liabilities, interest-bearing (IB) 5 850 Currency effect 4 259 Current liabilities, interest-bearing (IB) 1 74 2018 3 6,705 Interest-bearing liabilities 573 1,429 Long-term receivables, interest-bearing (IB) -5 -2 A N A LYS I S O F N E T SA L E S U K R EG I O N , J A N D EC Current receivables, interest-bearing (IB) -18 -33 % SEK m Cash and cash equivalents (IB) -473 -128 2017 5,710 Interest-bearing assets -496 -163 Organic growth -7 -404 Net debt 77 1,266 Currency effect 5 291 2018 -2 5,597 O PE R ATI N G C A PITA L , 31 D EC SEK m 2017 2018 A N A LYS I S O F N E T SA L E S C E NTR A L E U RO PE R EG I O N , Total assets 7,180 7,766 J A N D EC Other provisions -40 -42 % SEK m Deferred tax liabilities -89 -75 2017 519 Other long-term liabilities, non-interest-bearing – -44 Organic growth 1 4 Current liabilities, non-interest-bearing -2,324 -2,279 Currency effect 7 34 Non-interest-bearing liabilities -2,453 -2,440 Acquisition of Bribus 67 350 Capital employed 4,727 5,326 2018 75 907 Interest-bearing assets -496 -163 Operating capital 4,231 5,163 O PE R ATI N G PRO F IT B E F O R E D E PR EC I ATI O N / A M O RTI SATI O N A N D I M PA I R M E NT, J A N D EC SEK m 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 AV E R AG E O PE R ATI N G C A PITA L , J A N – D EC SEK m 2017 2018 Operating profit 878 1,189 1,298 1,286 1,018 OB Operating capital 3,912 4,231 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment 326 297 287 287 326 OB Net operating assets discontinued operations 22 – Operating profit before CB Operating capital 4,231 5,163 depreciation/amortisation Average operating capital before adjustments of and impairment 1,204 1,486 1,585 1,573 1,344 acquisitions and divestments 4,083 4,697 Net sales 11,411 12,266 12,648 12,744 13,209 Adjustment for acquisitions and divestments not % of net sales 10.6% 12.1% 12.5% 12.3% 10.2% occurred in the middle of the period – 0 Average operating capital 4,083 4,697 O PE R ATI N G PRO F IT E XC LU D I N G ITE M S A F F EC TI N G CO M PA R A B I L IT Y, J A N D EC AV E R AG E S H A R E H O L D E R S ’ EQ U IT Y, J A N – D EC SEK m 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SEK m 2017 2018 Operating profit 878 1,189 1,298 1,286 1,018 OB Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholdItems affecting comparaers 3,415 4,154 bility 97 – – – 66 CB Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholdOperating profit excluders 4,154 3,897 ing items affecting compaAverage equity before adjustment of increases and rability 975 1,189 1,298 1,286 1,084 decreases in capital 3,785 4,026 Net sales 11,411 12,266 12,648 12,744 13,209 Adjustment for acquisitions and divestments not % of net sales 8.5% 9.7% 10.3% 10.1% 8.2% occurred in the middle of the period -127 -295 Average shareholders’ equity 3,658 3,731 88 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 B OA R D O F D I R E C TO R S’ A SS U R A N C E BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ ASSUR ANCE The Board of Directors and the President declare that the Annual Report view of the position and earnings of the Parent Company and the Group. The was prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Board of Directors’ Report for the Parent Company and the Group gives a Sweden and that the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in true and fair view of the developments of operations, position and earnings accordance with the international accounting standards referred to in Regu­ and describes significant risks and uncertainties facing the Parent Company lation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council and companies included in the Group. The consolidated accounts and balof 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting standards. The ance sheet and the Parent Company income statement and balance sheet will Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair be presented to the Annual General Meeting for adoption on 2 May 2019. Stockholm, 5 April 2019 Hans Eckerström Chairman Nora Førisdal Larssen Lilian Fossum Biner Jill Little Christina Ståhl Stefan Jacobsson Ricard Wennerklint George Adams Morten Falkenberg Per Bergström Marie Ströberg President Employee representative Employee representative Our audit report was submitted on 5 April 2019 Deloitte AB Daniel de Paula Authorised Public Accountant N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 89 AUDIT REPORT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the general meeting of the shareholders of Nobia AB (publ) corporate of recognized revenue. For the groups principles on revenue recognition, identity number 556528-2752 refer to note 1 and note 3 regar-ding accounting of operating segments. R E P O RT O N TH E A N N UA L ACCO U NT S A N D Our Audit Procedures CO N SO L I DATE D ACCO U NT S Our audit procedures included but where not limited to: Opinions • evaluation of the company’s accounting principles regarding revenue We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Nobia including transition to the new accounting standards for revenue, IFRS 15 AB (publ) for the financial year 2018-01-01–2018-12-31. The annual Revenue from contracts with customers accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages 41-89 in this document. • gained an understanding of the company’s routines and evaluating interIn our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance nal controls regarding revenue recognition including IT-systems used with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, • review of a selection of transactions to ensure accurate revenue recognithe financial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2018 and tion in accordance with agreements and in the correct period its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accord­ • review of marginanalysis’ as well as analysis of revenue against previous ance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have years and budget been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present • review of the adoption of appropriate accounting principles and that the fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 required disclosures are included in the annual report and consolidated December 2018 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year accounts then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The statuImpairment Tests of Goodwill tory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual As of 31 December 2018, the group reported goodwill of SEK 2 887 milaccounts and consolidated accounts. lions. On a yearly basis, and when there is an indication of impairment, We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders Nobia tests that the carrying value of assets does not exceed the calcuadopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company lated recoverable amounts for these assets. The recoverable amounts are and the group. determined using present value computation of future cash flows per cash Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated generating unit based on the expected outcome of a number of assumpaccounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has tions based on management’s business plan and forecasts. been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance We have identified this as a key audit matter as the company’s goodwill with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. is a material item in the balance sheet and the impairment test have considerable elements of management judgements which among others comBasis for Opinions prise of estimating future cash flows and calculate weighted average capiWe conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on tal cost (“WACC”). Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our For the group’s principles on impairment tests of intangible and tangible responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s fixed assets refer to note 1 and for material assumptions used in this year’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company impairment tests refer to note 14. and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accord­ Our Audit Procedures ance with these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of Our audit procedures included but where not limited to: our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited com• evaluation of the group’s principles for the preparation of impairment pany or, where applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies tests in accordance with IFRS within the EU. • evaluation of material assumptions as well as the sensitivity to change in We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and these assumptions appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. • involving internal valuation expert, mostly related to assumptions on required return in relation to external markets Key Audit Matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional • review of the discounted future cash flow model for arithmetic accuracy judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts • examination of the completeness of the disclosures for impairment tests and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were in the annual report and group consolidation. addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but Acquisition of Bribus B.V we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. On July 13, 2018 Nobia AB announced their acquisition of Bribus Holding B.V for a purchase price of SEK 560 millions and an conditional additional Revenue Recognition purchase price of SEK 51 millions. The group reported revenue of SEK 13 209 millions as of 31 December The accounting for acquisitions requiresignificant estimates and assump2018 which mainly consists of sales related to kitchens and kitchen equiptions from management. The most important assumption is the allocation ment, and for some sales also installation services. Within the group reveof the purchase price to acquired assets and assumed liabilities and necesnue related to kitchens and pertaining products is recognized at a point in sary adjustments to the group’s accounting principles time upon delivery of the goods to the customer, which is the point in time We have assessed the accounting for the acquisition to be a key audit when the customer accepts the delivery, and receives control over the matter due to the inherent degree of judgment regarding the valuation of products and the group have fulfilled their performance obligations. Revacquired assets and liabilities, as well as assessment on future cashflows enue related to installations is recognized over time when the installation and earnings as the additional purchase price is dependent on future earnis performed. ings in Bribus B.V. We have identified this as a key audit matter since revenue has a signifFor the Group’s accounting principles of acquried companies, please icant impact on the financial reporting and consists of a large amount of refer to the accounting principles in note 1 and for the purchase price allotransactions as well as are dependent on customer specific agreements, cation for the acquisition, please refer to note 33. delivery terms and installation which affect the completeness and timing 90 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 AUDIT REPORT Our Audit Procedures 2018-12-31 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or Our audit procedures included but where not limited to: loss. • Review of the share purchase agreement and the groups valuation of We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit aquired assets and assumed liabilities to be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and • We have reviewed the purchase price mechanism in the agreement and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. evaluated management’s estimates of future earnings. • Evaluated the appropriateness of the disclosures made in the annual Basis for Opinions report. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are furOther information than the annual accounts and consolidated ther described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indepenaccounts dent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional This document also contains other information than the annual accounts ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–40 and 96–108. The responsi-bilities in accordance with these requirements. Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and other information. appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurance Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing conclusion regar-ding this other information. Director In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, size into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s equity, whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conThe Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization clude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organization is designed so that Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs Director otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Direcpreparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that tors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to Auditor’s responsibility enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. opinion about discharge from liability is to obtain audit evidence to assess In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessof Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: ment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going con• has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give cern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern and rise to liability to the company, or using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the Man• in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the aging Director intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. has no realistic alternative but to do so. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the Auditor’s responsibility company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accorannual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from matedance with the Companies Act. rial misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guaranreport that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of tee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the An additional description of our responsibility for the audit of the annual aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic accounts and the consolidated accounts is on the Swedish Inspectorate of decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consoli-­ Auditors web page: www. revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This dated accounts. description is a part of the auditor’s report. An additional description of our responsibility for the audit of the annual Deloitte AB, was appointed auditors of Nobia AB by the general meetaccounts and the consolidated accounts is on the Swedish Inspectorate of ing of the shareholders on the 2018-04-10 and has been the company’s Auditors web page: www. revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This auditor since 2017-04-06. description is a part of the auditor’s report. Stockholm 5 April 2019 R E P O RT O N OTH E R R EQ U I R E M E NT S ACCO R D I N G TO Deloitte AB L AW S A N D R EG U L ATI O N S Opinions In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Daniel de Paula Managing Director of Nobia AB (publ) for the financial year 2018-01-01 Authorized Public Accountant N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 91 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE Nobia AB is a Swedish public limited liability company domiciled in Stockholm, Sweden. The company is the Parent Company of the Nobia Group. The basis for the control of the Group includes the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, the Articles of Association, the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers. Nobia has applied the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the Code) A RTI C L E S O F A S SOC I ATI O N since July 2005 and in 2018, the company had no deviations to report. Nobia’s Articles of Association regulate such matters as the focus of the Nobia also applies the Swedish Annual Accounts Act concerning the comoperations, information about share capital and how notification of the pany’s corporate governance reporting. Nobia monitors developments AGM is to take place. The Articles of Association do not contain any proin the area of corporate governance and continuously adapts its corpovisions that regulate the appointment or dismissal of Board members, rate-governance principles to create value for its owners and other stakeexcept for a provision regarding the minimum and maximum number of holders. By way of information, it is noted that there were no breaches Board members. There are no provisions in the Articles of Association of applicable stock-exchange rules or good practice on the stock marregarding amendments to the Articles of Association. Notices of extraorket based on decisions by Nasdaq Stockholm’s Disciplinary Committee or dinary general meetings that address amendments to the Articles of Assostatements by the Swedish Securities Council. ciation are, in accordance with the Companies Act, to be issued not earlier than six weeks and not later than four weeks prior to the meeting. The full 2 018 A N N UA L G E N E R A L M E E TI N G text of the Articles of Association is available on Nobia’s website. The right of shareholders to make decisions concerning the affairs of Nobia On 31 December 2018, the share capital in Nobia AB amounted to is exercised at the AGM (AGM). A notice convening the AGM is issued purSEK 56,763,597 divided between 170,293,458 shares (of which Nobia suant to the Swedish Companies Act and the company’s Articles of Associheld 1,606,568 treasury shares). All of the shares are of the same class. ation. The 2018 Annual General Meeting was held on 10 April at Lundqvist 5,000,000 treasury shares in Nobia were cancelled in July 2018 in accord­ & Lindqvist Klara Strand Konferens, Klarabergsviadukten 90 in Stockance with the resolution of the 2018 AGM to reduce the share capital by holm. 131 shareholders participated at the 2018 AGM, representing 67 per withdrawing treasury shares. The share’s quotient value is SEK 0.33. All cent of the capital and votes in Nobia. The Board of Directors, members shares, except for bought-back treasury shares, entitle owners to a share of Group management and auditors were present at the Meeting. Board of the company’s assets and profit. The Nobia share and ownership strucChairman, Tomas Billing, was elected Chairman of the Meeting. In accord­ ture are described in more detail on pages 100–101. ance with the Board’s proposal, the AGM resolved on a dividend to shareholders of SEK 3.50 per share in an ordinary dividend and an extra dividend N O M I N ATI O N CO M M IT TE E of SEK 3.50 per share. The Meeting also resolved that the number of Board According to the instruction for Nobia’s Nomination Committee adopted members should be nine without any deputy members until the concluat the 2015 AGM, the members and Chairman of the Committee are to sion of the next AGM, and resolved on fees to the Board, Board Chairman, be elected at the AGM for the period until the conclusion of the followand the Chairman and members of the Audit Committee, and the Meeting AGM. The Nomination Committee shall comprise at least three meming also elected Board members, the Nomination Committee and auditors. bers representing the largest shareholders of the company. The ChairTomas Billing, who has served as Chairman since 2015, declined re-elecman of the Nomination Committee shall convene the first meeting of tion. Hans Eckerström was elected Board Chairman. All other Board memthe Nomination Committee. The Nomination Committee is entitled to bers were re-elected. The AGM re-elected Deloitte AB as the company’s appoint an additional two co-opted members. Co-opted members shall auditor, with Daniel de Paula as Auditor-in-Charge. In accordance with the assist the Nomination Committee in performing its duties but have no Board’s proposal, the AGM also resolved on guidelines and other employvoting rights. The Chairman of the Board may be a member of the Nomment conditions for the senior executives, the adoption of a Performance ination Committee only as a co-opted member. In accordance with the Share Plan, an authorisation for the Board of Directors to make decisions Code, the Nomination Committee should be chaired by an owner repreregarding acquisitions and transfers of treasury shares for the period until sentative. The instruction for the Nomination Committee adopted by the the 2019 AGM and the reduction of Nobia’s share capital by withdrawing a AGM also states that the Nomination Committee’s tasks are to submit maximum of 5,000,000 treasury shares. proposals on the election of the Board Chairman and other members of The complete minutes from the AGM are available on Nobia’s website. the Board of Directors, Directors’ fees and any remuneration for commitIndividual shareholders wishing to have a specific matter addressed by tee work, election and remuneration of the auditor, election of the Chairthe AGM can do so by submitting a request to the Board in good time man of the AGM and election of members of the Nomination Committee. prior to the Meeting, to the address published on the Group’s website. The Code states that in its proposals on Board members, the NominaN O B I A’ S O RG A N I SATI O N PR E S I D E NT A N D C EO F I N A N C E , IT HR Support functions M A R K E TI N G Business units NORDIC C E NTR A L E U RO P E S U P P LY C H A I N U K R EG I O N R EG I O N R EG I O N O P E R ATI O N 92 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T BOA R D O F D I R EC TO R S I N 2 018 Board meetings, Remuneration Board 7 meetings Audit Committee, Committee, member in total 5 meetings in total 5 meetings in total Born since Nationality Independent Hans Eckerström3 Chairman 6 4 1972 2018 Swedish Not independent1 Tomas Billing 4 Chairman 1 1 1963 2015 Swedish Not independent1 Morten Falkenberg President and CEO 7 1958 2011 Danish Not independent 2 Lilian Fossum Biner Board member 7 5 1962 2012 Swedish Independent Nora Førisdal Larssen Board member 7 5 1965 2011 Norwegian Not independent1 Stefan Jacobsson Board member 6 1952 2014 Swedish Independent Ricard Wennerklint Board member 7 5 1969 2014 Swedish Not independent1 Christina Ståhl Board member 7 1970 2015 Swedish Independent Jill Little Board member 7 1953 2017 British Independent George Adams Board member 7 1956 2017 British Independent Per Bergström Employee rep. 7 1960 2000 Swedish Marie Ströberg Employee rep. 6 1973 2007 Swedish Terese Asthede5 Employee rep. 5 1971 2013 Swedish Susanne Levinsson5 Employee rep. 6 1973 2017 Swedish 1) In relation to major shareholders. 2) President. 3) New Board member from 10 April 2018. 4) Stepped down from Board on 10 April 2018. 5) Deputy. tion Committee is to pay particular attention to the requirement of diverAt least two of these Board members must also to be independent in relasity and breadth on the Board and the requirement of an even gender distion to the company’s largest shareholders. Nobia’s Board of Directors tribution. The number of women on the Board amounts to four of the nine fulfils these requirements. The President is proposed as a member of the members elected at the AGM. In performing its other duties, the NominaBoard that is proposed to the 2019 AGM. This has been the case in earlier tion Committee shall fulfil the requirements incumbent on the Committee years, except for 2010 when the then President decided to retire. Other in accordance with the Code. executives in the company participate at Board meetings to make presenIn accordance with the resolution adopted at the 2018 AGM, the Nomina­ tations and to serve as secretary. The Board held seven meetings during tion Committee comprised the following members prior to the 2019 the 2018 financial year. AGM: Tomas Billing (Chairman) representing Nordstjernan, Torbjörn The work of the Board of Directors follows a fixed agenda for each Magnusson representing If Skadeförsäkring, Mats Gustavsson representing Board meeting, including such matters as business status, investments, Lannebo funds and Arne Lööw representing the Fourth Swedish National budget, interim reports and annual accounts. The Chairman leads and deleg­ Pension Fund. The members of the Nomination Committee represent ates the work of the Board and ensures that matters not included in the approximately 47 per cent of the shares and votes in the company. No fixed agenda are addressed. The Board’s work is regulated by the rules of remuneration is paid to the Committee members. procedure adopted annually by the Board and by the instruction regarding The Nomination Committee held three minuted meetings prior to the the distribution of duties between the Board and the President. Much of 2019 Annual General Meeting. Based on the company’s strategy and prithe Board’s work in 2018 was devoted to digitisation and range and supply orities, the Nomination Committee’s work included an evaluation of the chain. The focus also remained targeted on evaluating acquisition opporresults of the Board of Directors’ own evaluation, its size and composition tunities, organisational development, efficiency and growth. In the sumand the election of an auditor. mer of 2018, the Board visited one of Magnet’s kitchen stores with a new The Nomination Committee’s proposals prior to the 2019 AGM are concept, and visited a competitor’s kitchen store in the UK. The Board incorporated in the notice of the AGM, which was published on Nobia’s members are presented on pages 96–97. Attendance at Board meetings is website on 2 April. shown in the table on page 93. Shareholders are welcome to contact the Nomination Committee and The work and composition of the Board were evaluated in 2018. One submit proposals by post to: Nobia AB, Nomination Committee, Box member of the Board submitted a number of questions as the basis of an 70376, SE-107 24 Stockholm, Sweden. evaluation and discussion with the Chairman. The results of the evaluation were presented to the Nomination ComWO R K O F TH E BOA R D O F D I R EC TO R S mittee. The Board also evaluates the President on an ongoing basis In accordance with Nobia’s Articles of Association, the Board is, to the throughout the year. The Board also evaluated the Audit Committee. In extent appointed by the General Meeting, to comprise not fewer than 2018, the Group’s CFO served as the Board of Directors’ secretary. three and not more than nine members, with not more than three deputy members. The 2018 AGM resolved that the Board was to comprise nine AU D IT CO M M IT TE E members with no deputy members. The Board also includes two memThe main task of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in monitorbers, with two deputy members, who are appointed by employees’ organing processes related to Nobia’s financial reporting and internal control isation is in accordance with the Swedish Board Representation (Private to ensure the quality of the external reporting. The Committee is also to Sector Employees) Act. The Code also contains certain requirements inform the Board of the results of the external audit and the manner in regarding the composition of the Board of Directors. The Board is to have which the audit contributed to the reliability of the financial reporting. The an appropriate composition with respect to the company’s operations, Audit Committee’s duties also include studying internal audit reports comstage of development, strategy and other circumstances, and be characpiled by the Group’s internal audit function. The Audit Committee is also terised by diversity and breadth in terms of the competence, experience responsible for supporting the Nomination Committee in preparing proand background of the Board members elected by the AGM. Furtherposals on the election of external auditors and auditor’s fees. more, efforts are made to achieve an even gender distribution. The numThe Audit Committee comprises two Board members: Lilian Fossum ber of women on the Board amounts to four of the nine members elected Biner (Chairman) and Nora Førisdal Larssen. The external auditors report at the AGM, including the President, corresponding to 44 per cent. The to the Committee at three scheduled meetings. At least four meetings are gender-distribution requirements of the Swedish Corporate Governance held per year and additional meetings are held as necessary. Code are thus deemed to be met. In 2018, the Audit Committee held five meetings and the auditors No deputies of Board members elected by the AGM are appointed. A attended three of these meetings. Important matters during the year maximum of one Board member elected by the AGM may work in comincluded follow-ups of targeted internal examinations, regulatory complipany management or in the management of the company’s subsidiaries. ance, evaluations of financial reporting including evaluation of the appliFurthermore, a majority of the Board members elected by the AGM are cation of accounting policies and assessments in the accounts and reportto be independent in relation to the company and company management. ing of suspected breaches of the Code of Conduct through Speak-up N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 93 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T OV E RV I E W O F G OV E R N A N C E AT N O B I A S H A R E H O LD E R S TH RO U G H AU D ITO R S N O M I N ATI O N CO M M IT TE E TH E AG M AU D IT CO M M IT TE E B OA R D O F D I R EC TO R S R E M U N E R ATI O N CO M M IT TE E I NTE R N A L CO NTRO L PR E S I D E NT A N D G RO U P S TA F F F U N C TI O N S F U N C TI O N M A N AG E M E NT O P E R ATI O N A L A N D CO M M E RC I A L U N IT S Key external regulatory frameworks: Key internal regulatory frameworks: • Swedish Companies Act • Articles of Association • IFRS and Swedish Annual Accounts Act • The Board’s rules of procedure and instructions on the distribution • Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers of duties between the Board and President, rules of procedure for the Audit Committee, internal policies, guidelines, manuals, codes • Swedish Corporate Governance Code, www.corporategoverand checklists nanceboard.se • Nobia’s Financial & Accounting Manual • Risk Management Process (Nobia’s global whistle-blower system). The Audit Committee reports to ation and employment terms for the President. The Committee also has the Board after every meeting. Minutes are taken at all Audit Committee the task of making decisions on the President’s proposals regarding remumeetings and these minutes are made available to all Board members and neration and other employment terms for the managers who report to the auditors. The attendance of each Board member at meetings is shown the President. Furthermore, the Committee submits proposals to the in the table below. AGM regarding principles for remuneration and other employment terms The Group’s CFO and the Head of Internal Control participated in the for senior executives and monitors and evaluates the ongoing schemes for Audit Committee’s meetings. variable remuneration to senior executives, and the schemes concluded during the year, and the implementation of the Annual General Meeting’s TH E BOA R D’ S CO M M U N I C ATI O N W ITH TH E decision on guidelines for remuneration to senior executives. The ComCO M PA N Y ’ S AU D ITO R S mittee held five meetings during the year. As described above, the company’s external auditors attend three Audit Committee meetings. The Board meets with the auditors three times a R E M U N E R ATI O N TO S E N I O R E X EC UTI V E S year in accordance with its rules of procedure. The Board meets with the The members of Group management receive both fixed and variable auditors at least once a year without any member of company manageremuneration. The fundamental principle is that the variable salary porment being present. tion may amount to a maximum of 40 per cent of fixed annual salary. The One occasion is primarily devoted to the planning of the year’s audit. In exception to this principle is the President, whose variable salary portion the hard-close audit (in preparation for the audit of the annual accounts) may amount to a maximum of 65 per cent of fixed annual salary. Excepat the end of September, the company’s processes for internal control and tions may also be made for senior executives following decisions by the business-critical systems are also addressed. Finally, reporting is received Board. The variable salary portion is normally divided between several tarin conjunction with the adoption of the annual accounts. In addition, the gets, for example, the Group’s earnings, earnings in the business unit for auditors also present an annual account of the other assignments that have which the manager is responsible and individual/quantitative targets. The been performed by the audit firm. variable salary portion is based on an earnings period of one year. The tarIn April 2018, the auditors presented and discussed the focus and scope gets for the President are determined by the Board. The targets for the of the audit, which also took particular consideration of the risk perspecother senior executives are established by the President following recomtive regarding internal control. At the meeting in October, the auditors mendations by the Board’s Remuneration Committee. reported on the results of the audit of internal control, which analysed the Nobia has implemented long-term share-based remuneration plans results of the self-assessment of the internal control that the Group’s busisince 2005, following decisions by each year’s AGM. The Performance ness units perform every year, and reported on the IT audit performed. Share Plans are described in more detail in the Financial overview of the Also at this meeting, the auditors presented their observations from the Board of Directors’ Report on pages 41–45. The remuneration and benehard-close audit. The examination of the annual accounts for 2018 was fits of senior executives are described in Note 4 on pages 70–72. presented at the Board meeting in February 2019. G RO U P M A N AG E M E NT R E M U N E R ATI O N CO M M IT TE E The President and Group management, see pages 98–99, hold reguThe Board appoints a Remuneration Committee from within its ranks, lar Group management meetings. In addition, the President and the CFO which for the period from the 2018 AGM until the 2019 AGM comprised meet the management team of each commercial business unit three times Hans Eckerström (Board Chairman), and Ricard Wennerklint. The Comper year at local management team meetings. mittee’s task is to prepare proposals to the Board relating to the remuner94 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T AU D ITO R S The Group monitors compliance with these governing documents and Deloitte AB was re-elected as the company’s auditor at the 2018 AGM measures the efficiency of control structures. for a mandate period of one year until the conclusion of the 2019 AGM. In addition, the Group’s information and communication channels are The Auditor-in-Charge is Authorised Public Accountant Daniel de Paula. monitored to ensure that these channels are appropriate for the finanThe Nomination Committee’s proposals for auditing firm and Auditor-incial reporting. Furthermore, the Group has developed checklists to ensure Charge prior to the 2019 AGM were presented in the notice of the AGM, compliance with the disclosure requirements in the financial statements. which was published on Nobia’s website on 2 April. The interaction of the auditors with the Board is described above. Nobia’s purchases of services F R A M E WO R K F O R F I N A N C I A L R E P O RTI N G from Deloitte, in addition to audit assignments, are described in Note 6 The Group’s internal control function, which is an integrated part of the on page 73. central finance function, monitored viewpoints that emerged during the year from the internal control self-assessment at some of the larger units. TH E BOA R D’ S D E S C R I P TI O N O F I NTE R N A L CO NTRO L In addition, targeted audits of three to five units are carried out every year A N D R I S K M A N AG E M E NT S YS TE M S R EG A R D I N G TH E on behalf of the Audit Committee. In 2018, targeted audits were conF I N A N C I A L R E P O RTI N G F O R TH E 2 018 F I N A N C I A L ducted on Novart, Nobia Svenska Kök, Nobia Production Sweden and YEAR Bribus. The Board of Directors is responsible for maintaining a high level of internal control at the company in accordance with the Swedish Companies M O N ITO R I N G BY TH E BOA R D Act and the Code. This description has been prepared in accordance The outcomes of the Group’s risk assessment and risk management proc­ with Chapter 6, Section 6, second paragraph, second point of the Swedesses are addressed each year by the Board, which ensures that these ish Annual Accounts Act, and is thereby limited to the internal control and ­processes include all material areas and provide balanced guidelines for the risk management of the financial reporting. The description of the Group’s various executives. internal control and risk management systems also includes the description The Board receives periodic financial reports and each Board meeting of the company’s systems. addresses the company’s and Group’s financial position. The Board also studies the internal audit reports of the Board’s Audit Committee comCO NTRO L E N V I RO N M E NT S A N D G OV E R N I N G piled by the Group’s internal audit function. The internal audit reports DOC U M E NT S include examining internal control and are available to the Board and audiThe structure of Nobia is organised so that the first stage of the value tors via the online Board portal. Minutes are taken at all Audit Committee chain, purchasing, production and logistics have a Group-wide managemeetings and these minutes are made available to all Board members and ment function. The main task of these operating units is to capitalise on the auditors. opportunities for economies of scale within each area. The commercial Nobia does not currently have a dedicated internal audit function. The units are responsible for developing Nobia’s sales channels and brands in Board has discussed this matter and found the existing monitoring and line with Nobia’s strategy. assessment structure of the Group to be satisfactory. External services The basis for the internal control of financial reporting is the control may also be engaged in the context of certain special examinations. This environment that comprises the company’s organisation, decision-making decision is reviewed annually. procedures, authorities and responsibilities, as documented and communicated in governing documents such as internal policies, guidelines, manAU D ITO R’ S R E P O RT O N TH E CO R P O R ATE G OVuals and codes. Examples include the division of responsibility between E R N A N C E S TATE M E NT TO TH E A N N UA L M E E TI N G the Board on one hand and the President and other bodies established by O F S H A R E H O L D E R S O F N O B I A A B , CO R P. R EG . N O. the Board on the other, instructions for authorisation, and instructions for 55652 8 -2752 accounting and reporting. Assignment and responsibilities Documentation concerning the principles and forms for reporting, interThe Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the Corporate­ nal governance, control and monitoring is compiled in Nobia’s Financial & ­G overnance Report for 2018 on pages 92–95 has been prepared in Accounting Manual, which is available to all relevant employees on Nobia’s accord­ance with the Annual Accounts Act. intranet. This Manual is available to all relevant employees on Nobia’s intranet. Focus and scope of examination The finance director of each unit is responsible for ensuring effective interOur examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted in nal control, and the financial manager of each unit is responsible for monaccordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examinaitoring and ensuring compliance with Nobia’s accounting procedures and tion of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examinaprinciples. These are documented in the aforementioned manual. All tion of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially financial managers from the various units meet at least once every two less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International years to discuss various topics relevant to financial reporting. Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis R I S K M A N AG E M E NT for our opinions. The Group has methods for risk assessment and risk management to ensure that the risks to which the Group is exposed are managed within Opinions the established frameworks. The risks identified concerning financial A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in reporting are managed in the Group’s control structure and are continuaccordance with Chapter 6, Section 6, second paragraph, points 2–6 ously monitored and assessed. One of the tools for this purpose is self-asof the Annual Accounts Act and Chapter 7, Section 31, second parasessments, which are conducted annually by local management teams graph of the same law are consistent with the other parts of the annual and evaluated according to established procedures. Risk assessments are accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual described in more detail on pages 46–48. Accounts Act. F I N A N C I A L I N F O R M ATI O N Stockholm, 5 April 2019 The Group has established information and communication channels in Deloitte AB order to support the completeness and accuracy of the financial reporting, for example, through governing documents in the form of internal policies, guidelines, manuals and codes regarding the financial reporting applied by Daniel de Paula Authorised Public Accountant relevant personnel. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 95 B OA R D O F D I R E C TO R S BOARD OF DIRECTORS H A N S EC K E R S TRÖ M S TE FA N J ACO B S SO N G EO RG E A DA M S Chairman of the Board Born 1952. Board member since 2014. Born 1956. BA (Hons): Politics, Philosophy & Born 1972. MSc in Mechanical Engineering and Independent. Economics, Oxford University. Board member MSc in Business Administration. Chairman of Board assignments: Chairman of Greenfood since 2017. Independent. the Board since 2018. Dependent in relation to Group, HBG and Distruptive Materials. Board assignments: Chairman of FFX Tools and major shareholders. Previous positions: CEO of Puma, NFI Corp., Bradfords Group. Board member of ScS and Board assignments: Chairman of Profoto Invest ABU/Garcia and Tretorn. Stiga and Henri Lloyd Group. Board member of Holding in Nobia: 10,000 (endowment Previous positions: Senior positions at Kingfisher. Thule Group and Nordstjernan. insurance). President of the European DIY Retailers Previous positions: Partner at NC Advisory and Association. advisor to Nordic Capital’s funds. R I C A R D W E N N E R K L I NT Holding in Nobia: – Holding in Nobia: 50,000 shares (endowment Born 1969. Deputy CEO of If Skadeförsäkring insurance). and Group Executive Vice President Sampo. PE R B E RG S TRÖ M Board member since 2014. Dependent in Born 1960. Employee representative since M O RTE N FA L K E N B E RG relation to major shareholders. 2000. Employed at Nobia Production Sweden President and CEO Board assignments: Board member of since 1976. Born 1958. B.Sc. Business Administration. Topdanmark Board assignments: Board member of Tidaholms President and CEO of Nobia. Board member Previous positions: CFO of If Skadeförsäkring. Energi, Elnät, Bredband Östra Skaraborg and since 2011. Holding in Nobia: 15,000 shares. Nobia Production Sweden. Board assignments: Board member of Velux Holding in Nobia: – Group and Fagerhult. C H R I S TI N A S TÅ H L Previous positions: Executive Vice President and Born 1970. B.Sc. Business Administration and M A R I E S TRÖ B E RG Head of Floor Care and Small Appliances at M.Sc. Business and Economics. Board member Born 1973. Employee representative since 2007. Electrolux, senior positions at TDC Mobile and since 2015. Independent. Employed at Nobia Svenska Kök since 2007. the Coca-Cola Company. Previous positions: President and CEO of MQ Holding in Nobia: – Holding in Nobia: 712,291 shares (private and and CEO of Mio. occupational pension). Holding in Nobia: – S U SA N N E L E V I N S SO N Born 1973. Deputy employee representative LILIAN FOSSUM BINER J I L L L IT TL E since 2017. Employed at Nobia Production Born 1962. B.Sc. Business Administration. Board Born 1953. GMP Cranfield Business School Sweden since 2004. member since 2012. Independent. and AMP Insead. Board member since 2017. Holding in Nobia: – Board assignments: Chairman of Cloetta. Board Independent. member of Givaudan, LE-Lundbergföretagen Board assignments: Board member of TE R E S E A S TH E D E and a-connect. Shaftesbury, Joules, National Trust Enterprises Born 1971. Deputy Board member. Employee Previous positions: Vice President and CFO of and National Trust Renewable Energy. representative since 2013. Employed at Nobia Axel Johnsson, Senior Vice President and HR Previous positions: Senior positions at John Lewis Svenska Kök since 2006. Director of at Electrolux. and advisor to El Corte Inglés. Board assignments: Board member of Nobia Holding in Nobia: 6,000 shares. Holding in Nobia: – Svenska Kök. Holding in Nobia: – N O R A F Ø R I S DA L L A R S S E N Born 1965. B.Sc. Economics, MBA. Senior Investment Manager at Nordstjernan. Board Auditors member since 2011. Dependent in relation to Deloitte AB major shareholders. Board assignments: Chairman of Etac and Emma Auditor-in-Charge S. Board member of Ekornes. DA N I E L D E PAU L A Previous positions: Product Line manager at Authorised Public Accountant Electrolux and partner at McKinsey & Co. Other audit assignments: Holding in Nobia: 5,000 shares. Permobil and Poolia 96 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 B OA R D O F D I R E C TO R S Hans Eckerström Morten Falkenberg Lilian Fossum Biner Nora Førisdal Larssen Stefan Jacobsson Ricard Wennerklint Christina Ståhl Jill Little George Adams Per Bergström Marie Ströberg Susanne Levinsson Terese Asthede N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 97 G ROU P MANAGEMENT GROUP MANAGEMENT M O RTE N FA L K E N B E RG PE TE R K A N E R A L PH KO B S I K President and CEO Executive Vice President, UK region and Head of Executive Vice President and Head of Central Born 1958. B.Sc. Business Administration. Magnet. Europe Employed at Nobia since 2010. Born 1965. Employed at Magnet since 1984. Born 1970. Employed at Nobia since 2018. Previous positions: Executive Vice President and Previous positions: Management positions at Previous positions: Head of International Markets Head of Floor Care and Small Appliances at Magnet. at V-Zug and senior positions at BSH Bosch and Electrolux, senior positions at TDC Mobile and Holding in Nobia: 67,318 shares. Siemens Home Appliances. the Coca-Cola Company. Holding in Nobia: – Holding in Nobia: 712,291 shares (private and RU N E S TE PH A N S E N occupational pension). Executive Vice President and Head of Commercial TH O M A S M Y R I N G E R Denmark Executive Vice President, HR Director K R I S TO F F E R L J U N G F E LT Born 1965. Employed at Nobia since 2009. Born 1960. Employed at Nobia since 2003. CFO Previous positions: Leading positions at Marbodal, Previous positions: Senior HR positions at the Born 1977. Employed at Nobia since 2013. Kvik, Sportex, Rusta, IKEA and Jysk. Skanska Group. Previous positions: CFO Nordic region in Nobia. Holding in Nobia: 33,592 shares. Holding in Nobia: 27,530 shares. Finance Director in Nobia Norway and Business Area Director in Sigdal Kjøkken. Experience F R E D R I K N YS TRÖ M DAV I D TH O R N E from senior finance positions at Electrolux. Executive Vice President and Head of Commercial CIO Holding in Nobia: 11,018 shares (private and Sweden Born 1963. Employed at Nobia since 2015. occupational pension). Born 1977. Employed at Nobia since 2008. Previous positions: Leading IT positions at Previous positions: Head of Strategy at Nobia and Howdens Joinery, MFI Group, Acco Brands, O L A C A R L S SO N Nobia’s Head of Program office. Technicolor, Epson and BBC. Executive Vice President, Chief Product Supply Holding in Nobia: 2,856 shares. Holding in Nobia: – Officer Born 1965. Employed at Nobia since 2017. O L E DA L S B Ø DA N J O S E F S B E RG Previous positions: Group Vice President Global Executive Vice President and Head of Commercial Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy, Marketing Operations at Munters and Chief Operations Norway and Consumer Experience Officer Officer at Electrolux Small Appliances. Born 1966. Employed at Nobia since 2004. Born 1973. Employed at Nobia since 2019. Holding in Nobia: 28,300 shares. Previous positions: Leading positions at Nobia Previous positions: Managing Partner of PwC Norway, Norema and Sigdal Kjøkken. Experience Center and Pond. Holding in Nobia: 23,458 shares. Holding in Nobia: 19,000 shares (through company). A N N I K A VA I N I O Executive Vice President and Head of Commercial Finland Born 1968. Employed at Nobia since 2018. Previous positions: CEO of Snellman Pro, CEO of Bellapipe and senior positions in Fazer Group and CandyKing. Holding in Nobia: 98 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 G ROU P MANAGEMENT Morten Falkenberg Kristoffer Ljungfelt Ola Carlsson Peter Kane Rune Stephansen Fredrik Nyström Ole Dalsbø Annika Vainio Ralph Kobsik Thomas Myringer David Thorne Dan Josefsberg N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 99 THE NOBIA SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS THE NOBIA SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS The Nobia share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm and is included in the Personal & Household Goods sector. In 2018, the share noted a decline of 29 per cent. Market capitalisation at the end of the year was slightly more than SEK 8 billion. L I S TI N G A N D T U R N OV E R The Nobia share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 2002, where S H A R E DATA the share is included in the Personal & Household Goods sector. The Listing: Nasdaq Stockholm, Large Cap majority of the shares are traded on Nasdaq Stockholm, but some shares Ticker: NOBI are also traded on other marketplaces. Sector: Personal & Household Goods In 2018, a total of 113.6 million Nobia shares (85.9) were traded on NasISIN code: SE0000949331 daq Stockholm at a value of SEK 7.6 billion (7.0). The average turnover per day was approximately 450,000 shares (340,000), corresponding to a A N A LYS T S TH AT F O L LOW N O B I A value of SEK 30.2 million (28.0). The Nobia share’s liquidity, measured as Company Analyst rate of turnover, totalled 66 per cent (48). The average rate of turnover on the Stockholm exchange was 48 per cent (48). Carnegie Kenneth Toll Johansson DNB Markets Mattias Holmberg S H A R E PE R F O R M A N C E Handelsbanken Marcela Klang The share had a weaker performance than the stock exchange as a whole Nordea Predrag Savinovic in 2018. The share price declined 29 per cent, compared with the StockSEB Johan Dahl holm exchange in total, which declined 8 per cent in the same period. During the year, the OMXS Stockholm Consumer Goods PI index fell 14 per cent. The closing price for the Nobia share in 2018 was SEK 49.24, corresponding to market capitalisation of SEK 8.4 billion. The highest price paid In July 2018, 5,000,000 treasury shares were subsequently cancelled in in 2018 was SEK 77.45 on 14 June. The lowest price paid during the year accordance with the resolution of the 2018 AGM to reduce Nobia’s share was SEK 46.56 on 27 December. capital by withdrawing treasury shares. After the cancellation, the number of treasury shares was 1,606,568 bringing the total number of shares S H A R E C A PITA L to 170,293,458. On 31 December 2018, Nobia’s share capital amounted to SEK 56,763,597, At the end of 2018, Nobia held an unchanged number of treasury shares divided between 170,293,458 shares with a quotient value of SEK 0.33. (1,606,568), corresponding to 0.9 per cent of the total number of shares. Each share, with the exception of bought-back treasury shares, entitles The treasury shares will be used to safeguard Nobia’s commitments under the holder to one vote, and carries the same entitlement to the company’s the Group’s share-based remuneration plan. capital and profits. DIVIDEND POLICY OW N E R S H I P STRU C TU R E Nobia’s dividend policy is that the dividend should comprise 40-60 per At year-end, Nobia had 14,704 shareholders (8,182). Swedish legal entities cent of net profit after tax. Investment requirements, acquisition opporowned 72 per cent (71) of the share capital. Swedish ownership was 77 tunities, liquidity and the financial position of the company in general are per cent (75), while foreign ownership amounted to 23 per cent (25). The taken into consideration when preparing dividend proposals. largest foreign shareholdings were in the US and the UK. The five largest shareholders – Nordstjernan, If Skadeförsäkring, the PRO P O S E D D I V I D E N D Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund, Swedbank Robur funds and LanFor 2018, the Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 4.00 per nebo funds – owned 53.0 per cent (49.5) of all shares at year-end. The ten share, corresponding to 90 per cent of earnings per share for the year. The largest shareholders owned 65.9 per cent (61.6) of the shares. proposal entails a total dividend of approximately SEK 675 million. For the 2017 financial year, a regular dividend of SEK 3.50 per share was paid out as S H A R E H O L D I N G S A M O N G PE R SO N S I N S E N I O R well as an extra dividend of SEK 3.50 per share, totalling SEK 7.00 per share. P O S ITI O N S At the time of publication of this Annual Report, Group management TR E A S U RY S H A R E S owned, directly and indirectly, 925,363 shares (775,170) in Nobia. On the At the start of the year, Nobia had 6,709,571 treasury shares, correspondsame date, Nobia’s Board members excluding the President, had total ing to 3.8 per cent of the total number of shares issued. direct and indirect holdings of 86,000 shares (221,779). In May 2018, Nobia sold 103,003 shares to fulfil the Performance Share Plan resolved by the 2015 Annual General Meeting. Due to the transfer, the number of Nobia’s treasury shares declined to 6,606,568. 10 0 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 THE NOBIA SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS S H A R E PR I C E 2 014 –2 018 S H A R E PR I C E 2 018 120 24,000 80 5,600 60 4,200 80 16,000 40 2,800 40 8,000 20 1,400 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Nobia  Turnover number of shares, Nobia  Turnover number of shares, OMX Stockholm Benchmark PI thousands each month OMX Stockholm Benchmark PI thousands each week OMX Stockholm Consumer Goods PI Source: Six OMX Stockholm Consumer Goods PI Source: Six OW N E R S H I P S TRU C T U R E , 31 D EC E M B E R 2 018 DATA PE R S H A R E Percentage of 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Number of shareholders, Percentage of No. of shares at year-end shareholders % No. of shares capital, % (millions) 175.3 175.3 175.3 175.3 170.3 1–500 11,087 75.4 1,328,149 0.8 No. of shares at year-end after 501–1 000 1,577 10.7 1,300,210 0.8 dilution, excluding treasury 1,001–5,000 1,479 10.1 3,382,684 2.0 shares (millions) 167.5 168.7 168.7 168.7 1.6 5,001–10,000 226 1.5 1,670,208 1.0 Average no. of shares at year10,001–15,000 69 0.5 894,736 0.5 end after dilution, excluding 15,001–20,000 42 0.3 751,628 0.4 treasury shares (millions) 167.3 168.5 168.7 168.7 1.6 20,001– 224 1.5 160,965,843 94.5 Share price at year-end, SEK 69.75 106.00 84.85 69.40 49.24 Total 14,704 100 170,293,458 100 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK -0.17 4.92 2.70 6.02 4.46 TE N L A RG E S T OW N E R S , 31 D EC E M B E R 2 018 Shareholders’ equity per share, Percentage of SEK 19 23 20 25 23 Shareholder No. of shares capital, % Dividend per share, SEK 1.75 2.50 3.00 7.00 4.001 Nordstjernan 38,732,410 22.7 P/E ratio, multiple – 22 31 12 11 If Skadeförsäkring 18,200,000 10.7 Direct yield, % 2.5 2.4 3.5 10.0 8.1 Fourth Swedish National Pension Share of dividend, % – 51 111 116 90 Fund 12,545,559 7.4 1) Proposed dividend Swedbank Robur funds 10,587,679 6.2 Lannebo funds 10,197,783 6.0 Handelsbanken funds 5,948,522 3.5 Investmentaktiebolaget Latour 4,649,894 2.7 AMF Försäkring och fonder 4,621,756 2.7 Norges Bank 3,755,169 2.2 SEB Investment Management 3,108,532 1.8 Source: Euroclear Sweden. At year-end, Nobia held 1,606,568 treasury shares, corresponding to 0.9 per cent of all shares. N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 101 F I V E -Y E A R O V E R V I E W FIVE-YE AR OVERVIE W SEK m 20141 20152 2016 2017 2018 Income statement Net sales 11,411 12,266 12,648 12,744 13,209 Change in per cent 7 17 3 1 4 Gross profit 4,617 4,906 4,933 5,014 5,090 Operating profit 878 1,189 1,298 1,286 1,018 Financial income 12 34 22 9 10 Financial expenses -90 -91 -73 -45 -42 Profit after financial items 800 1,132 1,247 1,250 986 Tax on net profit for the year -205 -263 -269 -256 -233 Profit for continuing operations 595 869 978 994 753 Profit from discontinued operations, net after tax -622 -41 -523 21 – Net profit for the year -27 828 455 1,015 753 Net profit for the year attributable to: Parent Company shareholders -28 829 456 1,015 753 Non-controlling interests 1 -1 -1 0 – Net profit for the year -27 828 455 1,015 753 Balance sheet Fixed assets 4,446 4,697 4,076 4,034 4,759 Inventories 853 934 857 908 962 Current receivables 1,494 1,665 1,561 1,765 1,917 Cash and cash equivalents 470 765 1,005 473 128 Assets held for sale 592 8 506 – – Total assets 7,855 8,069 8,005 7,180 7,766 Shareholders’ equity 3,191 3,818 3,415 4,154 3,897 Non-controlling interests 5 4 4 – – Non-interest-bearing liabilities 2,615 2,697 2,556 2,453 2,440 Interest-bearing liabilities 1,684 1,547 1,701 573 1,429 Liabilities attributable to assets held for sale 360 3 329 – – Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 7,855 8,069 8,005 7,180 7,766 Net debt including pensions 1,206 774 493 77 1,266 Capital employed 4,880 5,369 5,182 4,727 5,326 Operating capital 4,402 4,596 3,912 4,231 5,163 Performance measures Gross margin, % 40.5 40.0 39.0 39.3 38.5 Operating margin, % 7.7 9.7 10.3 10.1 7.7 Operating profit before depreciation/amortisation and impairment (EBITDA), % 1204 1,486 1,585 1,573 1,344 Operating margin before depreciation/amortisation and impairment, % 10.6 12.1 12.5 12.3 10.2 Profit after financial items as a percentage of net sales 7.0 9.2 9.9 9.8 7.5 Turnover rate of operating capital, multiple – 3.0 3.2 3.0 2.6 Turnover rate of capital employed, multiple 2.5 – – – – Return on operating capital, % 23.2 32.2 32.5 31.5 21.7 Return on equity, % -0.9 24.1 13.0 27.8 20.2 Debt/equity ratio, % 38 20 14 2 32 Equity/assets ratio, % 41 47 43 58 50 Cash flow from operating activities 1033 1,145 1,281 987 1,001 Investments 316 410 290 319 414 Earnings per share after dilution effects -0.17 4.92 2.70 6.02 4.46 Dividend per share, SEK 1.75 2.50 3.00 7.00 4.003 Personnel Average number of employees 6,636 6,473 6,573 6,178 6,178 Net sales per employee, SEK 000s 1,829 2,027 2,121 2,094 2,172 Personnel expenses 3,001 3,242 3,225 2,939 3,069 Number of employees at year-end 6,925 6,539 6,445 6,087 6,081 1) After reclassification of Hygena to discontinued operations. 2) After reclassification of Poggenpohl to discontinued operations. 3) The Board’s proposal. 102 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 DEFINITIONS – PERFORMANCE MEASURES DEFINITIONS – PERFORMANCE ME ASURES Performance measures Definition/calculation Use Return on equity Profit after tax as a percentage of average shareholders’ Return on equity shows the total return on shareholder’s capiequity attributable to Parent Company shareholders based tal in accounting terms and reflects the effects on both the operon opening and closing balances for the period. The calcuational profitability and financial gearing. The measure is primarily lation of average shareholders’ equity has been adjusted for used to analyse shareholder profitability over time. increases and decreases in capital. Return on operating Operating profit as a percentage of average operating capReturn on operating capital shows how well the operation uses capital ital based on opening and closing balances for the period the net capital that is tied up in the company. It reflects how both excluding net assets attributable to discontinued operacost and capital-efficiency net sales are generated, meaning the tions. The calculation of average operating capital has been combined effect of the operating margin and the turnover rate of adjusted for acquisitions and divestments. operating capital. The measure is used in comparisons of profitability between operations in the Group and to view the Group’s profitability over time. Gross margin Gross profit as a percentage of net sales. This measure reflects efficiency of the part of the operation that is primarily linked to production and logistics. It is used to monitor cost efficiency in this part of the operation. EBITDA Earnings before depreciation/amortisation and impairment. To simplify, this measure shows the earnings-generating cash flow in the operation. It provides a view of the ability of the operation, in absolute terms, to generate resources for investment and payment to financiers and is used for comparisons over time. Items affecting compaItems affecting comparability refer to items that affect comReporting items affecting comparability separately clearly shows rability parisons in so far as they do not recur with the same reguthe performance of the underlying operation. larity as other items. Net debt Interest-bearing liabilities less interest-bearing assets. Net debt is used to monitor the debt trend and see the level of ­Interest-bearing liabilities also include pension liabilities. the refinancing requirement. The measure is used as a component in the debt/equity ratio. Operating capital Capital employed excluding interest-bearing assets. Operating capital shows the amount of capital required by the operation to conduct its core operation. This is the capital that generates operating profit. It is mainly used to calculate the return on operating capital. Operating cash flow Cash flow from operating activities including cash flow The measure comprises the cash flow generated by the underlyfrom investing activities, excluding cash flow from acquiing operation. The measure is used to show the amount of funds sitions/divestments of operations, interest received, at the Group’s disposal for paying financiers of loans and equity or increase/decrease in interest-bearing assets. for use in growth through acquisitions. Organic growth Change in net sales excluding acquisitions and divestments Organic growth facilitates a comparison of sales over time by and changes in exchange rates. comparing the same operation and excluding currency effects. Region Region corresponds to an operating segment under IFRS 8. Earnings per share Net profit for the period divided by the weighted average number of outstanding shares during the year. Operating margin Operating profit as a percentage of net sales. The measure reflects the operating profitability of the operation. It is used to monitor the profitability and efficiency of the operation, before taking into account capital tied up. The performance measure is used both internally in governance and monitoring of the operation, and for benchmarking with other companies in the industry. Debt/equity ratio Net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ equity including A measure of the ratio between the Group’s two forms of financnon-controlling interests. ing. The measure shows the percentage of the loan capital in relation to capital invested by the owners, and is thus a measure of the financial strength but also the gearing effect of lending. A higher debt/equity ratio means a higher financial risk and higher financial gearing. Equity/assets ratio Shareholders’ equity including non-controlling interests as This measure reflects the company’s financial position and thus a percentage of balance-sheet total. its long-term solvency. A healthy equity/assets ratio/strong financial position provides preparedness for managing periods of economic downturns and financial preparedness for growth. It also provides a minor advantage in the form of financial gearing. Capital employed Balance-sheet total less non-interest-bearing provisions The capital that shareholders and lenders have placed at the comand liabilities. pany’s disposal. It shows the net capital invested in the operation, such as operating capital, with additions for financial assets. Currency effects “Translation differences” refers to the currency effects arising when foreign results and balance sheets are translated to SEK. “Transaction effects” refers to the currency effects arising when purchases or sales are made in currency other than the currency of the producing country (functional currency). N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 103 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y SUSTAINABILIT Y Sustainability is an important component of our operations. The focus and direction of our sustainability efforts are determined by our impact, the possibilities available to us and demands from our surroundings. Our strategic focus areas are product development, choice of materials, climate impact and suppliers. These areas establish the framework of our sustainability strategy – read more about this on pages 32-33. S TA K E H O L D E R D I A LOG U E The materiality analysis diagram shows the priority of our material topUnderstanding the expectations of key stakeholders is crucial for being ics. The materiality analysis is updated and validated every year by the cenable to meet current and future customer needs. Nobia’s stakeholders are tral sustainability function in consultation with other parts of Group manidentified based on the groups impacted by our operations and the groups agement. There are no major differences in material topics compared with that impact our operations. Stakeholder dialogues provide us with inforthe preceding year, although some designations have changed slightly. mation about the economic, environmental and social issues that are priorities for our stakeholder groups. We meet with our stakeholders in vari­ M ATE R I A L S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y TO PI C S ous forums during the year. A systematic stakeholder dialogue is also Stakeholder conducted annually in order to jointly identify material sustainability topics Material topic Boundary example that create the basis for our materiality analysis. The results from the vari1 Reduced climate impact Manufacturing, transporA, D, E, F ous dialogues were analysed and weighted against Nobia’s economic, envitation to customers ronmental and social impact throughout the value chain. Priority issues for 2 Circular solutions Product development, A, D, E our stakeholders are presented in the table below. sourcing, manufacturing 3 Respect for human rights Own operations, supA, D, F O U R M A I N S TA K E H O L D E R S A N D CO M M U N I C ATI O N pliers CHANNELS 4 Responsible sourcing Suppliers A, B, C, D (A) Shareholders and investors: Meetings, annual and quarterly 5 Health and safety Manufacturing A, B, D, E, F reports, press releases, website, annual survey. (B) Employee repre6 Equality and diversity Own operations C, F sentatives: European Works Council, annual survey. (C) Civil society, 7 Chemicals and emissions of Manufacturing A, D, E, F professional associations and academia: Meetings, surveys and ranksolvents ings, annual survey. (D) Customers: Meetings, focus groups, social media, annual survey. (E) Suppliers: Ongoing dialogue in the purchase process, 8 Eco-labelled products and Manufacturing, sales D supplier risk assessment, audits, Speak Up (anonymous reporting chanproduct information nel), annual survey. (F) Employees: Continuous dialogue and meetings, 9 Resource efficiency Manufacturing D, E employee surveys, training courses, appraisals, Speak Up, annual survey. 10 Water Manufacturing A, E 11 Employee commitment Own operations E, F O U R M ATE R I A L TO PI C S 12 Social commitment/PhilanLocal society C Our process of defining material topics sets the relevant economic, envithropy ronmental and social aspects that are to be prioritised in our work and to 13 Career development Own operations F report on. In this process, we consider our impact on people, the environ14 Anti-corruption Own operations A, B, D ment and economy in the value chain, identified risks and opportunities, 15 Product safety Customers A, D, E input from stakeholder dialogues, and the positive and negative impact 16 Regulatory compliance Own operations A, C, D that these topics could have on our operations. These material topics form the basis of what we measure, monitor and report on in this report, and S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R I S K S what forms the basis of our sustainability strategy and our improvement By continually analysing the trends and drivers that affect our industry, our targets. Read more about our sustainability strategy on pages 32-33. customers’ industries and our operating environment – as well as in dialogue with our stakeholders – we identify sustainability-related risks and opportunities. Some of the significant sustainability risks for us are listed Satisfy Prioritise below. Read more about how we manage these risks on pages 29-40. High 1 Sustainable innovations: Nobia’s customers either require or will 5 3 16 4 2 require responsible production processes and materials from sustainable 14 6 sources. This could entail business-related risks for Nobia of not working Expectations from stakeholders 15 7 8 to meet existing and anticipated customer requirements. 9 Timber from sustainable sources: Wood is the main component of our products. Rapid changes to our environment, and increasingly intensive Under observation forestry places new demands on how nature should be conserved. The 11 10 use of wood from sources that are involved in forest-related conflicts, or 12 wood that comes from illegal felling, would entail major risks for people, the environment, and our credibility. 13 Carbon emissions and resource efficiency: The risks of damage to forests increases with a warmer climate, Since wood is the main component of our products, this result in long-term risks regarding materials supply. Low Responsible sourcing: Our supplier chain extends across different marLow Economic, human, environmental impact High kets, and entails numerous relationships. This brings the risk of deficient supervision of, for example, working conditions at our subcontractors. M ATE R I A L IT Y A N A LYS I S Prioritised material topics are the focus of our sustainability strategy Employee well-being: Workplace accidents or serious environmental and work and comprise the main part of this sustainability report. incidents at Nobia’s work sites could have a significant impact on our The topics presented in the diagram under “Satisfy” are part of our employees, the local environment, and our brand. systematic efforts and included in our processes and procedures. Business ethics and transparency: Nobia is active in many markets, and Topics listed as “Under observation” are areas that are deemed to has a broad employee base. This entails a risk of employees in Nobia not have a significant social, environmental or economic impact and thus acting in accordance with the Code of Conduct. are addressed by our internal processes. 10 4 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y G OV E R N A N C E A N D R E S P O N S I B I L ITI E S Environment Sustainability is an integrated part of our operations and is pursued at Our Group-wide environmental and climate policy means always complying ­various levels, from the Board’s approval of Group-wide policies and prinwith environmental legislation in the markets where we operate, and striving ciples to operational reviews, risk assessment and goal-oriented work in to integrate environmental and climate-change considerations through the our business units. Sustainability should permeate our entire business and value chain. The environmental and climate policy governs our environmenall our employees have a responsibility to contribute to our sustainabiltal initiatives, and is supplemented with local environmental management ity agenda. Our engagement and commitment have been implemented in systems and environmental targets. With our policy on sustainable forestry frameworks and work processes. and our Supplier Code of Conduct, we are laying the platform for our wood At Group level, we have a central sustainability function responsible for suppliers to contribute to our targets for environmental consideration and strategic sustainability led by our Head of Sustainability. The Head of Sussustainable forestry. We measure and monitor the environmental and climate tainability is a member of the team for the product, sourcing and manufacimpact of our own operations and of our purchase transportation services, turing management team and the sustainability topics are part of the agenda refer to pages 36, 38 and our supplier audits on page 37. of team meetings. The President receives monthly sustainability reports. Sustainability topics are also a regular recurring item on the Board’s agenda. Social Each production unit has employees whose main work duties involve Our framework for social issues and human rights encompasses Nobia’s sustainability. The product development and sourcing units have specialist Code of Conduct, our policy on modern slavery and our Supplier Code of functions that drive efforts with, for example, product safety, eco-labelling Conduct and aims to create responsible and sound business operations for and supplier audits. Sustainability is prepared and coordinated in our the long term. Our commitment means that we support and respect interGroup-wide sustainability forum, where central and local functions meet national conventions on human rights, work actively on employee well-being continuously to discuss sustainability topics. The responsibility for impleand promote diversity and equality. Using our tool for supplier evaluations, mentation rests with the line organisation. we evaluate and monitor such issues as compliance with human rights. Speak Proposals for strategic focus areas are prepared together with local and Up is our anonymous communication channel for reporting suspected violacentral units, which Group management subsequently approves. The Grouptions of our Code of Conduct. Read more on pages 37, 39 and 40. wide sustainability strategy and our policy framework govern and guide the work. We monitor compliance with and results of our sustainability frameAnti-corruption work both annually and on a continual basis. Through our annual reporting, Our anti-corruption framework incorporates our Group-wide Code of we monitor and communicate the results of our commitments to social, enviConduct, our Supplier Code of Conduct and our internal control guideronmental and economic sustainability. We also continuously monitor comlines. Anti-corruption is a mainstay of our Code of Conduct. Nobia conpliance through our management system and reporting of rules violations. ducts annual self-assessments, which are reviewed by external auditors, in all its business units based on a large number of issues related to internal F R A M E WO R K S control. Some of these issues concern the risk of corruption in the sales and Internal and external commitments form the basis of how we regulate and sourcing organisations. These self-assessments also include reporting crimgovern the direction of, and processes in, our sustainability work. All interinal activities including environmental crime. Monitoring also takes place via nal frameworks are revised annual and integrated through policy commitSpeak Up, our anonymous communication channel for reporting suspected ments in local and central processes. violations of our Code of Conduct. Read more on pages 37, 40 and 93. External commitments S TR ATEG I C M E M B E R S H I P S A N D PA RTN E R PRO J EC T S : • Sustainability strategy • SVN (Social Venture Network) Sweden • Code of Conduct • Swerea IVF circular pilot project • Supplier Code of Conduct • TMF (Swedish Federation of Wood and Furniture Industry) Technical • Environment and climate policy Committee • Policy for sustainable forestry • TMF (Swedish Federation of Wood and Furniture Industry) Sustainability Group • Modern Slavery Statement • BSI (British Standards Institute) • Nobia’s Financial & Accounting Manual • Besmå, Innovation cluster together with the Swedish Energy Agency and TMF External commitments • Västa Götaland Network, quality and environment skills exchange • UN Sustainable Development Goals • SIS (Swedish Standard Institute) Furniture Standardisation Committee • UN Global Compact initiative C E RTI F I C ATI O N S • Sustainability reporting according to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Our production facilities hold management system certification in quality, • Global Forest and Trade Network, UK environment, energy and occupational health and safety. Among our mar• CDP Climate change ket companies, Nobia Svenska Kök has ISO quality and environmental certification. • CDP Forestry Country Unit Standard Our Code of Conduct Nobia’s Code of Conduct is based on the UN Universal Declaration of Denmark Bjerringbro ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights Farsø ISO 14001 at Work and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. The Ølgod ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Code of Conduct sets fundamental guidelines for our sustainability activFinland Nastola ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 ities. Netherlands Dinxperlo Our Supplier Code of Conduct regulates and governs Nobia’s requireNorway Eggedal ments for suppliers about working conditions, human rights, business ethUK Darlington ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ics, environmental performance, and so on. Our suppliers in turn are OHSAS 18001 required to pass on these expectations to their suppliers to ensure comDewsbury ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 pliance throughout the entire supplier chain. Compliance with the Code of Grays Conduct is a requirement in our supplier assessment process. Halifax ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 50001, OHSAS 18001 F RO M F R A M E WO R K S TO R E S U LT S Morley ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 50001, The sustainability strategy supports our overall purpose and, based on its OHSAS 18001 strategic focus areas and objective, outlines the direction for the GroupSweden Tidaholm ISO 9001, ISO 14001 wide and local sustainability efforts. Our policy framework further develAustria Freistadt ISO 9001, ISO 14001 ops our standpoint and describes how we are to act to live up to our valWels ISO 9001, ISO 14001 ues in the areas of the environment, social issues and anti-corruption: N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 10 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y DATA A BO U T TH I S R E P O RT Unit 2016 2017 2018 Report premises Direct economic value generated and distributed This sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the Core Net sales SEK m 12,648 12,744 13,209 level of the GRI Standards. This year’s report is a transition from GRI G4 to Operating costs SEK m 8,315 8,362 8,823 GRI Standards and the changes in the standard were analysed and updated. Employee wages and benefits SEK m 2,381 2,382 2,544 The sustainability report encompasses all principles of the UN Global Payments to government SEK m 528 530 591 Compact and describes the sustainability topics of interest to Nobia’s stakeholders. Nobia has published GRI-based sustainability reports since Community investments SEK m 230 248 261 2012. This report refers to the 2018 calendar year. The sustainability report Payments to lenders SEK m 17 7 11 has not been subject to review or audit by an external party, other than Payments to providers of capital SEK m 421 505 1180 legal requirements. Economic value retained SEK m 756 710 -201 Scope Materials The report encompasses the entire Group. Specific boundaries for each thousands material topic are presented on page 104. The content of the Sustainability Wood consumption of m3 424 419 417 Report and the sustainability topics presented summarise the sustainability initiatives of the past year and are based on an internal materiality analyEnergy consumption sis. Environmental data is based on operations in our production units and Total energy consumption GWh 209 184 178 transportation. Sustainability-related data for the kitchen company Bribus, Non-renewable fuel GWh 51 46 47 which was acquired in July 2018, is included from 1 July 2018. Renewable fuel GWh 94 77 53 Electricity and heating purChanges to the report chased GWh 85 83 88 The acquisition of Bribus impacts data for the second half of 2018, excludHeating sold GWh 20 23 11 ing data on workplace accidents. We worked to improve the quality of the data during the year by develEnergy intensity, electricity oping the process for data collection and updated and harmonised converand heating kWh/cabinet 31 28 26 sion factors. The updated calculation methods primarily resulted in a substantial decline in carbon emissions from the combustion of wood, which Significant air emissions1) also means that we can now report lower total carbon emissions. thousands of Updated conversion factors for climate data in Scope 1 for carbon emisScope 1 tonnes CO2e 12.3 11.3 11.7 sions and energy, and separate reporting of biogenic emissions (emissions thousands of from wood incineration) have been used. Correspondingly, energy and cliScope 2, market-based tonnes CO2e n.a. 0.1 0.3 mate data for all years included in this year’s report have been updated for thousands of comparability. Deviations in previously reported emission data for volatile Scope 3 tonnes CO2e 18.1 20.0 19.8 organic compounds have been corrected for all years included in this year’s thousands of report for comparability. Biogenic emissions tonnes CO2e 0.7 0.7 0.4 thousands of Calculations Scope 2, local-based tonnes CO2e 14.3 12.5 9.8 Calculations of carbon emissions from energy consumption and transCO2 intensity, electricity and kg CO2e/cabportation were based on the guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. heating inet 2.8 0.5 0.5 Updated conversion factors for energy consumption and carbon emissions CO2 intensity, kg CO2e/cabwere based on the most recently updated data from the Swedish Environgoods transport inet 4.2 4.5 4.6 mental Protection Agency and Swedenergy. Calculations on internal susVOC 2 tonnes 253 252 305 tainability data are based on actual data from meters and invoices as far VOC intensity per lacquered kg VOC/100 as possible. Information for electricity, heating, business travel and goods details details 4.3 4.0 4.8 transport is based on supplier-specific information. For further information and data on climate calculations refer to Nobia’s CDP Climate InvesWaste tor Response 2018. During the year, we started to apply a Group-wide definition for cabinets in the sustainability report. This definition is based Total waste (excl. hazardous thousands of on externally supplied cabinets. waste) tonnes 33.2 35.4 42.0 thousands of The contact person for information in the Sustainability Report is Amanda Waste for recycling tonnes 2,2 2.6 21.8 Jackson, Head of Sustainability, e-mail: amanda.jackson@nobia.com thousands of Waste for incineration tonnes 28.7 32.3 19.8 thousands of Waste for landfill tonnes 2.3 0.5 0.5 AU D ITO R´ S R E P O RT O N TH E S TAT U TO RY thousands of S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT Hazardous waste tonnes 0.6 0.5 0.6 To the general meeting of the shareholders in Nobia AB (publ), ­corporate identity number 556528-2752. Employees It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory Number of employees ­sustainability report for the financial year 2018-01-01–2018-12-31 on Women number 1,824 1,717 1,629 pages 104-106 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Men number 4,621 4,370 4,452 Annual Accounts Act. Administration, sales number 3,406 3,159 3,069 Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the Production, logistics number 3,039 2,928 3,012 statu­tory sustainability report. This means that our examination of Type of injury and rates of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less injury3 number 91 75 92 in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Commitment index 75 77 78 Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with Suppliers sufficient basis for our opinion. Supplier audits number 32 20 13 A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. 1) CO2 emission factors have been updated for all years reported 2) Volatile organic compounds 3) Work accidents with at least eight hours’ sickness absence Stockholm, April 5, 2018 Deloitte AB, Daniel de Paula, Authorized Public Accountant 10 6 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y CO NTE NT I N D E X ACCO R D I N G TO G R I TO PI C S PEC I F I C S TA N DA R D S Standard disclosures Page Page Financial Organisational profile Economic performance 102-1 Name of the organisation 41 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 201 41-45 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 22-27 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 106 102-3 Location of headquarters 43 Anti-corruption 102-4 Location of operations 22-27 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 205 40, 93, 102-5 Ownership and legal form 43 94, 105 102-6 Markets served 22-27 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 105 102-7 Scale of the organisation 41-43 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 93, 94, 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 73 106 policies and procedures 105 102-9 Supplier chain 37 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 40 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply 106 Environment chain Materials 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 105 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 301 35, 38, 102-12 External initiatives 105 105 102-13 Membership of associations 105 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume, wood 106 Strategy 301-2 Recycled input materials used 35 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5 Energy Ethics and integrity 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 302 35, 36, 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 105 105 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 40, 105 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 106 102-18 Governance structure 105 302-3 Energy intensity 106 Stakeholder engagement Emissions 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 104 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 305 36, 38, 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 39 105 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 104 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 106 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 104 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 106 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 104 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 106 Reporting practice 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 106 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial state106 305-7 Other significant air emissions, VOC 106 ments Effluents and waste 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 104 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 306 35, 38, 102-47 Material topics 104 105 102-48 Restatements of information 106 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 106 102-49 Changes in reporting 106 Regulatory compliance 102-50 Reporting period 106 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 307 38, 105 102-51 Date of most recent report 106 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and reg38 102-52 Reporting cycle 106 ulations 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 106 Supplier Environmental Assessment 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Stan106 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 308 37, 105 dards 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environ37 102-55 GRI content index 107 mental criteria 102-56 External assurance 106 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 37 and actions taken Social Occupational Health and Safety 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 403 39 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 106 investigation Diversity and equal opportunity 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 405 40 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 40 Supplier Social Assessment 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 414 37 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social cri37 teria 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 37 actions taken Customer Health and Safety 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 416 34 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of prod34 uct and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health 34 and safety impacts of products and services N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 107 2 019 A N N U A L G E N E R A L M E E T I N G 2019 ANNUAL GENER AL MEETING The shareholders of Nobia AB (publ) are invited to the Annual General one year old. However, the validity of the power of attorney may be a Meeting on Thursday, 2 May 2019 at 5:00 p.m. at Klara Strand Konferens, maximum of five years from the date of issue, if specifically stated. Klarabergsviadukten 90, Stockholm, Sweden. The power of attorney in original and, where applicable, the certificate, should be sent by post to the company at the address stated above in good R I G HT TO PA RTI C I PATE AT TH E A N N UA L G E N E R A L time prior to the Annual General Meeting. Proxy forms are available from M E E TI N G Nobia’s website and will also be sent to shareholders who so request and Shareholders who wish to participate in the Annual General Meeting inform the company of their postal address. must: • firstly be included in the shareholders’ register maintained by Euroclear NOMINEE SHARES Sweden AB as of Thursday, 25 April, and Shareholders whose shares have been registered through the bank or securities broker administering the shares, must temporarily re-register • secondly notify Nobia of their participation in the Annual General Meettheir shares in their own names in order to be entitled to participate in the ing not later than Thursday, 25 April. Annual General Meeting. Such re-registration must be completed with Euroclear Sweden AB not later than Thursday, 25 April 2019. A request for N OTI F I C ATI O N O F AT TE N DA N C E re-registration must be made well in advance of this date. Notification of attendance at the Annual General Meeting may be made: • by e-mail: bolagsstamma@nobia.com DIVIDEND • by telephone: +46 8 440 16 00 The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of SEK 4.00 per share be paid for the 2018 financial year. The record date for the right to receive a • by fax: +46 8 503 826 49 dividend is Monday 6 May 2019. The final day for trading in Nobia shares • by post: Nobia AB, Box 70376, SE-107 24 Stockholm, Sweden including the right to a dividend is Thursday 2 May 2019. This notification shall state: A N N UA L R E P O RT • the shareholder’s name The Nobia Annual Report is published in Swedish and English, and both versions are available for download from the company’s website. The • personal identity number/Corporate Registration Number Swedish version of the Annual Report is printed and sent by mail to share• address and daytime telephone number holders and other individuals who have requested such a version. • shareholding • Information about any assistants (not more than two assistants) and F I N A N C I A L I N F O R M ATI O N proxies who may accompany the shareholder to the Meeting Nobia’s objective is to facilitate the valuation of the company by the stock market through clear information. The provision of information is based When applicable, complete authorisation documents, such as registration mainly on quarterly financial reporting, press releases, information on the certificates or the equivalent, shall be appended. website, company presentations and meetings with shareholders, analysts and investors. PROX Y Shareholders represented by proxy shall issue a dated power of attorney F I N A N C I A L C A L E N DA R 2 019 for the proxy. If the power of attorney is issued on behalf of a legal entity, 2 May Interim report Jan-Mar 2019 a certified copy of a registration certificate or corresponding document 2 May Annual General Meeting (“certificate”) for the legal entity shall be appended to the notification of 19 July Interim report Jan-Jun 2019 attendance. The power of attorney and certificate may not be more than 23 October Interim report Jan-Sep 2019 10 8 N O B I A A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Nobia’s Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2018 is produced in cooperation with Springtime-Intellecta. NOBIA AB Street address: Klarabergsviadukten 70 A5 Postal address: Box 70376, SE-107 24 Stockholm, Sweden. Tel +46 8 440 16 00, info@nobia.com, nobia.se B R I B U S B .V. NOBIA DENMARK A /S Industriestraat 4 Industrivej 6 NL-7091 DC Dinxperlo, DK-6870 Ølgod The Netherlands Denmark Tel: +31 315 65 17 45 Tel. +45 75 24 47 77 www.bribus.nl hth.dk invita.dk CO M M O DO R E K ITC H E N S Acom House N O B I A S V E N S K A KÖ K A B Gumley Road Mossebogatan 6 Grays, Essex Box 603 RM20 4XP SE-522 81 Tidaholm UK Sweden Tel. +44 1375 382 323 Tel. +46 502 170 00 commodorekitchens.co.uk marbodal.se E W E KÜ C H E N G M B H N OVA RT OY Dieselstraße 14 Kouvolantie 225 A-4600 Wels Box 10 Austria FI-155 61 Nastola Tel. +43 7242 237 0 Finland ewe.at Tel. +358 207 730 730 intuo-kitchen.com novart.fi petrakeittiot.fi F M KÜ C H E N G M B H alacartekeittiot.fi Galgenau 30 keittiomaailma.fi A-4240 Freistadt Austria N O B I A N O RWAY A / S Tel. +43 7942 701 0 Trollåsveien 6 fm-kuechen.at Postboks 633 NO-1411 Kolbotn G OW E R F U R N IT U R E LTD Norway Holmfield Industrial Estate Tel. +47 66 82 23 00 Halifax, West Yorkshire sigdal.com HX2 9TN norema.no UK Tel. +44 1422 232 200 R I XO N WAY K ITC H E N S gower-furniture.co.uk LTD Churwell Vale M AG N E T LTD Shaw Cross Business Park 3 Allington Way Dewsbury, West Yorkshire Yarm Road Business Park WF12 7RD Darlington, Co Durham UK DL1 4XT Tel. +44 1924 431 300 UK rixonway.co.uk Tel. +44 1325 469 441 magnet.co.uk UNO FORM magnettrade.co.uk Fabriksvej 7 DK-9640 Farsø Denmark Tel. +45 98 63 29 44 unoform.com
