CONTENTS I. About II. Sustainability eProseed at eProseed 04 08 20 04 Message from our CEO 10 Products, Solutions & Services 22 The world around us 06 eProseed in numbers 12 Global and local presence 23 The value of good governance 14 Governance 24 Creating value for stakeholders 16 Expertise at the service of customers 28 eProseed’s shared value framework 18 A recognised partner 2 III. Setting targets IV. About for continuous the report improvement 30 56 32 Key achievements 58 Reporting boundaries, period and content and management approach 58 Sources of information 50 Goals for 2019-2020 58 Restatements of information 58 GRI content principles note 59 Methodology 62 Review & approval 63 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index 68 Acknowledgements 3 GRI 102-14 I UNGC-Statement of continued support by the CEO MESSAGE FROM THE CEO AT EPROSEED, WE BELIEVE THAT TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION ARE THE MAIN DRIVERS FOR SOCIAL, ECONOMIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANCEMENTS. We are committed to conduct our business in an ethical and eProseed socially responsible manner, in a way that benefits our customers, employees, partners, suppliers and the wider is committed community, which has a positive impact on the local communities where eProseed is present. to building a Therefore, I am pleased to confirm that eProseed reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global better future Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, for the next Environment and Anti-Corruption. This first Sustainability report embeds our first annual Communication on Progress, generation in which we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into and beyond. ” our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Private businesses – especially those with global ambitions Geoffroy de Lamalle, like eProseed – must take shared responsibility for CEO of eProseed achieving a better world, notably by anchoring deeply the values promoted by the UNGC deep into the fabric of their organisations. An essential component is people within the business; the workforce. 4 GRI 102-14 Innovate At eProseed, we are explorers and innovators, we seek to where others follow! see business through the eyes of the customer, regardless of nationality or culture, and strive to make their expertise and commitment, along with eProseed’s products, contribute to the digitised global economy. Concerned about the environmental consequences, Endorsement of the UN Global we at eProseed have selected Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Compact principles in 2017 signified to support our ICT systems. We believe that Oracle provides the start of a transformation process a sustainable computing platform, which is both efficient which focused on developing the and renewable. eProseed also contributes to our Customer’s organisational alignment, leadership efficiency by building optimised solutions and products and innovative-thinking required and by reducing our Customer’s data footprint. to integrate sustainability into how More recently, we have become a member of IMS (Inspiring eProseed does business. The beginMore Sustainability). IMS has been working and building ning of this journey starts with this a sound reputation for more than 10 years in Luxembourg. first Sustainability Report, a product IMS is a not-for-profit organisation which helps companies of the work of all of eProseed’s units such as eProseed to implement sustainability best-practices and departments, supported by the and implement better supplier selection processes. With IMS experts of Forethix. In order to ensure membership, we also benefit from improved knowledge a robust methodological approach, and expertise through IMS’s vast network. eProseed engaged in this transparency journey leveraging on the GRI eProseed is committed to building a better future for standards for extra-financial perforthe next generation and beyond. If you would like to share mance reporting. your feedback with us, please feel free to write us at csr@eproseed.com 5 GRI 102-7 | GRI 102-6 eProseed in numbers 147 people serving 19 2017 Support to the Ten Principles of 16 Non-financial Excellence performance indicators customers UN Global Compact Oracle 13 Awards 100% 5 in countries 6 UN Sustainable Development Goals Sectors served eProseed contribute to Privately-held (Governments 7 and institutions, Finance, Telecom, 5 Utilities, Insurance Pillars of the 8 and Banking, sustainable strategy Transport) €25,2M In sales representing a Stakeholder groups 47% Members of the reached out to for the increase CSR Committee engagement program compared to 2017 Sustainability at eProseed 6 GRI 102-47 I UNGC-Description of actions Enabling sustainable strategy By committing to a responsible approach, eProseed our integrated management model. This starts with eProseed’s commitments to the Ten UNGC does not only aim to meet the expectations of the day-to-day management, operations, products, Principles are related to a macro-sectoral context its stakeholders. The approach also aims to solutions and services. This model also applies to and aims to contribute fully on the most relevant successfully integrate sustainable development into societal and environmental impact considerations. topics. COMMITMENTS PILLARS OF OUR SUSTAINABLE STRATEGY MACROCONTEXT UN Global Compact Ten Principles Answering the stakeholders Commit to an ethical approach of doing business expectations across the entire DELIVERING RESPONSIBLE value chain Anti-corruption PRODUCTS, SOLUTIONS Principle 10 AND SERVICES Implement new technologies Envision a long-term business model addressing legacy technologies Labour Facilitate inclusive dialogue Listening to the stakeholders Principle 3 Integrate technology as Human Rights Keep investing in expertise and knowledge a strategic business drive Principles 1, 2 A RESPONSIBLE AND INCLUSIVE MANAGEMENT Labour Taking care of our employees Talent shortage Principles 3, 5, 6 Leveraging on diversity to foster innovation and be Labour Global digitalised world close to customers Principle 6 CO2 cost of data CONSIDERING OUR IMPACT Exploiting the increasing Environment ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES Using natural resources wisely amount of data to create Principles 7, 8, 9 AND THE ENVIRONMENT value UN Global Compact Principle 4 Labour eProseed does not currently have an internal policy reflecting its commitment to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour in its operations and through its supply chain. eProseed does comply with all regulations applicable in Luxembourg regarding labour and has not received any claim internally or from its supervisory entity. 7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-2018 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-2018 1| ABOUT ePROSEED 9 GRI 102-2 1.1 | PRODUCTS, eProseed products provide a 360° view of key data across legacy systems. Our vision focuses on 3 key pillars: SOLUTIONS • Monitoring Key Performance and Risk Indicators: the eProseed product allows supervisory authorities to provide and monitor their Key Performance and eProseed & SERVICES Cloud Risk Indicators. Based on thresholds and algorithms, the platform triggers alerts and workflows of onsite/offsite inspection processes. • Data Visualisation & Dashboarding: eProseed FSIP for Central Bank the eProseed product focuses on data Innovate where others follow! management. It provides tools for data collection, validation, enrichment and transformation which allow meaningful data visualisation and dashboarding. eProseed eProseed is a leading provider for PRODUCTS FSIP for Fund ICT solutions and delivers integration • Predictive Modelling & Management eProseed offers a range of innovative services to enable customers to Benchmarking: on top of this, the business solutions to help solve complex boost IT flexibility, to enhance platform leverages Machine Learning industry challenges. The main products business agility and to increase algorithms (Artificial Intelligence) are dedicated to support Supervisory competitiveness. eProseed’s team to provide predictive risk models eProseed FSIP Authorities in their regulatory activities by for Financial consists of experts in all ICT global and capabilities for benchmarking providing a comprehensive and integrated Institutions leading technologies: Oracle, IBM, institutions amongst predefined and platform. During the last 9 years, eProseed SAP and many others. customised peer groups. focused on financial supervision solutions to better support Central Banks and Financial In regards with products of the eProseed’s team of experts, Regulators. Public Sector Revenue Management, eProseed enables organisations to deploy eProseed’s platform covers the Foundations software stacks at low risk, with eProseed offers an integrated platform end-to-end processes. Indeed, controlled costs, and enjoy all with plug and play modules such as out-of-the-box processes allow the the benefits of their solution • Banking supervision Revenue Management authority to quickly. eProseed's track record of • Pension and Insurance supervision define the Tax Library, manage the eProseed success across Financial Services, • Securities and Markets supervision Taxpayers through the CRM module TopCase Telecommunications and Public • Payment supervision of the platform, send Tax Statements, Sector customers, consists of multiple • Payroll and Income Tax supervision manage the Tax Collection and all the successful go-lives. follow-up processes, and many other • Property and Land Tax supervision • Consumption Tax supervision processes and integration services. eProseed Deployer • … 10 GRI 102-2 SOLUTIONS SPECIALISATIONS Our products, are tailored eProseed is an Oracle Platinum Management, Oracle Linux, Solaris, to our customer’s precise Partner, with a strong set of SPARC/T-series, Super Cluster, needs. eProseed delivers specialisations (17 specialisations Exadata and Exalogic. eProseed high-quality, reliable across the entire Oracle product also offers complementary valuesolutions, fully aligned to stack) including Database, Data added services for management and customer organization’s End-to-End Solutions Database Integration, Business Process technology practices such as Identity requirements and its & Data Management Management, Service-Oriented Access Assessment, Oracle Licences delivery model ensures Architecture, Javascript Extension Assessment, Oracle Concierge end to end solutions Toolkit, Application Grid, WebCenter, Services and tailor-made Oracle respecting high quality Identity Governance, Access Trainings. standards including a personalised training and knowledge transfer sessions. eProseed is focused on IT Modernization Fusion Middleware partnering with major & Consolidation vendors so that customers will benefit from strong first-hand experience with a wide range of new technologies. Enterprise Architecture Digital Transformation SERVICES eProseed has extensive expertise in all components of Middleware and Hardware including Database management and monitoring. eProseed experts are used to solving challenging cases using highlymature practices with proven results. They deliver award-winning services and solutions that allow a faster Return On Investments at lower risk and Identity Oracle Oracle Oracle decrease Total Cost of Ownership. & Access Assessment Licenses Assessment Concierge Training 11 GRI 102-3 | GRI 102-4 | GRI 102-6 I GRI 102-7 1.2 | GLOBAL & LOCAL PRESENCE Proximity in all aspects with all customers eProseed has a GLOCAL (global-local) Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, Turkey, approach, focusing on proximity in all Uganda, Sweden). Guatemala aspect with all customers. For the purpose of this first Sustainability report, the focus is set on transparency Headquartered in Luxembourg, efforts and disclosure at eProseed’s eProseed typically operates headquarters and main location: internationally through its local Luxembourg. The first chapter I. About branches – this facilitates closer eProseed introduces eProseed Group day-to-day interactions with customers globally. The chapters II. Sustainability and provides higher efficiency. at eProseed (pages 21 to 29), II. Settings eProseed's “right-sourcing” model targets for continuous improvement combines, when appropriate, local and (pages 31 to 54) and IV. About the report near-shore resources. (pages 57 to 68) consequentially only contain elements, narratives and data Today, eProseed operates in related to the Luxembourg office. One of 13 countries (Australia, France, the main area of improvement for the Guatemala, Lebanon, Luxembourg, next reporting will be to include other Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, United locations. 12 GRI 102-6 Netherlands Sweden This first Sustainability report discloses United Kingdom Luxembourg data for our headquarter in Luxembourg. Romania France Turkey Portugal Lebanon Uganda United Arab Emirates Australia 80% of the group's activities come from Luxembourg, United Arab Emirates, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. 13 GRI 102-11 I GRI 102-18 1.3 | GOVERNANCE FOUNDER & CEO BOARD OF PARTNERS The partners have a financial stake in the eProseed Group and define with the CEO the main Geoffroy de Lamalle guidelines of the strategy. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Geoffroy de Lamalle Stéphanie Noël Fabien Henriet Sónia Silva Henri Agbodjan MANAGEMENT TEAM CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHIEF OPERATING CHIEF TECHNOLOGY CHIEF PEOPLE SALES DIRECTOR OFFICER OFFICER OFFICER OFFICER The Executive Committee follows a precautionary approach when assessing risks inherent to its operating model and locations and when managing daily operations or introducing new products. 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-2018 15 GRI 102-8 1.4 | EXPERTISE AT THE SERVICE OF CUSTOMERS eProseed’s expertise supports the delivery of NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE technological solutions and its biggest asset to achieve this is it’s people. eProseed’s people are (FULL-TIME AND PART-TIME) AND BY GENDER technology-driven and customer-focused. eProseed’s CTO office is composed of leading MEN WOMAN experts in their respective fields, who are published authors (Oracle books, numerous presentations Oracle Open World and other international events, PERMANENT 83 18 white papers, …) and take part in Customer Advisory CONTRACT 120 27 Boards, and numerous Oracle Beta programs. People are the heart of eProseed’s business. TEMPORARY 0 0 None None CONTRACT 0 0 eProseed is committed to creating and maintaining a working atmosphere where colleagues can be passionate, engaged and aligned with strategy, 78 15 FULL-TIME living core values every day and bringing values to 115 23 delighted customers. 5 3 PART-TIME 5 4 2017 2018 16 GRI 102-8 I GRI 102-41 LUXEMBOURG 58 HEADQUARTER 21 UTRECHT employees BUCHAREST employees 8 employees LONDON 6 employees BEIRUT 8 employees 27 PORTO employees GUATEMALA CITY 6 employees SYDNEY 1 DUBAÏ 12 employee employees No employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 17 GRI 102-9 | GRI 102-10 | GRI 102-12 | GRI 102-13 1.5 | A RECOGNISED PARTNER eProseed customers have demanded platforms supported by Oracle technologies. So eProseed has developed a robust and solid business relationship with Oracle over the Awarded 19 Excellence Awards last 9 years. The remaining suppliers are contracted for the purpose of corporate activities, in 8 years they represent in comparison a minor spending. There have been no significant changes to 1. Oracle Benelux industry Partner of the Year 2009 the organisation and its supply chain throughout 2017 and 2018. 2. Oracle FMW Innovation Award 2010, Worldwide 3. Oracle Middleware Partner of the year 2010 4. Oracle Middleware Partner of the year 2011 In 2017, eProseed declared its voluntary commitment to align operations and strategies with 5. Oracle Middleware Partner of the year 2012 the ten universally accepted principles of the United Nations Global Compact. This report 6. Oracle Partner of the year 2013 – Luxembourg aims at being the first Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 7. Oracle Partner of the Year 2014 technology – Luxembourg (UNGC) and document its progress to implement the 10 Principles. This commitment takes 8. Oracle Global Innovation award 2014, worldwide shape in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and engages (Webcenter Suite category) eProseed to take action in support of UN goals and issues. 9. Oracle MENA (Middle East North Africa) Industry Partner of the year 2014 Launched in 2000, the UN Global Compact is the largest corporate sustainability initiative 10. European ICT Awards 2014 – European Startup of in the world, with over 12,000 signatories based in 145 countries. the year eProseed became an IMS (Inspiring More Sustainability) member in 2018. The company 11. Oracle Partner Community 2015 – Paas4SaaS partner of the year benefits from the network and expertise of IMS which shares best practices around practical 12. Oracle Partner Community 2016 – SOA achievement CSR implementation with its members and offers events and trainings year round. 2016 13. Oracle Cloud Innovation Award 2016 – Cloud Integration category IMS is the Luxemburgish representative for CSR Europe. It is Europe’s leading corporate 14. Oracle PaaS Partner Community Awards 2017 Outstanding SOA CS Contribution social responsibility organisation. IMS has 48 members companies and 42 national 15. Luxembourg ICT Awards 2017 – organisations for CSR. CSR brings together more than 10,000 companies world-wide. IT Development Company of the Year 16. Luxembourg Finance Awards 2017– RegTech Solution of the Year Oracle awarded eProseed “Oracle Fusion Middleware Partner of the Year” 4 times in a row 17. Oracle Database Appliance Western Europe Summit (2010, 2011, 2012, 2013), amongst other awards such as “Oracle Partner of the Year” (2009, 2017 – ODA Regional Partner Award Benelux 2013, 2014, 2015) and “Oracle PaaS Community Awards” (2015, 2016, 2017, 2018). As an 18. Oracle PaaS Partner Community Awards 2018 – Outstanding SOA CS Contribution Oracle-only focus player, and with years of experience in Oracle technologies, eProseed 19. Information Security Awards 2018 – is the perfect partner in order to solve the challenges at hand. GDPR Initiative of the Year 18 GRI 102-16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-2018 1.6 | VALUES EXPLORE eProseed embraces and promotes The following core values are the foundation of the company exploration. eProseed experts are frequently contributing to Oracle and are essential to eProseed’s responsible business. technological advancements, participating to Oracle Advisory Boards, Beta testing, executing Proof of Technologies, Proof of Concepts, etc. even if they do not have a direct requirement for using the new advancement immediately. FUN EXPLORE eProseed experts are keen to explore eProseed’s people are known for and discover new techniques, methods their legendary passion for what and technologies that will empower they do, and all this while having FUN INNOVATE them to fulfil their next challenges. fun. Work hard, play hard! INNOVATE LOYAL & RESPECTFUL Innovation is key for eProseed. eProseed eProseed’s people are loyal experts are frequently working at the and respectful to their fellows, VALUES forefront of technology to establish customers and partners – innovative and elegant solutions to solve eProseed fosters diversity and complex customer problems. inclusion. LOYAL & LEARN As such eProseed experts are leading the RESPECTFUL way by innovating where others follow. STRENGTH eProseed encourages cool, calm, LEARN solid strength within it’s teams, eProseed experts learn every single day. no matter how pressured the situation. STRENGTH No matter what they do on a day-today basis, they spend time learning new techniques, methods and technologies. Learning is an essential outcome and ingredient of corporate Exploration and Innovation values. 19 2| SUSTAINABILITY AT EPROSEED 21 2.1 | THE WORLD AROUND US Holding regular in-depth reviews of system usage and technological advance is key to the subsistence and future growth of businesses today. TALENT SHORTAGE inherent risk that this could lead to greater energy and managing this data, the key dimension to be Rapid digitalisation has transformed the job market. consumption and therefore greater emissions. unlocked is how to extract and interpret from this Global enterprises especially in ICT continue to face data insights which can be either monetised or talent shortages and increasing skills demand from FAST ADOPTION OF NEW TECHNOLOGIES incorporated into key strategic drivers. their clients. Recruiting and retaining skilled workers Digital change is constant and fast. Technology is is a challenge that all managers and HR teams are one of the main current trends impacting business INTEGRATE TECHNOLOGY facing. In that context, the continuous training and future across all sectors and regions. The emerAS A STRATEGIC BUSINESS DRIVER professional certification of internal experts has gence and adoption of these new technologies are Technology should not be considered as a means become a key aspect of talent management. disruptive in the sense that they allow new business to achieve cost-reductions or process efficiencies. models to emerge and are adopted extremely fast Implemented wisely, technology is becoming a CO2 COST OF DATA by end-users. source of competitive advantage. Business from any So far, however, there is no consensus on the sectors will have to consider themselves as technomacro-level impact ICT has on CO2 emissions. IMPLEMENT NEW TECHNOLOGIES logical or software-driven companies in order to Nonetheless, there is potential for the global ICT AND ADDRESS LEGACY TECHNOLOGIES achieve their transition and continue a profitable sector to contribute, like other sectors, to the global Organisations need to adopt, experiment, implement and sustainable business. target of reducing CO2 emissions on the planet. One and learn from new technologies. Implemented of the ways in which ICT can be expected to affect correctly, they will create value, if they are integrated CO2 emissions is by the direct effects of energy within the wider organisation and address the more consumption in production, distribution and use of fundamental challenges of legacy technologies. ICT. Estimates of the direct effects of the global ICT sector amount to 1,4% of overall global CO2 emissions EXPLOITING THE INCREASING AMOUNT (Lundén, 2018). OF DATA TO CREATE VALUE With the increasing amount of data being generated A critical element of how technologies will impact through the exponential development of systems, corporations is the huge amount of data being applications and other digital tools, there is an created. Beyond the initial challenge of storing 22 GRI 102-18 2.2 | THE VALUE OF GOOD GOVERNANCE Sound governance demonstrates eProseed’s integrity and transparency, from the definition of its strategy to the daily delivery of operations and The CEO of eProseed is also the founder of the company client services. and its main shareholder • Sets the sustainable strategy for the group In addition to its corporate governance, eProseed • Monitors the company’s performance in corporate has developed a sustainable governance system Chief Executive sustainability to support its sustainable strategy in the form of an Officer internal Sustainability Committee. Together with the support and engagement of Includes representatives from Operations, People and internal and external stakeholders, the Sustainability Technology departments across various seniority levels Committee develops programs and actions in line (Directors, Managers and employees) with the strategic pillars of eProseed’s vision. • Contribute to the definition, measurement and collection of sustainability performance metrics Sustainability • Participate in the preparation and update of the Committee sustainability report • Act as points of contact for the implementation of the sustainable strategy in other locations 23 GRI 102-42 | GRI 102-43 2.3 | CREATING VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS eProseed believes that effective engagement with stakeholders is key to achieving a successful sustainable strategy. The Sustainability Committee of eProseed, including its key stakeholders, highlighted its commitment to regular and sustained communication with all stakeholders . Our key objectives being: e  nhance dialogue with customers, suppliers, and business partners to integrate their expectations in the implementation of eProseed’s sustainable strategy; increase employees’ participation in the Sustainable strategy construction; and introduce eProseed’s sustainable vision into the Company to increase identification and loyalty. eProseed's stakeholders are an integral part of its strategy. eProseed has multiple stakeholders categorized into 8 groups, which it has identified according to their level of dependence on the organisation and their level of influence on the organization. Listed below are eProseed’s key stakeholder groups and the ways in which eProseed communicates with each group. 24 GRI 102-40 I GRI 102-43 LOCAL COMMUNITIES & TERRITORIES PRODUCTS, SOLUTIONS & SERVICES RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT Employees Customers Daily Daily Corporate suppliers Computer Key business partners equipment, fruit Oracle and coffee supplies, stationary Weekly Monthly Media, press Other suppliers Recruitment Occasionally agencies, bank, building owner Monthly Research & innovation partners Supervisory entities Universities ITM*, CNPD** Occasionally Unscheduled *ITM (Inspection du Travail et des MInes) has an inspection, advisory, mediator and control role in the field of working conditions, including occupational safety and health. **The National Data Protection Commission (Commission Nationale pour la Protection des Données – CNPD) verifies the legality of the processing of personal data and ensures the respect of personal freedoms and fundamental rights with regard to data protection and privacy. 25 GRI 102-43 As part of its reporting process, eProseed involved APPROACH TO a sample of stakeholders in the identification, ENGAGEMENT selection, prioritisation and validation of key How does eProseed define the nature of the COMMUNICATION sustainability topics. STAKEHOLDER relationship it aims to have CHANNELS GROUP with the stakeholders? How often do eProseed exchange with stakeholders? eProseed develops a dialogue programme with its stakeholders on different levels, as detailed in the annexed table. Management-employees communication; Online survey; EMPLOYEES Involve Performance reviews The company engages its stakeholders at various levels throughout the year. A particular voice is given to them during the reporting process (identification, CAB: Customer-Advisory-Board (event organised by prioritisation, content evaluation), through which the Oracle); ACE Directors roadshows Conferences; Corporate committee identifies the expectations and key topics CUSTOMERS Involve website and brochures; Contracts negotiations; Business Development Manager visits and oversight; Operational expressed as important and takes them into account oversight with Project & Delivery Manager in the sustainable strategy. CAB: Customer-Advisory-Board (organised by Oracle); Conferences; Contracts negotiations; Business KEY BUSINESS PARTNERS Involve Development Managers visits & oversight; Delivery Manager oversight visits; Obtainment of client testimonials for the attribution of “Oracle specialisations” OTHER SUPPLIERS: BANKS Consult Funding and financing agreements OTHER SUPPLIERS: RECRUITMENT AGENCIES Consult Passive communication at each opening SUPERVISORY ENTITIES Monitor Unscheduled CORPORATE SUPPLIERS Inform Online survey MEDIA, PRESS Monitor Unscheduled Opportunistic; Establishing partnerships for the RESEARCH & INNOVATION development and commercialisation of research projects PARTNERS Monitor outcomes such as advanced Proof of Concepts; Answering RFPs; Conferences 26 GRI 102-44 EXPECTATIONS What do stakeholders expect from us? ENGAGEMENT PROGRAM Competencies evaluation and personal development Measures promoting work-life balance Value sharing mechanism in remuneration packages Involvement and consultation of employees Work-life balance Access to trained and certified experts Delivery of qualitative counsel and advice Monitor: eProseed and the stakeholders Inform: eProseed will implement a one-way Projects & missions delivered on-time targeted communication with the stakeholders, keep in touch through public communication (media, website) there is no invitation to reply Demonstration of expertise from Oracle qualified consultants Execution of projects in line with the Oracle methodology Financial discipline and responsible investments Consult: eProseed will implement a Involve: eProseed will implement a two-way Transparent description of the recruitment needs limited two-way communication with the communication with the stakeholder, with stakeholders, where eProseed asks questions the objective to learn on both sides but Respect of local laws and regulations and the stakeholder answers stakeholders and eProseed act independently Fairness in treatment of employees or data privacy Fair and transparent selection process Payment of invoices in due time Transparent information about sustainable performance eProseed 2019 objective is to develop further Expertise and technical skills the stakeholder engagement program (purpose, Regional presence for commercialisation and distribution scope, owners) and develop a commitment plan targeting stakeholders priorities 27 2.4 | EPROSEED’S SHARED VALUE FRAMEWORK For eProseed, operating a responsible business model means delivering its corporate goals considering: • the commitments eProseed has towards its employees and stakeholders; • the positive and negative impacts eProseed has on the environment; • and the contributions eProseed can make towards society at large. Our responsible business model contributes to those main SDGs INPUTS OUTPUTS Human & Intellectual Human & Intellectual Competencies, time We offer training and career evolutions to all our employees. and skills of our workforce Maintaining their level of competencies is crucial to their personal 77 employees in 2018, development and creates direct value for our customers. 17 nationalities 759 hours of training FUN Financial Financial Financial discipline S We create value for both employees and shareholders. Employees receive wages, salaries and other benefits in kind. We also have and strong cash-flow EX H GT a financial contribution towards society through payment of PL OR EN 100% privately-owned S corporate taxes and social contributions. By making a financial TR profit we ensure the continuity of our business: our benefits are E ES re-invested in innovation products and entering new markets. SOLUT VIC ER Direct economic value generated and distributed: €21.107.140 Supply chain ION S Creation of indirect economic value through purchasing A RESPONSIBLE Supply chain 50% of suppliers are local & INCLUSIVE Whether it’s with our business partners through licensing or MANAGEMENT L OYA L (Luxembourg) through the purchasing of office supplies, we contribute indirectly creating value for other companies in our value chain. €3.935.164 spent with local suppliers Partnerships for innovation &R eProseed uses “best-in-class” N Partnerships for innovation technologies as highly requested ES AR PE We help our customers transition to new business models or help by customers to bring forwardPRO D UCTS LE them modernize their existing infrastructures. Providing them a thinking solutions to the market CT FU reliable and efficient solutions allows them to focus on their core 19 awards & 17 specialisations L business developing their own value proposition. from Oracle 9.504 days of consultancy I N N O VAT E Environment Environment Considering impact Conceiving products and services conscious of our environmental on natural resources impacts we monitor our CO2 usage in our datacenters and buildings. CO2 neutral emission building 39% decrease in Energy Intensity Ratio (headquarter building) 28 GRI 102-46 I UNGC-Measurement of outcomes eProseed responsible strategy allows to contribute mainly to 5 SDGs and monitors its performance with 13 non-financial indicators UNGC-Measurement of outcomes During the preparation of this report, eProseed conducted analysis with its Keep investing and retain GRI 404-1 I GRI 401-1 • Stand out thanks to expertise expertise and knowledge • Create jobs and retain employees stakeholders. This analysis showed the priorities amongst the topics to be reported considering the sustainability challenges, issues and impacts. • A financially strong business model, able to invest to Envision a long-term GRI-201-1 adapt to the changing technology landscape Each of the priority topics identified for this business model sustainable strategic approach, can be • Consider the sedentary nature of professions Taking care of employees in the well-being of employees linked to concrete contributions from the GRI 403-10 I GRI 202-1 • Giving work its true value United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Sustainable • Guarantee the confidentiality of customers’ data Development Goals are the blueprint • Foster relationships with local suppliers Commit to an ethical part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable GRI 418-1 I GRI 204-1 • Listening for: appropriate responses for employees, approach of doing business tailor-made solutions for customers, increased Development, an international commitment transparency towards external stakeholders from all countries part of the United Nations • Be transparent and give visibility to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all. The SDGs address the global Facilitate inclusive dialogue GRI 102-43 I GRI 402-1 • Building cohesion setting the example challenges the World faces, including those • Break free from professional biases towards Leveraging on diversity to foster men and women related to poverty, inequality, climate, GRI-405-1 • Consider the needs of all generations innovation and be close to customers environmental degradation, prosperity, peace and justice. • Environmental impact comes from within and without our organisation Using natural resources wisely GRI 302-1 I GRI 305-1 • A trade-off between proximity to the customers and the environmental impact of travels 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-2018 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-2018 3| SETTING TARGETS FOR CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENTS 31 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 3.1 | KEY ACHIEVEMENTS AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH KEEP INVESTING AND RETAIN EXPERTISE AND KNOWLEDGE Stand out thanks to expertise Management mechanisms Training plan and certification progress are part of eProseed’s career management strategy and are reviewed with its employees through the yearly appraisal cycle. Why is it important? eProseed is mostly an innovative company and Evolution of management mechanisms always promotes state of the art ICT technologies Every year, eProseed increases the amount of training and methodologies. Therefore, education and performed by the employees of eProseed. Indeed, online trainings are key elements for eProseed’s people to e-learning platforms are provided to collaborators which allow be a differentiator to eProseed’s competitors. them to get access to educational contents at their convenience. eProseed has also automated the reporting of employee certification and encourages staying at the cutting edge of innovation. It’s important to note that the e-learning platforms used by eProseed have poor monitoring and reporting regarding its Importance Stakeholders use. It’s therefore excluded from the performance measures of Primary Employees 2018. 32 GRI 103-3 I GRI 404-1 Target for improvement Performance eProseed is mostly an innovative solution provider, The number of hours of training offered by eProseed to however Cloud technologies and services are its employees is proportional to the gender distribution. It becoming more and more mature. As key demonstrates eProseed shows equal treatment of men and objective for 2019 is to stay on top, therefore women in the distribution of training hours. eProseed has accepted the challenge to become an Oracle Cloud Select Partner with 20+ Cloud implementation specialists and will focus a big 9154 hours of training in 2018 portion of turnover on innovative technologies. Total number of employees Means to achieve target 2017 2018 As an Oracle Partner, Oracle University and Oracle Partner Enablement teams can also support with educational materials. eProseed also ensures close monitoring of Oracle events and close collaboration with Oracle Product Management teams, where employees can get the chance to learn new techniques, technologies and how to apply that on concrete use cases. Internal knowledge sessions are organised on a 87% 13% 80% 20% MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE regular basis to share knowledge and experience internally. Proportion of training hours offered to employees 2017 2018 83% 17% 80% 20% MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE 33 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 KEEP INVESTING AND RETAIN EXPERTISE AND KNOWLEDGE Create jobs and retain employees Management mechanisms eProseed has less than 10 years of existence and grew significantly over 2017 and 2018. Unfortunately, HR processes did not evolve at the same pace and were time consuming given the manual workload Why is it important? attached to it. Acquisition of new talents was driven by reactive and In a service company and solution integrator such as short-term needs of resources. Until 2018, a yearly appraisal process eProseed, the most important resources are human was the only tool for talent management at eProseed. In a continuous and intellectual capital. eProseed has always aimed at growth mode, a yearly process is not sufficiently focused to properly covering the end-to-end talent management process follow-up the career paths of our employees and meet expectations -from acquisition to leaveas this drives efficient and from collaborators. Similarly, the HR department had a limited process sustainable investments, creating client satisfaction to proactively identify positions at risk, leading to a case-by-case throughout service excellency and technical expertise. management of the talent management process. Evolution of management mechanisms In 2018, eProseed started to build a global capacity plan in order to anticipate better the need of resources and enhance the acquisition process. On the talent management front, a full review of objectives was done for all collaborators. Associated to SMART objectives and related KPIs, we observed a significant positive impact for our collaborators, helping them to project themselves in their career evolution. To support the end-to-end talent management process, eProseed implemented exit Importance Stakeholders interviews. Indeed, talent retention is key for a company like eProseed Primary Employees and it is therefore important to capture any information that can contribute to improve the collaboration with employees. 34 GRI 103-3 I GRI 401-1 31 Performance NEW EMPLOYEES IN 2018 Target for improvement A first version of the capacity planning helped to optimise the workload. 2017 2018 To improve this asset, it must get correlated to the sales pipeline; providing the HR department a better forecast of the resourcing needs. eProseed TOTAL: 12 TOTAL: 31 aims to set up a “continuous” appraisal process to increase the agility in the 15 feedback loops to HR and Management teams and respond better to the growing demand. As aforementioned, HR is currently collecting feedback 9 during exit interviews. eProseed believes that this information is really valuable and the Executive Committee is constantly monitoring this in order 5 5 to enhance or adapt internal procedures. 4 2 1 1 1 0 0 0 Means to achieve target eProseed selected the Oracle Suite for Human Capital Management (HCM Suite) in order to support all HR processes and to focus more on the < 30 30-50 > 50 < 30 30-50 > 50 collaborators. This comprehensive suite offers modules supporting each ans ans ans ans ans ans step of the talent management cycle, such as Talent Acquisition, Employee On-boarding, Project Portfolio Management, Time Tracking, Employee Oracle HCM Suite is still an ongoing project at eProseed and therefore Performance Management and Exit Interview Process. The suite will allow the analytical module is not entirely ready. HR department defines a set of us to track more efficiently the different HR processes and to provide a KPI in order to monitor the talent acquisition, the talent management and complete reporting solution for the ultimately the staff turnover. So far, the reporting provided to the members of the Executive Committee covers the first aspect and eProseed foresees to have a more complete view in the first half of 2020. 35 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 ENVISION A LONG-TERM BUSINESS MODEL A financially strong business model, able to invest to adapt to the changing technology landscape Management mechanisms Over the years, eProseed has grown significantly. Nevertheless, eProseed can increase its performance and increase its efficiency as it delivers solutions and products. Why is it important? As a profitable company, eProseed aims to create Evolution of management mechanisms value for itself but also for its customers. Financial eProseed decided to set up an executive committee to success is necessary for eProseed and all business follow-up and steer the company’s activities to achieve to meet sustainability goals now and in the future. and meet the objectives set by the eProseed Partners. Indeed, economic performance KPIs are the main The executive committee is responsible for implementing ones that eProseed’s executive committee looks to the strategy fulfilling the long-term objectives. in order to take appropriate decisions and launch initiatives and investments. Financial performance Target for improvement eProseed will implement a new target operating also directly affects other stakeholders, such as model which will allow the more detailed definition of employees, local communities and investors. performance and efficiency of teams to deliver products and solutions for the customers. Means to achieve target The Executive committee will: • Implement a new target operating model; • Define economic KPI’s and choose an accountable Importance Stakeholders executive to monitor it; Primary Employees, Customers, • Provide quarterly reports to partners in order to refine Suppliers the 2019-2022 strategy. 36 GRI 103-3 I GRI 201-1 The direct economic increased of 48% Information on the creation and value generated distribution of economic value and distributed provides a basic indication of (EVG&D) by how an organization has created Performance eProseed in 2018 compared to 2017. wealth for stakeholders. The direct economic value eProseed generated for stakeholders in the Stakeholder 2017 2018 reporting period included the following: group Direct economic value generated Revenues Wide variety of 10.694.589 € 21.107.140 € stakeholders Direct economic value distributed Operating costs Suppliers 6.918.723 € 13.899.772 € Payments to providers Shareholders 0€ 0€ of capital Payments to government Government authorities 377.689 € 576.185 € and citizens Employee wages Employees 2.365.435 € 3.489.879 € and benefits Community investments N/A 0€ 0€ Total 9.661.847 € 17.965.837 € Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed (EVG&D) 20.356.436 € 39.072.977 € Financial assistance received from government 57.382 € 49.872 € 37 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 TAKING CARE OF EMPLOYEES Consider the sedentary nature of eProseed professions in the well-being of its employees Management mechanisms Although for existing initiatives it appears that eProseed is not entirely proactive on this matter. Why is it important? Evolution of management mechanisms Being a mostly sedentary profession it's important The company promotes the participation in sport for eProseed to provide the conditions needed for a events and also encourages people to eat BIO healthy and safe work environment. and fair-trade fruits by providing some during the working week. Target for improvement There is a clear intention to improve focus on this by executing new initiatives in the coming year. Means to achieve target: eProseed plans to provide free entrance to gyms, Importance Stakeholders raise the frequency of delivery of free healthy food Primary Employees, Supervisory for employees, and increase travel insurance for entity (ITM) employees. 38 GRI 103-3 I GRI 403-10 NUMBER OF SICK LEAVES FOR NON-WORK RELATED REASONS 2017 2018 Performance Number of workThe number and rate of related injuries: fatalities as a result of work-related injury: ZERO ZERO 33 39 DAYS DAYS Rate of sick leaves for non-work-related reasons = (Number of sick leaves for non-work related reasons / Number of hours worked) a decrease of 20% NUMBER OF HOURS WORKED 7046 9504 compared to 2017. RATE OF SICK LEAVES FOR NON-WORKRELATED REASONS -20% 0,0033 0,0027 39 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 TAKING CARE OF EMPLOYEES Giving work its true value Management mechanisms eProseed is a non-discriminatory employer and is hiring and promoting employees based only on the qualifications and skills required for the work. Why is it important? The company strives for a diverse workforce and The wages and salaries are determined by local aims to find the best suited candidates who share relevant competitive market data rather than by the same open values. legally defined minimum wages. It's important for eProseed to be aware of the current market Evolution of management mechanisms to offer competitive salaries as employees are its As eProseed is growing fast, it is important to comply main assets. with applicable minimum wage legislation and to keep reviewing as the market that is constantly evolving. The management team has also implemented a new system for recording salaries, performance reviews, including overtime hours, other elements of compensation, and provide legally mandated benefits. Target for improvement Importance Stakeholders eProseed wants to maintain its attractiveness Primary Employees by offering innovative benefits and maintaining comparative benchmarks with its peers. Means to achieve target: The HR department will continue to conduct market evolution studies and refine benchmarks. 40 GRI 103-3 I GRI 202-1 Performance THE AVERAGE ENTRY SALARY (most junior level not considering interns or apprentices) AT EPROSEED IS 150% HIGHER THAN THE LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE* * The local minimum wage in Luxembourg in 2018 was €2.450. THE AVERAGE ENTRY SALARY (most junior level not considering interns or apprentices) IS THE SAME BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN IN 2018 COMPARED TO 2017. 41 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 I GRI 418-1 COMMIT TO AN ETHICAL APPROACH OF DOING BUSINESS Guarantee the confidentiality of customers' data Management mechanisms eProseed has not implemented monitoring so far. However, eProseed is putting a special attention to handle data in respect of local and international Why is it important? regulations. In a more and more regulated world, an ethical approach is mandatory. In May 2018, the General Evolution of management mechanisms Performance Data Protection Regulations were implemented, with During 2018, eProseed investigated how best to the aim to reinforce the need for confidential and gain certification in respect of best management Number of complaints ethic handling of information... This is not something received concerning practise. It appeared that a number of different breaches (leaks, thefts new especially within Luxembourgish legislation ISO certifications might be best to reassure or losses) of customer around the financial sector, PSF (Professionel du customers... PSF certification was also highlighted privacy: Secteur Financier, CSSF (Commission de Surveillance as a first concrete step and extremely valuable in du Secteur Financier) circulars, etc. Luxembourg. ZERO Target for improvement For 2019, eProseed has a clear objective: to actually become a PSF certified support company. This will guarantee for all customers of the financial sector that eProseed operates systems containing Importance Stakeholders confidential information ethically and with strict Primary Customers confidentiality. Means to achieve target: eProseed will work with a consultancy bureau regarding PSF certification. This company will have the required expertise and will guide eProseed through this journey and help to implement the monitoring and metrics to achieve the required standard. 42 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 I GRI 204-1 COMMIT TO AN ETHICAL APPROACH OF DOING BUSINESS Foster relationships with local suppliers Management mechanisms Although eProseed has some initiatives to promote local suppliers, eProseed needs to improve. Why is it important? Evolution of management mechanisms eProseed’s GLOCAL (global but local) strategy Over time, the purchasing department has built good Performance ensures that only suppliers that respect the highest working relationships with well established local Increase in spending on standards and that provide value to the local suppliers. eProseed aims for purchases to help local local suppliers +14% environment will be engaged. ecosystems (e.g. company cars: eProseed switched from a Belgium based dealer to a Luxembourg based one). Some providers have relationships with eProseed since its foundation. FROM 2017 TO 2018 Target for improvement Main target is to continue leveraging local partners to fulfill eProseed’s needs. It’s also important to ensure the well-being of suppliers’ (payment Importance Stakeholders schedules, stability in business, etc.). Primary Suppliers Means to achieve target: eProseed is continuing to use local partners with any supply needs. The company will continue to fulfil its commitments with local suppliers in due time and with fairness. 43 GRI 102-43 FACILITATE INCLUSIVE DIALOGUE Listening for: appropriate responses for the employees, tailor-made solutions for customers, increased transparency towards the external stakeholders In essence, eProseed is a company that operates The approach to stakeholder engagement is through a strong and sustainable partnerships detailed in the chapter 2.3 Creating value for with different vendors. One good example is the stakeholders (pages 24 to 27 and the methodology collaboration with Oracle that has been one of the used in the reporting approach is explained in pillars of eProseed’s growth. It is therefore in the the methodological note 4. About the report eProseed DNA to consider relationships in the form (pages 56 to 68). of exchanges, collaborations, sharing of ideas and co-development. 44 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 I GRI 402-1 FACILITATE INCLUSIVE DIALOGUE Be transparent and give visibility Management mechanisms Although this topic is key to eProseed, the analysis of the communication scheme within the company shows that communication is mainly downstream Why is it important? communication. Plans to favour upstream Performance eProseed’s people are the main workforce and communication have been drawn up and will be are delivering value to the company. Therefore, executed imminently. Notice period regarding it's important for management to get the entire operational changes 4 commitment of all employees in order to achieve Evolution of management mechanisms common goals. In order to favour upstream communication and bidirectional feedback between management and collaborators, an executive point of contact has been appointed. Monthly breakfast sessions have WEEKS been organised in order to have an open discussion with the employees regarding relevant topics of the moment. Importance Stakeholders Target for improvement Primary Employees eProseed encourages communication from bottom to top. Means to achieve target: To achieve this target, management will participate in team building events. eProseed also has an open-door policy for management. eProseed believes that it is important to organise worldwide events to exchange information about eProseed and its goals during which round tables will be held and feedback, encouraged. 45 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 LEVERAGING ON DIVERSITY TO FOSTER INNOVATION AND BE CLOSE TO OUR CUSTOMERS Management mechanisms In 2018 the HR department at eProseed conducted a study regarding HR processes and Human Capital Management in order to identify areas for improvement. The outcome of the study showed that Why is it important? eProseed could automate most processes in order for eProseed is a growing global international HR to focus more on their fellow employees and their company and has customers all around the world career management and less on manual activities. and therefore it is important to recreate the same melting pot within the company. Indeed, eProseed Evolution of management mechanisms is promoting a GLOCAL (global-local) approach Back in 2017, most of HR processes were manually with customers which brings proximity in all executed. In late 2018, eProseed decided to choose aspect with all customers. an HCM (Human Capital Management) tool to better support most of those HR processes. On top of this, eProseed promoted French courses to ease the integration of its non-French speaking employees. Target for improvement eProseed wants to reinforce its GLOCAL approach and to become more and more a global company. Because it is important to be close to its customers, Importance Stakeholders eProseed looks to share and promote various Primary Employees & customers cultural values. Means to achieve target: eProseed plans to grow geographically and deploy strategic regional offices close to its customers. The ultimate target is to bring the expertise locally as fast as possible. 46 GRI 103-3 I GRI 405-1 Get a different Performance perspective through different cultures Break free of professional biases for men and women Building cohesion setting the example French EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 81% MALE 78% MALE 2017 2018 Belgian Brazilian Indian Egyptian Portuguese Italian Ukranian 100% 75% 25% MALE MALE FEMALE Hungarian 2017 2018 Moroccan Consider the needs of all generations Algerian WORKFORCE 88 Estonian 76 German Turkish English 17 Luxembourgish 9 7 3 Spanish < 30 30-50 > 50 < 30 30-50 > 50 yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. Polish 19% FEMALE 22% FEMALE 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 2017 2018 2017 2018 47 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 I GRI 302-1 USING NATURAL RESOURCES WISELY Environmental impact comes from within and without the organisation Management mechanisms As an ICT company, eProseed relies on servers to support its activities. Technical choices are also Why is it important? Performance selected depending on environmental impacts. 39% eProseed is concerned about climate change eProseed decided to establish its headquarters in a for future generations. eProseed believes that fully green location. The building systems take their climate change is an important topic for the whole energy from solar panels, wind turbines and a solar planet. eProseed is convinced that technology water heating system. The building also benefits from and innovation will contribute to reducing CO2e rain-water harvesting for toilet usage, automatic DECREASE emissions and everyone should contribute to it. shade systems to prevent sun raising the temperature in Energy Intensity Ratio* in the offices and a Geothermal AC system. of the HEADQUARTERS building between 2017 Evolution of management mechanisms and 2018 Despite its importance, eProseed was not very 30% proactive on this topic. Nevertheless, some initiatives have been implemented in the area of recycling. Importance Stakeholders Target for improvement Secondary Civil society, Local eProseed will optimise the use of its datacentres DECREASE communities, and will continue to work on innovative solutions to in Energy Intensity Ratio* Customers, Suppliers reduce CO2e emissions. of the DATACENTRE between 2017 and 2018 Means to achieve target: * The Energy Intensity Ratio The main objective for 2019 is to continue to reduce the consumption of energy in datacentres and to optimise is computed based on the total energy consumption of eProseed solutions and products to reduce electrical consumption and storage footprint. On the other hand, the building, as a ratio of the eProseed will foster green mobility through policies and fiscal benefits. volume of activity. 48 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 I GRI 305-1 USING NATURAL RESOURCES WISELY eProseed identified ‘ Emissions as a secondary material topic, in the context of emissions in the home-to-work trips of its employees and emissions in its business travels, In this case, our emissions do not come from sources owned or controlled by the company. Therefore, the disclosures related to Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions can be considered not applicable . Nonetheless eProseed disclosed an alternative performance indicator. A trade-off between proximity to customers and environmental impact of travels Management mechanisms As most employees are consultants and working outside of the premises for clients, it's difficult to reduce the impact in the environment. However, Why is it important? eProseed does encourage people to avoid travel, Following its GLOCAL approach, eProseed fosters Performance using conference calls and a more flexible working proximity with customers to be efficient in the pattern to allow usage of public transport. creation of solutions. The obvious consequence In proportion of the also sits in the reduction of CO2e emissions. Evolution of management mechanisms activity, the number of kilometres travelled eProseed offers to the employees a transportation allowance which allows them to use a company car or public transportation. REMAINS STABLE Regarding the fleet, the selection of company cars does not give preference at the moment for more 1.103.760 ecologic models. kms in 2018 Importance Stakeholders Target for improvement representing a 2% Secondary Civil society, Local eProseed sustainability committee will encourage increase compared with 2017, when the communities, alternative energies as quickly as possible and activity (number of Customers, Suppliers support initiatives that promote energy transition. employees and number of consultancy days increased by 30%). Means to achieve target: eProseed will promote the utilisation of bicycles by its employees to move to and from the office and also car-pooling. 49 3.2 | GOALS FOR 2019-2020 2018 Performance 2019-2020 Targets Become an Oracle Cloud Select Partner with 20+ 9154 Hours of training Cloud implementation specialists. Focus a big portion of turnover on innovative technologies See Stand out thanks Page to expertise 32-33 Definition of an action plan to implement Proportion of training Proportional assessment quotation mechanism including offered to men and women sustainability criteria in the appraisal process See Finalise the implementation of Oracle HCM Suite Create jobs and retain Page 31 Number of new employees to allow a full reporting of the talent management employees 34-35 cycle to the Executive Committee. 50 2018 Performance 2019-2020 Targets Definition of economic KPI’s and responsible executive to monitor it A financially strong Quarterly report to partners and refining of business model, able to See Direct economic value the strategy 2019-2022 invest to adapt to the Page 39.072.977 € generated and distributed changing technology 36-37 Publish a Code of Ethics and Business landscape Conduct that, at a minimum, incorporates the requirements of Oracle’s “Partner Code of Ethics” and the laws applicable to business Involve an occupational therapist to raise Number of work-related awareness about work postures and adjust the Consider the sedentary ZERO injuries/fatalities ergonomics of the workstations to individual nature of the See needs professions in the Page well-being of 38-39 employees Days of absence/Total Have a sports coach intervene during lunch hour <0% number of days worked at regular intervals See Implement the measuring mechanism to Average entry salary vs. Page +150% adequately monitor the gender equilibrium in local minimum wage 40-41 remuneration packages Giving work its true value See Average entry salary for Provide training to employees on preventing Page Equivalent men/women discrimination and human rights violations 40-41 51 2018 Performance 2019-2020 Targets Implement a privacy policy describing how eProseed addresses confidentiality of data in Guarantee the See general usage (website, sales and marketing confidentiality of Page ZERO Number of complaints activities), delivery of its productions, solutions customers’ data 42 and services (handling of customers’ data), recruiting (handling of candidates’ personal data) Ask suppliers who participated in the consultation See for this report to participate to a joint Foster relationships Proportion of local Page 50% collaborative workshop with the aim to assess with local suppliers suppliers 43 the report impact and exchange on their future expectations Progressively and continuously expand the commitment of internal and external stakeholders Listening for: through dedicated sustainable development appropriate responses programs to raise awareness, provide trainings, for the employees, and share best practices See Number of stakeholder tailor-made solutions Page 5 groups reached out for Integrate materiality analysis approaches at for the customers, 44 consultation each site, especially in locations outside of increased transparency Europe towards external stakeholders Create an evaluation committee composed of external stakeholders in order to jointly develop the content of future reports. 52 2018 Performance 2019-2020 Targets Expand the boundaries of the reporting to gradually integrate other countries in the reporting perimeter Refine the data collection internal tool for See sustainability metrics in order to quantify and Be transparent Notice period regarding Page 4 weeks report on the 2019 progress against the targets set and give visibility operational changes 45 Engage further internal employees in the understanding and appropriation of the sustainable strategy by creating 1-pager fact sheets per SDG to present eProseed's impact, contribution indicator and progress Review internal HR policies to integrate See eProseed’s commitment towards UNGC Principle Building cohesion 75% Gender diversity at Board Page 4 to uphold the elimination of forced and setting the example 25% level (m/f) 47 compulsory labour in its operations and supply chain. Break free of See professional biases 78% Gender diversity at Page towards men and 22% employee level (m/f) Facilitate internal communication across team 47 women members via workshops addressing the topic of “understanding yourself to understand others better” See 17% (<30 yrs) Consider the needs Age diversity at employee Page 76% (30-50 yrs) of all generations level (m/f) 47 7% (>50 yrs) Get a different See Participate in local initiatives around CSR and perspective through Page 18 Nationalities sustainability in order to exchange with peers different cultures 47 and share own practices and experiences 53 2018 Performance 2019-2020 Targets Environmental impact Energy consumption See 19.500kwH of building comes from within Decommissioning most of the datacentres Page and without the Energy consumption moving them to the Cloud 48 38.000kwH organization of data centre Implement a monitoring framework covering the entire scope of emissions for regular professional trips and business trips Collaborate with the leasing company about A trade-off between See Number of kms driven incentive mechanisms for a greener vehicle proximity to customers Page 1.103.760 kms by employees in their cars float or alternative means (electric bikes) and the environmental 49 during home-to-work trips impact of travels Implement a sustainable procurement policy including a selection methodology for new suppliers and an assessment methodology for existing suppliers on social and environmental criteria 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-2018 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-2018 56 GRI 102-53 Contact pointSUSTAINABILITY for questions regarding REPORTthis report: csr@eproseed.com 2017-2018 GRI 102-54 This Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 4| ABOUT THE REPORT 57 GRI 102-45 I GRI 102-46 | GRI 102-48 I GRI 102-49 | GRI 102-50 | GRI 102-51 | GRI 102-52 | GRI 102-54 4.1 | REPORTING BOUNDARIES, PERIOD AND CONTENT 4.3 | RESTATEMENTS OF INFORMATION This report covers the activities and sustainability As it is the first Sustainability report, there has been no performance of eProseed’s headquarters in Luxembourg restatement of information or changes in material topics for the calendar year from January 1, 2017 to December or boundaries. 31, 2018. Subsidiaries have not been included in this first report, except in the first chapter 1. About eProseed 4.4 | (pages 8 to 19). Expanding the scope of sustainability reporting to gradually includes main operational sites and GRI CONTENT key subsidiaries is part of the continuous improvement towards greater transparency. PRINCIPLES NOTE eProseed aims to publish its Sustainability Report every year, in order to continue working towards its objectives This Sustainability report has been prepared in of sustainable growth and to transparently disclose the accordance with the GRI standards core option. company’s progress in its sustainable management and In preparation for this report, eProseed conducted a performance, as well as a communication channel to materiality analysis, between May 2019 and July 2019, actively engage with all stakeholder groups. to identify the priority topics to report on according to Only content that is material to eProseed’ strategy, the stakeholder inclusiveness principle, with the support performance, reputation or ability to create value has of the sustainability advisory firm: Forethix. been included in this Sustainability report. The methodological approach supported by Forethix has focused on identifying, selecting, and ranking priority areas to report on, based on consultation with internal 4.2 | and external stakeholders. SOURCES OF INFORMATION All data and information presented in this report derive from recording procedures and management system databases applied by eProseed. In case the data is processed or based on assumptions, a reference regarding the way or the method of calculation is given, according to GRI Standards. 58 GRI 102-42 | GRI 102-43 | GRI 102-46 4.5 | METHODOLOGY The materiality analysis process used to prepare stakeholder engagement program, consisted of the following 6 steps: Step 1: Two assessment criteria were taken into account: TOPIC IDENTIFICATION • The impact level (from 1 not significant to 4 very In order to create a list of sustainable development significant); topics to consider in the stakeholder consultations, the • The proficiency level (from 1 – very high proficiency to methodology is based on: 4 – low proficiency). • A documentary analysis encompassing existing A rating scale of 1 to 4 was used to avoid averaging. initiatives as well as the Global Reporting Initiative’s The criteria were weighted identically (without a multiplier), standards. giving each participant the same weight. The position • A comparative sectoral study of peers offering of the areas on the matrix’s X axis corresponds to the equivalent IT services, based on their publicly available average results for the two criteria. The result of eProseed's sustainable development reports. materiality matrix is disclosed on page 61. 50 topics were identified and subsequently underwent an impact analysis and a stakeholder assessment. Those Step 3: 50 topics are listed on page 61 in eProseed's materiality SUSTAINABILITY IMPACT matrix. ASSESSMENT AND CONTRIBUTIONS Step 2: TO THE SDGs ANALYSIS OF THE SIGNIFICANCE In order to refine the impact analysis carried out as part of developing the materiality matrix, a risk and opportunity OF ECONOMIC, SOCIAL, AND analysis for the shared-value framework chain created ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS with members of eProseed’s internal Sustainability The significance of the economic, social, and Committee. This was done according to UNGC and GRI environmental impacts of eProseed’s activities was first recommendations (Integrating the SDGs into corporate assessed through a quantitative evaluation questionnaire. reporting: a practical guide, 2018) in order to identify A quantitative survey was sent internally in order to collect contributions to the SDGs. An assessment scale from 1 the maximum number of responses. Out of the 77 invited (low) to 4 (very significant) was used to assess the positive participants, 20 responded, bringing the participation and negative impacts throughout the value chain. rate to 26%. 59 GRI 102-42 I GRI 102-43 Step 4: The pie chart below illustrates the breakdown of internal and external stakeholders which were reached out to during the consultation. IDENTIFICATION AND SELECTION OF STAKEHOLDERS The internal and external stakeholder groups were first Key business profiled by the Sustainability Committee in charge of partners Executive 1 Corporate suppliers producing the report, in accordance with the AA1000SES methodology. Management 6 Stakeholders were then positioned in eProseed’s 3 sphere of influence (their influence on the organization and how their interactions relate to the company’s Customers responsible management, delivery of products, 9 solutions and services, and shared value creation commitments) against their sphere of dependence (how the organization/the stakeholder are dependent on each other). Step 5: STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION For this first stakeholder engagement exercise, eProseed selected 16 external stakeholders. A qualitative questionnaire was then sent to each stakeholder representatives to assess their perception of eProseed’s priority areas in its sustainable management and the topics they perceived as most relevant. The participation rate increased to 32%, with responses received from 5 stakeholder groups. Only one rating criterion, the level of significance of the topics, was considered. A rating scale of 1 to 4 was used to avoid averaging. The stakeholders were weighted identically (without a multiplier) to give each participant equal importance. Employees 77 60 GRI 102-47 Step 6: The primary material topics are identified in bold in this list, they correspond to the dots in orange in the grey area. SELECTION OF TOPICS Through analysing the activities' economic, social, and environmental impacts and consulting internal and 1 Competencies evaluation and personal 26 Handling mechanism and transparency of development internal claims external stakeholders, the following materiality matrix was created: 2 Measures promoting and facilitating work27 Transparency in management and life balance governance structure (roles and eProseed's materiality matrix 3 Remuneration and value sharing mechanisms responsibilities, risk management, etc.) 4 Internal communication 28 Privacy data protection 5 Involvement and consultation of 29 Diversity across various seniority levels 3,50 employees 30 Regulatory compliance and legal monitoring 6 Work organization 31 Combating conflicts of interest 3,40 7 Health and well-being at work 32 Equal remuneration for men and women 3,30 8 Labour-Management relations 33 Customer satisfaction (governance of employees' 34 Knowledge sharing to external parties (e.g.: 3,20 representation bodies & communication) with customers) 9 Professional mobility 35 Privacy & confidentiality of customers data 3,10 41 1 10 Continuous training and education 36 Product innovation 42 11 Diversity at work (equal treatment and 37 Economic performance (financially strong 3,00 35 7 28 measures against discriminations) business model, able to invest to adapt to 3 12 Fair and ethical recruitments the changing technology landscape) 2,90 5 36 INFLUENCEON STAKEHOLDERS 49 22 13 13 Safety at work 38 Reduction and optimisation of energy 37 2,80 15 18 8 14 Energy reduction and optimisation consumption in: data centres 34 27 11 12 14 (home-to-work trips) 39 Reduction and optimisation of energy 2,70 19 31 16 15 Evaluation of suppliers in ethical and social consumption in: energetical impact of data 2,60 matters (developments, configurations and code 45 16 Reduction of payment delays towards optimisation) 43 17 2,50 suppliers 40 Digital assets security (protection against 17 Evaluation of suppliers in environmental external attacks) 2,40 25 2 matters 41 Operational excellence: timeliness in the 33 2,30 44 18 Energy reduction and optimisation (business delivery of services 26 21 4 trips) 42 Operational excellence: quality in the 2,20 23 6 19 Energy reductions and optimisation (building delivery of services 46 9 29 management, energy saving computer 43 Social responsibility: operations with local 2,10 equipment) community engagement 30 10 20 Reduction and optimisation of office supplies 44 Social responsibility: Screening suppliers on 2,00 47 (office supplies, printers, paper, furniture, their social assessment 48 1,90 etc.) 45 Environmental footprint: Screening suppliers 32 21 Raise awareness and train partners in social on their environmental assessment 1,80 20 responsibility and sustainable development 46 Indirect economic impacts 22 Encourage ethical business behaviours 47 Environmental footprint: Reduction of 1,70 0,80 0,90 1,00 1,10 1,20 1,30 1,40 1,50 1,60 1,70 1,80 1,90 2,00 2,10 2,20 2,30 2,40 2,50 2,60 2,70 2,80 2,90 3,00 3,10 3,20 3,30 3,40 3,50 23 Raise awareness of human rights among GHG emissions partners 48 Environmental footprint: Reduction of SIGNIFICANCE OF ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 24 Develop collaborations and partnerships to energy consumption Primary material topics Secondary material topics Tertiary topics (non-material) promote social responsibility topics 49 Environmental footprint: Waste management 25 Participatory decision-making 50 Environmental footprint: Water management 61 GRI 102-56 4.6 | Primary topics were established using a materiality threshold determined collectively by the eProseed REVIEW & APPROVAL Sustainability Committee. The materiality threshold defining the primary material topics (orange dots within the grey area) Production of this first Sustainability report is overseen corresponds to coordinates greater than or equal by a dedicated CSR committee at eProseed. to (horizontal axis: 2,50, vertical axis: 2,60) The members of eProseed’s CSR Committee are drawn from eProseed’s Management, Human Resources, The secondary material topics (green dots in Technology and Operations teams. eProseed has the white area) were selected collectively by conducted an internal verification of the information the Sustainability Committee in order to set provided in this report. Content is reviewed by the performance targets on environmental aspects Sustainability Committee and approved by the CEO even though the significance and impact on before publication. The objectives for our assurance stakeholders was not rated as primarily important. process included: The tertiary topics (purple dots in the white area) • Accuracy and completeness of data are the least important and were not included in • Reliability of systems used to measure and record data the scope of this report. • Reliability of rations compiled from underlying data • Adherence to the GRI Standards • Presentation of a complete and fair picture in NEXT STEPS the report as a whole eProseed’s sustainable strategy is based on a process of continuous improvement and dialogue with stakeholders through a progressive stakeholder engagement program. This program will be further developed as detailed on page XX and periodically renewed to continually involve new categories of stakeholders as part of the reporting process. 62 GRI 102-55 4.7 | GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CONTENT INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI DESCRIPTION OMISSION PAGE STANDARD NUMBER GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLORURES 2016 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 68 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10, 11 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 12 GRI 102-4 Location of operations 12 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 5 GRI 102-6 Markets served 6, 12, 13 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization 6, 12 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 16, 17 GRI 102-9 Supply chain 18 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 18 GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 14 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 18 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 18 STRATEGY GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4, 5 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 19 GOVERNANCE GRI 102-18 Governance structure 23 63 GRI 102-55 GRI DESCRIPTION OMISSION PAGE STANDARD NUMBER STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 25 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 17 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 24, 59, 60 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 24, 25, 26, 44, 59, 60 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 27 REPORTING PRACTICES GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 58 GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 29, 58, 59 GRI 102-47 List of material topics 7, 61 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information 58 GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 58 GRI 102-50 Reporting period 58 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 58 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 68 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 57 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 57, 58 GRI 102-55 GRI content index 63 GRI 102-56 External assurance 62 MATERIAL TOPICS ECONOMY MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 201 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 36 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 36 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36, 37 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 37 64 GRI 102-55 GRI DESCRIPTION OMISSION PAGE STANDARD NUMBER MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 202 – MARKET PRESENCE 2016 GRI 102: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 40 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 40 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 40, 41 GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local 43 minimum wage MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 204 – PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 43 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 43 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 43 GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 43 ENVIRONMENT MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 302 ENERGY 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 48 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 48 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 48 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 48 MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 305 EMISSIONS 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 49 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 49 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 49 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions NOT APPLICABLE : eProseed identified ‘ Emissions as a 49 secondary material topics, in the context of emissions in the home-to-work trips of its employees and emissions in its business travels. In this case, eProseed's emissions do not come from sources owned or controlled by the company. Therefore, the disclosures related to Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions can be considered not applicable. Nonetheless eProseed disclosed an alternative performance indicator. 65 GRI 102-55 GRI DESCRIPTION OMISSION PAGE STANDARD NUMBER SOCIAL MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 401 EMPLOYMENT 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 34 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34, 35 GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 35 MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 402 LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 45 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 45 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45 GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 45 MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 403 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 38 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 38 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38, 39 GRI 403-10 Work related ill-health 38 MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 404 TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 32 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 32 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 33 GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 33 66 GRI 102-55 GRI DESCRIPTION OMISSION PAGE STANDARD NUMBER MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 405 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 46 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 46 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 46,47 GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 47 MATERIAL TOPIC: GRI 418 – CUSTOMER PRIVACY 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 42 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 Evaluation of the management approach 42 GRI 103-3 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy GRI 418-1 42 and losses of customer data 67 GRI 102-1 I GRI 102-5 I GRI 102-53 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Contact point for questions regarding this report: csr@eproseed.com COORDINATION & PROJECT PLANNING PHOTOGRAPHY eProseed Sustainability Committee: eProseed Jennifer Lechevallier, Flavia Cammarota, Daniel Alves, Stéphanie Noël, Jose Camacho, DESIGN & LAYOUT Julia Dowding, Sónia Silva, Fabien Henriet Saysouk graphic design METHODOLOGICAL GUIDANCE PRINTING & PRODUCTION Forethix S.à r.l. Saysouk graphic design eProseed Europe SA 13, Rue de l’Industrie L-8399 Windhof Forme juridique : Société Anonyme eProseed Europe SA is a privately-held company established in 2003, which started its activities in November 2009 under the commercial laws of Luxembourg as a Société Anonyme (RCSL : B96487). All interests in the company are held by its CEO and members of Management Board, all of whom are individuals. 68 69 70 71
