CITIZENSHIP AND SUSTAINABILITY Report 2017-2018 2 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 CITIZENSHIP AND SUSTAINABILITY Report 2017-2018 4 66 OUR PEOPLE ENGAGEMENT IFA SIGNING Promote and protect the wellbeing of all employees and workers employed by BESIX Group 55 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT QUATUOR PROJECT TAKES SHAPE A circular economy exercise before construction phase 61 OUR PEOPLE ENGAGEMENT THE ROYAL ATLANTIS RESORT & RESIDENCES 20 million man-hours without Lost Time Incident OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT MOSS WALLS AND MORE FOR ISSUES OF TODAY Clean Air project combats air pollution 33 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT MANAGING MEGABUILDS 23 Project success in a demanding context BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 5 Our Citizenship & Sustainability Our Business Engagement Reporting method Improve the sustainability of existing products, whilst searching for new innovative ways to expand our offer. Our Senior Executives' CARRY OUT RESPECTFUL & SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Commitment Corporate governance Group Rules 22 Code of Conduct 22 Risk & Opportunity Management 22 Managing megabuilds 23 Personal Data Management 23 Our essentials Client centricity Strategic Management project 24 Building bridges with DOEN 25 Getting to the core of our CSR approach 13 INTEGRATE CODES OF CONDUCT Our vision purpose values strategic drivers 14 C&S framework in our business strategy 2017-2018 15 Responsible Code of Conduct Procurement 26 procurement Consolidated key figures 16 Circular purchasing 27 Werflink 27 Global brand with local anchoring 17 XChange app 27 Awards and accolades 18 Expo Dubai 2020, Belgian pavillon 28 Renewable and biodegradable products 28 ENCOURAGE GREEN SOLUTIONS Innovative Unleash 30 thinking Hack2Build 31 BESIX 3D 32 Green concrete 32 Clean air project 33 76 OUR SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT MANZIL ART Site installation management Start-ups accelerator 33 31 Transforming waste into art Sustainable Sustainable value engineering 34 Engineering Modular construction 36 solutions De groene boog 36 BIM 35 Competence Center Green Projects Rating Systems 37 BREEAM certified Meuse Office 37 GSAS certified Khalifa international stadium 38 Certified projects 40 28 Energy sources Water & Environment Waste to Energy 42 43 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT Household water in dry regions 44 Transforming non-recycling waste into energy 44 EXPO 2020 DUBAI Doubling the capacity of high-recycled water 44 Supporting subcontractors Exploring new A-STAY: Living-as-a-service 45 to meet sustainable obligations opportunities ACCEPT integrated system 45 Real estate real-time feedback 46 Smart Buildings 47 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 6 Our Environmental Engagement Our People Engagement Further strengthened our environmental initiatives with a Aim at becoming a great and safe workplace. better and more sustainable use of resources. INCREASE PEOPLE’S SAFETY & COMFORT FACILITATE A LOW CARBON & LOW WASTE SOCIETY Safe workplace Safety time out sessions 60 CO2 management CO2 performance ladder plan 50 Managing safely and Encouraging soft mobility 51 Working safely program 60 BE SAFE program 60 Environmental ISO 14001 Certification 52 Royal Atlantis resort & residences LTI 61 management Environmental performance review audits Monaragala-Buttala IWSP systems at Six Construct 52 safety achievements 61 Environmental awareness trainings 52 PREFERRED EMPLOYER Biodiversity Biodiversity preservation 53 preservation Fjord Link Frederikssund project: Engaged Well-being programs 62 biodiversity conservation 53 employees Third Engagement survey 62 Waste Focus on sustainable materials 54 Quatuor project: reusing building Trainings 63 management components 55 Eco-district neighbourhoods 56 Promoting Recruitment process 64 Recovering concrete residues 57 diversity Diversity awareness workshops 64 Digital material passport 54 Fair working IFA agreement 66 Paper consumption 54 conditions Workers welfare election in Qatar 67 Accommodation and construction Memberships & Memberships & Participations 57 site welfare inspections in Qatar 67 Participations to sustainable Attract new Connect to Build 68 workgroups potentials Onboarding app 68 Young professional days 69 Internal mobility 69 INCREASE PEOPLE’S SAFETY & COMFORT Direct Direct engagement with stakeholders 69 engagement with stakeholders BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 7 Our Societal Engagement BESIX Forward Strive to take responsibility and create positive impact in WATPAC 80 both our value chain and locally at our construction sites in Message of our COO regarding our C&S Objectives 85 all the countries where we operate. Objectives 86 GRI Content Index 100 PROMOTE LOCAL SOCIAL & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Vendors and Encouraging local and social economy 72 business Social entreprise ‘De Groene kans’ 73 partners Ferme Nos Pilifs sheltered workplace 73 Social Promoting local social inclusions 74 initiatives Circular migration program 74 Nachtigal dam project: local development 75 BESIX 10 years of solidarity 76 Foundation Employees’ volunteering 76 Manzil Art: from waste to art 76 Right2Learn 78 KiddyBuild 79 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 8 OUR CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING METHOD 9 We publish here our 4th ‘Citizenship and Sustainability’ report which covers 2017-2018. When reading it, keep in mind the fact that we firmly believe that BESIX Group has an active role to play as a Citizen in the society in which it evolves, in a ‘sustainable’ way with ‘sustainable’ solutions on the recognized basis of Prosperity, People, Planet. This report maintains the bottom-up approach that the Group originally chose to adopt for its 3 previous reports. In this edition, we keep into account programs, activities and projects realized during these two years by our teams in the different sustainable topics. These topics are based on challenges that society has to face (climate change, lack of energy, water scarcity, lack of experts...), on considerations of our stakeholders (workers’ welfare, ethical supply chain, well-being at work, green building, sustainable innovation, CO2 reduction, preserving biodiversity...) and on our 6 strategic drivers – identified by our Executive and Strategic Committee – which incorporate our noble purpose (‘Excel in creating sustainable solutions for better world’). Our continuous discussion with our stakeholders (staff, citizens, end-users, NGOs, governmental and financial institutions, professional networks, academic world, trade union...) is an opportunity to regularly identify and consider their concerns. As an active member of the United Nations Global Compact and the UN federating platform ‘The Shift’ Network, we are also greatly inspired by the Ten Principles and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. We find here a support to reinforce standards in which we believe (human rights, working conditions, ethical business practices, respectful environment). This Citizenship & Sustainability report is in line with the three preceding editions and complementary to the BESIX Group activity reports in which corporate info can be found. In the BESIX Group activity report 2018 you can find key information of the preceding year. In this C&S report, we follow the guidelines of ISO 26000 and the Global Reporting Initiative framework as we have done since our first CSR report 2010-2011. Progressively we report with a GRI Index, allowing us to apply for certification later. By doing so, this report aims to comply with the Code Buysse III in comparison with CSR for Belgian non-listed companies. GRI 102-46 102-49 102-50 102-51 102-52 102-54 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 10 SENIOR EXECUTIVES’ COMMITMENT As an international construction company, we have a responsibility to our clients and employees, and to the communities in which we operate. Our stakeholders at large are sensitive about environmental and societal issues. With our bi-annual report, we want to engage with them and provide clear information about A6 motorway near Almere requires to provide our environmental policies, our workers’ in its own energy needs to become 'The Netherlands' first energy-neutral highway'. rights and employees’ safety for instance. 11 A set path to co-creation “Excel in creating sustainable solutions for a better world”. More than a motto, this redefined our purpose in 2017. We take in that year as a turning point. The launch of BESIX Forward, the new springboard of our purpose, becomes an answer to an ever-increasing volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous world. Engaging with the community This renewed purpose revolves around Citizenship and SustainabilWe are also proud that BESIX Group signed an International Frameity. It explains what we aim for and describes how we want to take work Agreement on Fair Labor Standards with Building & Wood part positively in the society. It guides our business across our six Workers’ International (BWI) and the Group's European Works Counstrategic drivers: Leveraging on our customer centricity, Promoting cil (EWC) in 2017. This worldwide agreement’s purpose is to promote a great place to work, Developing a “one-stop-shop” solution, Being and protect the well-being of all the employees and workers ema leader in open innovation, Synergizing our ways of working, Proployed by the BESIX Group. It applies to all the BESIX Group entities moting openness towards new ventures and activities for business. worldwide, as well as to all of their subcontractors and suppliers, a These drivers strengthen our ability to innovate, maintain a high level provision which was already contained in the BESIX Group Code of of quality, face the competition, meet financial requirements, diversify Conduct. It firmly illustrates the Group’s commitment for fair labor and become a meaningful actor of social and environmental progstandards for its employees and workers. ress, and improve the quality of life of people, everywhere we invest. Going forward at a steady pace We have the ambition to meet the needs of the market in terms of Even if this report covers the years 2017 and 2018, we cannot resist construction 4.0, circular economy and sustainability in general. Clito announce that in 2019, we will celebrate with all our stakeholdmate change urges us to adapt and finetune our ambitions in the ers the 10-year existence of the BESIX Foundation. Our Foundation 'Planet' pillar. We can make a difference with our green project soluplays an important role in three sectors: Education, Construction and tions. BESIX Group strongly believes that innovation is part of the Environment. It showcases our willingness to support eligible projevolution of the construction sector. We have launched our own inects launched in countries where we operate, always with the idea novation program, ‘Unleash’, and our Start-Ups Accelerator. We also of pursuing the daily mission of local associations. The foundation promote and pursue co-creation. For this reason, we decided to join supports more than 30 projects each year, while its own projects – forces and skills with Proximus to create a new generation of smart KiddyBuild and Right2Learn – demonstrate the involvement of our buildings, notably in the field of energy performance. Exemplary of staff on a voluntary basis. our growing know-how and concrete achievements in this field: our BESIX Nederland headquarters. In order to consolidate our Citizenship and Sustainability approach at Group level, we initiated a BESIX Forward strategic thinking speOur stakeholders help us to improve on our path to sustainability. cifically on the Group's sustainability ambitions with our top manWe are increasingly asked to demonstrate our approach towards the agement. This is our way of considering how to further embed C&S major issues facing today’s society: ethical construction, safeguardin our daily business activities. On one hand, major steps have been ing the planet, well-being at work, safe workplace and social impact, taken over the last two years and on the other hand, we are eagerly especially at the operational project level. looking forward towards the coming years. We engage to take steps forward in all the topics defined in this current report. Working more Ethics enrich our Codes of Conduct closely with stakeholders, developing new actions and fully realizing To find the right guidance, BESIX Group has decided to become an our purpose, which is to “Excel in creating sustainable solutions for active member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2017 a better world”. and supports the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations. Our codes of conduct (General and Procurement) have been launched to formalize our steps in this direction and guide both our employees and our subcontractors to understand, adhere to and Frédéric de Schrevel Rik Vandenberghe apply our standards. The Group has also established Group Rules to Group C&S Officer Chief Executive Officer measure risks and follow an ethical course of action, when choosing Secretary General a project. GRI 102-2 102-11 102-13 102-14 102-16 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 102-19 102-26 102-30 102-46 102-49 12 OUR ESSENTIALS 13 OUR ESSENTIALS GETTING TO THE CORE OF OUR CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Our new and redefined purpose, “Excel in creating sustainable solutions for a better world”, puts sustainability at the very heart of what we do. As a multi-services Group active in 24 countries and operating in construction, concessions and real estate development, we are well positioned to assist clients and communities worldwide. We are designing, financing, developing, building and/or operating a wide variety of projects: from high-rise buildings to marine infrastructures, from bridges to water treatment plants, from apartments to offices, from shopping malls to hospitals, etc. We consider our role in society as supporting economic, social and environmental progress, and aiming for a better quality of life for people. However, like many industries, ours is constantly challenged. Innovation brings disruption in some areas of our sector. There are quite some challenges ahead. Our Citizenship & Sustainability (C&S) approach is characterized by bottom-up objectives. These have been mentioned since our first C&S report 2010-2011 with progress and results. With BESIX Forward we intend to go further in our approach at Group level. BESIX Forward To keep our competitive edge we need a clear purpose that sets us apart from the competition and a well-thought-out strategy drawing on our strengths. That is why in the fall of 2017, we co-created our new purpose and strategy. We challenged ourselves in rethinking who we are, why we are here and what we stand for. We called it “BESIX Forward”. GRI 102-2 102-4 102-6 102-16 102-19 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 14 OUR ESSENTIALS Our vision “As BESIX Group, we develop multiple services to create value for our clients, whilst incorporating the evolving expectations of the end users and building on strong partnerships with all stakeholders.” Our purpose “Excel in creating sustainable solutions for a better world.” Every word in our purpose holds value. We excel and strive to improve. We create proactively and step beyond the terms of mere “builders” or “developers”. We act sustainable both financially and environmentally. More than products or services, we offer our clients solutions. And lastly, we are keen to play a pivotal role in innovating to protect our planet’s shared recources. Our values To put these strategic drivers into practice, we draw on the Group’s 5 core values: Respect Respect is treating others as you want to be treated. Respect is all about attitude. It is vital to create an atmosphere of comfort and trust for everyone. Passion We are all passionate about our jobs. Excellence This takes us straight back Unity to our corporate purpose and “Alone we are smart, together trademark: to always excel in we are brilliant”. Despite the size what we do. of our company, an attitude appears where colleagues stand up Co-creation for each other and are ready to We need to demonstrate lend an extra hand to help others this every day, by pooling succeed. our minds and skills, and advancing forward. GRI 102-16 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 15 C&S FRAMEWORK IN OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 2017-2018 CHALLENGES Climate change | Older society | Green building | Lack of energy | Water scarity | lack of experts | International workers management ALIGNED WITH UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS OUR PURPOSE Excel in creating sustainable solutions for a better world OUR STRATEGIC DRIVERS AND C&S PILLARS Leveraging on our Promoting a great customer centricity place to work Engineering Environment Innovation Being a leader Developing a “one-stop-shop” in open innovation solution Business People Promoting behaviour openness towards Synergizing our new ventures & ways of working activities for business KEY C&S OBJECTIVES Carry out respectful & Increase people’s sustainable operations safety & comfort Integrate codes of conduct Preferred employer Encourage green Facilitate a low carbon solutions & low waste society Promote local social & economic development (Community involvement) *Description of our Strategic Drivers is available in the BESIX Group Activity Report 2018. GRI 102-12 102-15 102-16 102-46 102-49 16 CONSOLIDATED KEY FIGURES016  REVENUES 2018 NET RESULTS 2018 TOTAL EMPLOYEES 2018 €2.5 billion €95.3 million +15,000 C&S Structure in 'People-Planet-Prosperity' pillars C&S PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY Global emissions of CO2 have 470 million jobs are needed increased by almost 50% globally for new entrants to the since 1990. labor market between 2016 Industry challenges A quickly changing market and 2030. By 2030, the UN predicts a & UN concerns creates a need for new types of 40% water shortfall. Undeveloped infrastructures 2017-2018 competences. limit access to health care Global sea level rose approximately 17 cm in the last and education. century. SDGs Increase safety and comfort Facilitate a low carbon & low Carry out respectful & BESIX Group's vision Preferred employer waste society sustainable operations 2017-2018 Promote local, social & Encourage green solutions Corporate governance economic development Developing a “one-stop-shop” Promoting a great place solution BESIX Group to work Synergizing our ways Being a leader in open Strategic drivers Leveraging on our innovation of working 2017-2018 customer centricity Promoting openness towards new ventures & activities for business GRI 102-2 102-7 102-12 102-15 102-16 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 17 OUR ESSENTIALS GLOBAL PRESENCE 24 countries on 5 continents GLOBAL BRAND WITH LOCAL ANCHORING BESIX Group is a leading Belgian industrial company, Australian acquisition: Watpac headquartered in Brussel and operating in 24 countries Our activities have grown considerably through the acquisition of and on 5 continents: Australia, Bahrain, Belgium, CamWatpac Limited (“Watpac”). BESIX Group and Watpac started building a trusting relationship in 2013 when BESIX Group acquired a eroon, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, France, Ivory Coast, Itminority stake in the company. Right from the start, our ambition was aly, Latvia, Luxembourg, Montenegro, Morocco, Oman, to give BESIX Group a firm foothold in Australia. Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Spain, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, The Netherlands, UAE and United Kingdom. Since December 2018 BESIX Group holds 100 percent of Watpac shares giving Watpac full access to the Group’s in-house skills and NV BESIX SA, its largest subsidiary, offers services in the different expertise, in the construction field but also in our other core sectors stages of construction projects. In addition to NV BESIX SA and its such as marine works and private public partnerships. That strategy other subsidiaries, BESIX Infra, Cobelba, Jacques Delens, Socogetputs us in a position to pursue a long-term industrial strategy in Ausra, Van den Berg, Vanhout, Wust, Franki Foundations, BESIX RED, tralia and to capitalize on sustainable action promoted by Watpac for Lux TP in the Benelux and in France, BESIX Group operates in Eastyears (as reported in their regular activity report). ern Europe, North and Central Africa and the Middle East through its subsidiary Six Construct, as well as in Canada and Watpac in More info about Watpac's CSR activities on pp. 80-81. Australia. GRI 102-1 102-2 102-3 102-4 102-6 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 18 AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Recognition of BESIX Group's engagement to integrate sustainability in its operations. People Prosperity BESIX won the first prize in the contest For 2017, BESIX carried off no less SAFI won the National 2018 MEED “Getting to work without the car” organthan three first prizes – including the BIM award for ‘Water Project of the Year’. ized by Brussels Mobility end of 2016. The Award of the Year for the Beatrix Lock/ SAFI is our water treatment station in prize was handed over during the Mobility Lekkanaal, two Silver Awards and a Ajman, the United Arab Emirates. Salon on 31 January 2017 and must be used Bronze Award, in 5 out of 6 categories! for sustainable mobility related investments. Jacques Delens has been named laureate The BIM Awards 2018 ceremony, of BeCircular 2018, for the third year in a honouring the best BIM projects in the row with the Brederode project. BeCircuBenelux, was held in Brussels in Decemlar is the regional initiative in the Brussels ber 2018. BESIX and Vanhout took three Capital region on circular economy. awards, two gold and one silver, in the three competition categories: InfrastrucThe certification body ture, Public Projects and Tertiary Projects. SGS has issued the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OSHAS 18001 and VCA** certifications for BESIX Contracting. GRI 102-12 102-13 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 19 Planet BESIX Infra has been nominated five times Six Construct won Environmental for Aquafin’s 'Minder Hinder' (less disrupAward from Parsons Overseas Ltd tion) Awards in the last 11 years, including or POL (Construction Supervision Conin 2016 and 2017. BESIX Infra reached the sultant) for the 3rd Quarter of 2018. second position of this 2017 award edition. In the same year, BESIX Infra received an −− Environmental Performance Award – Prohonourable mention because it pro-acject Recognition at EXPO 2020 project tively converted new safety procedures into (this is awarded to the contractor who specific work instructions for its own staff attained the highest score in reference as well as creating internal support for this. to the Contractor Environmental Performance Criteria set by POL). Cobelba won the first place of the Green Six Construct was awarded the Solutions Awards 2017 in the ‘Catégorie “Corporate Social Responsibility” label The Dubai Creek Tower Pile Cap project Grand Prix Construction Durable’ for its of the Dubai Chamber of Commerce was ranked as the most environmental eco-district ‘Les jardins de Baseilles’. and Industry for the sixth consecutive compliant performer (2018), as per Mott year in 2018. This label is awarded to a McDonald assessment (Environmental In 2018, Six Construct was recognized limited number of companies, recognized Management and Assurance Consultant) for its vital contributions made through for their good practices, outstanding efversus 27 projects’ contractors in all of Emirates Nature-WWF’s Sustainability forts and commitment towards CSR & Dubai Creek Harbor development. Partnership Program, and the MoSustainability practices in the UAE region. hammed Bin Rashid Global Center for Endowment Consultancy (MBRGCEC). The Princess Beatrix Lock, with the Ruimtelijke Kwaliteitspluim (Environmental Quality Feather), was held up as an example by the Dutch authorities for its attention to environmental and landscape aspects in 2018. GRI 102-12 102-13 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 20 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT 21 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT A CLEAR CLIENTCENTRIC VIEW Our business engagement follows a steady pattern, in which we first look to improve the sustainability of existing services, whilst searching for new innovative ways to expand our offer. The human touch keeps playing an essential role, at each side of the spectrum: client and employee. Via internal programs and adhering to international standards, we display a client-centric way of thinking with respect for human rights. OBJECTIVES SITUATION 2017-2018* 2017-2018 -Setting up a Tender -Already at tendering stage, Review Committee risks are now monitored -Develop a project-risk through a six-step approach by updating the methodology. Execution Processes to In cooperation with the consider Operational Risk client, risk allocation and Management. mitigation are included. -Launch of our Strategic Account Management Project in 2018 Increase commitment 487 subcontractors and of supply chain on the suppliers signed the Code Procurement Code of of Conducts, an increase Conduct compared to 2015-2016 (412), even when the overall number of strategic suppliers decreased. Research on low carbon Development of the Green concrete and start up a Concrete program. Launch study on the project in the of the innovation program, Netherlands Unleash and Start-ups Accelerator. Already applying low-carbon concrete for a flood barrier project in the Netherlands; reducing carbon emissions by 76%. *Extensive review of our objectives on p 86-99. Objective reached On the path GRI 103-2 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 22 CORPORATE Risk & Opportunities GOVERNANCE Management Group Rules Enterprise Risk Management Framework BESIX Group integrates the assessment, management and control BESIX Group continues to comply with a corporate govof risks at all levels of the Group’s organization. The BESIX Group ernance framework firmly embedded in the day-to-day Rules, issued by the BESIX Group Executive and Strategic Commitworking of the Group’s Board of Directors, its advisory tee, is a set of 20 rules defining the framework of this Enterprise Risk Management. committees and the numerous Boards of Directors of the Group companies. The goal is to secure the sustainProject Risk Management able development of the Group and to develop a strong More specifically the Group Rule n°1 defines what High-Risk Projects risk management approach. (“HRP”) are for BESIX Contracting, regional entities and BESIX RED. As such we established a Tender Review Committee along with a The monitoring of this commitment is secured through the continGo/No Go decision process. Moreover, BESIX Contracting set up a uous implementation of the Group Rules and is supported by the Risk Management Competence Center and developed a risk maninteractive and web-based Group Corporate Housekeeping appliagement approach over the project life cycle (from Tender to Opercation. The functioning of the Boards of Directors, Committees and ation & Maintenance) aligned with ISO 31000. At BESIX Contracting, corporate organizations is now controlled and reviewed better and Risk Management is fully embedded into project management. on a regular basis, as imposed by the Group Rules. At tendering stage, risks are monitored through a six-step methodology. Open discussions and collaborative work can already start at Codes of Conduct an early stage if the Client is eager to. An agreement is thus more easily found on risks allocation and the best mitigation measures are for all stakeholders included in our estimates. The importance of Risk Management is also highlighted during our In line with its CSR objectives for 2010-2011, BESIX Group issued projects’ execution through the continuous review of risks and opthe BESIX Group Sustainable and Responsible Procurement Code portunities, the development and implementation of adequate treatof Conduct in 2013 which completes the General BESIX Group Code ment measures and awareness-raising actions. of Conduct. Profile-based decision-making A code to uphold Thanks to our knowledge and experience, BESIX Group's tenderThe BESIX Group Code of Conduct embodies Corporate Govand project teams are able to identify risks. Even better, they seize ernance, Human Rights, Business behaviour, Safety, Environment opportunities that generate value for our Clients and ourselves and and Human Resources and is included in most of the Group entities’ take better decisions based on a full project risk profile. prequalification and tendering documentation. The Code constitutes a framework that can be further developed by each Group entity to the extent necessary to align with the specificities of the concerned country or business sector. The Code also prescribes that violations of law, rules, regulations of the Code shall be reported to the Group’s Project risk management analysis CSR Officer. Oct. to Dec. 2018: 14 high-risk projects out of 15 analyzed. BESIX Group commits to contributing continuously to the improvement of its actions on Human Rights. Two major actions have been undertaken over the last years converting these intentions to actions. 93% 7% ANALYZED NOT ANALYZED In 2016, BESIX Group joined the Global Compact initiative of the United Nations and its adherence has been confirmed by the United Nations in September 2017. GRI 102-15 102-16 102-17 102-30 102-32 102-33 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 23 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT BEST PRACTICE Personal Data MANAGING MEGABUILDS Project success in a demanding context Management BESIX Group cares about its People, but not only them, its Clients, BESIX has built up a broad experience in megabuilds. Prospects, Subcontractors, Suppliers or any other Stakeholder Preparing for these ambitious projects, our teams take somehow connected with the Company activities also deserve cona number of key points into account. Bringing together a sideration. The protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data is one of the fundamental rights that BESIX wide variety of people – experts, contractors, engineers, Group is committed to respect and advocate. bankers and lawyers, to name but a few –, these projects range from high-rise buildings and big infrastrucDiligent with data ture to civil and marine works. The rapid technological developments and the BESIX Group worldwide scope have brought new challenges in relation to personal data Risk management protection. The General Data Protection Regulation (GPDR), that Large projects often feature a high-risk profile. Long planning horizons and came into force on 25 May 2018, provides a framework enabling complex interfaces make planning and budgeting a lot more challenging than companies to carry out their activities while securing all the involved for standard projects. Often, the scope or ambition level of megaprojects European citizens’ personal data. GDPR is an opportunity for us changes over time, further challenging a successful and timely delivery. To to make further progress to compliance. This means that personal avoid cost overruns, delays and, above all, unsatisfied clients, proper project data of every stakeholder, being European citizen or not, is handled management and coordination are key. equally. Coordination and cohesion of parties involved A key element in achieving this goal is the GDPR awareness: BESIX When BESIX is in charge of megaprojects, we take on a coordinating role. Group attaches great value on educating its staff. Another element is Bringing together all parties involved is one of our strengths. To identify and the GDPR Network that has been put into place in order to synergize solve problems, a thorough understanding of the technical execution is essenour ways of working, but also to make sure BESIX Group contributes tial. On-site, the Project Manager manages a small company. A project may to social progress. gather more than 15,000 workers and about 50 subcontractors. For such projects, team spirit (between clients, subcontractors and BESIX), transparency, flexibility and decision-making are key. Digital real-time tools, such as virtual animation, 3D planning and document control, help to effectively communicate with key players and provide progress reports in terms of budget and timing. The Project Manager megabuild checklist Administration and reporting; −− massive logistics; −− general safety and security; −− permanent inspections and quality controls; −− monthly intake of new players; −− managing site visitors; −− and most importantly: team management; −− respect of planning and budget. GRI 413-1 418-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 24 CLIENT CENTRICITY With the digital transformation we are going through, Client centricity in the field it is more important than ever to connect with customVan den Berg, active in cable and pipeline construction and acquired ers. The human touch remains essential in building and by BESIX Group in 2017, makes the difference by working in a client-oriented way. “If the quality of your end product differs little from maintaining excellent customer relations. that of your competitors, then you have to find another way to excel. In our market you do not have that many clients, and not every conThis is the reason why it becomes one of BESIX Group’s strategic tract is awarded to the lowest bidder. If you can offer a continuous drivers: “Leveraging on our client centricity”. client-oriented approach, you build good relationships. The client will then continue to choose your company because you stand for quality Defining strategic accounts and service. We ask our clients to score our services. You need to Lively discussions about client Communication, client Expectations strike a balance between different parties: the project, the client, but and client Experiences were initiated during the BESIX Potential also the end-users,” says René Marnef, Managing Director at Van Academy 2, end of October 2016. Since then our project gained den Berg. in progress with a real project team which identified strategic accounts (clients but also business partners) and investigated ways of The Group stays alert regarding concerns of our clients and want co-producing sustainable development with our clients. to keep an ongoing communication with them. Analyzing a client request in prequalification folders provides us a global picture of Our goal is to create a relationship based on trust and become the concerns in sustainability. Since 2011, we have been looking at the partner of choice for our clients of today and tomorrow. We need evolution of topics in the questionnaire. Within 7 years, we note a to evolve into a full-lifecycle service provider, by forming strategic consistent request for ISO and BREEAM/LEED/ESTIDAMA/GSAS partnerships with financial institutions, architects and Operations & certifications and a significant growth demand for BIM, sustainability/ Maintenance operators on the one hand, and by further developing CSR, QSE Management Plan. the necessary competences in-house on the other. MATHIEU RYCKEWAERT Senior Manager Public & Corporate Affairs, BESIX “Strategic account management is a vision for the future with the aim of generating value for the client in the long term.” 25 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT BEST PRACTICE BUILDING BRIDGES’ WITH DOEN (DOING) A new collaborative approach at BESIX Nederland The contractor was not Due to the increased traffic load, the executive agency of selected on price and solution the Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Managefor the bridge, but as the ment Rijkswaterstraat (RWS), issued the renovation of the best partner to work with. Nijkerker bridge. This bridge connects the provinces of Gelderland and Flevoland in The Netherlands. For the tendering process RWS decided to try out an experimental pilot scheme. In 2018 BESIX and its partner Mourik completed the works following the innovative ‘DOEN’ method. DOEN: optimal collaboration Early cooperation eliminates restrictions results in optimal end result With ‘DOEN’, all parties want to learn together by doing. This is achieved through far-reaching cooperation and with maximum mutual transparency, resulting in maximum flexibility and minimal disturbance to neighbours, traffic The first ‘DOEN’ project concerns the design and construction and the environment. The parties have worked together from the start, with of the renovation of the Nijkerkerbrug (Nijkerker Bridge). It was fewer restrictive rules and with the entire focus on better cooperation for an named ‘DOEN’ because the client Rijkswaterstaat opted for an inoptimal end result. This form of cooperation offers many benefits for the future. novative way of tendering with less restrictive rules for all parties involved. This allows for a shift in focus to a better collaboration “Without the contractor's input, we would have been unable to strengthen the with an optimal end result. bridge in this way. Congratulations to the entire team!” says Ype Heijsman, Director Rijkswaterstaat Midden-Nederland. The Nijkerkerbrug is part of the Nijkerk complex. Every day, more than 15,000 vehicles cross the bridge. Since 1965 the traffic load has increased considerably, causing damage. With the DOEN Project, Rijkswaterstaat wants to increase the bridge’s lifespan by 25 to 30 years. −− Client: Rijkswaterstaat −− In JV with Mourik −− Contract: Design & Build −− BESIX Part: 50% −− Start-end of the project: 2016-2018 GRI 413-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 26 RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT Our people come first. Their welfare is a key priority Partners in Frame Agreements with BESIX Group mandatorily sign in everything we do including our procurement. BESIX the Code of Conduct. Moreover, we work as well with our strategic Group ensures the integration of environmental and sosuppliers in order to have their commitment to the BESIX Group Procurement Code of Conduct. cial considerations when procuring and sourcing with buyers, suppliers and (sub) contractors. The BESIX Through quarterly internal Procurement Synergy meetings, including Group Sustainable and Responsible Procurement Code representatives of most of the European Group subsidiaries, internal of Conduct is the foundation of our good business bebuyers ensure the follow-up of the Procurement Code of Conduct haviour throughout the whole value chain. and establish the priorities in the development of frame agreements. In 2018, 515 BESIX Group colleagues dedicated to procurement Code of Conduct support, and 'part-time' buyers who are involved on a spot basis in the procurement chain, especially on site, were identified. About Procurement 93% of them signed the Code (436 signed in 2016 whose 96%). A Code signed by suppliers Based on intrinsic human rights Subcontractors and suppliers who are active on sites with a budget The BESIX Group Sustainable and Responsible Procurement Code exceeding EUR 25,000 are selected to sign the Code of Conduct. of Conduct, issued in 2013, endorses the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization Conventions The number of strategic suppliers decreased to 840 in 2018 (from on prevention of Forced Labor, Discrimination and Child Labor, ISO 959 in 2016), whose 412 signed the Code (59%). Despite these pos9001, ISO 14001 and the Guidance Principles of ISO 26000. Hereitive results, there is still room for improvement. We are working hard by, BESIX Group establishes an overall integration of sustainability to progress together with our suppliers towards a more sustainable considerations with regard to employee and worker conditions and and responsible procurement. By contacting our subcontractors environmental dimensions with our subcontractors reinforcing longand suppliers regularly, we constantly learn from their feedback. At term partnerships and collaborations. the same time, we demonstrate the importance of our BESIX Group Procurement Code of Conduct to reach a sustainable supply chain. Procurement 2.0 Currently, we are also in the process of reorganizing the procurement department towards a more central function. The Procurement 2.0 program has the objective to synergize BESIX Group's way of working and deliver: enable future growth with EBIT increase of 50%, leverage end-to-end parenting advantage of the Group, organize purchasing synergies between projects. This reorganization will also contribute to a further integration of C&S. Objective to achieve €17M of financial impact from sustainable savings by the end of 2019. The implementation will be phased gradually towards the end of 2020. KEY FIGURES +16,000 different suppliers GRI 308-1 406-1 407-1 408-1 409-1 412-1 412-3 414-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 27 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT Circular Purchasing The Purchasing Department of BESIX and Vanhout is participating in the Flemish Green Deal Circular Purchase in Belgium. Circular purchasing is a new way of buying for companies, with an eye for people, planet and wallet. The projects stimulate us to 'buy change'. BEST PRACTICE BEST PRACTICE WERFLINK SHARING MATERIALS VIA SMARTPHONE Making use of unused equipment BESIX Infra partners up with Xchange The Flemish Construction Confederation recently launched BESIX Infra is partnering with XChange for the development the online sharing platform Werflink. This platform was deof a smartphone app. This app will create a platform for veloped in collaboration with BESIX, Vlaanderen Circulair sharing construction materials and machinery. All members and FLOOW2. of the Flemish Construction Confederation will be able to use the app. This will create a win-win as construction comThe platform enables construction companies within Belgium to ‘advertize’ unpanies often do not use their construction equipment conused construction equipment, materials, resources and freight space with each tinuously and end up with surpluses of finishing materials. other through the website: www.werflink.be. Since the launch in 2018 the platform had around 3,000 visitors. This is a promising start considering the fact that −− Less waste of residual material the app is still in pilot phase until mid 2019. −− Less emissions −− Optimum use of operational resources Avoid unnecessary purchases −− Significant savings At BESIX we believe the purpose of construction is to make intelligent use of the available resources without losses. The platform enables us to minimize these Strategic Circle 2019 confirmed circular economy as a significant opportunity to losses on a local level thanks to the matching characteristics of the platform. differentiate BESIX Group in its market. Our projects are accordingly invited to Doing this we prevent waste, material and resources loss and save costs while report on their objectives on circular economy. doing so. Moreover, it limits the need for new materials to be purchased. At the moment it is used in the Flemish region by more than 210 companies. This platform is a first pilot project. WERFLINK IN NUMBERS (Data Q3, 2018-Q1, 2019) +3,000 visitors +20% return visiting rate 210 companies involved (increasing) GRI 103-3 413-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 28 BEST PRACTICES EXPO 2020 DUBAI INFRASTRUCTURE WORKS PROJECT Supporting subcontractors to meet sustainable obligations For the Expo 2020 Dubai project, the UAE chose the theme “Connecting Minds, Creating the Future”, with Sustainability as one of the 3 core themes. The 4.38 km² site is provided ON THE LOOKOUT FOR with irrigation and sewerage, pipes and cables, roads, elecRENEWABLE AND BIODEGRADABLE PRODUCTS tricity, water and telecom lines. Clean solution for concrete For the construction of this project, our client imposed a unique set of obligations framework release to have EPDs for concrete and steel elements. An Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) is a comprehensive report that includes an LCA, developed to provide specific environmental information on a product in a common format. EPDs clarify BESIX prolonged our contract with Demula, a comthe environmental benefits, the energy efficiency and other important aspects of a pany that makes Marginel, a biodegradable oil for given product. concrete framework release. During negotiations with Raising subcontractor awareness other suppliers we received several offers for products Important to note is that EPDs are very rarely asked in the UAE region. Therefore, with the same functional efficiency and better price none of our suppliers were familiar with EPDs. However, thanks to the contracting setting. Still we respect our core values of creating obligation, which we strongly support, we were able to raise awareness with our sustainable solutions for a better world. As such we subcontractors. prefer renewable and biodegradable products above others if possible. This way we keep our construcWe supported our Precast subcontractor – supplying concrete precast elements, to gain awareness on EPDs, understand the significance and benefits of having an EPD tion sites and infrastructures clean of any hazardous in the region. This resulted in great success. Not only did they acquire EPDs for the products. products obligated for, but also they pushed further than we expected and got their other major products covered under the EPD, to demonstrate their commitment to The Marginel product is listed “A” in the FIPAH classification table. This Sustainability. The same process is under development with other subcontractors. means best scoring for biodegradability and no danger for human health. GRI 413-1 29 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT A SUSTAINABLE Beyond the usual suspects Building sustainable involves much more than simply applying enerMINDSET STARTS gy saving technologies or sorting building site waste. At BESIX, each project integrates sustainable thinking in its fundamental design, in the way a construction site is organized, and in the way the finished WITH INNOVATIVE structure is managed. THINKING Innovation programs In a rapidly changing world, BESIX Group is conscious that sustainable innovation is a necessity to anticipate to future societal changes and environmental needs. With our strategic driver, “Being a leader in open innovation”, we aim at developing new solutions in sustainaThe sustainability ambition of BESIX Group's core opble design, sustainable materials, efficient manufacturing processes, erations is expressed in our purpose: Excel in creating smart building approaches and sustainable construction operations sustainable solutions for a better world. Through this to reduce societal and environmental impacts of our buildings and infrastructures. pillar we are addressing sustainability throughout the entire lifecycle of projects. This consists of the design phase, environmental performance of materials, sustainability integration during the construction phase JAN VAN STEIRTEGHEM and the sustainability performance of the buildings or infrastructures. Head of the Engineering Department, BESIX We wish to excel in sustainability by designing consciously, choosing for sustainable materials, minimizing operational impacts and shaping the future landscapes with a clear mission towards a better world. “The new generation of engineers do not Innovation plays a key role and can be considered as the engine of want to just work on beautiful projects BESIX Group driving all projects towards more sustainability. around the world. They want to know what the Group brings to society. Climate and digital are two themes that interest them. Our Unleash program is there to boost their dedication in this way.” Innovation program Certified projects Market our innovative in sustainable Passive projects engineering solutions construction Excel in creating sustainable solutions for a better world GRI 102-13 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 30 WITHIN 3 YEARS OF EXISTENCE 537 Ideas were received 454 People added contributions 8 Ideas implemented/ under development More than 500 ideas were introduced by BESIX Group colleagues, nearly 80% of which concerned sustainability in Unleash general or more specifically waste management and In order to advance innovation, the Unleash Program water treatment and HSE. was launched. Unleash is an innovation program that collects ideas from across the BESIX Group and, with the help of colleagues, turns them into concrete projects that positively impact our activities around the world. Poised to roll out initiatives BESIX Group plans for two internal ideas per year to get to the ‘one Anyone can contribute product, one client’ phase. In the latest wave, we have not providThe process is simple: participants submit ideas to a dedicated oned clear topics, but have left the challenge open for all employees line portal and share it with colleagues so they can vote for and/or to come up with any idea they could think of that is in line with the contribute to the idea. The ideas go through several reviews and BESIX Group strategy, and also replies to the requirement to increase assessments involving Innovation Ambassadors, Inventor Teams and revenue, or have a considerable impact on Safety or Sustainability. the Innovation Board. Selected teams head off to boot a camp. Professional coaches, meetings and training courses are used to help Sustainability top of mind for participants the teams refine their projects. The top ideas are then chosen by the More than 500 ideas were introduced by BESIX Group colleagues, Board. The teams have several months to develop their concept. nearly 80% of which concerned sustainability in general or more specifically waste management and water treatment and HSE. This There have already been three ‘ideation waves’, with the fourth outcome is a clear sign of the involvement of our employees on this planned to be launched recently launched. The three ideas selected topic and will only accelerate the development of sustainable project from the third wave are under development. solutions. BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 31 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT BESIX Start-Ups Accelerator BESIX Group is well aware that innovation, especially open innovation, is now a strategic issue. By creating a Start-Ups Accelerator, we take a new step towards greater openness and diversification, both upstream and downstream of the construction process itself. Enabler for mature start-ups With this in mind, the BESIX Start-Ups Accelerator was launched in June 2018. A global project aimed mainly at mature start-ups in the 'Construction Technology' (ConTech) and 'Property Technology' (PropTech) industries. Objectives: Seeking sales opportunities and BEST PRACTICE faster business, commercial and product development growth. A UNLEASH variety of sectors have our interest such as the Circular Economy Hack2Build and Sustainability, Construction 4.0, Digital Transformation, Energy and Treatment (air, waste, water), Mobility and Infrastructure, New Construction Materials, Real Estate, Spatial Planning, and Well-Being Hosted by our innovation team creative minds in and & Safety at Work. outside of BESIX Group spent 3 days together to solve today’s challenges in the construction industry. BESIX Start-Ups Accelerator has a duration of 12 months and it is totally free, 100% tailor-made in order to answer the respective needs and ambitions of each start-up. The objective is to boost on average 10 start-ups per year with our program. International scope Being aimed at both the ConTech and PropTech industries, the BESIX Start-Ups Accelerator is the first of its kind in Belgium, one of only a handful in the rest of the world. In October 2018, the 5 first start-ups joined our program −− Cad42 (France): IoT for workers' security on construction sites −− KEWAZO (Germany): Robots in scaffolding transportation system −− Peas & Love (Belgium): Urban famring in real estate −− ProperGate (Poland): Logistic coordination platform for construction sites Unleash on Stage , second edition of Innovation event organized for BESIX −− Smart Cast (France): Printed circuits on floor formwork staff and business partners in Brussels and in Dubai end of 2018. GRI 413-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 32 BEST PRACTICES REDEVELOPING A HEAVILY USED TECHNOLOGY Green Concrete reduces carbon footprint The green concrete project is an applied research project to reduce the carbon footprint and re-use waste of concrete. The main focus is on: A-LEVEL RESULTS FOR 3D PRINTING BESIX 3D −− Recycled aggregates (re-use waste) −− Low carbon binder (cement or equivalent) −− Reduced quantities of concrete and steel through value engineering The future has arrived: 3D concrete printing is taking the sector by storm. At BESIX Group, we are among the front runners, BESIX created a cell in the Engineering Department dedicated to developing suswith several projects in the pipeline, particularly in Dubai. We tainable concrete for its projects. have great ambitions to play a dominant role in this niche. Changing the building blocks of concrete This material’s future is regularly questioned given the high levels of CO2 emissions Dutch cyclists can already ride across a concrete bridge printed in 3D inaugurated at during its production. “We use concrete technology a lot because concrete can be the end of October 2018 in Gemert, some 100 kilometers from Amsterdam. A first used in virtually any climate and tends to save time and money. We are therefore for cyclists. A concrete footbridge had already been cast in 3D a few months before constantly looking for ways to improve its sustainability and quality,” says Wim in a park north of Madrid, Spain. Noblesse, Concrete Technologist BESIX. “For example, we used a low-carbon concrete for the new flood barrier project at Limmel in the Netherlands. Concretely, “The market is moving out of the innovation phase and is entering into the growth this concrete integrates up to 50% of recycled base materials. (Note: in the jargon, phase. BESIX 3D Studio has been set up to support the region in its vision to disrupt we speak of CEM I replaced by CEM III). “In this way, we reduced the carbon the traditional approach of construction by offering a one-stop-shop solution to each emissions of this site by 76%,” says Wim Noblesse. stakeholder,” said Jonas Vandeven, head of the BESIX 3D Division. BESIX also joined ‘Circular.Concrete’, a research project supported by the Flemish Less concrete, more structural freedom Government (VLAIO). The project aims to create a bridge between innovation pro3D printing made it possible to use less concrete. In doing so, we reduced the strucviders and potential users of circular concrete. This will be achieved by: ture’s ecological footprint, with a more complex shape than traditional manufacturing methods would have allowed. −− Making an overview of the various available technologies; −− Validating material technological innovations in lab and implement them on 3D printing requires further research as it is seen as a potentially disruptive technolsites; ogy. A ‘BESIX 3D’ division was created in June 2018 as part of the Unleash program. −− And by creating a clear reference framework for recycled concrete. “The biggest advantage of 3D printing is the customisation of work on a large scale, BESIX identified several companies in the Netherlands which perform an advanced making projects more aesthetically unique. In the digital world, 3D printing is the type of crushing. Their process generates a high-quality recycled aggregate that logical transition from software to reality,” said Benoit Meulewaeter, engineering can be used in high percentages in new concrete mixtures. manager, BESIX 3D. Upping the recycling ante 3D printing of breakwater units Further steps to be deployed in 2019 involve going beyond the norms in terms of In the swiftly evolving area of 3D concrete printing, a new research project is set using a higher percentage of recycled aggregate for a specific concrete mix on up by Ghent University, BESIX, the start-up ResourceFull and engineering company one of BESIX’s projects, and testing the high quality recycled aggregates from the Witteveen+Bos. The research will focus on developing sustainable concrete mixtures Netherlands and study their application in Belgium. suitable for the printing of breakwater units. The combined expertise of the project partners will result in new, innovative and more sustainable solutions in hydraulic engineering. GRI 102-13 305-5 413-1 33 BEST PRACTICES MOSS WALLS AND MORE FOR ISSUES OF TODAY BESIX SITE INSTALLATION MANAGEMENT (BESIM) Clean Air project combats air pollution Getting the most out of each location Clean Air already goes back to the first successful internal BEsim – BESIX site installation management – was introUnleash ideation wave in 2017. The idea was based on the duced in 2017 during the first wave of Unleash. The idea, to feeling that something is happening with a common asset we standardize and improve BESIX’s site installation, encouragall need: air. We hear facts and figures about rising CO2 coning maximum re-use of offices and site setups, became one centrations in the air, more and more pollutants we breathe, of the final three selected ideas by the Unleash Board and and all the threats this represents. Therefore, we want to our CEO. take up our role in society and from our position try to fight for something we all find important: air quality. In May 2018, the first mock-up of BEsim was developed at the Mohamed bin Rashid Library Quay Wall project in the UAE. The product that will be developed within BESIX Clean Air can be called “moss walls”. It contains 4 added values: −− Air filtration. The ‘technology’ is based on the a smart combination of moss Improve comfort for vegetation, irrigation, ventilation and sensors. It has been confirmed by experts the employees working that this has a positive effect on air quality. In a next phase the exact potential in the site offices Lower our carbon footprint of the product will be further refined and quantified. and/or on site itself. and become more sustainable. −− Acoustic absorption. The moss walls should be thought of as an excellent Integrate Sustainable solualternative for regular acoustic panels with the same characteristics regarding tions like renewable energy acoustic absorption. sources, energy efficient −− Greening the city. The fact that a living green organism can provide these lighting and equipment, etc. benefits is a major advantage. Natural green has a positive psychologic impact PEOPLE PLANET on human beings and makes people more productive and happier. −− Data. The moss panels include tons of data on environmental info. Our product can theoretically contain 1 measuring unit per m². After creating a working proof on concept and prototyping in early 2019, a testing PROFIT phase and start of production for pilot projects has started in The Netherlands in the summer of 2019. Standardize the site installation within Six Construct. Lower the overall cost of site installation, even though additional initial investments are required. GRI 413-1 34 SUSTAINABLE ENGINEERING: ACT TO PREVENT the foundations of on-land wind turbines which promote sustainable energy. BESIX Group actively shares its specialized know-how related to onshore wind farms across Europe, from study over planning to completion. In 2019 a one-stop-shop facilitation platform will be Sustainability is not just something for show. It is emlaunched where all the expert areas can be easily found within the bedded right into our core purpose. BESIX Group strives Group by our internal experts who want to complete their offer. to deliver sustainable solutions guided by our values, inOther Sustainable Projects are delivered through our PPP model. tegrating sustainability in all the phases of our projects, The Nachtigal hydropower project increasing Cameroon’s electricity to deliver a sustainable project and benefit the stakegenerating capacity by 30% is a recent example. holders in the wider community and the environment in which we live. Sustainability in Design The concept of minimizing negative environmental impact through With buildings and infrastructures being the end product of BESIX skillful design is integrated in every project of BESIX Group. Part Group the importance of this topic is self-evident. BESIX integrates of the design challenge is responding to the climate challenge by sustainability in all the phases of a project, starting from proposing means of engineering and constructing energy neutral and zero carsustainable solutions benefiting the local community through its Conbon projects such as the first carbon neutral highway in the Nethercessions and Assets team, delivering sustainable solutions during lands ‘De Groene Boog’. the tender phase, embedding sustainable design features, assisting the client achieve his sustainability goals through Green rating certifications (LEED, BREEAM, GSAS, etc.), assisting efficient planning in design and construction through use of BIM up to facilitating efficient JEAN POLET facility management through Smart Buildings. We believe that very General Manager Europe, BESIX life phase of a project must be considered in order to offer the best sustainable projects solutions to our clients. “Our one-stop-shop solution demonstrates we, Group entities, are all essential Sustainable value partners for one another in the BESIX value chain. By giving ourselves unprecedented engineering access to each other’s expertise, we can support our strategic objectives, increase our business impact by serving BESIX Group devises tailor-made sustainable solutions the client even more efficiently.” to better serve the local community, through BESIX Concessions and Assets. Different projects contribute directly to carbon footprint reduction such as The Dubai ‘Waste to Energy’, Umm Al Quwain ‘refuse derived fuel’ projects & Future Ajman Sludge to Energy investments. The Business Unit will develop its first large-scale solid waste treatment plant in UAE. BESIX Water & Environment on the other hand provides integrated solutions for water and energy related challenges in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa. We share what we know In this context, the strategic driver “developing a one-stop-shop solution” is a logical evolution of services. BESIX Group intends to develop a panel of services which already exist, eg, with BE Wind, Franki Foundations and BESIX to offer a one-stop-shop solution for GRI 302-5 305-5 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 35 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT WITHIN 3 YEARS OF EXISTENCE 70+ projects and counting 200+ engineers and STEM profiles 9 Benelux BIM Awards BIM is all about timing and risk management The quality of the information is determined by the proThe BIM team is eager to intensify its collaboration between BESIX's ject phase: design, construction, maintenance. At every two Engineering Departments (in Brussels and Dubai), with the phase, BIM ensures that relevant information is shared. Group’s subsidiaries, and to strengthen its partnerships with key players (clients, works maintenance managers, subcontractors, acThe goal of BIM is therefore not to produce information, ademic sector, research institutes, etc.). See the full list on page 40such as 3D modeling, but to manage it properly: give the 41 of this report. right info at the right person at the right moment. BIM keeps getting more important. BESIX works on efficiency and transparency in design through integration of Building Information Modelling (BIM) and applying advanced techniques like BIM based material passports. Our progress in this field has been rewarded. FRANÇOIS LEDERER Head of BIM, Digital & Sustainable Solutions, BESIX Over 2017 and 2018, BESIX won 9 awards at Benelux BIM Awards ceremonies. BESIX was the first in Belgium and the second in Europe to obtain BIM Level 2 certification. Level 2 is currently the highest “We integrate young engineers into our level for which certification is obtainable. This certification brings toteams, who bring innovative ideas while gether a set of methods and technologies to optimize the design, gaining the knowledge of our experienced execution and management of project data throughout its lifetime. employees. The perfect match between The project is represented in a 3D model that gathers all relevant the integration of our youngsters’ information. “We integrate more quickly new client requests. This engineering digital trends and our means we can efficiently save time and money, because solving an seniors’ effective value engineering.” upstream problem is much cheaper than settling it on site,” explains Juan Nolet, BIM Manager at BESIX. BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 36 BEST PRACTICES Classic technologies with sustainable improvements Vanhout expands its green activities and acquired 60% of Energieconcepten, a company from Arendonk (Belgium) mid 2017. With this participation, Vanhout continues to work on offering an integrated construction service and expanding the Group’s knowledge and competencies in the sustainable technology business. Energieconcepten specializes in renewable energy equipment (heat pumps, solar panels, thermal solar collectors and biomass), supplemented by classical technologies. The objective is to grow this company further in the professional market as it primary focusses on the private market. MODULAR CONSTRUCTION Unlimited building options for a Child Psychiatry Service Vanhout delivered, via our “Early Contractor Involvement” formula, a new Child Psychiatry Service, OPZ Geel (Belgium) end of 2016. The project included a building that can accommodate a total of 34 patients (10 children, 10 adolescents, 8 forensic places and 6 emergency places), a therapeutic center and a center for ambulatory care. A particular specification of the client was that the buildings should have a wooden structure. By designing the project in the style of a small village with chalets like we see in youth nature classes, Vanhout created a quiet and familiar environment for the patients. THE WAY TO GO Cradle-to-cradle construction World’s first energy neutral To achieve this effect, the decision was made to use CLT panels (cross laminated tunnel ‘De Groene Boog’ timber). This type of construction is particularly interesting for a circular economy. The wooden walls are modular and can be re-used. They are 100% cradle-to-cradle. These PEFC certified panels are erected quickly and at the same time they proA combination of BESIX, Dura Vermeer, Van Oord, John vide good insulation and airtightness. The building was made wind and waterproof Laing, Rebel and TBI, named ‘De Groene Boog’ is designing, very quickly, leaving more time to finish the interior. For the facade the choice fell building and pre-financing the new ring road of northern Roton thermal wood, which requires minimal maintenance. terdam – A16. −− CLT panels: 100% recyclable The combination honours its name (De Groene Boog means as much as The Green −− Rest of CLT from windows and doors can be re-used in a second product line Turn) by providing a road which will not only fit its surroundings seamlessly, but also −− 2 floor of 650 m² in 5 days be energy neutral. After this first successful experience with modular construction, Vanhout is conNoise-reducing asphalt stantly evaluating projects to study the possibility of changing the structure to CLT The project combines the newest views concerning quality of life and sustainafor its benefits, or to search for a modular item to be implemented. bility. The road will be incorporated into the landscape as effectively as possible. Noise pollution will be prevented by using extra noise-reducing asphalt on the A16 Several projects in execution (end 2018 start 2019) show promising results for the road surface (dual-layer fine porous asphalt, ZOAB) as well as noise barriers and use of modular designed sanitary cells and bathrooms. We look forward to show the earth embankments. Adjoining areas, such as Terbregseveld, Vlinderstrik and Lage results in the next biannual report. Bergse Bos, will be re-landscaped and connected by cycling and walking paths. GRI 302-5 413-1 37 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT Green projects BEST PRACTICE Built environments have a substantial impact on the A MODERN AND EFFICIENT WORKPLACE health and well-being of people and the planet. As the Meuse office showcases Cobelba’s built environment accounts for more than two-thirds of all the greenhouse gas emissions, green projects has urban revitalization skills a significant potential. The Group launched in 2018, its competence center to centralize all its knowledge and Cobelba delivers an office building certified BREEAM expertise on Green rated Projects, to add more value to ‘Very Good’ in one of the largest mixed projects ever the Client and the Society. undertaken in the Namur region in 2017. Green rated projects are the projects rated as per the green rating After three years of design work in Early Contractor Involvement and 17 system, on how green the built environment is. LEED, BREEAM, months of construction, Cobelba has delivered in 2017, for Brussels promoter Estidama, GSAS, CEEQUAL, Passive House, HQE, Green Star, Eaglestone, an office building in Jambes (Belgium). This will house Atradius NABERS Energy are the green rating systems currently applied (formerly Assurances de Crédit), one of the largest private employers in the within the BESIX Group. Namur region (325 people). Until this date, the Group was active on about 62 “Green Rated Revitalizing an entire neigbhourhood Projects”. Among others, BESIX STAY intends to build all its projects, This construction is part of an Eaglestone mixed project covering 3.2 hecto achieve BREEAM Excellent certification. tares that will eventually include offices (1,500 workers) and housing (250 inhabitants) around a green area, a semi-public park and a pedestrian plaza Launch of our in-house competence center which will be the cornerstone of the project. The positive revitalization of an To further integrate this throughout the Group, a Green Projects entire neighbourhood is taking shape. rating systems (GPRs) Competence Center for the Green Projects rating system has been established. This first office building, designed by DDS Architects, opened its doors at the start of 2017 to the 300 Atradius employees who enjoy 5,600 m² (ground + This competence center enables the Group to centralize and further 4 floors) office space and a 137-vehicle underground car park (4,300 m²). reinforce its knowledge and expertise related to Green rated projects The building’s structure is 95% prefabricated, with the special technologies and provide One stop Project’s support to Green rated projects, right of the office floors consisting of active ceilings (hot-cold). The building is from its Pre-design phase until the Operational phase. certified BREEAM ‘Very Good’ and reflects the latest trends in sustainable development. Atradius was looking for new working space on a turnkey basis, reflecting today’s concerns for sustainability, mobility and employee well-being. The building’s success is paying dividends in the form of future projects. GURUBASU KATAGERI Green Building Rating systems & C&S Specialist, Six Construct CERTIFIED BREEAM “The Green Projects rating system (GPRs) Competence Center, as it is VERY GOOD called, synergizes the Group’s expertise and passion related to Sustainable/ Green Projects, to make a positive impact and add more value to the Client and society; Perfectly in line with the Group’s motto – Excel in creating sustainable solutions for a better world” GRI 302-5 413-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 38 BEST PRACTICE Energy-efficient airco The major sustainability highlight of the stadium is its innovative and energy-efficient cooling technology. Khalifa International Stadium’s cooling technology uses an energy recovery system in order to reduce energy consumption. KHALIFA INTERNATIONAL STADIUM Awarded 4-star GSAS Other sustainability highlights are as below: sustainability certifications −− 23.5% reduction achieved in Energy used, from the benchmark set, through implementation of various energy efficiency measures like apt design, Energy efficient lighting systems, In September 2018, Khalifa International Stadium – the first innovative and energy-efficient cooling technology, etc. completed tournament venue for the 2022 FIFA World Cup −− Efficient plumbing fixtures. Qatar™ – received a GSAS 4 Star sustainability certification −− 100% recovery of the condensate water and used for landscaping needs. and has become the first in the world to be awarded a fourstar rating from the Global Sustainability Assessment System (GSAS). New shell The project achieved GSAS 4-star rating under two of its certification types, as Built by Six Construct, Qatar’s national stadium – Khalifa International Stadium untargeted by the Client, derwent extensive redevelopment; the external shell of the building was completely redone, a 44,000 m² membrane roofing structure was added, and 11,496 new −− “Design & Build” Certification evaluates the sustainability of newly constructed seats were installed. or majorly renovated buildings, districts and infrastructures, in terms of its design, construction and operation to minimize a building’s ecological footprint. Global Sustainability Assessment System (GSAS), administered by Qatar-based Gulf Organization for Research & Development (GORD), is a green building rating system −− “Construction Management” Certification: GSAS Construction Management (similar to LEED, BREEAM, etc.), originally developed for the State of Qatar but later certification is intended to assess the environmental impact of the construcexpanded for the Gulf Cooperation Council countries. tion process for any type of projects. GSAS Construction Management framework aims to evaluate the aspects of the construction practices that have The GSAS rating system is currently being practiced majorly in Qatar and recently, sustainability impacts and to perform measurements related to environmental has been adopted at some projects in Kuwait and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. parameters. GRI 302-5 413-1 39 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT Green Rated Projects UNTIL 2018, ACROSS BESIX GROUP* Thanks to our in-house GPRS Competence Center, we create a Cross Organizational platform to exchange knowledge and support of the locally available information. Dubai Green Building Regulations & Specifications (DGBRS) Superseded by Al Sa’fat Green Rated Projects, across BESIX Group* Six BESIX Construct BREEAM 11 PASSIVE HOUSE 5 13 LEED 6 5 11 Estidama 2 CEEQUAL 1 5 GSAS 2 4 2 2 HQE 4 1 M e ED a L AS E EA us am UA HQ E o LE id Q GS BR eH st EE s siv E C Pa *Watpac not yet included GRI 302-5 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 40 Certified Projects* PROJECT NAME ENTITY COUNTRY TOWN PROJECT TYPE YEAR CERTIFICATION NOTE ADNOC Headquarters Six Construct Abu Dhabi Emirates Offices 2010-2013 LEED Gold Al Wakrah Stadium** Six Construct in JV Doha Qatar Football Stadium 2016-2019** GSAS 4 Star Atradius BESIX Cobelba Belgium Jambes Offices 2015-2017 BREEAM Very Good Offices + BESIX industrial building BESIX Belgium Saintes 2016-2018 Passive House industrial building Offices + BESIX Sint-Pieters-Leeuw BESIX Belgium Sint-Pieters-Leeuw 2014-2016 Passive House industrial building BNP Fortis Montagne BREEAM Excellent BESIX in JV Belgium Brussels Offices 2017-2021** du parc** Passive House British School Vanhout Belgium Brussels School 2014-2016 BREEAM Excellent Residences + Day Canal District Jacques Delens Belgium Brussels 2015-2018 Passive Haus Care + Shops HQE Carpe Diem BESIX in JV France Paris Offices 2010-2013 LEED Platinum BESIX Wust Casa Ferrero Luxembourg Luxembourg Offices 2014-2016 BREEAM Very Good Lux TP Cleveland Clinic Six Construct in JV Abu Dhabi Emirates Hospital 2010-2013 LEED Gold Docks Bruxsel BESIX in JV Belgium Brussels Shopping center 2014-2016 BREEAM Excellent Ecole Cogge Jacques Delens Belgium Brussels School 2015-2017 Passive Haus HQE EDF Lab Paris-Saclay BESIX in JV France Paris Offices 2013-2015 BREEAM Excellent Euralille BESIX RED in JV France Lille Offices 2010-2012 HQE Expo 2020 Infrastructure Deep Infrastructure Six Construct in JV Dubai Emirates 2016-2019** CEEQUAL Excellent Works** Works Fedimmo Jacques Delens Belgium Brussels Offices 2007-2010 BREEAM Very Good Haren Maintenance BESIX Belgium Brussels Industrial building 2014-2019** BREEAM Good Center** Jacques Delens Hogeschool Utrecht BESIX in JV Netherlands Utrecht School 2016-2018 BREEAM Excellent Kons Lux TP Luxembourg Luxembourg Offices + Shopping 2015-2017 BREEAM Very Good Lustica Bay BESIX Montenegro Tivat Residences 2013-2015 LEED Gold Mall of Egypt BESIX in JV Egypt Cairo Shopping Center 2011-2017 LEED Gold BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 41 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT PROJECT NAME ENTITY COUNTRY TOWN PROJECT TYPE YEAR CERTIFICATION NOTE Estidama Pearl 3 Residences 2016-2019** Masdar Institute LEED Gold Six Construct Abu Dhabi Emirates Neighbourhood** Estidama Pearl 4 Offices 2016-2019** LEED Platinum LEED Gold Mohammed VI Tower** BESIX Morocco Rabat Offices 2018-2022** HQE Parking Lammermarkt BESIX Netherlands Leiden Parking 2014-2017 BREEAM Very Good Post-X** BESIX Belgium Antwerp Offices 2015-2019** Passive House Qatar National Convention Six Construct in JV Doha Qatar Offices 2010-2012 LEED Gold Center Quatuor** BESIX Belgium Brussels Offices 2017-2019** BREEAM Outstanding Renovation of Khalifa Six Construct in JV Doha Qatar Football Stadium 2014-2017 GSAS 4 Star Stadium Royal Atlantis Resort & Resort and Six Construct in JV Dubai Emirates 2016-2019** LEED Certified Residences** Residences Saint Pierre & Paul Jacques Delens Belgium Brussels Residences 2015-2017 Passive Haus Shape BESIX Belgium Mons Elementary school 2012-2014 LEED Silver Shape BESIX Belgium Mons Secondary School 2012-2015 LEED Silver Shopping Nivelles BESIX-Cobelba Belgium Nivelles Shopping center 2010-2012 BREEAM Very Good Sofaz BESIX Azerbaijan Baku Offices 2013-2015 BREEAM Good JV BESIX Trebel Belgium Brussels Offices 2013-2016 BREEAM Excellent Jacques Delens UK PR for UE Jacques Delens Belgium Brussels Offices 2006-2009 BREEAM Excellent Warner Bros Theme Park** Six Construct Abu Dhabi Emirates Theme park 2015-2019** Estidama Pearl 2 * The projects of Watpac and the regional entities have not been integrated into the list ** Target objective, Certification yet to be achieved BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 42 ENERGY SOURCES One plant for all kinds of energy sources In recent years, BESIX Water & Environment’s know-how Next to this, the phosphate present in the wastewater is also being in water has expanded to an all-encompassing environrecovered from the sludge, in the form of struvite for use in the agrimental expertise. It is active in in biological and chemicultural sector as fertilizer. cal processes, civil and electromechanical engineering, “BESIX Water & Environment goes further than concentrating almost as well as in the design and development of turnkey proentirely on wastewater treatment. Our teams draw on competencies jects and even in their operation and maintenance. in the areas of mechanical and electrical engineering, automation, biochemical processes and energy to respond to the demand for In this way, the construction of a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) diversification into other environmental areas, such as the production can serve as an energy factory supporting cities to be energy-neuof green electricity (biogas or hydroelectric), biofuels or fertilizers, tral and labeled sustainable municipality, in line with European Union processing of solid waste or organic sludge and tertiary treatment for Climate targets for 2050. Indeed, supplying green energy for housewater recycling, to name but a few,” says Adrien Theunissen, Senior holds and businesses is possible. Manager, BESIX Water & Environment. Fueling the community This kind of plants meet high standards of energy-producing WWTP using advanced technology to go towards energy consumption reduction. It processes its own and external sludge as well as producing biogas, electricity, steam and biofuel for trucks. KEY FIGURES Innovative technology Using sewage sludge as biomass to produce energy: heat and elecActive on tricity through the process of sludge digestion with high efficiency. For its own use, the treatment plant motors are indeed driven using electricity coming from the biogas produced. The excess biogas can 5 COUNTRIES be sent to close-by industries to power their steam production. The biogas is even further treated and liquified to be used as biofuel for the wastewater collection in the city. A high-gain both for the climate and community from recycling through green energy. +2,500,000PE* of wastewater facilities under construction *Population Equivalent CHRISTOPHE LEDUR General Manager, BESIX Water & Environment “Employees and we as an employer are always proud whenever we develop solutions adapted to the needs of our clients. Especially when it combines economic utility with environmental benefits to ensure our strategic resources are optimally re-used.” GRI 302-5 413-1 43 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT Waste to energy The business unit ‘Concessions & Assets’ remains particularly active in sustainable businesses with various innovative projects, notably in the UAE. Facing water scarcity and finding solutions to waste management is Being the first to recycle at the heart of the C&A teams. water for commercial and Waste to Energy and a new sustainable source of water supply for industrial use in the region the community are a major steps in BESIX Group's diversification strategy, positioning it as a partner of choice in achieving the United in 2011, the SAFI company Arab Emirate's environmental protection and sustainable developdaily reprocesses over ment goals, says Tom Neyrinck, General Manager, Concessions & Assets, BESIX Group. 10,000 m³ of wastewater from the tertiary sector into high quality water. GRI 302-5 303-3 413-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 44 BEST PRACTICES Recycling wastewater from the tertiary sector Being the first to recycle water for commercial and industrial use in the region in 2011, the SAFI-company polishes daily over 10,000 m³ of wastewater from the tertiary sector into high quality water. SAFI is a private-public partnership between the Ajman municipality, BESIX and Veolia. With a process requiring one third of the energy required by conventional seawater desalination plants, SAFI contributes to the green economy for the benefit of the community and sustainability goals of the UAE. Turn high calorific part of waste into fuel In the Emirate of Ajman and Umm Al Quwain, an Integrated Waste Management plant will be developed to transform 1,000 tonnes of household waste per day from approximately 550,000 residents living in Ajman and Umm Al Quwain. This waste will be converted into an alternative energy source called Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF). This project is an initiative of the Dubai Ministry of Climate Change and Environment which awarded BESIX, in joint venture with Griffin Refineries in 2018. Transforming non-recyclable waste into energy One of the world’s largest thermal waste recycling plants will be built as from 2019 to transform waste that cannot otherwise be recycled or recovered into a source of renewable energy. The plant, which is a very long-term Design Build Finance Maintain contract for BESIX Hitachi Zosen Inova EPC consortium, will provide electricity to 120,000 homes in the Dubai region. It will convert 5,000 tonnes of solid waste per day, producing 171 MW of electricity per hour. Maintaining current wastewater projects The sustainable development wastewater project in Sharjah continues. BESIX and Shurooq have concluded in 2018 a joint venture agreement to operate, maintain and expand an existing wastewater discharge & treatment facility. The objective is to maximize the amount of re-used water produced of the plant: doubling the capacity of high-recycled water to 60 million liters per day. GRI 303-3 413-1 45 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT EXPLORING NEW OPPORTUNITIES BESIX Group is looking for solutions to answer to soACCEPT: a fully cietal changes, notably via its strategic driver “Promoting openness towards new ventures & activities for integrated system business”. Entreprises Jacques Delens is recognized for its expertise in passive construction in Brussels. It actively participates in redrawing the The real challenge lies in developing large-scale projects that intelandscape of the Capital of Europe. It has been finalizing the Tivoli grate harmoniously into the urban landscape, with primary attention Green City project (397 housing units, 2 nurseries, surroundings and to the needs of its clients, such as single-parent and reconstituted shops) in 2019. All buildings will be passive and at least 35% of dwellfamilies, sharing economy (co-living and co-working), intelligent or ings will meet zero energy criteria. multifunctional buildings ... We incorporate all trends in the design of its projects. To achieve this, innovation, ConTech and PropTech are The company goes further and intends to penetrate the ’Smart new parameters that the Group real estate activities integrate into its Industry’. Jacques Delens participated with ACCEPT project (“Asstrategy. sistant for Quality Check during Construction Execution Processes for Energy-Efficient Buildings”) at the Horizon2020 program of the European Commission between 2015 and 2017. This project was A-STAY: presented at the EU Industry Day organized in 2018. Living-as-a service Our investment in A-STAY in 2018 is a concrete example of our entrepreneurial spirit at the service of PropTech solutions. New ways of living deserve stays that fit those new demands. A-STAY has developed a concept that embraces ‘living-as-a-service’. In cooperation with BESIX beacon cities (Antwerp, Brussels, Moldova...) in 35 countries will see the development of 7,000 smart studios in the next five years. A-STAY’s concept a solution to the increasing demand for short and extended city stays. It offers its clients digital customizability where modern technology (artificial intelligence, speech-steering interaction, state-of-the-art domotics...) is integrated. A-STAY intends to get BREEAM certifications for its upcoming projects. −− Objective: overcome the fragmentation of the sector by developing a digital tool using innovative technologies (augmented reality, fisheye cameras, etc.) for the attention of all actors of a construction site: managers, drivers, workers or directors. −− Tactic: The ACCEPT system allows users to manage the building process in a fully integrated way, using the principles of lean construction, linking the BIM model and allowing access to information directly where it is useful on site. −− Result: Thanks to promising project results, a functional prototype allowing on-site testing was developed and a marketing study is in progress to identify potential commercialization. BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 46 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT Real Estate: living spaces for tomorrow For the past 30 years, BESIX RED, the BESIX Group’s real estate subsidiary, has been involved in renewing the urban environment, rethinking the city and revitalizing neighbourhoods. BESIX RED’s long-term vision of innovation allows the company to offer new additional services to its clients. GABRIEL UZGEN Managing Director, BESIX RED Real-time feedback The company places the client at the heart of its reflection when “What makes us stand out on the market conceiving its real estate development programs. In its quest for is our ability to offer not only a real estate new opportunities, BESIX RED teamed up in 2018 with external product but also unique and innovative partners to engage in a process of co-creation such as ZIGGU; a additional services to our clients. In digital customer platform that enables BESIX RED to offer a betdoing so we continue to meet their everter customer experience to its clients, by helping the developer evolving needs and offer a genuine livingbetter manage and inform them in real time, during and after the working experience, continuously seeking purchase process until the delivery phase. The tool was implemented for the first time within the residential project Oxygen in for new innovative opportunities.” Brussels and received very positive feedback. In 2019, BESIX RED entered into the equity of PropChain, a Belgian start-up that combines Blockchain and real estate. PropChain is a tamper-proof digital passport secured by Blockchain technology that backs up, authenticates and digitizes paper trail in Real Estate and centralizes real estate documents for owners and stakeholders (developers, notaries, bankers, brokers...). BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 47 BEST PRACTICE SMART ENERGY MANAGEMENT, SMART SAVINGS © BuroJP Smart Buildings More efficient, more sustainable A next generation showcase BESIX intends to make buildings (from schools to hospital and offices) more effiBESIX Nederland’s headquarters in Dordrecht (The Netherlands) opened its doors cient, sustainable, secure and comfortable. Our focus on energy comes from the at the beginning of 2019. The internal architecture has been designed to combine need for smart buildings in the transition towards a clean energy society. The evothese aspects of efficiency with user comfort. This includes the acoustics and an lution of the Internet of Things (IoT) is now making this possible. abundance of natural light. At the heart of the building is an open, transparent atrium, with greenery to provide a natural purification of the air. This will reduce In 2018 we joined our forces and shared our competences with Proximus, the Belmaintenance costs, as well as the energy footprint. gian leader in telecom and ICT, to improve our offer to our clients in smart buildings. The Dordrecht case is an important step in the evolution of smart buildings. The The building of the future has to connect the data coming from these separate new technology solutions, for example, reduce the CO2 emissions of this building. systems. This data is the enabler of a large amount of applications that will improve We are closely monitoring how these will be used, along with the feedback of the the user experience and ecological impact of the building for our customers. But people now working in the building. All this will allow us to continue to develop also for BESIX, this data holds potential for new ventures. further innovative solutions. The advantage of our partnership is to be able to apply them to concrete projects ourselves, declares Bart Gentens, Senior Manager Improved & New Client Solutions BESIX. RIK VANDENBERGHE This building takes up an active role in the energy market by helping to stabilize the CEO BESIX Group electrical grid and automatically trade energy. We use data, artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms. That way we are truly taking a leading role in unlocking the potential of real estate in the transition to a sustainable energy mix. “Smart Buildings are the future of the construction sector. Dordrecht perfectly showcases this, for example through the use of Artificial Intelligence algorithms to optimize its electricity consumption. ±9 T CO2 Saved per year Our partnership with Proximus enables us to effectively implement these new technologies, with the aim to develop Energy cost forecast: new housing and workplace concepts.” 10 to 15% lower GRI 302-5 413-1 48 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT 49 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT TAKING A NEXT STEP WITH INCREASED REUSABILITY In the past BESIX Group made great strides enforcing environmental criteria in our procurement and subcontracting policy. It remains important to keep our exemplary role. Therefore, we further strengthened its environmental initiatives. A better and more sustainable use of resources: BESIX Group ups the reusability of construction materials and at the same time reduces emissions. Not only in the construction process, but also by raising eco-awareness throughout the workforce. OBJECTIVES SITUATION 2017-2018* 2017-2018 Improving on car travel Mobility Pack and and developing a telework Company Car policy have policy in Belgium been reviewed to boost greener transportation. Homeworking Policy has been launched. Developing of a group wide BESIX Nederland adheres CO2/energy management to the CO2 performance system by 2019 ladder program via a yearly CO2 plan and aims to lower its emissions by 10% by 2019 in relation with 2014 footprint. Exploring development of First passports have been a digital material passport developed to increase enabling post construction revalorization of used development materials. Future plans are to include this date in the 3D model via BIM and facilitate its use. *Extensive review of our objectives on p 86-99. Objective reached On the path GRI 103-2 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 50 CO2 MANAGEMENT CO2 performance ladder plan Although BESIX Group acknowledges it still needs to take important steps in this field, the Group keeps making progress in its efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. This approach has been demonstrated by BESIX within the Netherlands by being certified at the highest level (level 5) of the CO2 performance ladder. This not only takes into account the CO2 emissions of its construction activities in the Netherlands, the BESIX headquarters in Brussels and the BESIX Nederland regional offices, but also the steel reinforcement plant in Sint-Pieters-Leeuw, the workshop in Saintes and the sister company Franki Grondtechnieken BV. Aiming for 10% less To realize the target at BESIX Nederland, a CO² plan is drawn up each year with actions for the current and coming year. The current target is to reduce our footprint (includes scope 1 and 2 emissions, expanded with scope 3 emissions from commuting), by 10% by the end of 2019 and as compared to 2014. BESIX calculates and reports its CO2 emissions of scope 1, 2 & 3 CO2 emissions related to the turnover for 2018 demonstrate a rising related CO2 emissions at least twice a year and this related to turntrend compared to 2017 (from 38.54 in 2017 to 39.87 in 2018). over. The progress is checked against the CO2 emission data of the This increase is mainly due to decrease in turnover in 2018 (from reference year (2014). EUR 151 million in 2017 to EUR 146 million in 2018). CO2 per revenue 2014-2018 CO2 emissions (total 5,824 ton) 2018-2019 50 40 84.8% 13.3% SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 30 20 10 1.8% SCOPE 3 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 CO2e per turnover CO2e target per revenue GRI 305-1 305-2 305-3 305-5 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 51 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT Encouraging soft mobility In order to reduce the impact of home-work mobility, BESIX has recently made revisions in its Mobility Pack CO2 (g per 100km) for the company car fleet and Company Car policy, to enable its employees to opt (NV BESIX SA + BESIX RED + BESIX Group): for greener vehicles like electric cars, e-bike etc. and also to encourage them to use public transport. BESIX at home 104.15 103.45 105.17 BESIX also launched a Homeworking Policy to allow its employees to work from home, one day a week, to reduce commuting and thus environmental footprint. 2016 2017 2018 In addition to the above, several other initiatives have been taken like: The increase is linked to the fact that more and more we have cars gasoline and not only diesel + new calculation of the emission rate by the manufacturers of cars (imposed by the European Union) −− driver training in the Netherlands to reduce fuel consumption and to increase driving safety, −− fuel consumption monitoring of company vehicles, −− encouraging maximum usage of the Teleconference meetings policy in order to avoid flights, Air travel −− the development of regional satellite offices to reduce commuting. 2017 2018 Distance (km) 10,367,706 11,291,659 On the air vs. in the air As mentioned by the European Commission, aviation is one of the Turnover (EUR mio) 2,020 2,354 fastest-growing sources of greenhouse gas emissions. BESIX put Number of flights 4,156 4,647 action in 2011 to reduce air travel of its collaborators via a travel Distance per flights 2,494 2,429 request procedure and the sue of video conference. Since the *stats for flight tickets booked from BESIX HQ in Brussels launch of these two solutions, business-related air travels have been optimized. GRI 305-5 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 52 ENVIRONMENTAL BEST PRACTICE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS ISO 14001 Certification Environmental reporting hand in hand with (re)acting Environmental Construction being our core business, we are vigorously committed to reduce the environmental impacts during the construction operawareness trainings ations of our projects. By measurement, reporting and evaluation of waste, water, energy and carbon data, as well as by opting for To complete its environment-friendly approach, efficient construction practices, we gradually minimize on-site enviBESIX also offers specific environmental awareness ronmental impacts. trainings to its employees: Through its ISO 14001 certified Environmental Management Sys−− General Environmental Awareness Trainings are provided to teams. tem, BESIX is committed to reduce the Environmental impact of its −− Project Specific or Activity specific Environmental operations, by continuously monitoring its activities and innovating trainings are provided at the level of projects. to find sustainable solutions in partnership with its Clients, suppliers and subcontractors. −− Specific awareness communications at Six Construct regarding conservation of Energy and Water were made on World One system to match all standards Energy Day, World Water Day, World Environment day, etc. The Environmental Management system, a part of integrated man• 7 in Middle East organized in 2018 and 3 at agement systems of Six Construct and BESIX (BESIX Europe and BESIX Contracting are scheduled in 2019. International), has been merged into one single Integrated Management system “BESIX Contracting (BCO)” to ensure adherence to the Local and International standards, and to provide its Clients the assurance to have the same approach across every Business Unit of BESIX. Environmental performance The adherence of the Environmental Management system with the ISO 14001 standard is audited regularly by the third party auditor review audits at Six Construct SGS and after the recent multi certification audit, the BESIX Contracting (BCO) was certified with ISO 14001:2015. Dedicated Environmental management plans and waste manage2017 2018 ment plans are developed for every project and fixed production facilities, to minimize the environmental impacts caused due to the NO. OF SITES AUDITED NO. OF SITES AUDITED construction activities within the Group, says Bart De Bruyckere, QHSE Manager, BESIX. Regular Environmental Performance review audits (E – PRT) are con28 23 ducted for projects and fixed facilities, to ensure their conformance to AVG. SCORE ACHIEVED AVG. SCORE ACHIEVED the Environmental Management Plan and Local Legal requirements. At Six Construct, the energy consumption (i.e., fuel & electricity), potable water consumption and waste generated data are recorded 84% GOOD LEVEL 86% GOOD LEVEL and monitored regularly to take necessary actions, if needed. By this OF COMPLIANCE OF COMPLIANCE intensive monitoring and follow-up, about 57% of waste has been recycled over 2017 and 2018. GRI 305-5 404-2 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 53 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT BIODIVERSITY BEST PRACTICES PRESERVATION BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION AT NATURA 2000 ZONE Creating urban connections The Group is committed to preserve the surrounding nain the middle of nature ture and biodiversity in areas where it is active. Teams develop a dedicated environmental management plan The Fjord Link Frederikssund project in Denmark, in for each project site. joint venture, consists of the construction of a new 4-lane dual carriageway over a distance of 8.2 km, Entities regularly work in collaboration with external experts (biologists, oceanographers...) to carefully prepare and manage construclinking Frederikssund and Skibbyvej in order to facilition sites in the respect of wildlife nature. tate mobility of neighbourhood. Six Construct has been in a partnership agreement with Emirates The infrastructural project includes a 1.4 km high toll bridge over the Nature-WWF, for the period 2017-2019, as a Platinum Member in fjord and 11 smaller civil structures (bridges, fauna passages, cycle lane their Corporate Membership” program, to contribute to the sustainpassages). The new crossing will be added to an existing bascule bridge able development of UAE and to support their critical conservation built in 1935 and is supposed to relieve severe traffic congestion on the work in UAE in the areas of Climate Change & Energy, Marine concurrent bridge. servation, Terrestrial conservation & illegal wildlife trade. Integrating surroundings The environmental and social aspects of the project have been a primary concern for all the stakeholders. The route for the expressway and bridge passed areas of different protection classes, including a EU Natura 2000 zone. These zones are a network of protected areas offering a haven to Europe’s most valuable and threatened species. While longer-term effects on the protected nature area are of paramount concern, BESIX also needed to ensure the bridge and road construction activities don’t have undesirable concequences (dust, noise and traffic management) on the local community. Preservation on biodiversity Several environmental inspections are conducted on a daily basis, where both the natural environment and the construction activities are monitored and inspected, to ensure that precautionary measures are being taken to best safeguard the protected plants and animals. For example, BESIX routinely monitored construction activities to ensure that we avoid any direct or indirect impacts from construction, such as the possibility of erosion from earthworks spilling into waterways. Positive impact for citizens The Fjord Link project will alleviate regional and local traffic in the area and thus be of a major benefit to the citizens, also in the city center. The new bridge will be a benefit for people living south of the bridge line in particular. “Present traffic across the existing bridge creates a queue towards east (Copenhagen) in the morning and towards the west late afternoon. The authorities' estimate is that presently 125,000 hours are lost a year in queuing at the existing bridge only,” Steen Pedersen, Coordination and Stakeholder Manager, RBAI JV*. * Rizzani de Eccher, BESIX and Acciona JV GRI 102-13 304-2 305-5 413-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 54 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT WASTE MANAGEMENT Focus on sustainable materials By using sustainable Buildings are responsible for 40% of the world material resources and materials resource consumption (UNEP, 2017). By using sustainaBESIX is able to contribute ble resources and materials BESIX Group is able to consubstantially to working tribute substantially to working towards a low carbon towards a low carbon and low waste society. During projects we oversee the total amount of materials used as well as its provenance and low waste society. (recycled, certified or re-used). BESIX Group continuously innovates and explores new material possibilities in order to improve capabilities and reduce material use. Focus on sustainable materials Jointly with our Unleash program, BESIX Group focusses specifically on the topic of “Sustainable Materials”. As such, we developed several new sustainable construction materials and methods which use less, or more sustainable, raw materials. The Green Concrete project which is described in the sustainable innovation chapter is a good example of our innovation on more sustainable materials. BESIX organized its first BESIX hackathon, Hack2Build, entitled sustainability and circular economy in 2018. Our initiatives on BIM (Building Information) contribute to using less materials. While BIM has many advantages on efficiency and quality, it decreases material use and generates opportunities for improved monitoring of overall environmental performance. On several projects a quantity overshoot analysis was performed which entails that we Paper consumption develop a more accurate view on the material quantities used. This allows us to significantly reduce waste during construction. Digital material passport In addition, BESIX has developed the first digital material passports With the support of our Environmental teams, the Group for our buildings, which enables post construction revalorization of entities developed various actions to reduce consumpused materials. We are further exploring fabrication processes of tion of paper and impact on environment in general. our materials to better map the current and future impacts on the environment. Future plans would be to include these data in the 3D Although digitalization helps us to reduce paper conmodel, through BIM, to facilitate the use of the data. sumption, we still need this material support to work. BESIX is also a member of Vlaams Bouwmeester . This group of exEmployees are invited to print double-face on eco-printer mode and perts reflects around different environmental topics related to buildblack and white copies by default. Documents are printed on recyings such as climate, materials re-use and recycling, zero energy cled and chlorine-free paper. Since 2018, our Six Construct entity buildings, innovation for environment certificates and construction changed the printing paper in the Middle East and shifted from wood waste management. pulp paper to wheat straw paper. GRI 102-13 103-3 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 55 BEST PRACTICE This passive building will meet the needed criteria via geothermal energy, photovoltaic panels and triple glazing. As a result it will require for example 10 times less heating energy compared to a standard building. A CIRCULAR ECONOMY EXERCISE BEFORE CONSTRUCTION PHASE Quatuor project takes shape BESIX started building 60,000m² of passive offices in the North of Brussels mid2018. The project team faces a double challenge: the technically complex environment and the very high standards in terms of energy quality. This passive building will meet the needed criteria via geothermal energy, photovoltaic panels and triple glazing. As a result it will require for example ten times less heating energy compared to a standard building. Moreover, the objective is to be awarded the label BREEAM Excellent/Outstanding. Before starting the construction phase of Quatuor, the site team managed the demolition phase of the existing building ‘Noordbuilding’ dating from the late ’80s. Reusing building components The BESIX in-house civil engineering department used its expertise in Building Information Modelling (BIM) to model all the data involved in the project. During this very first phase, lots of elements and materials were successfully dismantled to start a new life in the value chain. BESIX worked together with a local partner, Rotor, to organize the material environment and to efficiently manage re-use of building components. 1. Disassembly of reusable elements for re-use: + 40 tonnes 2. Demolition waste management sorting carried out: −− after sorting of construction and demolition waste, upgrading of waste: 64% −− iron, steel and aluminum recycled / recovered: 100% −− recovered cables: 10% off site and 90% recycled −− concrete, recycled mold: 100% The works of Quatuor will end in 2020 and will receive its first occupants in 2021. The office building is ideally located next to the metro and railway station which reinforces the high environmental standards of the building. It is in line with the regional government’s 2009 decision to fully embrace passive constructions. Brussels has also committed itself to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2025. GRI 413-1 56 BEST PRACTICE Numerous advantages −− High energy performance and good acoustic performance −− Rainwater recovery for maintaining the green −− In comparison with a traditional building construction • Energy consumption: 83% more efficient ECO-DISTRICTS RELOOK CITIES • Cooling: 97% more efficient Wäschbour blends residential • Recycling of concrete and environmental traits Regional companies such as Cobelba, Entreprises Jacques During construction, measures were taken to limit the negative impact of the work Delens, Vanhout and Wust create sustainable neighborhoods on the local residents, in particular the logistic management and the preservation that integrate important social (e.g. accessibility, proximity of existing vegetation zones. of shops, meeting spaces), environmental (e.g. green roofs, The walls of the buildings were prefabricated by a local company in wood chips in low-energy buildings, water recuperation) and economic order to limit the environmental impact of CO² and to support a regional company. features. This technique makes it possible to reduce the layer of insulation to be used later, while valuing wood waste from local sawmills. As an example, Wust, under the Société Mixte de Développement Immobilier (SMDI), built the first phase of construction of an eco-district on the Wäschbour PEB compliant site in Arlon (Belgium): 93 dwellings, divided into two sub-phases of 56 and 37 The buildings comply with the PEB standards in force for insulation, frames and dwellings which are part of a global project of 230 housing units. concrete wood panels. They all have heat pumps so they do not use fossil fuels. Optimal integration in the environment Maintenance of the project site is done by a local social economy organization to This Wäschbour eco-district in Arlon (Belgium) was created in order to minimize its clean up offices and some part of the project before construction. impact on the environment and to integrate better into the residential area already present on the site, with respect to the architecture and style of existing buildings. This project is still under construction and will be finalized in April 2020. GRI 413-1 57 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT BEST PRACTICE CIRCULAR ECONOMY A KEY ACTIVITY WITH UNUSED CONCRETE RESIDUES Recovering concrete residues BESIX Infra combines the recycling of construction and demolition waste with the possibility of collecting materials from the concrete plant. It uses a certified crushing and sieving installation to recycle concrete, but also asphalt and brick debris into secondary sands and aggregates. MEMBERSHIPS & PARTICIPATIONS BESIX has been a member/participant of various workgroups to inspire or drive the change towards a more sustainable future. −− BESIX Nederland is a member of the “Green Deal Duurzaam GWW 2.0” to reduce CO2 emissions within the Ground-, waterand road construction sector. More information can be availed from https://www.duurzaamgww.nl/ −− BESIX is a member of the steering committee for the development of a CO2 “prestatieladder” certification in Belgium, similar to the certification standard in The Netherlands. An initiative of ADEB VBA, in which BESIX played a leading role. −− Participation of BESIX in “Green Deal Circulair Bouwen,” with the aim to promote Circular Construction (as from 2019). −− BESIX participates in the project BOUWhubs of VIL (Vlaams Instituut voor de Logistiek) and WTCB to develop BOUWhubs with the aim to reduce logistic/transportation costs and thus have a −− Participation of BESIX in Green Deal Circulair procurement. positive impact on the environment. −− Franki Foundations is a member of EFFC (European Federation −− Part of Vlaams Bouwmeester concerning climate – materials of Foundation Contractors). This association works on a national re-use/recycle; zero energy buildings; innovation for environment and European level for better contract conditions for specialist certificates; construction waste management. foundation contractors. GRI 102-13 413-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 58 OUR PEOPLE ENGAGEMENT 59 OUR PEOPLE ENGAGEMENT EXCEL AS AN EMPLOYER OF CHOICE The Group’s strategy, BESIX Forward, is endorsed by six strategic drivers, one of which is promoting a great place to work. It all starts with ensuring that steps are taken across the organization to support the health and safety of our employees and stakeholders (onand off-site). Likewise, we aim at becoming a great and safe workplace. We envision a place where our employees are fully engaged in their professional life and get true fulfillment from their jobs. In our opinion it is the only way to attract and retain the best talents and to guarantee to be the one-stop-shop solution we are today. OBJECTIVES SITUATION 2017-2018* 2017-2018 Recruit new employees BESIX Group surpassed via recruitment events and the estimation of 400 new improve on our gender employees and hit the balance 1,700 mark. This partly thanks to events such as BESIX Young Professional Days and Connect to Build. Gender balance has improved slightly but remains a final working point. Launch of a new The third Engagement Engagement survey for all Survey questioned white employment categories (worldwide) and blue collars (Belgium). Improvement of the 23,723 workers on site participation rate for (including subcontractors) the Safety Time Out participated to Safety Time Out in 2018 (vs 22,299 in 2017). *Extensive review of our objectives on p 86-99. Objective reached On the path GRI 103-2 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 60 OUR PEOPLE ENGAGEMENT SAFE ALEXIS LAROCHE Corporate QHSE Director, BESIX Group WORKPLACE “The challenge of BE SAFE is ‘to care for oneself and for each other’ by helping Safety time out people to behave safely always and ever. BE SAFE will be a great drive for behavioral sessions changes process within BESIX Group.” Building a safe workplace for our employees and stakeholders has the highest priority. The safety of everyone on-site as well as off-site is something we do not take To uphold the health & safety standards, BESIX has developed additional programs: lightly at BESIX Group. −− Managing Safely and Working Safely. Institution of OccupaAlso the surrounding impacts like sound nuisance, dust and light tional Safety and Health (IOSH) and BESIX are currently co-creemissions, local mobility and road safety and respect for night time ating the courses. They will be available for delivery by the beare equally important factors. Through open communication and ginning of 2020. mutual respect we endeavour to support the health and safety of our stakeholders. −− Design, develop and test the BE SAFE Program. The program allows the on-site personnel to take note of unsafe situations, Take a time out objects or work methods. This is done through a set of internal We conduct our Safety Time Out sessions. During these sessions, safety guidelines named “the 10 life-saving rules”. The roll-out all activities are put on a two-hour hold. This creates the opportunity started in 2018 with 30 ambassadors and will continue in the for our management teams to have open conversations with staff coming years. The objective is to create within BESIX Group a members about the main concerns and problems related to health growing and active community of BE SAFE ambassadors comand safety. We collect the ideas, which help BESIX Group to perform mitted on a voluntary basis. even better in terms of safety. To further integrate and align our management systems, we merged While the number of participations to Safety Time Out increased, the Integrated Management systems of Six Construct and BESIX the related safety performance decreased to a LTIFR above 2 over (BU Europe and International) into one single Integrated Management the same period and a severity rate (SR) of 0.05 in 2018. This result system “BESIX Contracting”. was obtained thanks to efficient reporting and a safety culture where openness and transparancy prevail. It aligns the various management systems of the organization in order to develop a unique and tailor-made Integrated Management system (IMs) applicable to BESIX Contracting activities carried out in the Business Units Europe, International and Middle East. Beyond the process harmonization, the Integrated Management system had to meet the new requirements of the Qualityand Environmentrelated standards (ISO 9001/14001:2015) and of the Health & Safety-related norms (OHSAS 18001:2007 and VCA** 2008/5.1). For this IMs the certification body SGS issued the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OSHAS PARTICIPATION ON SAFETY TIME OUT 18001 and VCA** certifications to BESIX Contracting. (INCL. SUBCONTRACTORS) INJURY RATE (Incl subcontractors) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 22,299 23,723 LTI FR (frequency rate = 21,403 (15185 + 7114 (15597+ 8126 number of work accidents with 1.99 1.65 1.91 2.60 2.56 subcontractors) subcontractors) lost time*1mio / hours worked) SR (severity rate = number of ’16 ’17 ’18 0.04 0.03 0.05 0.07 0.08 lost days*1000 / hours worked) GRI 103-2 103-3 401-1 402-1 403-1 403-2 403-4 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 61 BEST PRACTICES PLENTY REASONS TO CELEBRATE AT THE ROYAL ATLANTIS RESORT & RESIDENCES 20 million man-hours without Lost Time Incident The Royal Atlantis Resort & Residences is one of our most prestigious projects in the Emirates. The luxurious two-tower complex is set on one of the Palm Islands in Dubai and housSENTHIL KUMAR Senior HSE Manager – DEC, Project Management Consultants es both hotel and residences. Six Construct is building it in joint venture with SsangYong. “A Journey of Safe Marching coupled with LTI on another level commitment & responsibility from all the Recently we celebrated a major safety milestone: 20 million man-hours LTI free. This personnel in “The Royal Atlantis Project” means that since the works started, in 2016, no Lost-Time Incident (LTI) has been has prompted on its way, to celebrate 20 recorded. This is really big, especially considering that working on a such a huge million man-hours LTI free record. However, site and by times in extreme weather conditions is not without risk. Moreover, they the celebration of this achievement followed recently completed one of the most challenging parts of the project. by recognizing the contributing staffs with The teams successfully lifted the main sky-bridge, which spans over 50 metres Safety rewards encourages all project team between both central towers. The extensive operation involved raising 1,300 tonnes members to continue their safe journey towards several levels off the ground and was done by strand-jacking. successful completion of the Project.” MONARAGALA-BUTTALA IWSP Internal rewards and Client Satisfaction for safety achievements BESIX received client congratulations and a certificate for the realization of the Monaragala-Buttala Integrated Water Supply Project in Sri Lanka without any Lost Time Incident (in total 1,400,000 man-hours). The project consists of two river water intakes, one new water treatment plant, an Access to drinking water upgrade of the existing treatment plant, 4 ground reservoirs and one water tower. All these sites are connected by two raw and four clear water transmissions mains (30 km) as well as an extensive water distribution network (65 km). Monaragala-Buttala IWSP consists of a new drinking water production plant with two water intakes as well as the distribution network, storage tanks and water towers. The plant has a capacity of Raising awareness 6,000,000 liters/day. Water sources come from river water. BESIX organized + 600 hours of trainings and awareness campaigns for + 300 staff members and workers. A monthly safety award was also implemented for teams Living conditions in the Monaragala region are very difficult and acwho performed in the field of QHSE. cess to an essential resource such as drinking water is still limited. Thanks to this plant, more than 80,000 people will easily access Furthermore, the client states, in its client report, that we outdid ourselves and far drinking water of superior quality. exceeded their expectations! GRI 303-3 401-1 403-1 413-1 62 ENGAGED Third Engagement EMPLOYEES Survey BESIX Group is convinced excellence, professionalism The strategic commitment for promoting a Great Place and performance can only be achieved through sincere To Work is part of the Group’s Forward strategy. By ofrespect and engagement towards our employees. We fering multiple career opportunities, actions for develbelieve in our employees and their capabilities to excel. opment and training or creating internal communities By offering them good work-life balance, fitness prowe aim to raise employee engagement. As a measuregrams, flexible working hours, healthy food, volunteerment we held our third BESIX Engagement Survey with ing possibilities and career coaching and development, a participation rate of >76% for white collars worldwide etc. We are certain this enables unlimited possibilities and >24% for blue collars in Belgium. of collaborative energy and engagement. Our employees speak their mind The survey creates the opportunity for employees to communicate BESIX Group’s culture is based mainly based on passion that our staff openly about their working environment. The results are then used by deploy every day to design, execute and develop solutions to build every department/Business Unit/company to identify the strengths, the unexpected such as Burj Khalifa, Grand Egyptian Museum... Our weaknesses and trends and devise an action plan accordingly. success is undeniably linked with our ability to co-create with each other, and also with our clients and our partners, subcontractors. This is the key to our success. The survey creates the opportunity for employees to communicate openly about their working environment. Our employees, our ambassadors Overall results are positive with some attention points. Engagement to BESIX Group is high and has increased compared to 2015, just as Satisfaction and Attractiveness. On the other hand, that improvement is required on the well-being of our employees. Overall, our employees are very likely to promote BESIX Group as an organization to work for, even slightly more so than in 2015. Well-being programs These survey results were communicated to all employees via special session meetings, the Group Intranet and the Group internal Different programs are deployed such as the BESIX Young newsletter. Community (2009), or BESIX resilience program and BESIX Fit program (2018). These programs provide opportunities for employees to bond with peers, learn together and help each other, supporting a good well-being in the workplace. We find it equally important to preserve the family spirit of BESIX. A BESIX internal coaching program will also be launched in 2019 with a pilot project at BESIX SA in Belgium. To further stimulate this, we have an array of volunteering projects in which our employees can participate through the BESIX Foundation. GRI 401-1 403-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 63 OUR PEOPLE ENGAGEMENT RESULTS OF Trainings Keep our employees ready for upcoming functions THE THIRD BESIX BESIX Group strives to further develop our employees’ professional ENGAGEMENT skills through trainings. In 2018, every employee received on average 7.75 training hours. Delving into these stats, we note a positive evoluSURVEY tion in the training of youngsters. 2017 2018 85% Total training hours 16,460 19,355 Total number of 2,237 2,498 participants Ratio 7.36 7.75 high engagement Data come from our Group Training Management System and commitment to the organization Sharing internal knowhow with the Group In addition, we launched several new training and learning platforms. 91% In 2017, we developed BESIXpedia, an online collaboration tool which allows all BESIX Group colleagues to share their real-life experiences with each other. This interactive platform aims to close the gap between internal know-how and our global presence. The questions we high pleasure are aiming to answer relate to different domains. By assembling all at work answers in BESIXpedia, we anchor our internal knowledge and avoid the loss of it when colleagues retire or leave the company. + 40% In 2018 we launched an e-learning platform for our employees. The available online courses are either developed by our internal experts, in collaboration with the training department, or selected off-theshelf from external providers. Launched in the spring of 2018, the of our staff is fully 17 e-learning courses specific to BESIX attracted 305 people who engaged attended a total of 2,224 course modules. In parallel with this, we have recently initiated a new ERP project, called Symphony. Prior to using the software, people working on Symphony are invited to take online courses and take tests. 117 people from the Tendering departments of NV BESIX SA, Six Construct & Jacques Delens obtained a total of 173 Symphony e-Learning 3 ITEMS WHERE WE SURPASS Certifications. THE REFERENCE INDEX Online courses Our BEPRO online video trainings have been running successfully −− active promotion of the company since a number of years now. BEPRO is a trajectory in which em−− strong engagement with respect to ployees get to know the BESIX way. In 2018, we added a new section work engagement dedicated to “Operations & Maintenance”, while other videos have −− genuine pleasure at work been updated. 3 ITEMS FOR IMPROVEMENT Keep our employees ready for upcoming functions As far as our engineers are concerned, 110 people attended training courses (in 2018), mainly technical training courses provided by −− balance work-private life BESIX, ranging from the construction of a very high building to foun−− workload dation techniques and earth-turning structures. Safety and environ−− constant attention to respecting others mental trainings are also organized for site teams. GRI 404-1 404-2 404-3 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 64 OUR PEOPLE ENGAGEMENT Complementing environmental awareness trainings, we have a strong mobility policy that not only promotes sustainable mobility PROMOTING DIVERSITY but also makes the link to encourage physical fitness. In combination with the BESIX Fit program* launched in Q3, 2017 we accumulated a great share of biking, swimming and walking kilometers. Combined with other measures like the promotion of teleworking, encouraging commuting by bike and an air travel request Within BESIX Group we are over 15,000 employees comsystem we are significantly reducing the daily carbon footprint of our ing from different backgrounds regardless of age, disaemployees. bility, gender, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion, political opinion or beliefs. LAUNCH OF BESIX FIT PROGRAM At BESIX Group we consider diversity as being an opportunity for continuous co-creation, innovative teamwork and new ideas. By measuring gender, collar type, age, ethnicity, socio-economic backDec. 2017 Dec. 2018 Q1, 2019 ground... we aim for general equality between our employees. 898 users 1,608 users 1,706 users The construction sector has never been an easy industry to excel in *concerns all BESIX Group white collars, and blue collars in Europe gender diversity. However, in the recruitment process, we want to promote diversity. We note an increase of female engineers who have joined our teams, which progressively meet our people and sustainability objectives. BESIX Group is aware of the limited representation TRAININGS 2018 BY AGE CATEGORY of women in senior positions. The different repartitions are displayed in the graphs. 17% > 50 YEARS OLD Workshops about diversity were organized as a pilot project at BESIX Group headquarters to identify the concerns of this target group. An action plan in the context of “Great Place to Work” is ongoing to improve diversity within the Group. 61% 22% 30 50 YEARS OLD < 30 YEARS OLD HASSAN AL HILOU Strategic Diversity advisor “My experience with the HR team was great. I identified the need of the team to understand more about diversity and to implement new tools to reach those target groups. The most important part in my work was creating awareness, and with the help of Geert Aelbrecht, Chief Human Resources Officer at BESIX Group, there was 80 definitely internal awareness around cultural and young diversity. The next step will be measuring the impact of all those initiatives, but step by step BESIX Group will take up the Nationalities leading role in this sector with diversity.” within the Group GRI 102-8 404-1 405-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 65 GEERT AELBRECHT Chief Human Resources Officer at BESIX Group COLLAR REPARTITION 2018 We are strongly committed to promoting a great workplace: offering multiple 35% career development opportunities and 65% WHITE BLUE tailored-made trainings, or creating COLLAR COLLAR internal communities to encourage internal network, unleash innovative ideas and boost diversity of interests. We strive to involve our employees in the development of our people policies by soliciting their opinions via working groups.” AGE REPARTITION AGE REPARTITION FOR WHITE COLLARS 2018 FOR BLUE COLLARS 2018 EUROPE EUROPE 3% 28.5% 28.5% 24% 16% 5.5% 18% 22% 32% 22.5% INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL 0.5% 26% 40.5% 23% 10% 4% 28% 42% 20% 6% < 25Y 25-34Y 35-44Y 45-54Y > 54Y < 25Y 25-34Y 35-44Y 45-54Y > 54Y GENDER REPARTITION GENDER REPARTITION FOR WHITE COLLARS 2018 FOR BLUE COLLARS 2018 26.9% 7.6% 0.5% WOMEN WOMEN WOMEN 100% MEN EUROPE INTERNATIONAL EUROPE INTERNATIONAL 73.1% 92.4% 99.5% MEN MEN MEN *as from 31 December 2018 GRI 102-8 405-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 66 FAIR WORKING CONDITIONS IFA agreement At BESIX Group, we commit to developing long-term reIn 2018, Six Construct initiated a Guide on Worker Welfare. This lationships, safeguarding fair working conditions, proguide is about promoting welfare and protecting all our employees moting and protecting the well-being of all employees and workers in the Middle East. We have defined a set of 10 well-being rules, also anchored in internationally recognized standards. and workers. These principles are embraced from the Management to the staff members, their representatives, health and safety representatives. Moreover, we guarantee good business ethics towards employees and other stakeholders through the BESIX Group General Code of Our objectives for 2019 are, in addition to the continuation of the imConduct and committing to the International Framework Agreement provement of the working and living standards, the implementation (IFA) on fair labor standards. of the BWI commitments and to develop a mechanism to ensure the third-party compliance to our Standards and Principles. Protecting well-being in the broadest sense possible In 2017, BESIX Group signed an International Framework Agreement on Fair Labor Standards with Building & Wood Workers’ International (BWI) and the European Works Council (EWC) of BESIX Group. These worldwide agreements hold a purpose to promote and protect the well-being of all employees and workers employed by BESIX Group. It is based on a wide range of international labor standards such as the ILO Fundamental Conventions and other human rights instruments1. This means we commit firmly to human rights and well-being of all employees and workers employed by BESIX Group, regardless of age, disability, gender, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion, political opinion or beliefs. It applies to all BESIX Group entities worldwide, as well as to all of its subcontractors and suppliers, a provision which was already contained in the BESIX Group Code of Conduct of 2014. Below are some examples of how workers welfare was enhanced AMBET YUSON General Secretary of BWI in the Middle East, in 2018: −− Election of the Workers’ Representatives and identifica“This agreement is designed to enable tion of full time Welfare Officers. construction workers to fully exercise −− Improvement of the accommodation standards. their rights, participate in building −− Food catering (healthy food taking into consideration their future, and work and live in the working conditions and different types of cuisines dignity. We look forward to cooperating of the workers). with BESIX Group based on these −− Transportation (vehicles with A/Cs, seat belts, speed shared values and commitments.” limiter and safety equipment inside the vehicles). −− Collaboration with the Art of Living team in UAE, to provide sessions on the Breath-Water-Sound (BWS) Program in order to reduce and eliminate stress and strengthen individual empowerment. GRI 102-12 102-16 102-21 403-4 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 67 OUR PEOPLE ENGAGEMENT BEST PRACTICES GUY WINANDY WORKERS WELFARE ELECTION Secretary of the European Works Council (EWC) Six Construct Qatar of BESIX Group Six Construct has its own workers’ welfare standards, “We welcome this comprehensive which are quite high, and audits. International Framework Agreement. We are pleased that the EWC, through One of the Six Construct welfare forum/Workers Welfare Election was conductits social dialogue processes, was able ed with BWI in 2017 in Qatar and broadcasted by Six Construct. to initiate this agreement based on New Yearly Workers Welfare Election has been conducted in December 2018: international standards, which applies to the activities in Europe, but also in the −− Out of 1,660 workers, 1,264 Workers voted in WWR Election (76% atrest of the world. We will be reporting on tended for the polling vs 70% in 2017); a regular basis during our meetings on −− 6 representatives elected from India, Bangladesh and Nepal progress made under this agreement.” ACCOMMODATION AUDIT Six Construct Village Good working environment for migrant workforce In 2018, the Business & Human Rights Resource Center published Six Construct Village is audited on a quarterly basis, by an assessment report on migrant workers’ rights in Qatar & UAE Six Construct Welfare – HSE colleagues, in Qatar. Our construction. BESIX participated as one of 49 surveyed companies. ranking score is between 88 to 98 in the past 3 years. Overall results are positive as displayed below. Further special attention is required on freedom of movement, worker representation The last one of 98, made in Q1, 2019, is our best one. and grievance mechanisms. We are strongly committed to further The audits follow a specific inspection checklist: food and drinking water stanimprove on all aspects of fair working conditions. dards, infrastructure, medical care, facilities hygiene, transportation, safety... AL WAKRAH STADIUM Accommodation and Construction Site Welfare Inspections In December 2018, we received an inspection by the Joint Working Group (JWG) at the Al Wakrah project in Qatar. The joint inspection was carried out by the Building and Wood Workers’ International (BWI), the Six Construct and the Site Management Team. During this inspection observations are made on general safety, leisure possibilities, housing facilities, emergency procedures and food. The report was overall positive: −− The kitchen, as per Six Construct, is the best in Qatar. −− All green areas are well maintained and accessible to all workers. −− Monthly emergency drill exercise and first aid trainings are carried out. −− The housing facilities are as should be and include modern commodities like Wi-Fi. A few minor comments for improvement were made such as providing a greenery/lawn sports field, installing safety signage or testing safety shower. 1 Such as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the ILO Tripartite Since 2015, BWI visits related World Cup accommodations every six months. Declaration of Principles on Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy, and the ILO fundamental rights at work Declaration. GRI 102-12 102-13 102-16 102-21 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 68 ATTRACT NEW POTENTIALS AT GROUP LEVEL, WE HAVE RECRUITED + 1,700 NEW COLLABORATORS IN THE LAST TWO YEARS: 2017 2018 Finding the best talents to reinforce our teams becomes New collaborators 863 908 a real challenge every year. The construction sector fac# nationalities 40 nationalities 44 nationalities es a shortage of technical profiles. To have a chance Women 15% 18% at finding the rare pearl, companies have to choose a White collars 474 460 targeted approach. Blue collars 296 304 Besides an attractive salary package, candidates ask for more flexiConsultants 38 55 bility, home working, job content and collegiality. Well-being at work Trainees 38 65 is the new objective to attract key talents. Students 17 24 For 2018, all types of contracts combined, BESIX Group has 908 new employees on group level of which 18% are women. The retention rate is 9% which is average for the construction industry ranging 3% between 7% and 12%. STUDENTS “In Belgium, we hired around 450 people in 2018, including 200 at 7% INTERNSHIPS the headquarters: about 50% civil and industrial engineers, 30% support functions (commercial, financial, legal, HR, IT, etc.) and 20% 51% workers and technicians,” knows Geert Aelbrecht, Chief Human WHITE COLLARS 6% CONSULTANTS Resources Officer at BESIX Group. But we also go abroad to meet potential experts. The BESIX Group brand was there to be seen at multiple job fairs in countries such as Portugal and Slovakia in order to attract higher education graduates. 33% BLUE COLLARS BESIX Group is constantly developing through our encounters with students and young graduates via partnerships with universities and the BESIX Young Professional Days. We decided to inform students about our Group activities, the function of engineer and the career perspectives. Connect to Build Connect to Build is a unique networking event for experienced engineers and professionals in the construction industry. Its aim is to bring together and inspire participants who are potentially considering BESIX Group as a possible future employer, giving them insight into our company’s values and the way it works. The event is a perfect mix of information exchange, fun and action. Our ‘Connect to Build’ event, launched in 2016, is organized once a year in Belgium with BESIX and other Group entities. With the successful ‘inspire before hire’ philosophy we have developed an alternative way of filling our talent pool and promoting the BESIX Group brand. Onboarding App In 2017 BESIX launched an onboarding app for newcomers. With this app they can quickly adapt to and adopt the BESIX Group values and culture. We firmly believe that onboarding must start at the very beginning. Newcomers have the opportunity to digitally explore their new working environment and colleagues beforehand, our QHSE methods and the many services of our different departments. New hires are encouraged to learn more about the company. 69 OUR PEOPLE ENGAGEMENT BESIX Young Professional Days DIRECT BESIX Group started with the organization of the BESIX Young Professional Days (BYPD) in 2017 with the pre-screening visit of 10 uniENGAGEMENT versities and higher education colleges in Belgium, 12 ones in 2018 and 15 ones in 2019. WITH On the program were presentations about BESIX Group, interactive workshops, speed interviews and meetings with management. A STAKEHOLDERS promotion campaign had been launched previously on Twitter, with the hashtag #readytobeBESIX. With operations in around 24 countries, BESIX Group communicates with its numerous stakeholders through The BESIX Young Professional Days are the opportunity to meet our multiple channels and in many ways. External stakefuture young collaborators. holders include general and specialized media, compaOn 3 BYPD events organized, we invite on average about hunnies and institutions active in the same business areas, dred candidates in Brussels and Ghent (Belgium). About 25% were the academic world as well as the local communities recruited in 2017 and 2018 (±30% women). neighboring the Group’s projects. Internal mobility Proactive communication with the media happens at least once a BESIX Group is also committed to promoting mobility and flexibility week, mostly through press releases, site visits, press conferences to support our employees in enhancing their career at one of our and meetings. In addition, BESIX Group consistently answers the sites around the world, or with one of our subsidiaries. More than media’s questions and requests. Its contacts include journalists from hundred colleagues have already decided to take up a new challenge all over the world. amongst the various activities and sites proposed within the Group. In order to give a global view of all internal vacancies, a centralized In recent years, collaboration with academic institutions has led to internal mobility project was launched in 2017 after being put forward academic papers and joint research projects. The majority of these through Unleash program. projects focuses on innovation and relates to the Group’s sectors of activity. BESIX Group participates in seminars and conferences, most often relating to construction, real estate development and innovation. Furthermore, the Group is an active member of chambers of commerce and trade agencies. The Group pays particular importance to the local communities neighboring its projects. Regular actions comprise site visits, conGOVERNMENT sultations and comprehensive explanations of ongoing and future CLIENTS COMPETITORS works. We are also active on the internet. Its website is regularly updated with news and press releases. On social media, BESIX Group pubNGOs STAFF MEMBERS lishes news and stories every day. On LinkedIn the Group is notably followed by more than 120,000 people worldwide. NEWS LOCAL COMMUNITIES MEDIA GENERAL PUBLIC CANDIDATES INVESTORS SUPPLIERS GRI 102-42 102-43 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 70 OUR SOCIETAL ENGAGEMENT 71 OUR SOCIETAL ENGAGEMENT SOLID PARTNER­ SHIPS WITH STAKEHOLDERS Our societal engagement is related to the continuous attention to our impact on the human and social environment in all the countries we operate in. BESIX Group strives to take responsibility and create positive impact in both our value chain and locally at our construction sites. BESIX Group firmly believes that the involvement in local communities maximizes synergies, knowledge and complementary skills. We intend to give our support in long-term projects as much as possible to ensure the sustainable development of local communities. 3 MAIN OBJECTIVES SITUATION 2017-2018* 2017-2018 Promotion of social and Increased supply chain economic development engagement in BeneluxFrance via info session during Procurement Synergy Meeting and list of potential social economy companies. Not started yet in the Middle East. Promote employment and Local governments training of local staff encourage foreign companies to employ a % of the local workforces that are qualified to form local workforces. BESIX Group intends to follow at least the minimum requirement. When the project conditions make it possible, BESIX Group contracts a larger numbers of local people for whom special trainings and on-site jobs are defined in advance. Implement our own Besides its KiddyBuild educational programs and Right2Learn ongoing programs, BESIX Foundation launched new spoken English classes in 2018. *Extensive review of our objectives on p 86-99. Objective reached On the path GRI 103-2 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 72 OUR SOCIETAL ENGAGEMENT VENDORS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS 2017 2018 Encouraging local Projects supported by and social economy BESIX Foundation Environment 9 6 Construction 22 20 Education 20 13 Making sure our local impact is a positive one BESIX Group is heavily connected to local economies and labor Total BESIX Group 549 391 staff involved forces, considering its global character and worldwide operations. Projects supported At BESIX Group, we consider each project as a unique occasion to regarding social 6 4 repeatedly create new possibilities and opportunities for local soeconomy cio-economic development. the Group supports local communities Total funding EUR 923,806 through the inclusion of local workers, contractors and suppliers in our projects. This is strengthened by the projects supported by the BESIX Foundation. Encouraging social economy within the Group BESIX Group has a proactive approach towards local and social inBESIX Group encourages all buyers to work with some social econclusion, most of the times exceeding local laws and baseline expecomy organizations since 2016. Responsible partnerships become tations in Belgium and Europe. In the Middle East and at international possible between regional entities and social economy organizations level, we recruit local workforce according to national law in countries who can meet our expectations, in terms of budget, deadline and where we are active. These local teams are reinforced by expert quality. functions that cannot be found in the country and amongst local staff members. Various subsidiaries, such as BESIX, EJD, Vanhout, Wust, and others have already worked with social economy’s actors. Supporting different skills and social groups We also stimulate local social economy through BESIX Foundation As an example, Wust worked with social economy companies on projects. Since 2009, the BESIX Foundation supports projects finearly 20 projects for a turnover of around EUR 200,000 in 2018, nancially and materially, but also delivers skills-based sponsorship, notably on the Renowatt public buildings energy renovation project. which helps organizations to achieve their goals. Supported projects Being satisfied with the services provided, Wust also works on sites are related to Education, Construction and Environment. For examthat are not governed by social clauses: Atelier de l’Avenir, Work Inn, ple, sheltered workshops and centers for the professional and social Ateliers Jean Delcour, Village n°1. integration of disabled people or for people, who have difficulties entering the labor market. About EUR 1 million was given as financial support over 2017 and 2018 to 56 different projects. −− Franki Foundations and Jacques Delens ordered Beyond BESIX Foundation initiatives, the operating entities of our sweets of artisan bakery Farilu for the St. Nicholas Group are also committed to support social economy. Therefore, we event (Belgium) developed a social economy suppliers list of over 40 companies in −− BESIX, Jacques Delens and Wust are working with Belgium as a first step. Partnerships between our entities and social ‘L’Atelier de l’Avenir’ in carpentry. This association notaeconomy organizations are in this way encouraged. We stimulate all bly participated in the works for the Belgian pavilion at BESIX Group entities, BESIX Group buyers and other stakeholders to Expo Milano 2015 (Italy). consult and cooperate with these organizations, as soon as specific −− BESIX has been working with Oxfam since 2017 needs arise within the work field of social economy. −− Vanhout works with ‘Alito’ for the realization of gardens and site surroundings (Belgium). −− BESIX recently selected Village N°1 for the maintenance of the surroundings of its headquarters in Brussels (Belgium). GRI 413-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 73 BEST PRACTICES BESIX Group has a proactive approach towards local and social Re-sorting and reusing on inclusion, most of the Entreprises Jacques Delens sites times exceeding local laws Mid 2017 Jacques Delens entreprises signed a partnership and baseline expectations with the Ferme Nos Pilifs, a sheltered workplace which runs in Belgium and Europe. a farm in Neder-Over-Heembeek (Belgium), to recover wood from their construction sites. Entreprises Jacques Delens (EJD) observed that wood construction waste ends up in containers too often. The construction company launched a pilot waste sorting project with the Ferme Nos Pilifs through the Belgian Building Research Institute. Social enterprise offering The farm wanted EJD to provide them with untreated timber, such as planks of employment opportunities different sizes and undamaged and non-returnable pallets. Mind the surroundings “De Groene Kans” is a social enterprise in the Westhoek (BelWhere this successful collaboration concerns mainly wood, the company extended gium) which employs more than hundred people that have its circular economy actions with other parties such as L’Ouvroir or the Collectif Baya difficulty finding a job. for other tasks like laying and tending site surroundings, pruning and green roofing.” In partnership with De Groene Kans, BESIX Group offers opportunities to work on More than a partnership, circular economy and waste management is part of Enour sites. It enables people to gain new experience while being offered guidance and treprises Jacques Delens’ DNA as it aims to make our sites nearly zero waste in support by BESIX and De Groene Kans. the coming 3 years. GRI 413-1 74 OUR SOCIETAL ENGAGEMENT SOCIAL INITIATIVES BEST PRACTICE Promoting local social inclusions BE PART OF THE ‘CIRCULAR MIGRATION’ PROGRAM An exchange of knowledge for the benefit of all BESIX Group believes in personal value creation for its employees. Through guidance, support and training we enable our workers to continuously learn and evolve. We BESIX has been participating to the building of a pay specific attention to include underprivileged people wastewater treatment plant in Abidjan, Ivory Coast with a distance to the labor market. Doing so, we aim to since 2018. We decided to participate for the first promote their personal development and enhance their time in the Circular migration program, set up by the professional skills. Ministry of Economic Affairs BESIX Group wants to promote local social inclusion in Africa through A young Ivorian civil engineering graduate in Ivory Coast was selected the circular migration program. This exchange program has shown for an 8-month training at our headquarters in Brussels, with the Marine to be a great success. For BESIX Group, this is a win-win activity in Works Engineering team. This activity field is an important topic in Ivory many ways: in addition to acquiring new skills, locally trained people Coast. The engineer trainee was recruited at the end of his training on become familiar to our colleagues, our working methods and our our Wastewater treatment plant project in Abidjan. values. Participants to the circular migration program are enabled to train fellow colleagues in their native country in our corporate proBESIX intends to pursue this win-win experience in the coming years. cesses and culture reducing learning time of local staff. As they might This transmission is therefore useful for a company investing in Africa take on other job opportunities within the Group, they also reduce by reducing the learning time of the local staff and encouraging local expatriation costs. recruitment. We are constantly educating and training our local workers. These trainings are considered very valuable by the local workers, as they are not only job oriented but create opportunities to participate in English or IT courses. GRI 303-3 413-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 75 BEST PRACTICE THE NACHTIGAL DAM IN CAMEROON Improving accessibility and reliability of renewable energy +90% Local people (160 employed out of 172) The Nachtigal-amont hydropower project is one of the very few hydroelectric public-private partnership projects in +1,500 sub-Saharan Africa. This project will accelerate the achieveDirect jobs (2/3 coming ment of Cameroon’s development goals, including access to from <65 km from site) electricity. Spark for development The dam will increase the country’s electricity generating capacity by 30% and will reduce the cost of electricity. This renewable energy project contributes to the development of social, local and economic development in Cameroon. BESIX in Cameroon The local staff is integrated in the site team of the Nachtigal project as much as BESIX has been present in the country for 35 years. In order to keep our activipossible. Local recruitment will focus on candidates who are directly impacted by ties going, we mainly recruit local people together with FNE (Fonds National pour this project and on residents of villages nearby the project. l’Emploi). This local staff is consists of trained and qualified white and blue collars. GRI 413-1 76 OUR SOCIETAL ENGAGEMENT BESIX FOUNDATION BESIX Foundation supports charitable projects in the fields of education, construction and environment. Its goal is to help communities in the countries where BESIX Group is active. BESIX Group employees and workers are closely involved in BESIX Foundation 2018 Staff Award all these projects, strengthening ties between them and the local communities. More than 1,200 colleagues took part in this 4th edition of the BESIX Foundation Staff Award. “Aketi” in DRC got the 10 years of solidarity most votes. The funding will enable them to build new wells. And at the occasion of our 10th anniversary we organized a Volunteers award which has been won by “Opération In 2019, BESIX Foundation will celebrate its 10 years of existence. Thermos”. BESIX Foundation brings its support via direct funding, material supply and/or skills sponsoring. The Foundation has been active for a “A huge thank you to BESIX Foundation who has been supdecade now. porting us for nearly 10 years! Financially, but mainly thanks to its many volunteers who take care of a dozen evenings Volunteering of our teams with BESIX Foundation a year and help us distribute more than 100 hot meals a Over the past 10 years, more than 3,400 volunteers helped to shape night in winter.” Céline Vivier, Vice-Présidente de Opération numerous projects around the world through the BESIX Foundation. Thermos Operatie Together we reached more than 60,000 beneficiaries, funded 242 projects and won 7 prizes doing so. BEST PRACTICE MANZIL ART Transforming waste into art In 2017, BESIX organized a very beautiful project in the UAE: Manzil Art. This project links our environmental concerns to the integration of disabled people. The waste from our construction sites was collected and turned into works of art, by a dozen Manzil students, with the help of colleagues, through 4 workshops scheduled on Saturdays. GRI 413-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 77 OUR SOCIETAL ENGAGEMENT BESIX FOUNDATION IN 10 YEARS OF ACTIVITIES: DRIVEN TO HELP   BENEFICIARIES AWARDS PROJECTS FUNDED VOLUNTEERS +60,000 7 247 3,400 NUMBER OF PROJECTS BENEFICARIES 9 16% MIDDLE EAST 60% 176 UNDERPRIVILEGED HANDICAPPED BELGIUM 20 7% INDIA SCHOOL DROP-OUT 32 1% AFRICA REFUGEES 5 16% OTHERS ENVIRONMENT THEME INVESTMENT 50% 7% EDUCATION 9% 69% ENVIRONMENT BUILDING STAFF 24% EQUIPMENT 41% CONSTRUCTION GRI 413-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 78 BEST PRACTICES Internet as a basic right Launched in 2011, Right 2 Learn is a unique educational program initiated by BESIX Foundation to coach its unskilled 778 workers trained workers with basic computer and internet skills, to explore in 5 years the vast world of internet. BESIX Group's staff volunteer to coach and teach those who had never used a computer before. The lessons cover the basics of computers skills, including Microsoft Word, internet Facilitating personal development browsing, Gmail account creation and the management of email accounts. Since Although these skills are not necessary on the job, learning to operate a computer or 2012, 782 workers have received the training. a smartphone in this digital age, enables workers to communicate better with their families back home through emails, instils them with confidence and aids them for their personal development. Since 2017, Wi-Fi is being installed at all our Worker accommodations. AJAY KUMAR MALKIAT In 2018, through a partnership with the SmartLife Foundation, a Dubai based Steelfixer at Six Construct non-profit organization, we also launched Basic English speaking classes for our blue collar workers. “I have been working at the BESIX Group construction company for English you say? the last 2 years and I am happy The five-month basic English speaking classes help unskilled workers read and to have joined the English reading speak basic English. The content includes English passages, short motivational classes. Now I feel my English stories, daily life activities and inspiring tales, customized based on the student’s current English proficiency. skills are improving. I am really thankful to BESIX and SmartLife As such, 55 students attended the exam and cleared it successfully. The third for giving us the opportunity batch of the basic English classes is now ongoing with 65 students on-board and to learn English in UAE.” is scheduled to be completed in June 2019. Due to huge demand, we expect to expand these courses in the years to come. GRI 404-2 413-1 79 1,337 students trained in 5 years Kiddy Build OLIVIER REMELS Secretary general and Managing Director of the Foundation for Education Preparing youngsters today “KiddyBuild primarily focuses on for the jobs of tomorrow underprivileged children. This initiative helps to break the vicious circle those KiddyBuild is a day on which BESIX welcomes children from children are often in, helping them to the 5th and 6th grade of underprivileged primary schools. integrate into society. It offers them the By bringing them to our building sites and warehouses, indispensable opportunity to discover they can discover the variety of jobs existing in the world of various trades and to create a strong construction. will to move on, learn and take action.” In 2017, BESIX organized 4 KiddyBuild days in Brussels and Antwerp. In 2018, we organized 5 KiddyBuild days in Brussels and Mechelen. In 5 years, we have reached 27 schools, a hundred of teachers and 1,337 children. In Belgium, the project is supported by the Construction Confederation and the Foundation for Education. Since 2017, we have wanted to develop a TeachBuild day, aimed at lower secondary KIDDYBUILD STUDENTS school classes. We hope to organize a first activity in 2019. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 KiddyBuild program hand-in-hand with the innovative 197 188 308 243 401 IT-school ‘19’ BESIX Foundation is one of the sponsors of School ‘19’, a newly opened innovative IT-school that aims to help prepare young people for the digital market, in Brussels ‘19’ will be able to help an underprivileged public gain access to high-quality edsince 2018. ucation. In the context of our KiddyBuild project, the new institute will conduct an awareness campaign about these future professions aimed at children in the last The idea of free IT two years of primary school in disadvantaged areas as from 2018. School ‘19’ offers the first entirely free IT training in Belgium, without professors or diplomas. With its socio-professional reintegration, it is aimed at young people Based on the entrance exams, the school revealed that its social diversity goal had between 18 and 30 who don’t feel at home in the traditional education system. By already been achieved: participants included 70% jobseekers, 20% students and presenting a practical, innovative education, the founders want to help create jobs 10% employees. In the future the school would like to achieve even more diversity and reintegrate students. and equality by encouraging women to take the course. GRI 404-2 413-1 80 For Watpac, Community WATPAC and Sustainability are vital business practices to Shaping communities ensure the best economical, environmental and social in Australia outcomes for their clients and the communities in which BESIX Group has been present in Australia since 2011, the company is active. primarily active in marine works. By completing the acquisition of Watpac, which started at the end of 2018, BESIX Group has reinforced the strategic direction for long-term success in Australia. Watpac's skilled employees now have access to the Group's engineering capabilities, technical expertise and financial and operAmongst others, Watpac is a member of the Green Building Counational resources of BESIX Group's global platform. cil of Australia (GBCA). The company delivers projects based on sustainable building practices and continually-evolving industry Watpac is a leading Australian construction business. Founded 35 standards. Ecologically Sustainable Design (ESD) remains a guiding years ago, the company’s activities cover a wide range of projects principle in the projects they realize. across all mainland states of Australia. Watpac employs over 700 people nationwide and has offices in Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Schools of Tomorrow in Australia Adelaide, Townsville and Port Macquarie. Watpac continues to deliver significant and high-profile sustainable projects on a national level, including state-of-the-art education preThey are fully committed to the Group’s noble purpose and demoncincts such as the Victorian New Schools PPP which was completed strate their dedication to create sustainable solutions for a better in December 2017. As Victoria's largest new school building project, world through their daily activities. the schools were built in some of the state's fastest growing areas. GRI 102-13 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 81 Pathways for Indigenous employment Watpac’s strong record for local industry engagement has allowed it to create pathways for Indigenous employment opportunities, busiThe schools have been designed to use 25 percent less energy ness participation and job upskilling. Its goal is to encourage the than benchmark buildings in accordance with the Building Code of development of local industry and in turn those that work for these Australia, inclusive of renewable energy sources. An integrated civil businesses. and landscape design also provided the schools with an ecologically enhanced water sensitive solution incorporating native planting, rainA number of initiatives were undertaken by Watpac throughout the water swale retention systems and passive irrigation opportunities. year, including industry forums, Indigenous business information sessions and Indigenous job seeker and ‘Meet the Builder’ events. In 2018, Mernda Central College was awarded 'Best New Construction/Entire New Education Facility' at the Learning Environments First Reconciliation Action Plan signed Australasia Awards. Indigenous engagement has continued to be a priority for Watpac. In this way, the Group recently submitted its first ever Reconciliation Watpac creates a culture and environment that encourages innovaAction Plan (RAP) to Reconciliation Australia for endorsement. The tion, provides opportunity for learning and development, and em'Reflect' RAP brings together a number of initiatives that encompass powers their people to build careers with them that are fulfilling and employment, training and the establishment of long-lasting relationsuccessful. Employee engagement surveys, Career Flight Paths, ships to strengthen Watpac’s commitment to creating a sustainable Toolbox talks, Building resilience workshop, Mental Health First Aid future for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. training, and a Safe Work Month campaign are just a few of the ways Watpac engages with its staff. The company also partners with the Watpac also supports numerous large and small community organiNational Association of Women in Construction (NAWIC) to demonzations through a number of corporate social responsibility initiatives strate the many benefits of working in the construction industry. In such as charity partnerships, event sponsorship, volunteering and inaddition, Watpac annually lodges compliance reports with the Workkind support. A key initiative is their Workplace Giving Program that place Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) which measures the number allows employees to make regular contributions which are matched of female employees within the business. dollar for dollar by Watpac. GRI 102-12 102-13 405-2 411-1 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 82 BESIX FORWARD Based on what sustainability means to us, on what we have already been doing and the way we are organized, we are nowadays at a reflection stage and need inspiration on best ways to go forward. 83 BESIX FORWARD 2019 Our ambitions to move forward in terms of Sustainability OBJECTIVES Mid-2019, our BESIX Group Strategy Circle put their heads together in order to align our Global Strategy – our 6 strategic drivers – with climate-related sustainDecreasing ability. Fifty members of our Group's top management emissions reflected on what our concrete ambitions should be to improve on environmental sustainability and Green Project Solutions. Re-using Society and Sustainability intertwined materials It is clear that the construction sector has an important and crucial impact on our environment, and in line with the recent climate demonstrations all around the world BESIX decided first to focus on “Planet” in the People/Planet/Prosperity model and to integrate solutions for the global climate challenges into our ambitions. It is also a crucial concern for most of our stakeholders, from staff members Reducing who ask for concrete actions, to business partners and clients who pollution understand their impact in the society of tomorrow. At a waypoint We have defined sustainable objectives at local and Group level since 2011. Based on what sustainability means to us, on what we Support our clients have already been doing and the way we are organized, we are nowsustainable ambitions adays at a reflection stage and need inspiration on best ways to go forward, says Muriel Sacré, Senior C&S Officer BESIX Group. We consider our leading role, our take on acquiring clients with a sustainable mindset and our goals towards lobbying, investing and collaborating on sustainable topics. Starting from engineering, as it is our core business and is the most Ambition becomes action impactful way we can make a difference, our Group wants to refine Contributors confirmed during this strategic retreat that climate its ambitions framed in the “Citizenship and Sustainability Report” change and energy transition create opportunities. Our knowledge objectives. in green projects rating systems, smart buildings, integrated environment system and our sustainable engineering solutions remains In this context, the session aimed at inspiring the attendees by inkey for our group to finetune our ambitions and translate them into tegrating external speakers and showcasing internal projects in the some concrete actions. The new ambitions and objectives at Group various entities of the Group as green projects competence center, level will be finalized by the end of 2019 and will be introduced in our waste management and smart buildings. biennial Citizenship & Sustainable Report 2019-2020. Further on, the participants agreed to enhance the alignment of the various ongoing efforts in the Group along more generally expressed concrete ambitions, and to add more concrete values on CO2 emissions, circular construction and pollution as well as to integrate more sustainable solutions in our offers to our clients. GRI 102-16 102-49 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 84 OBJECTIVES 2018-2019 85 BESIX FORWARD 2019 Message from the BESIX Group Chief Operating Officer 2017 was a year of transition. The updated Group strateOur path to sustainability gic approach made BESIX Group future-proof. Six straAlthough solving current problems is necessary, the ability to develtegic drivers were launched to identify our core targets op further solutions in this VUCA world is needed for tomorrow. to perform better with our noble purpose in mind: ‘Excel Thanks to our innovative approach, which has become something in creating sustainable solutions for better world’ and of a trademark, we note major advances. We are convinced that it is integrate our Citizenship & Sustainable goals, adoptwith our core business that we can bring a positive difference to soing a bottom-up approach. We selected these ones as ciety. Our sustainable engineering solutions can support the society main guidelines to create opportunities for sustainable of tomorrow through its value engineering, Unleash and Starts-Ups growth. Accelerator programs: the launch of our ‘Green Building Expertise & Support Delivery’ Center of Competence, development of BIM models for sustainability and monitoring, 3D concrete printing, clean air Based on the United Nations Global Compact, the 17 Sustainable moss walls, research on green concrete, research on building circuDevelopment Goals (SDG’s) of the United Nations, ISO 26000 and larity, realization of smart buildings for energy-efficiency and digital GRI drivers in the building sector, BESIX Group fixed the framework, customizability. the indicators and the areas where each BESIX Group company is invited to subscribe specific C&S objectives for the period 2017 and Our digital society’s rapid evolution has seen serious challenges 2018, with the estimated results of 2018. involving the People-Planet-Prosperity pillars. Since 2018, we have been analyzing our existing sustainable commitments and our amContinuous improvement bitions in order to understand the way we can actively contribute to In 2017-2018, we notice accomplishments of specific programs and proposing solutions in line with our noble purpose and our strategic projects, which concretely contribute to a sustainable evolution of drivers. Each of us noticed that ‘Climate Change’ was a huge concern our society and which have a positive impact on our internal and in 2018 and 2019 around the world. Organizing internal consultations external stakeholders. We consider them as continuous ways of imwithin the Group, we intend to catch our stakeholders’ expectations. provement. Measurements of our impact can be at Group level such As we want to co-create tomorrow’s sustainable society, we have to as for most Human Resources and Safety activities. Others such as be prepared to work on the right up-to-date ambitions at Group level CO2 reduction remain geographically limited even though our expert with specific action plans. These ambitions will be introduced in the teams are working on a Group-wide solution which should be opernext biennial report 2019-2020. ational on middle-term. Amongst others, we realized significant achievements in 2017-2018, such as BESIX Fair Labor Standards in line with International Framework Agreement (IFA), a Group resilience program, the BESIX Fit program, an onboarding app, a third Engagement survey, development of our own education programs via BESIX Foundation, a soft mobility Pierre Sironval program, an integrated ISO 9001ISO1 4001 OHSAS 18001 mulChief Operating Officer ti-site certification of the Contracting Business Unit, development of BESIX Group a tender-risk approach at tender level in line with ISO 31000, and an increased commitment of the supply chain on the Procurement Code of conduct. GRI 102-13 102-16 102-30 102-49 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 86 OBJECTIVES 2018-2019 AMBITIONS OR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES RESULTS TARGETS RESULTS OBJECTIVES DRIVERS 2015-2016 2015-2016 2017-2018 2017-2018 2019-2020 PEOPLE Career management and promotion of employability Great Place Number of training Achieved An improvement of 25% In 2018, each employee Invest in development: to Work hours per year, by -From 2014 to 2016: 30% more additional training hours received 7,75 training hours 3 training days by kind of training and training hours for white collar compared to the 2016 (vs 7.36 h/employee) on employee per year at by function for full workers base line average Group level time employees -Set up of new training tools: BE Pro, BESIXpedia... BE Pro e-learning tool: Done and completed in -Mandatory for BESIX -All new recruited laborers must implementation, 2018, new modules 'BESIX Project Managers undergo training procedures, specially dedicated to Way' (introducing a.o. Group -Keeping the content these include health and safety project management values) and 'Operations & up-to-date and job description induction Maintenances were added in BE Pro. Launched of a general e-training platform in 2018 with 17 specific BESIX e-courses -Six Construct follows the ‘free Continuing to monitor the Done Support this policy via recruitment’ policy 'free recruitment' policy the IFA agreement -751 employees in 2015 and 701 closely. Six Construct has employees in 2016 were given reviewed & re-enforced third party trainings this policy in all our -The Group pursued its agreements/contracts recruitment of new employees according to business projects BESIX Group recruitment +900 new employees on Being an attractive of about 400 new group level in 2018 of which employer: recruiting the employees 450 people in Belgium right profiles according to business projects Launch of recruitment Job fairs in Portugal and Being an attractive events at BESIX (BESIX Slovakia in 2018; Young employer: keeping / Young Professional Professional Days in creating contact with Days, Connect to Build, Belgium of which 25% potential candidates via Campus days) in 2017 participants were recruited selected universities, key (Belgium) in 2017 and 2018; preorganized events and our screening visit of 10 talent pool, social media universities in Belgium Staff member Development of an 2017: Consolidation Done statistics by diploma, HR tool: Metrilio of secured data of all kind of contract, employees worldwide years of service (only management staff in the UAE) through Metrilio 2018: Group wide Done statistics (only management staff in the UAE) Promoting Brainstorming Preparation of an On-boarding program app Keeping content up-tointergenerational on-boarding program launched in 2017 date partnerships Engagement survey: done for Launch of a new Implementation of a third Deployment of action the Management and Senior engagement survey survey for all employees plans according to Staff categories (72% white among staff categories (white and results of the survey collars, employees (worldwide) blue collar), Middle East and blue collars (Belgium)) excluded: done (76% white collars; 24% blue collars in Belgium) Increasing retention rate: training of line managers, internal mobility, coaching session... GRI 102-29 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 87 AMBITIONS OR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES RESULTS TARGETS RESULTS OBJECTIVES DRIVERS 2015-2016 2015-2016 2017-2018 2017-2018 2019-2020 PEOPLE Career management and promotion of employability Great Place Done: BESIX welcomes students Encourage youngsters BESIX welcomes students Carrying on in the same to Work and trainees on sites in Europe to live a professional and trainees on sites in direction as well as in other countries experience through Europe as well as in other where the Group operates training on site or in the countries where the Group office operates Health & safety conditions (Well-being at work) Great Place HSE Chairman Done: 2015 ok and 2016: launch Promote Unleash Done Promote safety to Work Awards of Unleash program program within the Group innovations via Unleash with specific themes or other means (start-up related to safety concerns accelerator program) Creation of a platform to Done: +1,600 users by the Continue BESIX Fit ad promote and encourage end of 2018 and events fitness and well-being of our employees Number of training 2,340 hours of Health, Safety Pursue HSE trainings for Launch of two additional Carrying on in the same hours per year & Environments trainings in group employees programs: managing safely direction 2015-2016 and working safely; BE SAFE A platform to promote Done: BESIX Fit program Progress measurement and encourage fitness launched end of 2017 and well-being of our employees Coordination QHSE Done. First QHSE synergy QHSE synergy meeting: Design BESIX Behavioural Grow a community of between different BU meeting organized in pursuing meetings twice Base Safety Program and BE SAFE Ambassadors April 2016 a year with a concrete launch pilot projects to within BESIX Group action plan finetune Improvement of the Done. Safety Time Out 2016: Reaching 60% of workers 23,723 participants (incl. Carrying on in the same participation rate for 21,403 participants = 51% on site (employees and subcontractors) in 2018 direction the Safety Time Out (>42% in 2015 & 2014) contractors) Improvement of -Frequency Rate 2014: 1.99; -An improvement of Not achieved Repeat but TRIFF frequency and 2015: 1.65; 2016: 1.69 10%. BESIX Group TRIFF 2018: 3.20 targeted: 3.00 severity rate -Severy Rate 2014: 0.04; -TRIFF: 3.15 according to the 2015: 0.03; 2016: 0.05 Group companies’ action plan Awareness on Preparation of a resilience Campaign on resilience -Workshops about -Rollout to international burn-out program to be launched in 2017 launched in BE, FR & NL; resilience awareness operations: workshops, workshops organized for organized at Brussels & e-learning tool and +300 participants Dubai HQ merchandising on -Preventive measures resilience awareness (awareness sessions and -Workshop and info coaching) sessions for new joiners BeNeFra -Training of Confidence officers 2018: follow-up with Internal Coaching Network Launch of the network in adequate coaching to in preparation 2019 with a start-up employees who make phase: 25 internal the request; Launch of coaches in Belgium and the campaign on our The Netherlands international operations aiming; for all levels of employees First draft for an Preparation of teleworking at -Implementation of Done Progress measurement action plan on workBESIX in Belgium and teleworking in BESIX (BE life balance The Netherlands and NL); -Sick childcare services provided by BESIX free of charge to employees (limited amount of days per year); -Launch of a first-step fitness program (BESIX Fit) at BESIX in Belgium GRI 102-29 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 88 AMBITIONS OR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES RESULTS TARGETS RESULTS OBJECTIVES DRIVERS 2015-2016 2015-2016 2017-2018 2017-2018 2019-2020 PEOPLE Non-discrimination issues Great Place to Performance In preparation through a new Consolidation of secured Done Progress measurement Work indicators by gender, HR tool data of all employees age, nationality, worldwide (only junior-senior, by management staff in the region, by position UAE) through Metrilio Integration in -Racism is not tolerated and Better gender balance -Consultations of target Diverse senior managers procurement policy any act of racism is taken (up to 30% for white groups to prepare an and external pool seriously by the company. collar) action plan about gender talent (non nationals Being an international and diversity at Brussels employed) company with more than HQ 8,000 working laborers and -Use of a new ATS over 60 nationalities, cultural recruitment tool comply differences are inevitable with the laws and -Six Construct embraces regulations requiring diversity ranging from – but not non-discrimination and limited to – religion, gender, ethnicity, education, and GDPR socio-economic background -Workers have the option to speak to their direct supervisors who will assist them in resolving their general concerns. All laborers have the right to “freedom of expression” -On staff levels Six Construct do strive to achieve equality between male and female white collar. These include salary equality, equal opportunity and equal treatment within the workforce Extended campaign -Done, included in both Codes To make ‘Respect’ one Done -Awareness to new about respect in of Conduct of our core values as employees via the relations with all -‘Respect’ became our part of BESIX Forward on-boarding app Group stakeholders 6th value in 2016 after a 2017 -Reminder to worldwide campaign staff via internal -Qatar: creation of a Worker’s communication Welfare Forum HUMAN RIGHTS Support and respect of internationally proclaimed human rights -Great Place Integration -Included in both Codes of Development & -Signature of an -Progress action plan to Work into effective Conduct Implementation of International Framework Yearly reporting -Synergizing procurement and -Qatar: creation of a Worker’s BESIX Fair Labor Agreement on Fair Labor meeting our ways of partnering policy Welfare Forum Standards in line with Standards with BI and -Pursuing the working International Framework EWC of BESIX Group improvement of Agreement -In 2018 Six Construct the working & living initiated a Guide on standards Worker Welfare -Implementing the BWI commitments -Develop a mechanism to ensure the thirdparty compliance to our Standards and principles Make sure not be complicit in human rights abuse -Great Place Integration -Included in both Codes of Development & See above -See above to Work into effective Conduct Implementation of -Partnership with trade -Synergizing procurement and -Partnership with NGOs and BESIX Fair Labor union and NGOs our ways of partnering policy external organizations Standards in line with working International Framework Agreement Rigorous monitoring of Still in progress Carrying on in the same Subcontractors’ direction worker facilities GRI 102-29 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 89 AMBITIONS OR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES RESULTS TARGETS RESULTS OBJECTIVES DRIVERS 2015-2016 2015-2016 2017-2018 2017-2018 2019-2020 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Promotion of social and economic development -Great Place to Promote employment BESIX: mixed team Improve on the minimum Done Work and training of local policy requirements -Promoting staff openness towards New Ventures -Being a leader in Open Innovation Integration of local Done Promotion of socioSocial economy suppliers -Considering how supplier chain and economic responsible list of over 40 companies to improve local social disadvantages sourcing in the in Belgium as a first step in partnering with social in procurement policy procurement system the procurement system. economy companies in Belgium -Promotion of socioeconomic suppliers list for The Netherlands and France in the procurement system Encourage social Group engagement since 2016 Increased supply chain Still in progress Carrying on in the same economy in our through purchaser engagement direction Entities and sites Promote social economy Done contractors in Europe To be investigated in the Still in progress Carrying on in the same Middle East direction Give an opportunity -Europe: ongoing. Creation and Creation and circulation Still in progress Creation and circulation in each and every circulation of a list in Belgium. of a list in France and The of a list in France and project to social -UAE: a market analysis has Netherlands. The Netherlands economy operators been done in 2016 and those kinds of structures don’t exist Continue our monitoring Still in progress Checking if any update in yet in UAE social economy in UAE Continue our monitoring in UAE Action plan regarding -BESIX Group: information Continuous increase 10 projects supported in Continuous increase social economy campaign done of BESIX Foundation's 2017-18 of BESIX Foundation's potential -8 projects supported in 2015support support 2016 Develop our own Done through Right 2 Learn and Creation of a partnership Launch of spoken English Development of our education programs KiddyBuild to teach English at our classes in 2018 with 63 projects in other via BESIX Foundation UAE laborers students locations/countries Contribution to issues of general interest -Great Place to Comparison of -Number of volunteers: 847 Increasing volunteer -Number of volunteers: 940 Progress measurement Work projects supported -Number of local beneficiaries: engagement -Number of local -Promoting by BESIX Foundation 2015-2016: 4,905 beneficiaries: 26,295 openness (statistics 2015 and towards New 2016): numbers of Ventures local beneficiaries, -Being a leader number of Group in Open staff involved, Innovation projects supported by region, by foundation pillars Promoting BESIX Foundation: 32 projects Continue along the same BESIX Foundation: 33 Pursuing the promotion educational projects supported in 2015-2016 lines projects supported in 2017of educational projects 2018 Increase of -2015: 17% of the financial Carrying on in the same 2017: 16% of the financial Reinforcing the international spread support abroad direction support abroad international financial of the support -2016: 29% of the financial 2018: 4% of the financial spread of the support support abroad support abroad GRI 102-29 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 90 AMBITIONS OR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES RESULTS TARGETS RESULTS OBJECTIVES DRIVERS 2015-2016 2015-2016 2017-2018 2017-2018 2019-2020 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Contribution to issues of general interest -Great Place to Collaboration with -BESIX Group, through its In Europe, carrying on in Done Carrying on in the same Work academic world subsidiaries, is involved in the the same direction direction -Promoting for sustainable Belgium Green Board Council, openness construction Building As Material Bank, towards New promotion EcoBuild Cluster, Antwerpen Ventures duurzaam bouwen Kamp, In the Middle East, Still in progress Carrying on in the same -Being a leader Plateforme Maison Passive... explore opportunities direction in Open to collaborate with local Innovation educational institutions to contribute to the sustainable development of the region Decision to support -In 2015-2016: 12 projects In 2017-2018: 15 projects more environmental -Funding: €109,370 Funding: €141,666 projects/initiatives through BESIX Foundation ENVIRONMENT Development of integrated environmental management systems -Synergizing our New ISO 14001 -UAE: done for multi-sites in An integrated ISO9001 Done Maintaining certification ways of working certifications UAE, Qatar, Oman, Barhain, + ISO14001 + -Great Place to KSA OHSAS 18001 multiWork -NV BESIX SA has renewed its site certification of the -Promoting ISO 14001:2004 certification in Contracting BU (except openness June 2016 which is valid until regional entities) in the towards New September 2018 first quarter of 2018 Ventures -The following regional entities -Being a leader have an ISO14001 certification: in Open J. Delens, Wust, LUX TP and Innovation Vanhout Performance -BE Pro in 2016 (NV BESIX SA): Well-defined Done: -To further develop indicators as to 30 minutes per employee for a performance indicators -7 environmental and implement number of training total of 174 people = 87 hours on employees trained on awareness events in 2018 environmental hours on environment -Induction: 30 minutes per new environmental awareness in the Middle East on awareness trainings in per employee site worker in 2015 and 2016 to be established and office and site level corporate HSE training -Quality Safety Environment monitored -Mobility awareness program and induction Time Out in 2015: (13,348 campaign in head office program own employees + 4,323 Brussels in 2018 -3 communications subcontractors) *0.5h per -Environmental driving awareness within BU person = 8,836 hours training (e-driver) for Contracting -Toolbox Meeting (TBM): 1TBM company car drivers in -To develop per month per person in 2015 the Netherlands and implement and 2016 -Training data of HR on environmental golden BE Pro in 2017 and 2018 rules -Induction: for every new site worker -At least one TBM per year per person Integration of -Development and Environmental criteria to Done Continue to monitor environment implementation of an be carried out through compliance and generate criteria and audit Environmental Performance PRT audits improvements via HSE in procurement/ Rating Tool (PRT) for Site PRT subcontracting policy Inspection in 2015 -Environmental criteria are embedded in the Code of Conduct for purchasing product & services and in the vendor list GRI 102-29 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 91 AMBITIONS OR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES RESULTS TARGETS RESULTS OBJECTIVES DRIVERS 2015-2016 2015-2016 2017-2018 2017-2018 2019-2020 ENVIRONMENT Development of green solutions -Synergizing Development of -On several projects quantity Exploring the idea Digital passport being Including new uses our ways of BIM model for take-off was performed which of development included into a BIM into BESIX Engineering working sustainability and entails that we have a more of digital material approach on a specifc D&B BIM Package such as -Great Place to monitoring accurate view on the quantities passport enabling in Brussels (not awarded) material passport and Work -Reduction of waste, only post construction BIM for FM ; Assess -Being a leader virtual waste development thermal performance a in Open designed facades with Innovation BIM -Leverage on our customer Double % of projects Statistics about “project in Carrying on in the same Within 3 years: +70 projects Improve skills in BIM centricity in execution using execution followed direction optimized with BIM modeling and scan to -Developing a BIM by the Engineering Department BIM more interaction One-Stopusing BIM”: 29% (2016 target: between Brussels and Shop Solution 20% >< 2013=9%) Dubai +20% of steel -For the in-house BESIX facade -All current in house -Facade: all large scale Carrying on in the same structure drawings projects (where BESIX is facade tenders: all & complex tenders were direction extracted from BIM performing the facade design quantity take off for the done in BIM for Value models and execution themselves) large scale complex Engineering, optimization -Execution project 100% geometry is done 100% & accurate quantity-take of cutting lists / production with BIM. off's drawings are extracted from -Using BIM for preparing -Steel structure BIM (at least for the external method statements 2017: 50% of drawings facade and roof) renderings and extracted from BIM mode installation sequence 2018: 90% of drawings animations extracted from BIM model Quantify in % Done: BIM visualizations for Qualitative 4D animations -Pilot project with BIM tenders using BIM -2015: 56% 60% of the tenders were produced when integrated new ERP visualization -2016: 50% (initial goal: 40%) deemed needed (specific -1 extra subsidiary method statements, starting with BIM every logistic plan, commercial year purpose...) Research on low -UAE: done, adoption of cement BESIX will start up a new -Research in progress with -Develop a formula carbon concrete with 65% of GGBS concrete chain study in internal and external key for greener concrete -On the large infrastructure 2017 on the projects in experts for Zin project (B) projects in The Netherlands, The Netherlands -One of the key topic in partnership with low carbon concrete is used during the BESIX promoter (low carbon (CEM III instead of CEM I) Hackathon 2018 footprint and more -A study on the concrete chain sustainable): on the Lanaye project where -Replace CEM I by CEM CEM I was replaced by CEM III III on projects in France has been finalized mid-2015 to reduce CO2 footprint resulting in a carbon reduction -Test the high quality of 76% recycled aggregates -In collaboration with from the Netherlands Rijkswaterstaat, an innovative and study their testing program on the use of application in Belgium low carbon concrete has been -Go beyond the norms set up on the Limmel project in in terms of using a The Netherlands higher percentage of recycled aggregate for a specific concrete mix on one of BESIX Group’s projects Limiting use of raw Socogetra re-uses the residue The Socogetra’s objective Participating to common -Create a direct BESIX material from concrete pump trucks to is to increase the action such as Werflink (B) Intranet link to access made stackable blocks. These percentage of recycled the Werflink platform recycled blocks represent 20% base material up-to 50% -Inform site teams of their total blocks production in the production of about the sustainable concrete 'Werflink' app during procurement meetings A study to understand Study completed, no Jacques Delens: prethe recycling of the further implementation demolition inventory waste internally and analysis on each site feasibility of introducing in order to return the a circular economy, to be dismantled materials to conducted in UAE in 2017 the re-use market GRI 102-29 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 92 AMBITIONS OR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES RESULTS TARGETS RESULTS OBJECTIVES DRIVERS 2015-2016 2015-2016 2017-2018 2017-2018 2019-2020 ENVIRONMENT Development of green solutions -Synergizing Performance -UAE: analysis of waste Development of a Multiple initiatives on site -To continue with our ways of indicators in waste performance indicators on corporate waste level linked with Green further optimization of working management projects management program Building certifications and waste management by -Great Place to -The Netherlands: a study on CO2 prestatieladder in The looking for project & the waste management chain Work Netherlands business opportunities has been finalized in late 2016 -Being a leader on the OVT project -Jacques Delens: 'zero in Open -Done with various projects waste' ambition on Innovation -A performance indicator on sites within 3 years -Leverage on waste segregation (waste our customer management cost saved by Initiatives with the bottle Replacing plastic bottles Carrying on in the same centricity segregation and recycling of caps and the collection by cups and glass water direction -Developing a waste) has been introduced in of electric devices bottles at most Group Belgium in 2016: in 6 locations, on the BESIX Group offices and meeting rooms One-Stopwaste recycling reached 32 headquarters Shop Solution to 97% -A framework agreement for collecting waste in Belgium has been signed with MAES at Development of the 2-year pilot project the end of 2015 notepad project ended in 2018 Encouraging -Innovative solutions such as Carrying on in the same Participating to common -Create a direct BESIX recycling of the use of ECO-filler (residue direction. Opportunities action such as Werflink (B), Intranet link to access excavated or re-used from the recycling process to be defined on every Be Circular (B) the Werflink platform material of asphalt) instead of soil for project -Inform site teams backfilling about the sustainable -Socogetra recycled concrete 'Werflink' app during waste and re-used it for procurement meetings the construction of a new -Recycling of waste motorway section material (HQ Brussels) -BESIX Montenegro re-used the > 50% excavated stones, extracted from the ground during the earthworks, to make all the enclosing walls Optimize energy Waste to Energy and Innovative solutions Realization of projects sources new sustainable source developed by BESIX recycling wastewater, of water supply for the Water & Environment and turning waste into fuel, community as major Concessions & Assets non-recyclable waste step in the Group into energy... diversification strategy Increase tablet use Within the European region, Currently in development: Introducing digital Pursuing partnerships to control site data to BESIX has implemented digital a study to perform the transformation in core with companies and improve encoded info solutions for managing the internal audits and activities: Accept program start-ups to integrate provisional acceptance process, inspection by the use of (Jacques Delens), Unleash digital into core business and encourage data also implemented in Ajman tablets programs, smart buildings collections, snagging lists, safety and quality inspections to lower the non conformities (less waste linked to quality), increase the safety awareness (Better Place to Work) and encourage collection of datas Development of sustainable construction operations -Synergizing Continuing to The senior manager Strengthen the design -D&B projects: our ways of propose sustainable sustainability was involved in capabilities regarding objective is to propose working engineering solutions several projects in which we sustainability within sustainable solutions -Great Place to in tendering folders proposed value engineering idea the BESIX Engineering during tender phase Work regarding sustainability (New Department and offering -Follow different types -Being a leader in Open Headquarters of BNP Paribas support to Real Estate of tenders, linked to Innovation Fortis (Brussels), Masdar Institue Development the sustainability: eg -Leverage on (UAE / Abu Dhabi), Beatrix lock and concessions energy efficiency, our customer (The Netherlands) circularity centricity -Developing a One-StopShop Solution GRI 102-29 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 93 AMBITIONS OR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES RESULTS TARGETS RESULTS OBJECTIVES DRIVERS 2015-2016 2015-2016 2017-2018 2017-2018 2019-2020 ENVIRONMENT Development of sustainable construction operations -Synergizing Continuing support -BESIX Group and some of its Follow at least 1 student Follow-up students on Carrying on in the our ways of for students in their subsidiaries are supporting on the sustainability sustainability topic in 2018 same direction working thesis work and various students in their thesis subject per year and 1 and on engineering and of strengthening -Great Place to research work and research. In the research topic in the field BIM topic partnerships with Work 2015-2016 period two students of sustainability universities and -Being a leader were supported by the BESIX supporting young in Open Engineering Department generations in their Innovation -EJD is part of a research education process -Leverage on project Cam(B)bridge aiming our customer at more reliable assessment centricity of thermic behavior and air -Developing a tightness before and after One-Stopconstruction using BIM Shop Solution -Cobelba and BESIX gave support to a research project of the Walloon Region called REINTEREST which aims at developing very efficient and thin façade elements for refurbishment of old (high rise) buildings Development -Creation of dedicated teams Have at least 1 expert per Done by Region (1 in Recruit 1 full time to of sustainable for each project in which Business Unit or regional Europe & 1 in Middle East) reinforce sustainable construction teams environmental certificates were entity in Europe and in most entities contruction department demanded. We trained people BESIX Group in almost all Business Units headquarters Brussels and regional entities able to give the necessary support Sharing of knowledge Done with pilot project to Carrying on in the same -Jacques Delens, Vanhout and information within the share knowledge step-bydirection and Wust developed their Group entities step within the Group own sustainable construction teams Building more certified -There were 5 completed A ‘Green Building Done in Middle East and in -Launch of the Center sustainable buildings buidling sites in 2013-2014 and Expertise & Support progress in Europe of Competence and 9 in 2015-2016 Delivery’ Center of operational 1 dedicated -There were 13 ongoing building Competence to be set full-time at BESIX sites in 2013-2014 and 14 in up for Middle East BU in Group headquarters 2015-2016 2018 and expanding the Brussels same to the Group -A-STAY intends to get BREEAM certification for its upcoming projects Compile projects Not finalized during this period Compile projects where Still in progress Monitoring performances where value value engineering has engineering has made a difference made a difference Establish an innovation Done via Unleash program Carrying on in the platform to encourage same direction and and enable innovation, to following up on start-up explore more sustainable accelerator solutions Energy consumption -Synergizing Statistics on site -Energy consumption is Development of a 6 monthly reporting for CO2 -According Climate our ways of about energy monitored on the Head group wide CO2/energy footprint for head office, Change issue, review of working consumption in Office + regional office in management system, saintes, CDF, regional group wide CO2/energy -Great Place to Belgium, The The Netherlands, CDF SPL, implementation planned office BESIX Nederland management system Work Netherlands, France Saintes and projects in The for 2019 objectives -Being a leader and progressively Netherlands where BESIX -BESIX Nederland: in Open in other countries Group is responsible for the reduce footprint (scope Innovation where the Group is administration 1&2, expanding with active for CO2 -UAE: on 'Air Co Savers' done scope 3 emissions from reduction program commuting) by 10% by end of 2019 and as compared to 2014 GRI 102-29 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 94 AMBITIONS OR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES RESULTS TARGETS RESULTS OBJECTIVES DRIVERS 2015-2016 2015-2016 2017-2018 2017-2018 2019-2020 ENVIRONMENT Paper -Synergizing Concrete actions -BESIX has launched the To be developped on -Change of printing paper Progress measurement our ways of to reduce paper Papercut application (double projects level and in the in the Middle East (shift working consumption (%) sided printing, printing order Middle East from wood pulp paper -Great Place to by badge...) in its head office. to wheat straw paper) in Work KPI’s on printing in the head 2018 -Being a leader office are set in 2016 -No printing targets were in Open -Percentage of color printing set for 2018 but KPI is Innovation jobs related to the total amount monitored on a 6-monthly of printing = 52.8% (target basis: 2016 was < 55%) -Percentage of color -Percentage of double printing printing related to the jobs related to the total amount total amount of printing of printing = 65.4% (target in the HQ in 2018: 50.2% 2016 was > 70%) (target 2016 was < 55%) -Percentage of double printing jobs related to the total amount of printing in the HQ in 2018: 66.8% (target in 2016 was > 70%) Quantify use of Notepad project: in partnership Continue the collection Follow-up has stopped recycled paper and with TWI, BESIX collected old process on an even larger eco printers project plans from some sites scale in Belgium in order to produce notepads. A total of 564 notepads were produced using old plans Transport -Synergizing Comparison between -Flights booked by travel Pursuing the same BESIX air travel 2018 BESIX and Six Construct our ways of statistics 2015 and department BESIX Group approach air travel statistics working 2016 for air travel Brussels: -Great Place to -In 2015: 5,101,765 miles = Work 3,668 flights (rating nb flights/ Encouraging online Review of online meeting More communication turnover: 0.60) meetings and video software and hardware in about online meetings -In 2016: 5,448,273 miles = conferences business center head office neither video 4,054 flights (rating nb flights/ conferences to be turnover: 0.59) developed BESIX Contracting statistics 2018 Encourage soft mobility -Revision of mobility pack Monitoring performances and greener vehicles and company car policy to support soft mobility and greener vehicles -Launch of a homeworking policy to reduce commuting and footprint Comparison between Reduction of the CO2 emission Development of the Implemented by HR in 2017 statistics 2015 and of the Belgian car fleet with 8.6% telework policy in 2016 for car travel from Mid 2014 (114.09 g CO2/km) Belgium until end 2016 (104.15 g CO2/km) Launch of a one year -Eco driving awareness Eco driving awareness Training done during one campaign (e-driver) for all year for company car drivers of a company car drivers in the NL (2016in The Netherlands 2017) but not followed-up by HR in The Netherlands -Data retrieved by QHSE but not verifiable: obtained fuel reduction (liter per 100 km in 2017 vs 2016): 1.7% GRI 102-29 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 95 AMBITIONS OR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES RESULTS TARGETS RESULTS OBJECTIVES DRIVERS 2015-2016 2015-2016 2017-2018 2017-2018 2019-2020 ENVIRONMENT Biodiversity Being a leader in Concrete examples -Lanaye: conservation of World wide site analysis Done: -Carrying on in the same Open Innovation on site different types of trees and and preventative -Fjord Link: preservation direction planting for the upkeep of measures for fauna and of eelgrass and local -Opportunities certain species. flora vegetation are defined and -Preventative fishing in the old -Biodiversity measures implemented per spawning grounds taken into account in the project depending -Heumen (NL): relocation of a tender of the obtained on the environmental badger population project “Nachtigal impact of the project -Limmel (NL): relocation of Cameroun” beavers -EDF Saclay: presence of a Automatic analysis for newt pond – monitoring of certified green rated the pond’s pH throughout the projects project to verify the absence -O Tower (Morrocco): use of impact of our work on the of local plants supporting pond. Building of a fence animal biodiversity and around the area, to prevent low-water consumption newts from accessing the building site -Fjord Link Denmark: preservation of eelgrass and local vegetation Contribution to Decision to support more Increased focus on First Support of 10 projects -Identifying larger issues of general environmental projects/ support/partnerships, related to environmental environmental projects interest initiatives through BESIX through BESIX concerns to be supported Foundation Foundation -Organization of at least one clean up day BUSINESS BEHAVIOR Integration of environmental factors -Synergizing Social and -Included in the Procurement Increased commitment Done Carrying on in the same our ways of environmental Code of Conduct of supply chain on the direction working performances of its -96% of internal buyers Procurement code of -Great Place to subcontractors and signatures conduct Work suppliers respecting -Promoting its CSR objectives openness towards New Ventures Integration of social 412 subcontractors and Integration of the -Code signed by all Six Construct: Training and environmental suppliers signed the Code of subcontractors' subcontractors with a for all site storekeepers clauses in supplier Conduct agreement in every BESIX BESIX Group Frame related to purchase and subcontractor Group Frame Agreement Agreement procedures and contracts and in the general -The number of strategic particularities conditions suppliers decreased to 840 in 2018 (from 959 in 2016), whose 412 signed the Code (59%) General conditions Still in progress General conditions of purchase and of purchase and subcontracting to subcontracting to integrate C&S and integrate C&S and environment criteria environment criteria Feedback from Results didn’t answer our Understanding the Feedback from Consultations with subcontractors and objectives. Target for 2017 is to performance over C&S subcontractors and a sample of our suppliers about our contact them again to explain procurement code of suppliers about our C&S subcontractors to CSR procurement our goal conduct by supply chain procurement code of identify a conclusion code of conduct conduct: still in progress GRI 102-29 304-2 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 96 AMBITIONS OR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES RESULTS TARGETS RESULTS OBJECTIVES DRIVERS 2015-2016 2015-2016 2017-2018 2017-2018 2019-2020 BUSINESS BEHAVIOR Integration of environmental factors -Synergizing Secure further -Included in the Procurement Target 100% Still in progress -Sensibilize new staff our ways of deployment of the Code of Conduct commitment by internal members about our working related commitments -96% of internal buyers supply chain Code of Conduct -Great Place to all along Group signature Procurement Work entities in the -Commit them to this -Promoting subcontracting and Code and get them openness supply chain. signed towards New -Remind internal Ventures buyers about their commitment to the Code each year Signature of the Done by 96% 100% see above Still in progress Target is still obtaining Code by the Group 100% of internal buyers internal buyers signature Set up and deliver Not done yet To be pursued among KPIs which are part of Evaluation of project indicators of real the subcontractors with our procedure and are suppliers (based on the endorsement of improved assessment at followed: use of BESIX 80% budget range) for the guidance and project end Group Frame Agreement all projects where BESIX rules contained in (79%), recycled waste Group has > 50% of the the two Codes of rateat HQ (52%), total shares Conduct turnover by project of assessed subcontractors (> 80% total purchased amount) -Synergizing Select Ongoing The standard text of Introduction of circular Template revision our ways of subcontractors and subcontract includes the economy concept in the working suppliers who will be approval of the Code of Procurement Code of -Promoting active on sites with Conduct Conduct openness a budget exceeding towards New €25,000 to sign the Ventures frame agreement Integrate the Ongoing -Integrate the principle -Supplier list with several -Carrying on in the principle of local of local partnering economy companies same direction partnering in our in our overall added: done -Consider how overall procurement procurement strategy: -Introduction to the social to improve local strategy several social economy economy companies partnering with social companies have been list during Procurement economy companies added in the suppliers Synergy Meeting in list Benelux-France -The awareness of the buyer of the Group (in Benelux) about this list have been developed Quality of remuneration systems -Synergizing Statistics of internal -Implementation of a banding Providing more view Banding system were Deployment of the new our ways of promotion of system for 20% of the on progression in the reviewed to offer staff more banding system within working employees employees banding system progression opportunity the Group -Great Place to -UAE: records and procedure Work implementation for all workers -Promoting openness Synergizing: one payroll towards New for all BESIX Group Ventures entities in Belgium Statistics about the -BESIX: done for 20% Annual evaluation Internal communication Carrying on in the same annual evaluation of the employees interview system: campaign was made to direction interview system -UAE: Six Construct has carrying on in the same encourage line managers incorporated the appraisal direction to evaluate their teams report which indicates how the employee is performing during his working hours + line manager constructive feedback GRI 102-29 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 97 AMBITIONS OR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES RESULTS TARGETS RESULTS OBJECTIVES DRIVERS 2015-2016 2015-2016 2017-2018 2017-2018 2019-2020 BUSINESS BEHAVIOR Quality of remuneration systems -Synergizing Further meet and support -Launch of a strategic & -Development of a our ways of our client expectations key account program Group CRM and working -Launch of a one-stopmonitoring -Promoting shop platform -Deployment of openness customized account towards New action plans Ventures -Monitor one-stop-shop -Leveraging on platform our customer -Include Value centricity Engineering in -Developing a minimum 80% of One-Stoptenders Shop Solution -Promoting Incorporate ConTech and -'Living-as-a-service' -A-STAY's 'Living-asopenness PropTech into Group real concept developed by a-service' concept: towards New estate activities A-STAY in beacon cities. 7,000 smart studios in Ventures -New digital customer 35 countries in the next -Leveraging on platform for BESIX RED five years. our customer customers, Ziggu -BESIX RED enters into centricity the equity of PropChain -Developing a start-up One-StopShop Solution CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code of conduct -Synergizing Signature of -494 (= 96%) staff members Include the Code Still in progress To be monitored our ways of Procurement and who directly deals with the of Conduct in all of working Subcontracting by external bodies have signed the Group’s frame -Promoting subcontractors and the Procurement code of agreements and in the openness suppliers in preconduct and they are held to general conditions of towards New qualifications and that code the subcontractors’ Ventures tenders (50% of our -412 subcontractors and agreements -Leveraging on targets) suppliers signed the Code of our customer Conduct centricity -Developing a Assessment on staff A smart breaksfast was Carrying on in the same Done Extend assessement One-Stopmembers (1st group organized to introduce direction of staff in Brussels and Shop Solution at the head office) the CSR actions within the Dubai Headquarters for Group and the Code of new staff members Conduct in 2016 Consider becoming Done To engage in Global Done As an active GC member, a member of Global Compact initiatives support SDGs in line with Compact our sector activities NGO framework Engage in NGO framework BWI framework Done -Progress action plan agreement agreement to challenge human agreement signature -Yearly reporting rights approach in BESIX Group meeting Integration of CSR -Synergizing Implementation Regular communication of Deployment in the 3 main Ongoing communication Communication our ways of of CSR promotion CSR actions within the Group Business Units about C&S activities and about results of the working dynamic through, Annual management Promoting monitoring strategy update top management -Promoting meeting, internal newsletter and brainstorming session openness intranet and action plan towards New Ventures Presentation during the Done Organization of new -Being a leader Welcome Day (for all new awareness sessions in Open staff) in Belgium as a first for staff members in Innovation step Brussels and Dubai headquarters GRI 102-29 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 98 AMBITIONS OR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES RESULTS TARGETS RESULTS OBJECTIVES DRIVERS 2015-2016 2015-2016 2017-2018 2017-2018 2019-2020 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Integration of CSR -Synergizing Implementation Regular communication of Set up the C&S Internal consultations with -Internal consultations our ways of of CSR promotion CSR actions within the Group framework of BESIX top management to update with top management working dynamic through, Annual management Group and organize C&S strategy to update C&S strategy: -Promoting meeting, internal newsletter and review and reporting last phase in 2019 openness intranet every two years on -Brainstorming session towards New each of the framework with Group top Ventures segments to increase management mid-Being a leader progress review 2019: focus on Group in Open ambitions in terms Innovation of Climate change, circular economy, sustainable engineering solutions for clients Determination of GRI Done in the CSR biennial report. To produce C&S In progress within an To be further developed reporting information sheet up-to-date action plan according updated requirements every month showing Group ambitions achievements of the last months, on intranet and on website ISO 26000 review by Not done To perform with a third Done with a consultant Finalizing the analysis external party party a “gap analysis” review of the three reports compared to ISO 26000 Group support Done: CSR Ambassadors Network to be Still in progress C&S Ambassador organization coordinated by central Network to be updated HQ CSR Officer team based on Group C&S ambitions Unleash program About 80% Unleash ideas Follow-up of selected to report on C&S concerned sustainability, ideas for concrete innovation proposals especially, waste actions for consideration and management, water possible action treatment and HSE Information and -SDMS Development & SDMS Development Knowledge Management Deployment to Ver. 5.0 version 6.0 IM to streamline and was successful Digitalization Roadmap incentivize -Information Management, proof of concept validated Report for all entities 2015-2016 CSR report Deployment of new Still in progress Internal & external and consolidate preparation indicators consultations to define group indicators in updated ambitions at short and medium Group level according to term BESIX Group strategic drivers Report on feedback Done in the CSR report and WWF partnership EWS partnership in the -Reinforcing from our external Group's Annual Report Middle East partnerships with stakeholders on our NGOs in countries CSR approach and where we are active achievements -External consultations to update our Group ambitions BWI organization reports Done Yearly reporting meeting and sharing pursuant to signed framework agreement on human rights Extend the value of Partly achieved in this Report Action plan still in Still in progress Based on updated the indicators in our with the number indicators reparation Group ambitions, check reports and device included indicators in next report effective incentives and action plans Further Group Still in progress Carrying on in the same consolidated numbers direction GRI 102-29 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 99 AMBITIONS OR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES RESULTS TARGETS RESULTS OBJECTIVES DRIVERS 2015-2016 2015-2016 2017-2018 2017-2018 2019-2020 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Integration of CSR -Synergizing Support project Toolkit available on Intranet UAE: engagement of Done Support to projects our ways of managers in the a Senior Sustainability execution working effective integration Engineer -Promoting of CSR actions in the openness daily operations towards New Improved focus on the Still in progress With the support of Ventures integration of Competence center and -Being a leader C&S actions in the daily updated communication in Open operations toolkit. Innovation Further development Not done yet 2017: introduction in New website launched with Further develop C&S of Website CSR the new BESIX Group a C&S chapter actions on Intranet and chapter website website C&S information sheets Done for Middle East In progress for BESIX monthly from all entities Contracting on Group Intranet and website Board and committees -Synergizing Focus on risk Done: Develop a TenderDeveloped to be ready at our ways of management and -Update of IMs Policies & risk approach by the end of 2018 in line with working internal control Procedures to adapt the updating the Tender ISO 31000 -Promoting Company developments Processes to consider openness -Development of a projectRisk Management as towards New centric (in-house) interactive an integral part of the Ventures learning tool on company Tendering process policies & procedures: BE Pro Setting-up a Tender Still in progress Launch of a Risk Review Committee Network within BESIX Contracting Develop a project-risk Project risk management Application of the risk approach by updating the analysis, Q4, 2018: 93% management process on “Execution” Processes to High-Risk projects were all the High-Risk projects consider Operational Risk analyzed at execution phase Management Set up an Enterprise Done Consolidate the activity Risk Management -An “internal audit” function of the existing “Internal framework on the has been set-up and reports to Audit” function to every COSO model “BESIX Audit Committee” organizational functions -The “internal audit” and levels applies principles at core organizational functions to verify and report on New ERP to deploy to Still in progress Still in progress compliance secure organization and sustainable prosperity operations IMs “multi-entities” -Deploy “BESIX Maintain BESIX to streamline ways Contracting IMs” as a Contracting IMs Multiof working, risk Governance & Enterprise site certification management and internal Risk Management control framework -One BESIX Contracting IMs Multi-site Certification GDPR Personal Data Roadmap & deploy GDPR Make further progress to Management: status at Europe BU compliance with GDPR within the Group Group Rules update Done: BESIX Group Rules have Update the BESIX Group Still in progress Update will be finalized been revised on 27 March 2015 Rules in 2018 to adapt the in 2019 evolving organization and its context GRI 102-29 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 100 GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-18 Governance structure BESIX Group Activity report 2018 (4-5) This report is written based on, but not fully in ac102-19 Delegating authority 10-13 cordance to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for BESIX Group Activity economic, environmental, and social report 2018 (26-27) Standards 2016: Core option. topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 66-67 environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance BESIX Group Activity body and its committees report 2018 (24-27) 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body BESIX Group Activity report 2018 (24-27) SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest BESIX Group Activity GRI 100: Universal Standards governance body report 2018 (24-27) GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-25 Conflicts of interest BESIX Group Activity report 2018 (24-27) 102-1 Name of the organization 17 102-26 Role of highest governance body in 10-11 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and 10-13, 16-17 setting purpose, values, and strategy services 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 86-97 102-3 Location of headquarters 17 environmental, and social impacts 102-4 Location of operations 13,17, BESIX Group 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management 11, 22, 85 Activity report 2018 processes (56-57) 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in 22 102-5 Ownership and legal form 102 sustainability reporting 102-6 Markets served 13, 17; BESIX Group 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 22 Activity report 2018 (2, 54-55) 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 69 102-7 Scale of the organization 16 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 69 102-8 Information on employees and other 64-65 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated BESIX Group workers financial statements Activity report 2018 (160-164) 102-9 Supply chain BESIX Group Activity report 2018 (2) 102-46 Defining report content and topic 9-11, 15 Boundaries 102-10 Significant changes to the organization BESIX Group Activity and its supply chain report 2018 (4-5) 102-49 Changes in reporting 9-11, 15, 83, 85 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 10-11 102-50 Reporting period 9 102-12 External initiatives 15-16, 18-19, 66102-51 Date of most recent report 9 67, 81 102-52 Reporting cycle 9 102-13 Membership of associations 11, 18-19, 29,32, 5354, 57, 67, 80-81, 85 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding 102 the report 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 11 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 9, 100 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 15-16, 22; BESIX the GRI Standards Group Activity report 2018 (10-12,28-33) 102-55 GRI content index 100 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 10-15, 22, 66-67, 103-2 The management approach and its 21, 49, 59-60, 71 norms of behavior 83, 85 components 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 22 103-3 Evaluation of the management 27, 54, 60 about ethics approach GRI 102-54 102-55 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 101 GRI 300: Environmental Topics 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of 81 indigenous peoples 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of 34, 36, 37, 38, 39, 42, products and services 43, 47 412-1 Operations that have been subject 26 to human rights reviews or impact 303-3 Water recycled and reused 43, 44, 61, 74 assessments 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, 53, 95 412-3 Significant investment agreements and 26 products, and services on biodiversity contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 50 screening 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 50 413-1 Operations with local community 23, 25, 27-28, 31-33, emissions engagement, impact assessments, and 36-38, 42-44, 47, 53, development programs 55-57, 61, 72-79 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 50 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 26 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 32, 34, 50 53 social criteria 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 26 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 23 environmental criteria breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 400: Social Topics 401-1 New employee hires and employee 60 62 turnover 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding 60 operational changes 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint 60 62 management–worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 60 occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in 60, 66 formal agreements with trade unions 404-1 Average hours of training per year per 63-64 employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 52, 60, 63, 78-79 and transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 63 regular performance and career development reviews 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 64-65 employees 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration 81 of women to men 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and 26 corrective actions taken 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the 26 right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant 26 risk for incidents of child labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant 26 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor GRI 102-29 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 102 Key contacts in C&S Fréderic de Schrevel Group C&S Officer Secretary General Chairman of BESIX Foundation This report is exclusively available in English, both in a digital version and a limited number of printed copies. BESIX Group SA, avenue des Communautés / Gemeenschappenlaan 100, B-1200 Brussels csr@besix.com www.besix.com www.besixfoundation.com www.iso.org (ISO 26000) www.unglobalcompact.org www.globalreporting.org Additional information mentioned in this report can be arranged upon request via csr@besix.com. Photos Christophe Van der Eecken, Yvan Glavie, BuroJP Editorial Office BESIX Group CSR Team Design and production www.astrix.be GRI 102-5 102-53 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 103 BESIX GROUP C&S REPORT 2017-2018 104 BESIX Group SA/NV Avenue des Communautés 100 1200 Brussels – Belgium T +32 (0)2 402 62 11 communication@besix.com www.besix.com
