COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRODUCTION STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 3 ABOUT NORDIC OFFICE OF ARCHITECTURE 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS OUR VALUE FRAMEWORK AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES 8 OUR RECENT ACHIEVEMENTS 10 TOWARDS THE NEXT COP PROCESS OF ESTABLISHING GOALS 14 OUR GOALS TOWARDS THE NEXT COP 20 Nordic — Office of Architecture joined the UN Global Compact on the 9th of november 2016. This is our first communication on progress on the implementation of the ten principles and the broader UN goals. It covers the wo year period since committing to the programme. The report has been reviewed by our board and staff during production and is part of our framework for transparency and broad staff involvement in developing our company ethical standards and business. Our COP can be downloaded from the United Nations Global Compact website and our website: www.unglobalcompact.org www.nordicarch.com We welcome feedback on its contents. 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT INTRODUCTION As one of Norways largest architectural practices and with international The coming period will be exiting for our office, as we recently have a new departments and projects, we feel a big responsibility in setting a standard majority owner. Norconsult is Norways largest consultant firm, providing for our business and in delivering on our ethical and sustainable ambitions services in the fields of community planning, engineering and architecture. in our project, towards our staff, our clients and society. Our common business platform will be strengthened as a global contender, and we have the potential to profit from the best of our two companies in our further work. We both have high ambitions towards sustainability, and The global construction industry has a huge impact on peoples lives, the a common understanding of our role as a sustainable catalyst through our environment and the shaping of our future communities. We welcome the business. We hope this will give us a mutual chance to raise the bar and opportunity to contribute to a more sustainable tomorrow and to share our improve our efforts. ongoing progress. Nordic Office of Architecture wishes to express our continued support for Our policy We are committed. is founded in our office culture and includes the UN Global Compact and hereby renew our ongoing commitment to the our commitment to the UN Global Compact principles and our strive to initiative. always improve through a culture of transparency, democracy and quality management. Oslo, 21.12.2018 Over the last years, our office has experienced huge growth, with an increasing number of international staff and projects. This gives us new and valuable input to our practice and incentives to take further action towards Yours sincerely, sustainability. Our ambition is to further pursue international work, and strengthen and elaborate our quality standards. Our business portfolio has a has a large proportion of complex projects like airports and hospitals facilities that have large numbers of users and huge impacts both in their lifespan as buildings, as functions in a local and global community, and as physical frames for individuals in potentially pressed Eskild Andersen life situations. The potential for disseminating best practice through such CEO of Nordic Office of Architecture projects is substantial and of our highest priorities, and we are proud of our achievements and the feedback we receive. 3 WE ARE NORDIC OUR VISION Nordic — Office of Architecture consists of 200 dedicated POWERED BY COMMITMENT individuals from 27 different countries. Based in Oslo, with offices We are Nordic, a community that have created a culture for in Copenhagen and London, we are actively involved in projects beautiful and outstanding architecture – a culture Powered by on several continents. We aim to be an enduring and significant Commitment. presence renowned for a culture of quality architecture. Scandinavia is our base of operations, primary market, and a platform from which we aim to win international projects and acclaim. Our portfolio comprises the full spectrum of architectural projects, specialising in complex, substantial > COMMITTED TO SOCIETY projects of civic importance. We are geared towards taking We are committed to creating the society of tomorrow through complete responsibility for projects with extreme complexity and architecture that makes a difference. From the grandest airport high demands on logistics and efficiency. to a humble cabin; with the end user in focus, we design buildings & structures that are lasting and beautiful. Over the years, we have gained extensive expertise through a wide variety of projects ranging from large urban masterplans to furniture and interior fittings. We work in integrated > COMMITTED TO OUR CLIENTS multidisciplinary teams to achieve the most innovative and We are committed to our clients; to always give our best advice, to sustainable solutions. Our flexible, project based organisation is provide the best solutions, in short – total dedication. ideal for work on competitions and projects of all scales globally, and forms a platform for learning and sharing across disciplines, projects and localities. > COMMITTED TO OUR EMPLOYEES We are committed to give all our employees the best possible Nordic covers the following fields: opportunities to develop as creative and skillful individuals. -Masterplanning and urban planning -Architectural design -Interior, furniture and product design -Visualisation and film, BIMand design management 4 OUR APPROACH INTRODUCTION SECURING QUALITY THROUGHOUT THE ORGANISATION SHARING TO IMPROVE Nordic is one of the largest architectural practices in Norway, with We are proud of sharing the achievements in our projects with several branches and subdivisions. With a wide range of projects, the public and with the building sector. We only improve by from small scale to extra large, and with a big variety in complexity, continuously raising the bar, and opening up for discussion and it is crucial to have a common quality control system that is robust critique is a means towards innovation. Our work is part of the and flexible enough to cover the whole range of our work. In the public realm, and we owe it to society to aim for the best we can report period, Nordic has both revised our value framework and achieve. We present our projects and our work in a wide range of our quality framework and established a web based informationmedia and forums, both professional arenas and of general public and collaboration platform for maximizing accessibility to our interest. quality tools, in compliance with ISO 9001. We believe this prepares us for the challenges we want to take on in the future and for securing best practice quality throughout our organisation CHALLENGING AMBITIONS and our work. Our experience and expertise form a fundament for advising our clients and partners on their possibilities and emerging trends. We are keen on taking on tasks that bring the architecture business KEEPING ON TOP OF OUR GAME further towards a more sustainable society, and add value for our We depend on our expertise and supplying the knowledge and clients. solutions of tomorrow to our projects and clients. Keeping at the forefront of architectural practice and promoting innovation is key to delivering provident solutions in long term, complex TEAMING UP TO EXPAND OUR SCOPE projects. To continue to achieve this, we work on all levels of our Architecture is a profession that increasingly overlaps with a organisation to both increase our knowledge, share experience range of adjacent disciplines and with growing complexity. We and best practice, and to promote creativity and innovation. continue to partner up with companies and persons that expand Setting aside time to discuss important topics face to face across our understanding, knowledge and methodology, fuelling the the organisation has proven a success. Using our online portal creativity and innovation necessary for delivering cutting edge for everyday updates on what is going on in projects and across solutions in our projects. the company is an important information channel. Securing each individual a career plan and allocated time to pursue new knowledge is vital. We have developed the concept Nordic talks, where we once a month invite interesting external lecturers. 5 TO TRULY UNDERSTAND OUR CLIENTS’ NEEDS AND ALWAYS GIVE THE BEST POSSIBLE ADVICE, TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE SOCIETY OF TOMORROW, TO NURTURE THE TALENT THAT MAKES IT ALL POSSIBLE — THIS REQUIRES TRUE COMMITMENT, THIS IS WHAT DRIVES US. NORDIC — OFFICE OF ARCHITECTURE POWERED BY COMMITMENT 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Communication on progress 2016-2018 Doing business with integrity is at the heart of what it means to be part of a sustainable company. -Lise Kingo, CEO and Executive Director, UNGP 7 OUR VALUE FRAMEWORK AND THE TEN PRINCIPLES ANTI-CORRUPTION OUR FRAMEWORK AND STATUS 1 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. > Nordic has zero tolerance for corruption. We always advise our clients without self-interest or third party advantage. We are open about everything we do, both in our work and in relation to our clients and partners. After an initiative from staff, we have started a more transparent line with reports to staff on office finances. LABOUR 2 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. > Nordic supports the right to association and recognizes and encourages the right to collective bargaining. Salary of the first 15 years of seniority is secured through collective agreements. Rights and benefits are the same for all staff, and openly available on our intraweb. Staff appoints a union representative that leads the collective bargaining processes. The representative is freely available to staff as support and mediator in issues or conflicts with the management. Staff is represented on our office board. 3 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. > Nordic fulfils all its responsibilities on health and safety according to national legislation in our office locations. Specified work hours and corresponding regulations are according to The Norwegian Labour Inspection Authority. The office promotes regular work hours and avoiding overtime. 4 The effective abolition of child labour. > We have zero tolerance for child labour. Increasing focus on specifying building materials with certification, ensure ethical and sustainable production, including abolition of child labour. 5 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. > Nordic has zero tolerance for discrimination and sees great value in having staff from all over the world and with diversity in aspects like ethnisity, gender and religion. This greatly contributes to inspiring our office culture and our projects. We actively work to support the careers of minorities and women to disseminate diversity to all levels of our organisation. We see ourselves as a global office and regard our heterogenous work force as one of our strengths in reaching our businessand architectural goals. We measure salary levels to ensure we offer equal salaries regardless of gender. 8 HUMAN RIGHTS OUR FRAMEWORK AND STATUS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 6 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. > Nordic is committed to the protection of human rights. We strive to improve our policies, procedures and project development to strengthen the position of human rights within our sphere of influence. 7 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses > Nordic fulfils all its responsibilities on health and safety according to national legislation in our office locations. Through our work we shall contribute to building a better society in every country where we are engaged, including promoting human rights. In the reporting period we have undertaken our first quick check Human Rights Impact Assessment to target areas of improvement. ENVIRONMENT > As individuals and professionals, we are responsible for how 8 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. our actions affect the environment, society and our clients, colleagues and their families. We give our all for our clients and our colleagues – always. Through our collective efforts, we strive to create a better society, and sustainability is at the core of our business. We continue to pursue provident solutions for our business and our projects. 9 > Undertake initiatives to promote greater We have implemented a sustainability framework as part of our office project methodology. This is part of the development of environmental responsibility. every project. We also have an expert group on sustainable issues available to all projects and members of staff. They are involved in the continuous improvement of our practice and in disseminating knowledge across our organisation. > Nordic counsel projects and clients on the designand business 10 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. opportunities of sustainable solutions in their projects. We work on disseminating knowledge on sustainable design throughout the organisation. We are open to the opportunities offered by new environmentally friendly technology and encourage innovation and implementation in our projects and organisation when there is a possibility. 9 ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE REPORT PERIOD ON THE PRINCIPLES INTRO ANTI-CORRUPTION INHOUSE INHOUSE The report period has been marked by rapid growth in staff Nordic practices a zero tolerance policy on corruption, clearly and some restructuring, including changes in the central stated in our online office presentation. administration, partners / ownership and internal systems plus some new areas of business. Nordic has spent much time on establishing a new central vision, setting a direction for our common effort as an office. Growth is also a measurement for IN OUR PROJECTS the quality of our systems, where new team members need We have encountered no irregularities regarding corruption support to find their way and align with our operations. We in the report period. use the opportunity to learn and improve through our first COP process, where we are mapping ourselves from new perspectives. We also see the implementation of the SDGs as an opportunity to concretize our new vision in clear, provident goals to be reported on. This gives inspiration and direction to our efforts, hopefully resulting in even higher standards and innovation throughout our whole organisation. HUMAN RIGHTS IN OUR PROJECTS INHOUSE Our project portfolio currently consists of several large We have started working on our policies and routines in projects on infrastructure and hospitals, but also a number relation to the EU GDPR-directive on personal information of projects with a wide range of scale and programme, from management in businesses. mountain lodges to lage urban area plans. We have recently undertaken a human rights impact assessment to evaluate our standings on human rights issues. Through this exercise we have identified areas where we want to improve. In 2016 our Christmas donation went to Architects without borders, a network organisation for socially equitable architecture. In 2017 our Christmas donation went to CARE, a major international humanitarian agency delivering emergency relief and long-term international development projects. IN OUR PROJECTS We have not undertaken any particular measures to improve human rights in our project development. 10 LABOUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS INHOUSE In the report period Nordic has grown from 144 to 200 people The office supports sports activities with a fixed sum per staff, and expecting further growth in the coming year. We currently as a health incentive. Nordic also offers annual health checks have a 50/50 gender ratio and employ staff of 25 different through an affiliated medical centre. We subsidize glasses nationalities. The management has focused on measures to for staff if needed at the workstation. We also offer annual improve the framework of our work environment and staff adjustment of the personal workspace by an ergotherapist. contentment, including annual online staff surveys. It has also In cases of parental leave, Nordic supports staff financially by given special attention to promoting the careers of staff of bridging the gap between public benefits and ordinary salary. different nationalities and of its female staff, with a long term target of a differentiated leader group that reflects the overall company staff. IN OUR PROJECTS -The office has employed an HSE-manager to secure resources We follow all legislative regulation on HSE-related issues in our and improve facilities and routines for staff related issues. In building projects, including having HSE-cards and protective the report period, we have improved routines for integrating equipment at hand for building site visits for relevant staff. and supporting new staff, including a buddy-program. The routine of annual individual appraisal talks has been revised to be a better tool for concrete actions to reach individual ambitions and goals. We also actively track the general percentage of sick leave, as an indicator on contentment and appropriate work load. The office continues to offer a solid labour framework for our staff, as stated in our office handbook. The document regulates all isssues regarding formalities and benefits connected to employment and is common for all. The salary of the first 15 years of seniority is secured in a ladder system, securing equal pay for equal work for all, which is particularily important in the start of the career. All staff is offered insurances and pension schemes above the legal minimum and within the upper range in our field of business. 11 ENVIRONMENT INHOUSE • indoor bike parking and changing facilities Nordic is a member of the Norwegian Green Building Council • access to charging/parking for electric cars (NGBC), and is committed to working for a more sustainable • non-toxic and recyclable office supplies, including printer building industry through our line of business. toner We continue to strengthen our staff with colleagues and • reduction of printouts, including default double sided training to provide our project with up to date know-how printing and printer log in for staring printing jobs. on sustainable issues. This includes our investment in the BREEAM methodology as our preferred tool for securing sustainable qualities in our projects. We have growing group of trained and experienced staff for both international and In addition, we reduce our negative impact with further Norwegian BREEAM versions. measures, including: In the report period we have undertaken an effort to create a • good video conference facilities to reduce the need for air common methodology for implementing sustainable qualities travel in our building projects. This has resulted in an addition for • staff access to public transport pass and city bike pass securing sustainable qualities that has been included in the • subsidy for train pass for our Gardermoen staff office methodology for project development. • supervision of air quality in the modelling workshop We recently arranged a workshop for the whole office, adressing pressing issues on architecture and sustainability, such as sustainable urban design, social sustainability in housing projects and Our main office location in the KPMG building was chosen partly because of its central position with excellent public >: T2 OSL airport transport opportunities. KPMG is certified under the >>: Dønski dementia village v: Laksevåg verft environmental standard Miljøfyrtårn . This regulates a large proportion of the running of our main location, ensuring a good environmental profile, including: • routines securing low energy use, including zone controlled lighting, sensor-lit backoffice, energy saving equipment, use the currently most sustainable energy source • good indoor climate with possible zone adjustment of air flow and temperature • canteen with industrial kitchen advantages on energy use, waste reduction, meatless monday principle • maximising sustainable share of purchases • four fraction recycling: paper, plastic, food, electronics. 12 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS IN OUR PROJECTS Infrastructure Commercial, hotel and education Since joining the UNGC two years ago, we have worked with In the New Government Quarter we work towards a BREEAM some remarkable projects, including the OSL T2 airport Excellent-rating, and are currently investigating even higher terminal, which has achieved the highest BREEAM rating for ambitions. airports worldwide to date with an Excellent-rating. Sjetne School and Voss vocational school were built entirely in In Bergen the Terminal 3 extension of Flesland Airport achieved crosslaminated timber. Voss is furthermore heated with wood a 20 % energy reduction through its innovative solutions. industry waste material. Duevej Elementary School in Denmark achieved a DNGB Gold Health certificate. We finished the LHL heartand lung hospital, which has won The Comfort hotel Bergen Airport finished with a BREEAM prizes for its high environmental standards and innovative Very Good rating. solutions. The Aleris hospital extention boasts Energy Class A. Masterplanning The Stavanger University Hospital works towards a BREEAM Oslo AIrport City works toward a plus energy, smart city urban Very Good rating. plan. An extensive green recreational strategy and mobility Our human rights focus on deinstitutionalizing health care, solutions bonds the business park to the surrounding area. and using architecture for healing and belonging, empowers a Laksevåg Verft in Bergen is part of a research program looking group that is in a difficult life situation and that is challenged in into new energy storage solutions for urban areas, is looking advocating its needs. Three recent projects are designed with into smart city design and an ambitious energy profile, in a particular sensitive approach, Carpe Diem Dementia Village, addition to a strong focus on social sustainability and economic Østmarka Psychiatric Ward and Nesbru Nursing Home. empowerment in urban design. 13 ESTABLISHING GOALS FOR THE NEXT PERIOD GLOBAL BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES IN OUR LINE OF INFLUENCE UNGC annually highlights central challenges that needs special attention. This is presented as a business opportunity where there is a gap between needs and available solutions and services. Nordic has grown to be a large architecture business, and increasingly have to widen the scope of issues to integrate in the running of our office and for developing our projects at the forefront of our discipline. The following describes tasks related to the issues we have chosen to focus on from the global business opportunities reports 2017/18 issues that fall in line with our business, and where we see potential to contribute. CITIES DISRUPTED BY CLIMATE CHANGE < Our office has recently established a dedicated urbanism group, to target Urbanisation and climate change threaten to be a dangerous mixture. current and future urban challenges and integrate best practice in our urban More people are moving into urban areas, putting new stresses on planning projects. A broad understanding of sustainability in development is already vulnerable infrastructure. At the same time, climate change at the core of our project development. threatens to disrupt basic components of urban life. < Being a large office with extensive collaborative work, we increasingly CYBER THREATS rely on digital sharingand working platforms. With several high security In a more and more connected and digitised world, it is becoming projects, competition work and cutting-edge expertise, we take cyber increasingly important to address the threat of cybercrime. While threaths very seriously. Designated IT-staff continuously monitor and the digitalisation of our fundamental infrastructure is providing huge improve our security profile, with several measures introduced in the prospects, such as the internet of things, it also poses a threat to reporting period. This includes improving cyber security on hardware and everyday operations. systems, staff user interface and training all staff on detecting threats. < Equal opportunities is a core value in Nordic, and we strive to run our office REDUCED INEQUALITIES by the highest standards. Projectwise, particularily our urban projects have Inequality is on the rise around the world and economic growth is not the potential to make big impacts, and we currently work on implementing sufficient to reduce poverty, especially if it is not inclusive, and does not BREEAM Communities in more projects, including using methodology involve the three dimensions of sustainable development. Goal 10 aims and knowledge also in projects not undergoing certification. We want to to empower those at the bottom of the wealth ladder, regardless of sex, influence our clients to take greater responsibility in the construction phase. race, or ethnicity. Trainee or internship programmes for challenged groups is one response. RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION < We have extra focus on sustainable infrastructure in our projects, as this Today’s consumption is unsustainable, and with a forecast global dictates the resource consumption in a project for the overseeable future. population of 9.6 billion by 2050, the equivalent of almost three planets <We have focus on sustainable and ethical aspects when specifying would be required to provide the natural resources that sustain current materials in our projects. We also put great emphasis on flexible solutions. lifestyles. Goal 12 is a global goal that touches on nearly all aspects of <Our groups on housing and urbanism work with emerging housing and how we live our lives, and with global supply chains now the norm, the sharing economy trends, and how this opens up for a more sustainable and distant impacts of our consumption habits are difficult to perceive. flexible consumption. There is an urgent need for solutions that rethink how we produce and consume. CLIMATE ACTION Climate change is now affecting every corner of the globe; disrupting < Focus on reducing waste generation through our projects and in our office economies and lives, especially in developing countries. After several < Specify no alien invasive species in our projects.. Take precautious steps in years of plateauing, carbon emissions rose again in 2017. A 6% annual our projects to prevent the further spreading of invasive alien species. reduction in carbon intensity is required to meet the Paris Agreement, < Contribute to reducing emissions from the building industry. but in 2016 only two countries achieved this, indicating a need for accelerated action. Goal 13 promotes a path that both mitigates and adapts to future climate change, minimising the social, environmental and economic damage. 14 NATIONAL CHALLENGES AND OUR RESPONSE The Norwegian prime minister is, together with the presindent of Ghana, leading the UN advocate group for the UN sustainable development goals (SUDs). Since 2016, Norway produces annual reviews on the SUDs progress on national level. The work on identifying goals and progress is executed in the ministries, and presented to parliament as part of the annual presentation of the state budget. Of the currently identified challenges, we target the following issues: Reducing the proportion of young people not in employment, education > Offer training and internships to challenged youths. www.giensjanse.no? or training > Focus on sustainable infrastructure and mobility solutions in our projects. Ensuring sustainable infrastructure Promote sustainable mobility through our company and to our clients. Work towards maximizing sustainable mobility options for staff and visitors. Sustaining income growth of the bottom 40% of the population at a rate > Increase our focus on relevant measures for social and economic TOWARDS THE NEXT COP higher than the national average empowerment in area planning. Improving urban air quality > Focus on improving urban air quality in our projects Halving food waste and reducing waste generation > Focus on reducing waste generation through our projects and in our office Reducing the impact of invasive alien species > Specify no alien invasive species in our projects.. Take precautious steps in our projects to prevent the further spreading of invasive alien species. Reducing all forms of violence and related death rates and combating > Design for security and crime prevention. organised crime. As for the crucial area of climate change, national follow-up of the Paris > Contribute to reducing emissions from the building industry Agreement will constitute the main basis for action to fulfil SDG 13. Norway is committed to reducing emissions by at least 40 % by 2030, compared with the 1990 level. > In addition, municipalities like Asker are starting to implement the < Go into dialog and identify how we through our projects and collaborations sustainable development goals in their planning and running of the can contribute to reaching the municipal goals on the sustainable municipality services. development goals. 15 IDENTIFYING RELEVANT SDG-TARGETS AND IDEAS FOR ACTION The UN global Compact has elaborated the 17 Sustainable Our value framework sets the standard for how we approach the Development Goals with a number of indicators. These reflect process. We have analyzed both our project portfolio and our action that can make major impact. The indicators target administrative framework to set our benchmark. different levels of influence and a wide range of contexts and arenas. The list of indicators is not exhaustive, and can be expanded where relevant. We have narrowed down the indicators The UN GP library of reports has been a valuable asset both for where we believe we can make the biggest difference, and establishing understanding of the process at hand, outlining the elaborated with our initial ideas of how to target the issues. We necessary scope and for adding in-depth knowledge on the goals have also connected the national challenges to link to our main and targets. context. Our first set of goals will challenge us both in how we work and To secure that our office goals are rooted through our whole the concrete solutions that we develop. Our ambition is that our organisation, we continue to involve both staff and management effort to strengthen officewide collaboration on the goals will in the process. Presentations at office wide meetings, invitations contribute to better projects, a stronger office culture and an to workshops and to forward ideas to the GC team plus setting increased sustainable impact on society. up a physical GC status board for information and allowing for staff input are some of the initiatives in the report period. We have also initiated a sustainability forum to better link knowledge and initiative across the office. MAKING HE GLOBAL GOALS F T ND TARGET LOCAL BUSINESS O SA S AL AN ANAL A New Era for Responsible Business GLOBAL OPPORTUNITY YS REPORT 2018 GO IS Your guide to a world of opportunities Developed by Technical support from Supported by 16 TOWARDS THE NEXT COP It is our ambition to involve the entire office in the Global Compact work, making it part of our office culture. Our staff is our biggest asset, and we see mutual benefit in raising knowledge and promoting innovation on sustainability across our company. Image is from an open GC workshop on setting goals for the next period. 17 HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT BACKGROUND In the report period, Nordic has undertaken a Human Rights Impact Assessment quick check, published by The Danish Institute for Human Rights, to get a general overview and identify areas of improvement. The quick check contains 28 main questions and a total of 240 corresponding indicators. The suggested indicators are guidelines designed to help determine if the company complies with the main question. There are three types of indicators: policy, procedure and performance. The policy indicators seek to determine whether a company has policies or guidelines in place to address the human rights issue of concern in the main question. The procedural indicators inquire whether a company has appropriate and sufficient procedures in place to effectuate the policies, and the performance indicators request verification of company performance. The impact assessment help us identify where our policies and procedures can be strengthened, and further how we can take concrete action to advocate human rights through our NORDIC Office of Architecture business. July 2018 Issues covered in the impact assessment: A. EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES 1. Forced Labour 2. Child Labour and Young Workers 3. Non-Discrimination 4. Freedom of Association 5. Workplace Health and Safety 6. Conditions of Employment and Work HUMAN RIGHTS COMPLIANCE B. COMMUNITY IMPACT 1. Security ASSESSMENT (HRCA) 2. Land Management QUICK CHECK NORDIC 3. Environmental Health and Safety 4. Corruption and Bribery 5. Company Products The Danish Institute for Human Rights Human Rights & Business Project 1 · HUMAN RIGHTS & BUSINESS C. SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 18 POTENTIAL FOR IMPROVEMENTS The analysis is a general questionnaire made to fit a global audience. Hence, some of the questions are less relevant in our context, although they help broaden our understanding of the issues at hand in a wider perspective. Nevertheless, the exercise has identified points of improvement for both general office policies and procedures and also the framework for our projects, giving potential for better performance in our full line of business regarding human rights. We take these findings with us in establishing goals for the new report period and our continuous improvement effort. Key findings regard: TOWARDS THE NEXT COP Establish procedures for grievances. Clarify and expand policies on anti-discrimination and cultural sensitivity. Appoint responsible staff on relevant issues and identify need for training. Establish grievance guidelines. Clarify and expand documentation routines on health and safety issues. Verify new routines with workers' representatives. Establish grievance guidelines for HSE issues. Clarify and expand routines on preventing bribery and corruption, including identifying risk in projects, establishing investigation and precaution measures, and establishing grievance guidelines for corruption and bribery issues. Complete work on procedures for gathering and maintaining staff and client personal information, according to the EU GDPR directive. Clarify routines in projects on land use in terms of securing local/indigenous peoples' interests. Monitor pollution output related to our industry sector. Establish procedures and contractual framework for securing human rights in our supply chains, both in our direct project development and through our associated suppliers. 19 GOALS Our goals for the coming COP-period evolves from the 2017 office-wide process of establishing a clear vision and value framework for the years to come. Through analysing our current standing and our potential within all the ten principles, we have established eight main goals. In addition, we have elaborated these goals with secondary goals, to give a clearer scope of the tasks we hope to complete within the coming report period. The goals have been reviewed by the office management, and our staff has been invited to contribute. ANTI-CORRUPTION We want to strenghten our efforts against corruption and bribery in every form. INHOUSE IN OUR PROJECTS AND SPHERE OF INFLUENCE Improve our contractual framework to include values Promote the GC principles and our ethical standards. on zero tolerance on corruption in all our line of business. Clearly communicate our line of no tolerance for corruption. Establish guidelines for staff suspecting irregularities, to make it easier to take action. Establish efficient means of corruption risk assessment in our projects, including corresponding measures, and make generally available and present to relevant staff. 20 LABOUR We want our HSE-systems to represent best practice in our line of business. TOWARDS THE NEXT COP INHOUSE IN OUR PROJECTS AND SPHERE OF INFLUENCE Further develop our work on HSE, including clarifying Ensure that national legislative standards are being and expanding our documentation routines, ensuring met by our partners and subcontractors. optimal working conditions for staff and establishing grievance guidelines in cases regarding HSE-matters. Develop guidelines on responsible specification in design. Educate more, both inhouse and in our projects. Look into supporting further aspects of diversity, for instance evaluating our integration of staff with health challenges or recruiting trainees with a challenged background. 21 HUMAN RIGHTS We want our office routines to reflect that the rights, safety and well-being of our staff is a core value. INHOUSE Continue our Human Rights Impact Assessment work with annual revisions of our standings, looking into ways to improve our framework and our concrete impact. Closer collaboration with workers' representatives on verification of office policies and routines. Complete work on procedures for personal information, according to the EU GDPR directive. Clarify and expand policies on anti-discrimination, harassment and cultural sensitivity. Appoint responsible staff where relevant and identify need for training. Establish grievance guidelines to make it easier to take action. 22 We want to promote and secure the human rights in our line of work and sphere of influence, and support human rights-initiatives both through donations and active TOWARDS THE NEXT COP participation. INHOUSE IN OUR PROJECTS AND SPHERE OF INFLUENCE Develop guidelines on promoting the human rights Establish procedures and contractual framework for to partner companies and clients, particularily in the securing human rights in our supply chains, both in our international projects. Involve project teams from our direct project development and through our associated international projects on experiences and potential suppliers. learning from former and current tasks. Establish routines for early identification of local and Establish long term support and engagement in indigenous land use-interests, and facilitate consulting charitable organizations or -initiatives that offer processes that seek to safeguard their needs. humanitarian aid beyond our direct line of work. 23 ENVIRONMENT We want to continuously strengthen and disseminate state of the art knowledgde and methodology in our organization and our area of influence. INHOUSE IN OUR PROJECTS AND SPHERE OF INFLUENCE Continue to train staff in best practice sustainable Contribute with our knowledge on sustainability project development for different phases and programs. externally by actively engaging in the public debate, and Further disseminate inhouse knowledge and hands-on sharing data and experience through events like public methodology to staff through the departments, the lectures, exhibitions and conferences. office sustainability group and our internal web. Increase presence and availability of inhouse expertise, and promote more discussion and reflection on both inhouse Update our website project section with more and project quality improvement. comprehensive information on sustainable features. Strengthen the effort to implement high environmental standards through improving methodology, access to knowledge and support in the projects. Monitor and improve our office environmental profile, and seek to further reduce waste, energy use, unnecessary travel and other resource consumption. Improve indoor climate, sustainable mobility options and choose sustainable options where possible. 24 We want to raise the bar in the building industry, by challenging ambitions, multidisciplinary collaboration, and pursuing innovative solutions. TOWARDS THE NEXT COP INHOUSE IN OUR PROJECTS AND SPHERE OF INFLUENCE Improve our contractual framework to always Support project leaders in the client dialogue on include optional services for securing best practice establishing the sustainable profile, and securing it environmental standards. This can include BREEAM through all project phases. certification, plushouse design or other relevant frameworks or services. Promote principles for enabling communities and challenged individuals reach both social and economical Pursue an innovative and sustainable approach to prosperity. Influence our clients to take greater tasks at hand, for example through initiating early multiresponsibility in these respects in the construction disciplinary collaborations and research initiatives, or phase of building projects. Promoting trainee or joining research programmes. internship programmes for challenged groups or communities can be one response. Spark the commitment of our staff and increase possibilities to engage and influence the office sustainable agenda. 25 26
