The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Enter Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 1 At the LEGO Group, we’re committed to playing our part in helping to build a sustainable future, and through the power of play inspire the children of today to become the builders of tomorrow. Play helps all of us imagine and create a better, brighter world for children to inherit. Working with our partners and local communities, we will continue to do our very best to nurture these builders of tomorrow, their environment and communities. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 2 Contents Overview People This report is interactive Owner’s letter 3 Section 1: Our People Promise 41 Use the headings at the top of each page A letter from the CEO 4 Section 2: An ethical workplace 42 to jump to the start of a section. To go to a specific page, select from the contents list Our responsibility approach 5 Section 3: Health, safety and motivation 43 on the left. Throughout the report, there are Responsibility ambitions Section 4: Diversity and inclusion 45 also highlighted links to related information and performance 6 Section 5: A responsible supply chain 47 on other pages or online. Performance highlights 7 Section 6: Family-friendly workplaces 49 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 9 Our stories: Summer camp in China 50 LEGO Foundation 11 Listening to our children 13 Our performance Consolidated performance data 53 Children Accounting policies 55 Section 1: Learning through play 15 Assurance report 57 Our stories: Play Day! 19 About the 2018 Responsibility Report 59 Our stories: Coding around the globe 20 Our stories: Sharing the gift of play 21 Section 2: Championing children’s safety, rights and voices 23 Our stories: Digital child safety 26 Our stories: Giving children a voice 27 Environment Section 1: LEGO® Planet Promise 29 Sustainable materials 31 Our stories: Plants from plants 33 Our stories: Spreading the word 34 Waste 35 Water 36 Section 2: Tackling climate change 37 Our stories: Renewable energy 39 The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 3 Owner’s letter Through the eyes of a child... We believe children are our role models. Doing so has never been more important. As a company with play, learning and Their inbuilt sense of curiosity, imagination Technology is transforming our lives, the creativity in its DNA, we feel a sense of and resilience inspires me every day – and world around us, and our workplaces responsibility to lead the way into a new is something I believe we can all learn from. almost beyond recognition. The world of era of play. Indeed, ever since the words the future will be built on sustainability and Leg Godt – ‘Play Well’ in English – were These incredible natural abilities are honed social responsibility. The next generation first put together by my great grandfather and extended through play. Yet amidst must bring with them a whole new range in the 1930s to create the name LEGO®, the busy, achievement-oriented nature of of capabilities. our mission has been clear: help children modern life, playtime is under threat. Parents, grow and develop through play. educators, even children themselves are Only by providing children with the time, making less time for unstructured play and space and encouragement to play today This hasn’t changed – nor will it ever. instead defaulting to structured learning and can we help them gain the skills they We will always believe in the power pre-planned ‘play by appointment’. need to thrive tomorrow. Skills like of play to enrich lives, bring people collaboration, communication and, most together and give children of all ages This can – and must – change. Indeed, it’s importantly, creativity. a springboard to thrive and succeed. our ambition to make the simple, instinctive That’s why now is not a time for us to act of playing available to children all over And we have to be honest with ourselves. reflect but to act. A time to help a new the world. As a source of joy and fun, yes, It’s not happening quickly enough. generation of builders to shape their but also as a way to learn and to lay the future. Brick by brick. foundations for a bright future – where every child is able to achieve their potential. Thomas Kirk Kristiansen Representing the fourth generation owners of the LEGO Group The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 4 A letter from the CEO Encouraging progress made in 2018 How do we create a safer, more unified I’m pleased to say that, as a company, Indeed, whether it’s by promoting the power society, meet the shifting needs of the the LEGO Group is making progress. of play, becoming a more socially-active, world in the 21st century and preserve sustainable business or giving today’s the long-term health of our planet? We’re using our position to champion the young people a voice on the key social, importance of play. We know that children environmental and community issues of Finding an answer to that question is, learn when they play – and that play helps our – their – time, 2018 saw us take many perhaps, our greatest challenge. One that develop critical 21st century skills, such as positive steps towards creating the future will have far-reaching consequences for creativity and collaboration. We continued we aspire to. But the journey really is just future generations and that’s already our work in 2018 to bring the power of play to beginning. Tomorrow starts today – and re-defining daily life for people and more children all around the world, including every single one of us is a part of it. businesses all over the world. those in need, such as refugees and those who live in underprivileged communities. What’s more, young people aren’t sitting back and waiting for us ‘grownWe continue to work towards achieving ups’ to act. They demand change and zero impact operations. We strive to they’re committed to doing everything increase our waste and energy efficiency, Niels B. Christiansen they can to make it happen. I receive continuing to balance our energy usage CEO of the LEGO Group many letters from children sharing their with renewables. And, we will continue to ideas for creating a better world. increase the use of sustainable materials in our products and packaging without These young people are the leaders, compromising quality or safety. pioneers and game-changers of the future. We owe it to them – and those coming after them – to get the job started now – and give them a say in their future. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 5 Our responsibility approach Making Children Our focus areas: a positive 1. Inspire and engage children in learning through play 2. Inspire employees to become play ambassadors 3. Maintain the highest standards for quality impact and safety The planet is facing challenges today that will have a significant impact on the lives of future generations. At the LEGO Group we Environment want to make a positive impact on the lives Our focus areas: of children, our colleagues, our community and the planet. We strive to inspire and 1. Use resources sustainably develop children and to give them a voice 2. Invest in climate action on environmental and social issues. Our responsibility approach is based on the LEGO® Brand Framework, which encompasses our mission, aspiration, values and the LEGO Group’s Planet Promise. The UN Global Compact and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals provide a guiding framework for our strategy. Key partnerships with UNICEF and the World People Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) inspire and Our focus areas: challenge us as we strive to play our part in 1. A safe workplace creating a sustainable future for our children. 2. Increase diversity 3. Support a responsible supply chain The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 6 Responsibility ambitions and performance Children Environment People Our commitments and goals: Our commitments and goals: Our commitments and goals: • Zero product recalls •U  se sustainable materials in products • Zero accidents •R each more than 400,000 children by 2030 and packaging by 2025 •G ender balance at manager level through Local Community Engagement •E  liminate waste from factories and offices positions and above (LCE) activities by 2025 •S uppliers must abide by the LEGO Group’s •M ore than 2,000 employees engaged • Increase waste efficiency by 10% by 2020 Responsible Business Principles in LCE activities • Maintain 100% renewable energy achievement 2018 performance • Increase carbon efficiency by 10% by 2020 2018 performance Injury rate with Female managers Product recalls 2018 performance absence appointed and recruited Result Target Result Target Result Target Recycled waste 0 0 Result Target 1.3 1.4 43 40 Children reached by LCE activities 93 93 Business integrity Percentage of Result Target Waste efficiency improvement training suppliers audited 839,120 400,000 Result Target Result Target Result Target Employees engaged in local -3.4 3 100 100 93 100 community engagement activities Carbon efficiency improvement Percentage of suppliers with no non-conformities Result Target Result Target that require immediate correction 2,408 2,000 11.3 10 Result Target 67 70 The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 7 Performance highlights We are Sharing the gift of play Through our #BuildToGive campaign, Learning, coding and problem-solving on our we helped brighten the holidays for over As part of the RE:CODE London programme, 520,000 children in need of play. During the we provided 3,000 primary schoolchildren campaign in November and December, with the opportunity to learn valuable 21st LEGO® builders around the world were century skills such as coding and robotics. encouraged to build a holiday ornament with In 2018, the programme won the UK Digital LEGO bricks. For each ornament created way Leaders Cross-Sector Digital Collaboration and shared at LEGO stores or online, we of the Year Award. Following the success of donated one LEGO set to our local charity RE:CODE London, similar programmes are partners in 20 countries. underway in other countries including China and the United States. Making LEGO® products responsibly, brick by brick Supporting children We strengthened our existing Code of affected by conflict Conduct by introducing 12 new Responsible To help the millions of children affected by Business Principles, covering both the Rohingya and Syrian crises, the LEGO mandatory and best-practice standards. Foundation awarded $100 million to Sesame The new principles ensure LEGO products Workshop and their efforts to bring the produced around the world are done so power of learning through play to children responsibly, and all workers making LEGO in need. The grant will benefit some of the products are treated fairly. The principles world’s most vulnerable children and help also ensure the protection of children and transform the way the humanitarian system the environment. serves children affected by crisis in early childhood. Working in partnership with the international development organisation (BRAC), the International Rescue Committee (IRC) and New York University’s Global TIES for Children, the grant will aid refugee children in Bangladesh, Jordan and Lebanon. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 8 Performance highlights continued Thinking out of the Towards our Using real plants (sustainable) box zero waste ambition to make LEGO® trees We brought forward our ambition to use The LEGO Group aims to send zero waste to We introduced the first LEGO elements sustainable materials in all our packaging. landfill by 2025, and in 2018 recycled 93% of made from sustainable sources, a huge With our original target set at 2030, we are all waste from our operations. Additionally, step on our journey towards our ambition now aiming to remove single-use plastic 100% of all plastic waste produced during of using sustainable materials in all our from our packaging by 2025. In 2018, we the moulding of LEGO® bricks was recycled. products by 2030. Our botanical elements also introduced the How2Recycle® labels in This includes reusing some of the plastic such as leaves, bushes and trees, as well the US, encouraging consumers to recycle resin in our own processes, as well as as more than 80 other elements are now their packaging correctly. We maintained sending some of the waste to suppliers made from plant-based plastic sourced our use of 100% FSCTM certified cardboard to be recycled and turned into other from sugar cane. and paper which contained on average 75% plastic products. recycled material. Maintaining our 100% renewable record We are proud to have maintained our 100% renewable energy achievement. In 2018, the total energy output from our investments in renewable energy was greater than the energy used at LEGO factories, offices and stores. We also installed over 4,000 solar panels at our new offices in Denmark, making it a highly energy-efficient workplace. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 9 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Our commitment In 2003, we became the first toy company to join the United Nations Global Compact – the world’s largest corporate social responsibility initiative – and remain to the UN Sustainable committed to this universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and to ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. Development Goals Today, both the UN Global Compact and the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) provide guidance for our responsibility approach. The LEGO Group is committed to making a positive impact for children, and therefore we are particularly inspired by SDG's 4, 12, 13 and 17, which are the goals where we see our contribution making the greatest impact on the lives of children and the planet. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 10 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) continued Quality education Responsible consumption Climate action Partnerships Ensure inclusive and quality education and production Take urgent action to combat Revitalise the global partnerships for all and promote lifelong learning. climate change and its impact. for sustainable development. Ensure sustainable consumption We advocate for the transformative power of and production patterns by reducing, Since 2017, we have balanced 100% of We work with strong and inspiring partners play to be adopted in education and early reusing and recycling. energy used at factories, offices and LEGO to make the greatest positive impact for childhood development around the world. retail stores globally with energy from children’s development, the planet and our The LEGO Group’s biggest impact on the To do this, we provide high-quality products renewable sources. We do this through local communities. Our partnerships with planet is the sourcing of materials used to that stimulate learning through play, our direct investment, by both KIRKBI A/S and UNICEF and the WWF provide a source of make our products. We took a big step in LEGO® Education solutions promote play the LEGO Group, in offshore wind energy constant guidance, expertise and inspiration. our journey to use sustainable materials by in the classroom, and partnerships and and onsite solar energy. And we’re going 2030 and started to use plant-based plastic Read more on pages 23, 37 and 49. projects supported by the LEGO Foundation further, increasing energy efficiency and for our soft, flexible elements such as trees, support education around the world. We also reducing CO2 emissions per LEGO brick flowers and bushes. We also increased our want to inspire and engage children on produced in our factories and working with ambitions for sustainable packaging and sustainability. In 2018, we held a series of key suppliers in our value chain to reduce now strive to use sustainable materials in sustainability focused ‘Build the Change’ their carbon impact. packaging by 2025. We also aim to achieve events across the world and launched a zero waste by eliminating all waste to landfill Read more on page 38. LEGO wind turbine model containing an from our operations by 2025. instruction booklet with interesting facts about climate change and wind energy. Read more on pages 32 and 35. Read more on page 17. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 11 LEGO Foundation Builders of tomorrow We believe in the power of play and in the potential of children. The LEGO Foundation shares the overall Why do we need to re-define The Five Holistic Skills: mission of the LEGO Group – to inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow. play and learning? We are dedicated to re-defining play and Play is under threat and extremely Cognitive ensuring children develop the broad set of skills needed to thrive and succeed. undervalued, not only as a source of fun for Emotional children, but also as a means of learning The LEGO Foundation works to highlight the and development. This stems from the Social importance of children’s physical, social, misconception that play is something we cognitive, creative and emotional skills and do outside of the sphere of learning and Physical how these skills complement and interact with one another. We call these the Five development – that it’s a ‘nice to have’ rather than a ‘need to have’. We need Creative Holistic Skills. to change the perception of play, so people recognise how essential it is.1 Did you know? The LEGO Foundation owns 25% of the LEGO Group, and every year profits generated from the sale of LEGO® products are used to support learning 1 https://www.legofoundation.com/media/1062/ through play activities around the world. learningthroughplay_leaflet_june2017.pdf The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 12 LEGO Foundation continued Helping refugee children “Research shows that not only is play vital for children’s psychological, emotional and through play cognitive health and development, but it also The scale of the global refugee crisis is hones the resilience they need to overcome staggering. Today, 12.5 million children adversity and build their futures. By providing are refugees and they are expected to play-based learning to children in crisis, we be displaced for an average of 10 years. can help mitigate the detrimental, longThis means that millions of children term effects of displacement and trauma, are spending a significant part of their ultimately giving a generation of refugee childhood without access to adequate children a path forward.” – John Goodwin, early childhood development opportunities. CEO of the LEGO Foundation. Less than 3% of the global humanitarian aid budget is currently dedicated to education, with only a small fraction benefiting young With the LEGO Foundation’s children. This is despite clear evidence that early childhood interventions have extraordinary award, Sesame immediate and long-term benefits for both Workshop and our partners have an children and their communities. unprecedented opportunity to reach and teach some of the world’s most In December 2018, the LEGO Foundation announced a donation of $100 million vulnerable children by harnessing to Sesame Workshop. The money will the power of learning through play.” be allocated to bringing the power of Jeffrey D. Dunn, President & CEO learning through play to children affected of Sesame Workshop by the Rohingya and Syrian refugee crises. With partners in the international development organisation (BRAC), the International Rescue Committee (IRC) and New York University’s Global TIES for Children, the programme will support children in Bangladesh, Jordan and Lebanon. It will also support the development of critical new insights into effective models of learning through play for children affected by crisis. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 13 Listening to our children At the LEGO Group, children are our role models and we take their views and concerns seriously. Children are the builders of tomorrow and we believe understanding the issues that matter to them is critical if together we are to build a more sustainable planet. That’s why we’ve undertaken research with children around the world, asking them to express their worries, hopes and dreams using LEGO® bricks. We were surprised and inspired by what they shared, and you’ll see their answers throughout this report. In 2018, we spoke to children and their parents in some of our key markets to identify their worries, hopes and dreams, and will use this research to shape our ongoing responsibility approach. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 14 The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 15 Learning through play Play is powerful We know that play is vital to every child’s development. When children play, they learn to solve problems, to be creative, and to become resilient. It helps them thrive in a complex and challenging world. The great and powerful thing about play is that children can build valuable life skills while they have fun. According to our LEGO® Play Well report, published in August 2018, 83% of children say they learn more, and learn better, when there is play involved. 93% of parents and 81% of children believe that play should be an integrated part of educational settings. However, 64% of parents believe their children have fewer opportunities to play than they did as a child. Did you know? Given the many benefits of play, we want to The name ‘LEGO’ comes from ensure that parents, caregivers and teachers the Danish phrase ‘LEg GOdt’, around the world inject more play into their which means ‘play well’. Play is homes, schools and communities. what we’re all about – it’s even in our name. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 16 Learning through play continued Our playful approach to Definition – Play ambassadors are adults who are inspired by children’s innate inspiring children, employees creativity, curiosity and unstoppable and communities appetite to question, learn and problemsolve. They understand how play supports At the LEGO Group, we believe creativity is the development of these skills and believe linked to innovation and to problem-solving that by injecting play into our everyday – the twin drivers of economic growth in lives, we can reconnect with these abilities, many economies. According to a recent improve our work, and have fun together. World Economic Forum report, “65% of Play ambassadors infuse play into their children entering primary school today will work, their homes and local communities ultimately end up working in completely new to inspire and develop children. job types that don’t yet exist” and it cites creativity as one of the top three skills the Employees begin their journey with the workers of tomorrow will need. We want to LEGO Group by taking the PlayStarter help develop children’s critical life skills, so course, to gain a deeper understanding they become creative thinkers who are ready of learning through play. Once a year, the to solve the challenges of the future. LEGO Group celebrates Play Day, a day set aside exclusively for all LEGO employees At the LEGO Group, we want to encourage to play and get a hands-on experience of all employees to become LEGO® enthusiastic play. From there, employees can play ambassadors. sign up for our Play Agent programme where they learn how to facilitate exciting and engaging play sessions in their communities. Our employees are encouraged to bring their enthusiasm for play to their communities through our Local Community Engagement (LCE) programme. It operates in 26 countries around the world and we are working hard to expand it even further. The programme relies on thousands of passionate LEGO employees and support from the LEGO Foundation and LEGO Education. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 17 Learning through play continued Our performance •A s part of our LCE programme we have a Performance strategy to develop long-term partnerships In 2018, we continued to grow our level of with charities and schools focusing on Reached engagement with children around the world, 840,000 developing 21st century skills. In 2018, inspiring them with fun and exciting activities 7,000 children directly benefited through designed to support learning through play. these partnerships. We are particularly proud that this year we •2 018 was a record year for LEGO Play children in our local reached almost 840,000 children in our local Ambassadors, with more than 6,000 communities in 26 communities. Some of the highlights from employees trained in the Play Starter the year include: programme and more than 1,000 countries, supporting employees and external partners them to create, play, •T hrough the #BuildToGive campaign we trained as Play Agents. learn and have fun. donated more than 520,000 LEGO® sets to Commitment children in need of play. •M ore than 2,400 employees volunteered to support children play at events in their Reach •O ver 270,000 children participated in one400,000 local communities. off play activities such as Build the Change. This is a programme that gives children the opportunity to use LEGO bricks to Commitment express their ideas to create positive Engage 2,000 employees in children through our local change for their society and environment. local community and employee community play engagement Build the Change events were held in 15 countries around the world. One example engagement play activities. activities and help brighten was in Monterrey, Mexico, where over the holidays for children 17,000 children and their families used Performance in need of play. LEGO bricks to show how to improve their Engaged >2,400 employees in local parks and make them more playful and exciting for the whole family. activities supporting children in their local communities. For more results, see our full results table on page 53. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 18 I would like to see a world where we would help each other. Take care of each other. Be safe and healthy. Keep everything clean. Put things in the bin. Everyone has toys and lots of fun. Malakai, 9, US The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 19 Our stories Play Over 17,000 LEGO employees celebrated Play Day Day! In September, more than 17,000 LEGO® employees gathered together to celebrate our second ever LEGO Play Day. Employees were engaged in hands-on play activities. These have been designed to support and communicate the development of the Five Holistic Skills that children develop through play, and underpin learning for life (creative, physical, social, cognitive and emotional). Activities included building LEGO blindfolded, learning magic tricks with LEGO bricks, solving challenging puzzles, painting and building, and driving LEGO cars. 80% of participants surveyed said that Play Day had increased their awareness of the Five Holistic Skills, playing an important part in supporting employees to become play ambassadors. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 20 Our stories continued Coding around the globe We provided 3,000 primary schoolchildren This year, the challenges focused on air in London with coding and robotics-based pollution and electric cars, supporting the challenges as part of the RE:CODE London Mayor’s plans to improve air quality. We also programme. The programme is aimed introduced our first adapted event for at helping to build children’s confidence, children with Special Educational Needs, creative problem-solving, and STEAM skills including children with autism, Down’s (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and syndrome and dyspraxia. Maths) and is a partnership with the Mayor of London, Raising Robots and the Institute We are extremely proud that the programme of Imagination. won the UK Digital Leaders Cross-Sector Digital Collaboration of the Year Award. Following the success of RE:CODE London, similar programmes are under way in China, Czech Republic, Hungary, Mexico and the United States. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 21 Our stories continued The holiday season should be a time of laughter, joy and festive cheer, but for many children and families, it can be a difficult period. Through #BuildToGive, we wanted to help brighten the holidays for children in need of play. For every LEGO® ornament built and shared in LEGO stores or online, we donated one LEGO set through local charity partners in 20 countries, giving over 520,000 children around the world the chance to play. The campaign not only created the opportunity for families to build together, it also engaged children in giving back to those in need, which parents told us was highly relevant and appreciated. Fans of all ages joined in at 164 LEGO stores across 11 countries and used their LEGO bricks at home to create their own ornaments. Creations were displayed in-store, at events in malls, schools and our offices, and shared on social media and in LEGO Life. Our employees helped to deliver the sets to children in hospitals, care homes Sharing the and toy drives – bringing a fun, holiday play experience on top of the donation. Holiday seasons should be all about joyful moments, a time of creating gift of play… happy memories with loved ones. We were wowed by the amazingly creative ornaments shared by fans from around the world who most importantly helped to brighten the holidays for half a million children.” Kathrine Kirk Muff, Vice President of Social Responsibility and Engagement at the LEGO Group The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 22 The internet takes away part of childhood. Too few games played outside, too little family time. Parent, Germany The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 23 Championing children’s safety, rights and voices Children are our future Our child rights approach We are also committed to helping children get their views heard on the issues that At the LEGO Group, we strive to provide matter to them, in their local communities children with the safest possible products and in the wider world. Children are our and experiences and have a relentless focus role models and we are committed to on product safety. This extends to ensuring listening and acting upon their opinions we protect children in all our interactions and feedback. with them, both online and offline – from the physical and digital play experiences we We were the first toy company to sign provide, to the calls we take in consumer up to the Children’s Rights and Business services centres, to when we work with Principles, developed by the United children on product testing or welcome Nations Global Compact, Save the Children them to our stores. and UNICEF. We use these as a guiding framework to assess our operations and In our approach to digital child safety, we entered into a global partnership with are helping to empower children to become UNICEF in 2014. capable digital citizens. Our aim is to educate children on how they can stay safe online when using LEGO® Life, our digital social network for kids and tweens. In 2018, we launched an update to LEGO Life, which introduces children to key safety elements while using the app. For example, they are taught to share with care, to respect fellow LEGO Life users, and to report something if it feels wrong. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 24 Championing children’s safety, rights and voices continued Complying with the highest Our seven steps to The Digital Child Safety Policy outlines standards on product safety digital child safety: the seven following pledges. We promise to: Product safety is of utmost importance to We are committed to creating safe and Provide children with fun, Use tools, like the LEGO Group, and we have always been appropriate LEGO online experiences for safe and enjoyable digital moderation and ‘house committed to providing products that live up children. Our Digital Child Safety Policy experiences, within which rules’, to create a childto the highest global toy safety standards. reinforces our belief that building a safe and Our products meet, and often exceed, toy trusted digital experience is as important they can create, play and friendly environment safety requirements globally, including as developing a fun, engaging product. learn good digital habits the EU Toy Safety Directive and the US This applies globally and includes thirdHave adequate and Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act. parties who deliver LEGO branded digital Recognise children robust escalation experiences aimed at children. as key stakeholders We also comply with international legislation processes in place so for chemical use and only approve materials with rights that misuse is dealt with that meet the highest safety standards. swiftly and effectively Any new material used must be approved by our internal rigorous safety assessment. Empower parents to We request the chemical recipes for raw understand the potential Meet industry standards materials used in LEGO® products and make risks as well as for digital child safety, safety assessments based on the highest like those set by the standards. Furthermore, we apply a very opportunities of the online world, providing them with UK Council for Internet strict mechanical safety-approval process for every new element that is designed – it’s relevant controls to tailor Safety and the UNICEF/ our safety by design approach. their child’s digital LEGO ITU Child Online experiences Protection initiative Conduct regular selfassessments to measure compliance with our policy The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 25 Championing children’s safety, rights and voices continued Our performance Through our partnership with UNICEF, Commitment we have further strengthened our child Achieve zero In 2018, we continued our relentless focus safeguarding policies to ensure the on product safety and protecting children children we interact with are engaging in online. There were once again zero product safe physical and digital play experiences. recalls, a record we have proudly maintained We hope the new Child Safeguarding Toolkit for nine years through constant focus on the will inspire and provide guidance to other highest standards of quality and safety. companies seeking to implement a child product recalls for the We continue to implement the 10 Children’s rights approach to their business. ninth successive year Rights and Business Principles throughout For more results, see our full results the company, and through our partnership table on page 53. with UNICEF we supported the launch of their Child Safeguarding Toolkit for Business – a practical guide that allows companies to identify, assess and address risks to children with whom they interact. The materials in the toolkit were developed and tested together with UNICEF who we are working with to help promote the toolkit and encourage other businesses to implement child Child safeguarding is a key pillar safeguarding policies. of our efforts to promote better At the LEGO Group we are rolling out business for children. With this e-learning for employees who directly toolkit we want to help companies interact with children, helping to build analyse child-related risks and awareness of why and how we can protect children across all areas of the business. make decisions that are good for children and good for business. The partnership with the LEGO Group and their ongoing safeguarding journey has been critical in informing the development of the toolkit.” Gary Stahl, Director of UNICEF’s Private Fundraising and Partnership Division The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 26 Our stories First of its Children under the age of 18 account for In 2018, we were excited to strengthen an estimated one in three internet users our partnership with Chinese technology around the world, according to UNICEF. company Tencent to create an online ecoAnd in China, internet users under 18 system covering platforms, content and kind, digital account for roughly one quarter of the experiences that bring fun, creative and safe total number. 2 digital offerings to children with games such as LEGO® CUBE. Our focus is on protecting As more children connect digitally, safe players through different means ranging online play experiences are a vital issue from product design and user registration for parents and for the LEGO Group. child safety protection systems, to parental controls We believe that the best way to improve and user interaction safeguards. The entire digital child safety for children is through system has been set up to comply with strong partnerships between industry, external standards, as well as the LEGO parents, policymakers and civil society. Group Digital Child Safety Policy, which partnership was developed with input from UNICEF and Tencent. in China Faced with the tendency of lower age in internet users, the cooperation between the LEGO Group and Tencent can leverage technological and innovative means to build a healthy online environment for children.” Anna Gao, Vice President of Tencent Games 40th Statistical Report on the Internet 2  Development State in China by China Internet Network Information Center. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 27 Our stories continued Giving children a voice on their future World Children’s Day, celebrated on 20 November, is a global day of action ‘for children, by children’. Organised by our partner UNICEF, it is a day when leaders are held to account on their promises to protect and promote children’s rights, including their right to be in school, safe from harm and to fulfil their potential. To mark this year’s World Children’s Day, the LEGO Group and LEGO Foundation invited more than 3,000 children around the world to attend ‘Build the Change’ events and build their ‘ideal learning spaces’: where play, creativity and fun are at the heart of everything they do. Facilitated by employee volunteers, the events took place in six countries – China, Denmark, Hungary, Mexico, South Africa and the UK. Using LEGO® bricks as a tool to communicate and express themselves, we encouraged children to think about their entire school experience: the building, the surrounding play areas, the material they learn, the teachers – and everything in between. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 28 The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 29 LEGO® Planet Promise Making Our world gives us so much – food, fresh We will do this by: air, clean water – but the strain on natural •R  educing our impact on resources – using resources is beginning to show. The world sustainable materials in our products and continues to experience increasing packaging; reducing waste and water concentrations of greenhouse gases, consumption; and extreme weather conditions and rising sea levels. Landfills are overflowing with •T  ackling climate change – investing in a positive waste and most people will have seen energy efficiency and renewable energy. increasing levels of plastics in our seas, We comply with all relevant legislation, affecting marine life. Only through working standards and identified requirements. on a global scale, will we be able to halt All our production sites are certified these trends. according to the international environmental At the LEGO Group, we want to play our part standard ISO 14001. and make a positive impact on society and impact the planet, which our children will inherit, and it is this focus on future generations that drives our work. We believe we have a responsibility to minimise the environmental impact of our operations. However for us, minimising is not enough, we want to aim for zero environmental impact on the planet. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 30 I hope people can ride bicycles more, to protect natural resources and the environment. Also, the wheels on the bicycle means going forward. So it means the wheels will bring my dreams to the future. Hao, 10 years old, China The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 31 Sustainable materials Protecting Our approach to  he LEGO Group’s sustainable packaging T ambition more specifically focuses on sustainable materials finding sustainable packaging alternatives Our long-term goal is to eliminate the by 2025 that are: natural environmental impact of making our much•R enewable – We will eliminate single-use loved LEGO bricks. This means finding and plastic from all our packaging, and all our investing in sustainable materials to make LEGO boxes, bags and other packaging our products. The LEGO Group’s ambition will be made from recycled materials or resources is to use sustainable materials in all our sustainably sourced bio-based materials. packaging by 2025, and products by 2030. •E fficient – We will continue to optimise and In 2018, we took the first steps on our journey reduce packaging, balancing consumer to making our products and packaging from appeal with environmental action. sustainable sources. •R ecyclable – We will continue to design Resource depletion is one of the biggest For the LEGO Group, a sustainable material packaging that makes it easier for is one that: consumers to recycle in our major markets. global challenges of our time. To address this challenge the LEGO Group is working •R  educes our environmental footprint In 2018, we brought forward our ambition on hard to find sustainable sources for all compared to the previously used material sustainable packaging from 2030 to 2025, materials used to make our products and • Is made with sustainable chemistry in recognition of the need to find better packaging. In addition, we are investigating packaging solutions sooner. And across • Is made from sustainably sourced and our entire value chain, we want to ensure ways to keep LEGO® bricks ‘in play’ for as that environmental impacts are minimised manufactured feedstock long as possible, and ensuring they are wherever possible. All suppliers must abide recyclable at the end of their long life. • Creates minimum waste in the value chain by the LEGO Group’s Responsible Business Principles (see page 48). Suppliers who Non-negotiables for sustainable materials: manage their environmental impacts will be better placed to respond to new •M  eets our high quality, safety and legislation and other challenges such as durability standards scarce resources. • Maximises the play value of our products The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 32 Sustainable materials continued Our performance Commitment Performance We will continue to research, invest in and Use sustainable materials We introduced recycled materials LEGO boxes in the US and Canada develop new sustainable materials. We will in our packaging by 2025. in blisters on packaging. started to feature the How2Recycle® also work with the WWF, the Bioplastic label, promoting packaging Feedstock Alliance and other partners More than 75% recycled content recycling and providing US and to ensure the resources of the planet are available for future generations. It is our was used in our cardboard Canadian consumers with clear intention to ensure that we use materials in packaging. Since 2015, we have guidance to responsibly recycle line with the circular economy. During 2019, maintained our achievement of their LEGO packaging. we will create tools and processes to analyse using 100% Forest Stewardship the possibilities for implementing recycled Council™ (FSC™C117818) All plastic trays used in LEGO materials and identifying how to measure circularity of our products and packaging. certified paper and cardboard in Advent Calendars were replaced our packaging. with recyclable paper-pulp trays, To ensure that the chemicals used saving more than one million plastic in materials meet our standards for trays from going to landfill. sustainability and safety, we established the LEGO® Advisory Board on Chemistry in Sustainable Materials. The board is comprised of a team of leading independent chemical experts who can guide us on developing processes and principles Commitment Performance to ensure new sustainable materials will meet customers’ and consumers’ Use sustainable materials to We launched the first LEGO future expectations. make LEGO products by elements made from plantbased plastic. For more results, see our full results table on page 53. Over 80 LEGO elements are now being made using sustainably sourced sugar cane. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 33 Made from plants Made from plants Our stories Bush Limb element Plants from Made from plants plants Bamboo leaf Did you know that plastic can be made We are also a partner of the Bioplastic from plants? In 2018, we started to use Feedstock Alliance (BFA). The BFA was green polyethylene, which is a plantfounded by the World Wide Fund for Nature based plastic made from sugar cane that (WWF) and is a multi-stakeholder forum is grown in Brazil. It looks the same as focused on increasing awareness around traditional polyethylene but comes from the environmental and social performance Made from plants a sustainable source. of potential feedstock sources for plantSpruce tree based plastics. We began by using plant-based plastic to make more than 80 LEGO® botanical elements, such as leaves, bushes and trees. The plant-based plastic used in the Making the change to bio-based elements meets our highest standards for sources is a multi-step journey. It’s quality and safety. not a one-step process, nor an easy This is an important first step out of many on one at that, because ready-made our journey towards using 100% sustainable solutions just don’t exist. Solutions materials by 2030. need to start from scratch. But It is important for the LEGO Group that despite this challenge, the LEGO Made from plants the sugar cane used to make the green Group has made a bold commitment Palm leaf polyethylene is grown sustainably using to join and engage with the BFA to the best ethical practices. To address find those solutions.” this the LEGO Group sources sugar cane that is certified by the Bonsucro Chain of Erin Simon, Director, Custody standard for responsible sourcing. Sustainability R&D, WWF The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 34 Our stories continued Spreading the word about sustainability We want to inspire the builders of Throughout August, 2,700 children tomorrow to learn more about the participated in special events at our retail natural environment and act on issues stores in New York and Berlin, and at that concern them. As a result, this year the Natural History Museum in London. we invited millions of builders around In addition, more than three million people the world to join in the celebration of engaged with our campaign on social media. our new plant-based elements. The event at the Natural History Museum was the first in a year-long partnership to We called on children to combine the help inspire children to explore and take new plant elements with existing LEGO® care of the natural world through play. bricks they have at home and build ‘Plantus Maximus’ – our sustainability superhero. We asked children to join Plantus Maximus and his friends on their mission to protect the planet. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 35 Waste Did you know? In 2018, we recycled 93% of all waste Reduce, coming from our stores, offices and factories. As part of this achievement, 100% of all plastic waste produced during the moulding of LEGO bricks was recycled. This includes reuse, recycle reusing some plastic in our own production processes, as well as sending some to be recycled by other companies who use it to make their own plastic products. Our approach to waste Our performance Commitment Commitment management In 2018, we generated 18,549 tonnes of Improve waste efficiency Recycle 93% of all waste waste, an increase of 16.9% compared to Our use of resources is based upon 2017. We did not meet our target for waste by 3% in 2018 vs 2017. and 100% of element waste. three principles: efficiency improvement but maintained our high recycling levels from 2017. Performance Performance 1. Reduce our consumption of resources. 2. Reuse as many resources as possible. Waste efficiency All waste recycled In order to meet our waste efficiency targets, 93% 3. Recycle the resources we cannot reuse. we have implemented new processes. At our improvement fell by 3.4%. factory in Monterrey, Mexico, for example, Reducing our waste is not only good for the single-use wooden pallets were accounting 2016 1.6% environment but is good for business, as for a large amount of waste, so in response fewer raw materials are required to produce we implemented a project which substitutes the equivalent amount of LEGO® elements. single-use pallets with a reusable solution. Additionally, internal multi-use pallets are Element Our work to reduce waste is based on several targets, including a yearly waste being modified to ensure increased lifespan. waste recycled 100% Although we hoped to start the project at 2017 -2.9% improvement target, a medium-term target the beginning of the year, we ultimately set together with the WWF to improve waste didn’t begin until August. Despite the delay, efficiency by 10% in 2020 vs 2016 and a this project has had a huge impact in 2018. long-term ambition – zero waste to landfill In 2019 and onwards we expect the project from our operations by 2025. And we are will reduce our waste generation more determined to achieve this. 2018 -3.4% than 10%, removing 2,000 tonnes of waste per year. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 36 Water Commitment Performance Reduce water use In 2018, we consumed Reducing in our operations. 683,000m3 of water, a slight decrease compared to 684,00m3 in 2017, despite 2017 increased production activity water use 684,000m3 across the LEGO Group. 2018 683,000m3 Our approach to Our performance water management In 2019, we will implement new onsite water wells at our facilities, and we have At our factories we use water for process already designed one at our factory in cooling and air conditioning systems. Nyíregyháza, Hungary. We will continue to Water consumed by our five factories is work to increase our resource efficiency as sourced from public water supplies, and we scale up production at our factories. we monitor and track the use of water from all our production facilities. We use For more results, see our full this data to identify any opportunities results table on page 53. to reduce water in our operations. At present, we measure our monthly and yearly water consumption. While water Did you know? use is very low in the production of In 22 countries, mostly in Northern LEGO® bricks, we always strive to use it Africa, Western, Central and Southern as efficiently as possible and are working Asia, the water stress level is above on a strategy and target to ensure we 70%, indicating the strong probability maintain our focus in this important area. of future water scarcity.3 3 https://sdg.iisd.org/news/fao-report-analyzes-global-trends-in-water-stress/ The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 37 Climate change Did you know? The Arctic ice has shrunk in every decade Tackling since 1979, and in the past century global average sea levels have risen by 19 cm, as oceans have expanded due to global warming and ice melting.4 climate change Our approach to energy We also strive to ensure high environmental standards across our value chain and aim to efficiency, renewable energy reduce emissions through our Engage-toand emissions Reduce programme. This supports suppliers in collecting climate data and introducing Our Environmental Policy outlines our carbon targets. approach to tackling climate change. We implement energy efficiency actions The LEGO Group partners with the WWF, across our operations as our first priority, as part of our efforts to reduce the CO2 before looking to invest in onsite and emissions in manufacturing and supply chain offsite renewable energy capacity. operations and promoting global action on climate change. Together with the WWF, we In order to guide us we constantly monitor have set ambitious targets to improve the and evaluate our performance to take the carbon efficiency in our own operations by necessary actions to reach our targets. 10% in 2020 vs 2016. This will ensure more One example of our investments in onsite sustainable means of producing LEGO® renewable energy capacity is the installation play experiences. of solar panels at our new campus office in Billund, Denmark. 4 Source: http://www.un.org/en/sections/issues-depth/climate-change/index.html The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 38 Tackling climate change continued Our performance In 2018, we consumed 340 GWh of energy 2018 Commitment 2018 Commitment at LEGO® factories and offices around the world, an increase of 8.6% compared to 2017. Further engage key suppliers Continue to balance 100% of the This was due to an increase in production to reduce CO2 emissions in energy consumption from our levels globally. our supply chain. factories with renewable energy Meeting our 2020 carbon efficiency target produced onsite and offsite. 2018 Performance remains a challenge. In 2016, when we set our current target baseline, efficiency in our 50% of our suppliers in the Engage2018 Performance factories was high as they were working to-Reduce programme now have The LEGO Group continues to at optimal capacity. However, in 2017 two a corporate energy target, and 75% balance 100% of the energy factors affected our efficiency; firstly, our new factory in Jiaxing was included in our carbon have started to implement their consumption from our factories reporting for the first time. The factory was own energy-reduction projects. with renewable energy produced coming on-stream and gradually building onsite and offsite. its production volumes which meant it had low production utilisation. Secondly, lower than anticipated sales and corresponding production levels during 2017 reduced production efficiency, impacting our longterm efficiency ambitions. Commitment 2018 Performance 11.3% Every year we publish our overall, full value Improve carbon efficiency in Carbon efficiency improved by chain climate impact and our CO2 footprint our own operations by 10% calculation is currently being finalised. in 2018 vs 2017. We will publish a CO2 figures appendix in 2019 alongside our 2018 carbon footprint figures (greenhouse gas inventory). We reported our climate strategy and performance to the CDP (formerly the 2017 Performance -25.4% Carbon Disclosure Project), a not-for-profit charity that runs the global disclosure system for organisations that manage their environmental impact. We are proud to be awarded an industry-leading score of ‘A’ in 2018 for our efforts in tackling climate change and curbing our carbon emissions. For more results, see our full results table on page 53. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 39 Our stories Renewable We’re big fans of wind power! One of Denmark’s largest We’re proud of our achievement of being rooftop solar energy systems 100% balanced by renewable energy, due We don’t just build our products with great to the investments made in offshore wind energy innovation – we also build innovation into farms in Germany and the UK by KIRKBI A/S our buildings. Our new LEGO Campus in – parent company of the LEGO Group. In 2018, Billund meets our own Build Better standards, the energy output from our investments in as well as leading Danish and international renewables was greater than the energy used building requirements. For example, by using at LEGO® factories, offices and stores. stronger plasterboard in its construction, In order to spread the word about the power we saved 22,000 kg of steel and 353,000 kg of renewable energy, and at the same time CO2 emissions. In 2018, we went further celebrate play, creativity and imagination, and invested DKK 8 million in 4,150 solar we unveiled the Vestas® Wind Turbine set, panels, so the LEGO Campus will meet and included one of the all-new sustainably leading standards for sustainability and sourced plant-based plastic LEGO elements. energy efficiency. The panels cover 6,500m² of the roof of the parking house and will produce more than 1 million kWh every year. This will provide We strive to make a positive impact approximately 50% of the energy needs of on the environment and are our LEGO Campus – that’s enough electricity to power 200 households. The solar panels committed to climate action and will also provide energy for the cooling plant to using sustainable materials in used to cool down the building during the products and packaging. This wind summer months. turbine celebrates our first steps in As a result of installing the solar panels, bringing these ambitions to life and our LEGO Campus not only meets, but also we hope it will inspire builders to significantly exceeds, the low-energy, Danish learn about renewable energy.” 2020 building standard. Going forward, we will explore options to expand renewable Tim Brooks, Vice President, Environmental energy capacity at our manufacturing sites Responsibility, at the LEGO Group even further. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 40 The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 41 Our People Promise Putting people first We care deeply for the people who are Our supply chain part of making LEGO® play experiences We want to ensure that everyone involved possible and are committed to upholding in the production of LEGO products is human rights and ensuring safe, healthy treated fairly and with respect, and that and respectful workplaces for our suppliers and partners share our values employees. We strive to champion and commitment to business integrity. responsible business principles across the company which includes: On children We strive to create family-friendly workplaces, Our employees where the wellbeing of families is considered, We focus on the wellbeing of employees both in the LEGO Group and at our suppliers. and work to create a safe, motivating and inclusive workplace that maintains the highest standards of ethical behaviour. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 42 An ethical workplace Keeping our Every day at the LEGO Group, we engage Our performance with millions of people over social media, at our LEGO® Brand Retail stores, and the Anti-bribery and corruption people who contact our consumer services One area covered by our Ethics Code is values at heart team. We are humbled that so many people corruption. Corruption raises serious moral, believe in our company and love LEGO economic and political concerns, damages products as much as we do. We want to trust, undermines good governance, hinders exceed their expectations and will never development and distorts competition. sacrifice our values for short-term gains. This is at the very heart of the LEGO brand When acting on behalf of the LEGO Group, and the foundation of our Ethics Code. employees and third-parties must adhere to our Anti-Corruption Policy and not take part in any form of bribery (including Our approach facilitation payments). Where local •E very employee and third-party acting on regulations are stricter than this policy, behalf of the LEGO Group anywhere in the they take precedence. world must apply high ethical standards and principles of integrity, honesty and People managers are trained to encourage legality in all they do. They must comply open discussions regarding anti-bribery with our LEGO Code of Ethical Business and corruption issues among their teams. Conduct (‘Ethics Code’), even if it means We handle all reports of breaches discreetly, losing business or reducing profitability. taking every effort to protect the identities of anyone making a report, within legal limits. •O ur Ethics Code covers numerous issues, We also ensure there is no retaliation from including anti-bribery and corruption, the company for making a report. charitable donations, children’s rights, competition compliance and avoiding In 2018, 100% of employees at director level conflicts of interest. Clear guidelines and above completed mandatory training on and training also provide certainty for bribery and anti-corruption. employees so they are aware of the latest legislation and internal policies and can act while maintaining the highest standards for legal and ethical behaviour. •T o acquaint new employees with our Ethics Code, they are required to take online courses in safety, security and business ethics within the first few months of employment. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 43 Health, safety and motivation Let’s all watch out for each other! Our approach to managing Did you know? health, safety and motivation Across the LEGO Group, we have two global processes for reporting, investigating and Safety for employees is a top priority and monitoring any environmental, health and we aim for zero accidents at our factories, safety (EHS) incidents. LEGO® employees stores and offices. Our Occupational Health must flag any incident and add it to a and Safety Policy ensures all activities are central database where they are tracked carried out with health and safety in mind. and handled to prevent future incidents. We comply with national and international From there, a plan of action is created legislation, as a minimum requirement. to prevent re-occurrence. Verification of Every year, we measure the motivation, process compliance is carried out by our satisfaction and work-life balance of all Corporate Quality and EHS department. employees. We benchmark the results We are transferring our OHSAS 18001 against similar companies in 18 countries certification to ISO 45001, and have created to ensure that our results are consistent an EHS Handbook, which describes with best practice. expectations towards incident handling. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 44 Health, safety and motivation continued Our performance Commitment In 2018, we expanded our Dare to Care Employee motivation and health and safety programme and initiated rigorous procedures in operations to satisfaction scored eight points reduce incidents in our factories and ahead of the industry employee packaging facilities. This is founded on four wellbeing benchmark. Environmental, Health and Safety principles. Performance We are pleased to report that the injury rate in 2018 of 1.3 injuries per million working Employees reported that their hours is one of the best results recorded motivation and satisfaction by the LEGO Group and is very close to our increased four points from 2017. long-term ambition of world-class safety. The score was 12 points ahead In 2017, our employees’ motivation and of the external benchmark. 2014 1.7 satisfaction were impacted by the reduction in the size of our organisation. However, in 2018, we’re pleased that motivation and satisfaction increased across all employee groups. We are now 12 points above the 2017 1.4 2015 external benchmark and have regained nearly half the drop from 2016 to 2017. It’s critical that we do not take this progress for 1.4 2016 2018 granted and continue to focus on creating a space where everyone can feel energised every day, can do their best work and be 1.3 1.3 their best selves. For more results, see our full results Commitment table on page 53. To achieve zero work related accidents; <1.4 injury rate with absence* by 2018. Performance In 2018, we met our target for injury rate *The rate of occupational injuries is calculated for all employees, with a result of 1.3. excluding external agency workers, as the number of injuries per one million working hours. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 45 Diversity and inclusion Did you know? Encouraging According to research from McKinsey the most ethnically diverse companies are 35% more likely to outperform the least ethnically diverse companies.5 So a diverse workforce that provides equal opportunities is not only diversity fair, it makes business sense too. Our approach to managing Our performance Commitment diversity and inclusion During 2018, we strived to ensure that More than 40% of all employees diversity was reflected in new hires and hired or appointed at manager Our People and Culture Policy sets out our promotions across the organisation. level and above are women. approach to respecting fundamental labour We met our target of more than 40% of rights and a fair workplace. We provide new hires or appointments at manager equal opportunities for all employees and level and above being women. We took no employee may be discriminated against the initial steps to form a new global because of background, race, religion, age, Diversity & Inclusion Council, which will disabilities, sexual orientation or gender. launch in 2019 following the conclusion of Our Responsibility and Human Rights Policy the company-wide application process. describes our efforts to prevent and mitigate We also plan to appoint another woman adverse human rights impacts. The policy to the LEGO A/S board which currently reflects our continued commitment to our comprises seven people. We have set LEGO® Brand Framework and to the UN a target for this increase by 1 January Global Compact, the UN ‘Respect, Protect, 2020. No changes to the board were and Remedy Framework’ and its ‘Guiding made in 2018. In addition, the board of Principles’. It covers all aspects of our value LEGO System A/S (a subsidiary to LEGO chain and applies to all LEGO branded A/S) meets Danish legislative guidelines products and services. for gender balance because one out of four general assembly elected board members is female. Performance For more results, see our full results table 43% of employees hired or appointed at on page 53. manager level and above were women. 5 Source: https://blog.teamable.com/6-statistics-that-will-convince-you-to-prioritize-diversity-inclusion The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 46 I want to live in a good city. Where people are kind and the homeless people are warm. Boy, 9, US The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 47 A responsible supply chain Did you know? To make our iconic LEGO products, Supporting we operate five LEGO production sites in China, Czech Republic, Denmark, Hungary and Mexico and work with roughly 150 direct suppliers across the workers who make globe. In addition, we work with over 40 different licensing partners, who themselves work with over 450 suppliers. LEGO products ® At the LEGO Group, we want to ensure Our approach all workers involved in producing LEGO® play experiences are protected, and that We are committed to upholding human absolutely no children are allowed to work rights and ensuring safe and healthy at any point in our value chain. workplaces in our supply chains. Every year we conduct audits with our key suppliers, In addition, across our entire value chain, we focusing on high-risk countries. The audits want to ensure that anyone involved in the are conducted together with third-party production of LEGO products is treated fairly auditors and, while we recognise that this is and with respect, and that suppliers and a ‘snapshot’ of performance on just one day partners share our values and commitment or week, we see audits as an opportunity to to business integrity. All forms of modern identify learning and improvement points, slavery or forced labour are prohibited. and most audits will identify some areas Forced labour is defined as any situation for improvement. These are categorised where workers are forced to work against as low, medium and high-priority issues. their will or under pressure from a threat We also categorise the most serious issues, of punishment. including any form of forced labour, as a ‘zero tolerance’ issue requiring a review of our business relationship. Suppliers are The International Labour Organization required to commit to corrective actions (ILO) estimates 40.3 million people are for all improvement areas, but the highin modern slavery or forced labour. priority issues with higher risk require This shocking statistic grows even correction immediately. more grim with the fact that one in four are children. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 48 A responsible supply chain continued Our performance We will continue our journey towards greater Commitment Commitment transparency and surpassing minimum Although we worked hard throughout the compliance to protect and enhance the Achieve 100% of suppliers Achieve 70% of our suppliers with year to limit the number of high-priority lives of all workers. We will work more audited according to the no high-priority non-conformities non-conformities and perform all audits closely with our licensing partners, further as planned, we didn’t achieve our targets, embedding our new Responsible Business required frequency, in 2018. requiring immediate correction and will seek to improve this year. We have Principles across our licensing supply chain. by the end of 2018. implemented an action plan to address Performance our auditing process and the suppliers In 2018, we introduced our new Responsible We didn’t reach the target in Performance we were not able to audit in 2018 were Business Principles. These 12 Principles 2018 as only 93% of suppliers We didn’t reach target as only audited by February 2019. Suppliers have reinforce our ethical way of working and welcomed the greater clarity around how we relate to children, our planet were audited according to 67% of our suppliers were our expectations and the intention to and colleagues. The primary purpose our schedule. evaluated to have no high-priority recognise existing best practices. is to ensure all workers involved in the non-conformities requiring production of LEGO® products are treated immediate correction. The high-priority issues we identified in with respect, and that the environment 2018 related to fire safety, working hours is safeguarded for future generations. and transparency. We are working with those suppliers to evaluate the root For more results, see our full results table causes and prevent future recurrence. on page 53. We are pleased that we identified no zero-tolerance issues in 2018. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 49 Family-friendly workplaces Supporting Improving practices in relation to parental leave, breastfeeding support, childcare and flexible working time arrangements are critical ways in which businesses can support early childhood families development. By introducing family-friendly workplace policies to its supplier code of conduct, the LEGO Group has taken a leadership position in supporting the ability of workers in its supply chain to better connect with their children.” Gary Stahl, UNICEF’s Director of Private Fundraising and Partnerships Our approach Our performance Our approach to family-friendly workplaces Our Responsible Business Principles is based on the Universal Declaration includes a principle on creating familyof Human Rights, UN Guiding Principles friendly workplaces. Study after study from on Business and Human Rights, the UN the LEGO Foundation shows the importance Convention of the Rights of the Child, of parents and caregivers for children in The Children’s Rights and Business early childhood, and we want to help parents Principles and other applicable UN and and caregivers make this possible. ILO conventions. The principles cover our own workplaces The LEGO Group adheres to the principle and extends to our suppliers, to encourage that no child should be harmed by any best practice and recognise suppliers who business operation, either directly or go beyond minimum legal requirements in indirectly. Child labour in any form is areas such as protecting pregnant women, prohibited. Yet we want to go beyond this maternity leave, and time and secure spaces to have a positive impact on children. for breastfeeding. Moving forward, we will By supporting families, parents and carers explore and study the impact our familyin the workplace, we can have a positive friendly workplaces have and where we impact on child development, particularly in can improve. the early years, while also promoting worker retention and loyalty. We developed our Family-Friendly Workplace principle with input from our key partner, UNICEF, who provided expertise on child development. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 50 Our stories Summer camp in China In China, millions of rural children are left behind in the countryside, while their parents work in far-away cities. This longterm separation causes significant strain on relationships, the wellbeing of parents and children’s development. As part of our family-friendly workplace, we worked with IETP (ICTI Ethical Toy Program) to sponsor children of employees at five factories in our supply chain to join a summer camp programme in China. A total of 110 children were able to spend the summer living with their parents and enjoying LEGO® play experiences at the summer camps. This included Six Bricks training and activities, our hands-on tool for learning which teaches different skills, such as problem-solving and collaborative working. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 51 Living responsibly to me means making sure you are taking care of your family and doing what you love. Parent of 11-year-old, US The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 52 Our consolidated perfor mance The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 53 Performance data Accounting 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 2019 Unit of measure policy KPI name result result result result result target target Children Score 1 Net Promoter Score® 70.5 71.8 73.0 72.7 72.7 70 70 Number 2 Product recalls 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number 3 Children reached by Local Community Engagement activities n/a n/a n/a n/a 839,120 400,000 1,100,000 Environment Tonnes 4 Waste (t) 15,638 16,496 15,625 15,859 18,549 n/a n/a Percentage 5 Recycled waste 91 93 93 94 93 93 93 Percentage 6 Waste efficiency improvement n/a n/a 1.6 -2.9 -3.4 3 0 GWh 7 Energy consumption (GWh) 284 309 303 313 340 n/a n/a Percentage 8 Carbon efficiency improvement n/a n/a n/a -25.4 11.3 10 1 1,000 m 3 9 Water consumption 424 528 538 684 683 n/a n/a target achieved target not met Cubic metres Waste in 2018 Water by site (1,000) Energy by type GWh Disposal method Non-hazardous (t) Hazardous (t) Total (t) Billund, Denmark 65 District heating 9.2 Incineration – 20 20 Jiaxing, China 133 Natural Gas 89.3 Electricity 241.5 Landfill 495 62 557 Kladno, Czech Republic 53 Total 340 Recovery 427 241 668 Monterrey, Mexico 261 Recycled 17,091 213 17,304 Nyíregyháza, Hungary 171 Total 18,013 536 18,549 Total 683 The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 54 Performance data continued Accounting 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 2019 Unit of measure policy KPI name result result result result result target target People Number 10 Motivation and satisfaction 14 16 16 8 12 8 10 Rate 11 Injury rate with absence 1.7 1.4 1.3 1.4 1.3 1.4 1.3 Percentage 12 Female managers appointed and recruited 43 43 44 41 43 40 40 Percentage 13 Business integrity training 100 99 100 89 100 100 100 Percentage 14 Percentage of suppliers audited n/a n/a n/a 100 93 100 100 Percentage 15 Percentage of suppliers with no nonconformities that require immediate correction n/a n/a n/a 71 67 70 70 Number 16 Employees engaged in Local Community Engagement activities n/a n/a n/a n/a 2,408 2,000 3,000 target achieved target not met The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 55 Accounting policies The LEGO Group is a privately held, 1. Net Promoter Score® received. All numbers are reviewed by the 7. Energy consumption family-owned company with headquarters In connection with consumer engagement LEGO Group and must be appropriate Energy consumption is calculated as the in Billund, Denmark, and main offices in with LEGO products and experiences for the purchasing power parity of the total energy in the form of electricity and Enfield, USA, London, UK, Shanghai, China, (e.g. LEGO Stores and LEGO.com), country as well as the intensity of the heating supplied to the LEGO Group. and Singapore. Founded in 1932 by Ole randomly selected consumers are asked programme intervention. Only data from the LEGO Group sites with Kirk Kristiansen, and based on the iconic how likely they are, on a scale from 0–10 production is included. Reported energy LEGO® brick, it is one of the world’s leading 4. Waste (tonnes) (10 = extremely likely), to recommend the data from sites is based on meter readings. manufacturers of play materials. product or experience to others. The result Waste is calculated as the recorded is calculated as percentage of promoters quantities of waste disposed of by the LEGO 8. Carbon efficiency improvement Data has been calculated by consolidating Group. Only data from LEGO Group sites (levels 9 and 10) minus percentage of The carbon efficiency KPI is calculated data for the parent company (LEGO A/S) with production are included. Reported data detractors (levels 6–0). The product NPS is as the rate between Carbon (Ton CO2e) with data from all subsidiaries. LEGO A/S is from sites are based on documentation calculated based on various product lines. generated by energy consumption and owned by KIRKBI A/S (75%) and the LEGO provided by external contractors. Foundation (25%). LEGO A/S consists of (kg) LEGO bricks produced. The efficiency 2. Product recalls improvement is calculated by comparing several subsidiaries that together constitute 5. Recycled waste the LEGO Group. Product recalls account for the number of the current year with the given baseline year official recalls according to Rapex (EU) and The recycled waste percentage is (baseline year is 2016 in the period 2016– Data relating to health and safety includes CPSC (US). The number reflects launched calculated as the recycled quantities of 2020). Only data from LEGO Group sites with data from sites with 100 or more employees LEGO products recalled from the market due waste disposed of compared to the total production is included. Reported energy and Brand Retail Stores. New sites will to product safety issues. A recall is based quantities of waste disposed of. Only data data from sites are based on meter readings be added to the reporting scope by on a specific non-compliant component from LEGO Group sites with production for the energy types used, which are the beginning of a new reporting year. that can be part of several LEGO products; is included. Reported data from sites are electricity, gas and district heating. Similarly, environmental data relates only hence, an official recall can potentially cover based on documentation provided by to production facilities. New production more than one product number. external contractors. 9. Water consumption facilities will be added to the reporting Water consumption is calculated as the scope on 1 January, +12 months from the 3. Children reached by Local Community 6. Waste efficiency improvement quantity of water supplied to the LEGO handover of the entire manufacturing Engagement (LCE) activities The waste efficiency improvement is Group. Only data from LEGO Group sites facility from project to operational facility Children are reached through the following calculated as the rate between weight with production is included. department. Definitions, data measurement activities: 1) Direct: Participation in an LCE or of waste and weight of boxes produced. methods and the basis of calculations are employee volunteer hosted activity. The efficiency improvement is calculated 10. Motivation and satisfaction addressed below. Any changes to historical 2) Indirect via product donation: by comparing the current year with the The Motivation and Satisfaction index is data are only made if considered material. 1 Play box = 15 children and 1 product given baseline year (baseline year is based on the LEGO Motivation & Satisfaction box = 1 child (minifigures and small 2016 in the period 2016–2020). Only data score. It is calculated based on four polybags excluded). 3) Indirect via from LEGO Group sites with production questions in our annual employee financial donation: Number of children are included. Reported data from sites engagement survey ‘the LEGO Pulse’ reached is provided by the cooperation is based on documentation provided by (1. I always look forward to going to work. partner and requires the submission of external contractors. 2. I feel motivated in my job. 3. From an overall documentation detailing the programme point of view, how satisfied are you with your supported and number of children reached job at the LEGO Group? 4. Imagine the with the financial donation in addition to perfect place of work. How close is this ideal a formal receipt acknowledging funding to your place of work?). Our score is The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 56 Accounting policies continued compared to an external benchmark, the 12. Female managers appointed 15. Percentage of suppliers with no nonEnnova Employee Index (EEI). The EEI is and recruited conformities to the LEGO Code of Conduct based on a yearly survey, which is conducted The number of females internally appointed that require immediate correction by Ennova, but independent from the Pulse or externally recruited at management The percentage of audited suppliers in survey. The survey is conducted globally and levels is shown as a percentage of all highand medium-risk countries without is representative of each country’s full labour employees internally appointed or externally non-conformities that require immediate market. A LEGO® specific benchmark is recruited into and at management levels. correction, is calculated as the number of calculated using the EEI results from the Specialist functions at management levels suppliers audited (see terms of the previous 18 countries where the LEGO Group has are included. Internal appointments include accounting principle) without identification its largest employee base (China, Czech both promotions and horizontal moves. of any ‘high-priority non-conformities’. This is Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, regardless of whether the non-conformity Germany, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Mexico, 13. Business integrity training has since been resolved. A high-priority Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Russia, Spain, non-conformity is defined as a significant The percentage is calculated as the number Sweden, UK and US). breach of the LEGO Group Code of Conduct of employees at the director level and above (employed for more than three months) who that requires immediate correction. Non11. Injury rate with absence conformities are assessed by external have completed the e-learning programme The rate of occupational injuries is in Business Conduct biennially, out of the third-party auditors and the LEGO Group calculated for all employees, excluding total number of employees at the director Code of Conduct team, according to the external agency workers, as the number level and above (employed for more than LEGO Group grading matrix. The latter is of injuries per one million working hours. three months) in the LEGO Group. reviewed every six months to ensure it is An occupational injury is defined as resulting up-to-date and in line with international in at least one day’s absence following the 14. Percentage of suppliers audited recommendations and industry standards. day of the injury. Only data from sites with All direct suppliers of materials, components, 16. Employees engaged by Local 100 or more employees and LEGO Brand or items used in finished LEGO products Community Engagement (LCE) activities Retail stores are included. Only cases are audited by a nominated third-party. clarified within the accounting year are Employees engaged accounts for the This happens annually if based in a highincluded in the full-year calculations. number of unique LEGO employees that risk country, and bi-annually if based in Cases pending decisions from local have volunteered for a LCE event during a medium-risk country. Country risk is authorities throughout the accounting year the accounting year. annually assessed based on external are not included in the full-year calculation. objective information. Suppliers in low-risk countries are audited sporadically and are not included in the calculation. If a supplier is either a potential new supplier with no orders, or is removed during the year, the supplier will not be part of the percentage calculation. Suppliers of transport/shipment packaging or internal components of finished products are not audited or included in the calculation. The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 57 Limited assurance report of the independent auditor To the Stakeholders of the assurance engagement is substantially Understanding reporting and •P lanned and conducted interviews and less in scope than a reasonable assurance measurement methodologies show-me meetings with Group functions to LEGO Group engagement in relation to both the risk The performance data on pages 53-54 understand the consolidation and reporting The LEGO Group engaged us to provide assessment procedures, including an needs to be read and understood together processes, use of company-wide systems limited assurance on the Performance data understanding of internal control, and the with the accounting policies (pages 55-56) of and controls performed at Group level; and set out in the Responsibility Report 2018 procedures performed in response to the the LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018, performed trend analysis of consolidated of the LEGO Group for the year ended assessed risks; consequently, the level of which Management is solely responsible for data and made enquiries to understand 31 December 2018. assurance obtained in a limited assurance selecting and applying. The absence of a significant developments in reported data engagement is substantially lower than the significant body of established practice on over time; and Our conclusion assurance that would have been obtained which to draw to evaluate and measure non•P  erformed trend analysis of consolidated had a reasonable assurance engagement financial information allows for different, but Based on the procedures we have data and made enquiries to understand been performed. acceptable, measurement techniques and performed and the evidence we have significant developments in reported data obtained, nothing has come to our attention can affect comparability between entities over time. Our independence and quality control and over time. that causes us to believe that data in scope for our limited assurance engagement in the We have complied with the Code of Ethics Management’s responsibilities LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 for for Professional Accountants issued by the Work performed Management of the LEGO Group is the year ended 31 December 2018 have not International Ethics Standards Board for We are required to plan and perform our responsible for: been prepared, in all material respects, in Accountants, which includes independence work in order to consider the risk of material accordance with the accounting policies as and other ethical requirements founded misstatement of the data and information. •D  esigning, implementing and maintaining stated on pages 55-56 of the LEGO Group on fundamental principles of integrity, In doing so and based on our professional internal control over information relevant to Responsibility Report 2018. objectivity, professional competence and judgement, we: the preparation of the Performance data in due care, confidentiality and professional the LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 This conclusion is to be read in the behaviour. The firm applies International •T hrough inquiries, obtained an that are free from material misstatement, context of what we say in the remainder Standard on Quality Control 1 and understanding of the LEGO Group’s control whether due to fraud or error; of our report. accordingly maintains a comprehensive environment and information systems •E  stablishing objective accounting system of quality control including relevant to quantification and reporting of policies (pages 55-56) for preparing data What we are assuring documented policies and procedures the Performance data in scope; and information; The scope of our work was to provide regarding compliance with ethical •M ade site visits in Denmark and in limited assurance over the Performance requirements, professional standards •M  easuring and reporting the Performance China to assess the completeness of data on pages 53-54 of the LEGO Group and applicable legal and regulatory data in the LEGO Group Responsibility the non-financial data sources, data Responsibility Report 2018. requirements. Our work was carried out Report 2018 based on the accounting collection methods, source data and by an independent multidisciplinary team policies; and relevant assumptions applicable to the Professional standards applied and level with experience in sustainability reporting sites. The sites selected were based •T  he content of the LEGO Group of assurance and assurance. on an assessment of materiality and Responsibility Report 2018. We performed a limited assurance the application of a rotation principle. engagement in accordance with Our procedures included obtaining an International Standard on Assurance understanding of the local reporting Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance processes and, on a selective basis, Engagements other than Audits and Reviews reconciliation to underlying documentation of Historical Financial Information’. A limited and systems used at these sites; The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 58 Limited assurance report of the independent auditor continued Our responsibility We are responsible for: •P lanning and performing the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Performance data in the LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; •F orming an independent conclusion, based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained; and •R eporting our conclusion to the Stakeholders of the LEGO Group. Aarhus, 21 February 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab CVR no. 3377 1231 Claus Lindholm Jacobsen Henrik Trangeled Kristensen State Authorised Public Accountant State Authorised Public Accountant The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 59 About the 2018 Responsibility Report The LEGO Group is one of the world’s Our policies Reporting Responsibility leading manufacturers of play materials. LEGO® products are produced at our The foundation for how we operate is In our annual report, you can find detailed You can also find more stories, videos and factories in China, Czech Republic, described in our corporate policies. information on the LEGO Group’s 2018 our non-financial results for 2018 online. Denmark, Hungary and Mexico, and sold LEGO.com/en-gb/aboutus/responsibility/ourfinancial results. LEGO.com/en-us/campaign/ through retailers, online and our own LEGO policies-and-reporting/corporate-policies LEGO.com/en-us/campaign/2018highlights responsibilityreport2018 Brand Retail stores. Our operations have an impact on consumers, local communities in which we operate, the environment and our supply chain. The activities outlined in this report describe the work done by the LEGO Group to minimise the impact of our operations and make a positive impact for children, communities and the environment. Net Promoter®, NPS® and Net Promoter Score® are trademarks of Satmetrix Systems Inc, Bain & Company and Fred Reichheld. No. 001 The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018 Overview Children Environment People Performance Contents 60 The LEGO Group Mini LEGO wind turbine Six Bricks Aastvej 1 Do you want to build a cool mini LEGO wind turbine? Through fun and short activities with sets of LEGO® DK 7190 Billund Download the building instructions here. DUPLO® bricks in six bright colours, children can practice Tel. +45 7950 6070 their memory, movement, creativity and more. You can LEGO.com adapt activities and of course make your own activities to match the children’s skills and interests. Find inspiration for learning through play in this booklet containing 25 activities and extension ideas. LEGO®, the LEGO logo, the Brick and Knob configurations, the Minifigure, BOOST, CITY, CLASSIC, CREATOR and MINDSTORMS are trademarks of the LEGO Group. © 2019 the LEGO Group Consultancy, design and production by Radley Yeldar | www.ry.com The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2018
