Annual Review 2018 CARGOTEC — SMARTER CARGO FLOW FOR A BETTER EVERYDAY Cargotec is a leading provider of cargo and load handling solutions with the goal of becoming the leader in intelligent cargo handling. Our solutions and services make global trade smarter, better and more sustainable. As leading players in ports, on roads and at sea, our business areas Kalmar, Hiab and MacGregor can optimise global cargo flows and create sustainable customer value. We want to lead the industry transformation and turn cargo and load handling into an intelligent and sustainable business. Cargotec supports UN sustainable development goals Cargotec is a signatory of the UN Global Compact and we are committed to endorse its ten principles. Through our operations we also support the UN sustainable development programme and goals. We firmly believe that with our ambition of being the leader in intelligent cargo handling, we are particularly impacting the five goals marked below. For more information, please visit www.cargotec.com > Sustainability > Contributing to UN sustainable development goals. Contents YEAR 2018 2 CEO review 4 Strategy in action 6 Cargotec in brief 8 Key figures COMPANY 10 Megatrends drive growth 12 Refined strategy 14 Targets and outcomes 16 Value creation model 18 World-class leadership supports success SUSTAINABILITY 22 Sustainability as a competitive advantage BUSINESS 28 Kalmar: Shaping the industry with openness and eco-efficiency AREAS 32 Hiab: Continuing on the growth journey 36 MacGregor: Profitability maintained 2 Annual Review 2018 2018 — A YEAR OF UPS AND DOWNS Mika Vehviläinen CEO, Cargotec There are many positives to take away from 2018. We made good progress with Our refined strategy focuses on service revenue, proceeded well with our automation orders at Kalmar, and Hiab’s customers, services and productivity order intake was at a record high level. MacGregor fought against tough market We announced our refined strategy at the end of 2018. During the next strategy period, conditions and, excluding restructuring costs, kept its business at a break-even 2019–2021, Cargotec aims to make a transition from a good to a great company. We level. will do this by focusing on four must-win battles: customer centricity, services, We made important acquisitions during the year. The Effer loader cranes business digitalisation and productivity. complements Hiab’s portfolio and expands its heavy cranes segment. The acquisition Customer centricity will play a key role in driving our future offering. We will hold on of TTS Group’s major businesses supports MacGregor’s growth strategy and to our strong products, quality and innovation offering, but they will not be enough. In provides customer-focused solutions for the merchant shipping and offshore the face of the ever-intensifying competition and changing customer needs, we need segments. We also completed the Rapp Marine business acquisition that will to focus more on the total customer lifecycle. To drive a successful solutions business, strengthen MacGregor’s position within the fishery and research markets, and we need to understand our customers and their businesses much better than today. divested certain non-core assets from our portfolio. Productivity enables investments in future capabilities and innovation. It makes it To secure our future effectiveness and performance, we invested in systems and possible to maintain profitability even in uncertain market conditions. Going forward, processes. The main activities included enhancements to customer relations productivity will constitute a strong part of our operational culture. management, field service tools, and SAP. We also allocated substantial resources to Services and digitalisation continue from the previous strategy period as part of our develop our digital capabilities and internal processes. must-win battles. Alongside traditional services, digitally enabled forms of service will I am pleased with the progress we made with our leadership programmes in increase their share in our portfolio. Digitalisation is becoming an embedded part of 2018. Altogether, 1,800 leaders have completed the programmes, and our yearly business in almost everything we do. leadership scores are clearly improving. Leadership development is now an integrated Digitalisation also plays a key role in our independent software offering. Our terminal part of our processes. operating systems provider Navis, together with its collaborative platform XVELA, In terms of profitability, 2018 did not go as planned, and we were forced to lower provides a unique opportunity to fuel organic and strategic software business growth our 2018 guidance in mid-December. This was mainly due to exceptional challenges in our existing and emerging businesses. Further investments in the digital and R&D in our supply chain and delivery. Our cost management also needs specific attention. hubs in Tampere, Finland, and Ljungby, Sweden, provide us with further advantages in We are already addressing these issues and will continue this work during 2019. digitalisation and software development. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas Annual Review 2018 3 Market cautiousness continued, progress in services The demand for Kalmar’s mobile equipment and services improved compared to the previous year. Customers consider their project and automation solutions carefully in relation to container throughput volumes, the utilisation rates of existing equipment base and the efficiency of automation technology. Instead of building new terminals, customers’ investments were mostly targeted to smaller subprojects as well as improving the efficiency of existing terminals. The construction activity remained at a good level in the United States and Europe, which supported demand for Hiab’s load handling equipment. The demand for services improved from last year. At MacGregor, the merchant ship contracting improved slightly during 2018 compared to the previous year, but remained at a low level. Contracting in the offshore sector improved slightly compared to 2017, but remained clearly below historical levels. In the merchant ship sector, the demand for MacGregor’s services improved slightly. An ethical and sustainable way of working gives a business advantage At Cargotec, we firmly believe that a profitable and sustainable business requires ethical ways of working. Our customers, employees, the society at large and regulators all place increasing value on and pay ever more attention to the ethical, environmental and social aspects of conducting business. Our shareholders and owners, too, place high expectations on us in this respect. We answer that call by respecting human rights in everything we do, having zero tolerance for corruption, and denouncing unethical conduct. We see sustainability as an opportunity to extend our competitive edge. With our products and solutions, our customers can save energy and work safer and more cost-efficiently. Kalmar’s commitment to provide its full offering as electrically powered versions by 2021 illustrates what we are capable of in this area. Similar development is evident also at Hiab and MacGregor. For many years, we have supported the UN Global Compact as a signatory member, and we took an extra step this year by actively participating in the creation of the Finnish Global Compact network. I want to thank our shareholders and customers for their trust and our employees for their hard work and dedication. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 4 Annual Review 2018 STRATEGY IN ACTION Kalmar and Navis announced Kalmar organised the Kalmar that they will deliver the Co-Create idea creation world’s first intermodal challenge at the TOC Europe automation solution for exhibition in order to discover new, Qube’s Moorebank Logistics creative cargo handling solutions Park in Sydney, Australia. with customers and partners. January February March April May June Q1 Q2 Cargotec Business Services MacGregor’s acquisition of the marine Hiab opened a new Over 200 leaders participated Centre (CBS) opened in Sofia, and offshore businesses of TTS installation and in our leadership Bulgaria. CBS provides global finance, Group will strengthen its portfolio and competence centre programmes in 2018. human resources, and indirect market position, while the acquisition of in Meppel, Netherlands. procurement support services with Rapp Marine business strengthens the aim to improve our productivity MacGregor’s position within the fishery according to our strategy. and research markets. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas Annual Review 2018 5 MacGregor introduced a new Cargotec refined its Kalmar opened a new innovation Cargotec opened a new breakbulk cargo stowage strategy. Focus on digitalisation centre in Ljungby, Sweden, that Digital Solutions Hub in solution to increase vessel and services continues, new focuses on digitalisation and Tampere, Finland. utilisation rates and improve the emphasis on customer centricity development of mobile cargo customers’ business and productivity. Financial targets handling equipment and related performance. remain unchanged. maintenance services. July August September October November December Q3 Q4 Hiab acquired the Effer loader Cargotec joined the global MacGregor and the Scott Phillips started Kalmar agreed to provide cranes business from the CTE three-year Rainmaking China State Shipbuilding as the President of maintenance and support for an Group, complementing its loader maritime startup Corporation signed a Hiab in October, automated container handling cranes portfolio and expanding its accelerator programme. Letter of Intent on following Roland solution to Australia’s first fully range of heavy cranes in the 100+ strategic Sundén in this position. automated container terminal, tonne-metre segment. cooperation. owned by International Container Terminal Services, Inc, in Victoria. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 6 Annual Review 2018 CARGOTEC IN BRIEF Share KALMAR Services and software, SALES, MEUR 3,304 of total sales share of Kalmar’s sales Kalmar offers cargo handling equipment and automated terminal solutions, software and services that are used in ports, terminals, distribution centres and various industries. Number of personnel 49% 5,737 37% 190.0 OPERATING PROFIT, MEUR Share HIAB Services, of total sales share of Hiab’s sales Hiab is the global market leader in on-road load handling solutions with customers operating in the land transport and delivery industries. SERVICES AND SOFTWARE, % OF SALES 33% Number of personnel 35% 3,879 24% Share MACGREGOR Services, share of of total sales MacGregor’s sales TOTAL PERSONNEL 11,987 MacGregor is a world-leading provider of marine cargo and offshore load handling solutions, services and equipment. Number of personnel 16% 1,879 39% Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas Annual Review 2018 7 AMERICAS EUROPE, MIDDLE ASIA-PACIFIC (AMER) EAST AND AFRICA (EMEA) (APAC) SHARE OF SALES 31% SHARE OF SALES 49% SHARE OF SALES 20% NUMBER OF PERSONNEL 1,510 NUMBER OF PERSONNEL 8,108 NUMBER OF PERSONNEL 2,369 ASSEMBLY/R&D ASSEMBLY/R&D ASSEMBLY/R&D Brazil Finland Norway China United States Germany Poland Malaysia India Spain South Korea Ireland Sweden Singapore Italy United Kingdom Netherlands Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 8 Annual Review 2018 KEY FIGURES STRONG YEAR IN ORDERS RECEIVED, PROFIT BELOW OUR TARGET The year 2018 was twofold at Cargotec. Orders grew strongly in all our business areas, but we fell behind our target to improve our result from the previous year. The operating profit excluding restructuring costs for million. Sales grew in Kalmar and Hiab and declined sales. Software sales decreased by four percent 2018 decreased by six percent from the comparison in MacGregor. Service sales grew by three percent and amounted to EUR 147 million. Service and period to EUR 243.8 million, representing 7.4 percent of from the comparison period and totalled EUR 932 software sales represented 33 percent of sales. Sales increased by two percent to EUR 3,304 million, representing 28 percent of consolidated consolidated sales. SALES OPERATING PROFIT* AND OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN* ORDERS RECEIVED AND ORDER BOOK MEUR MEUR % MEUR 8.0 4,000 300 7.4 8 4,000 3,599 3,729 7.1 3,557 3,756 3,514 259 3,358 3,250 3,304 6.2 244 3,283 3,190 250 3,000 225 6 3,000 28% 28% 30% 33% 33% 4.4 231 2,200 2,064 1,995 2,000 150 4 2,000 1,783 149 1,566 1,000 75 2 1,000 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Service and software Operating profit* Orders received Equipment Operating profit margin*, % Order book *excluding restructuring costs Year 2017 financial figures have been restated according to the new and amended IFRS accounting principles adopted on January 1, 2018. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas Annual Review 2018 9 Sustainability indicators The Industrial Injury Frequency Rate (IIFR) for the assembly sites in 2018 was 6.7 (2017: 6.1), which INDUSTRIAL INJURY FREQUENCY RATE* OFFERING FOR ECO-EFFICIENCY was slightly higher than in previous years. We have IIFR MEUR % identified the needed areas of improvement and 100 15 3,750 3,514 25 3,250 3,304 continue our work to further develop our safety 21% performance in 2019. 80 12 3,000 20 64 20% 18% 60 54 9 2,250 15 9.1 46 48 Cargotec’s Offering for eco-efficiency concept 43 consists of solutions that may enhance customers’ 40 6.7 6 1,500 10 5.8 5.7 6.1 sustainability with cleaner technologies, software 20 3 750 5 solutions or services supporting circular economy. In 2018, 17 new products/solutions were added to 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2016* 2017 2018 the portfolio. Number of lost time injuries Total sales Cargotec IIFR** Offering for eco-efficiency, % of sales * Cargotec assembly sites * The 2016 share of sales is a company estimate and the figure has not been audited ** Number of injuries per million hours worked Board proposes an increase in dividend The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) AND DIVIDEND DIVIDEND/EPS, CLASS B SHARE General Meeting to increase the dividend to 1.10 EUR % euros. This would be the fifth consecutive year in 2.5 75 2.21 66.3 which our dividend has risen compared to the 1.95 2.05 2.0 51.1 previous year. 1.66 49.6 48.7 50 1.5 36.1 Earnings per share was EUR 1.66, which is 19 1.11 1.05 1.10 1.0 0.95 percent lower than in the previous year. The 0.80 25 0.55 decline was mainly related to an impairment loss of 0.5 EUR 30 million of the associated company Jiangsu Rainbow Heavy Industries, recognised in the 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017* 2018** 2014 2015 2016 2017* 2018** second quarter of 2018. Earnings per share (EPS) Dividend/EPS, dividend policy 30–50% Dividend per B class share Dividend/EPS, % Year 2017 financial figures have been restated according to the new and * EPS before IFRS 15 restatement: 2.11 EUR * Dividend/EPS before IFRS 5 restatement: 49.8% amended IFRS accounting principles adopted on January 1, 2018. ** Board’s proposal for dividend ** Board’s proposal for dividend Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 10 Annual Review 2018 STRATEGY Population growth World population today is 7.6 billion. It is estimated to reach 10 billion by 2056 (UN estimate). CUSTOMER NEED: Population growth increases MEGATRENDS DRIVE the demand for raw materials, energy and end products. To serve the needs of people and society, these goods need to be transported efficiently and GROWTH sustainably. OUR ANSWER: We provide a broad offering of efficient load and cargo handling solutions for maritime, ports, on-road transportation and various industries. Long-term macroeconomic and societal development trends impact and change the world around us. Several concurrent megatrends support the successful implementation of our strategy, and we can GDP per capita growth adapt our business model to shift weights between them. Gross domestic growth per capita (GDP) is expected to grow roughly at a rate of 2 percent per year until 2025, indicating improving economic Urbanisation productivity and economic wealth. In the coming decades, share of the world population living in cities will grow from the current 55 percent to almost 70 percent. CUSTOMER NEED: The increase in GDP per capita creates more consumption power for our CUSTOMER NEED: Urbanisation requires further infrastructure and housing growing population. This is the main driver for construction in cities, creating demand for efficient load handling. Growing city increased consumption and world trade, which in logistics need load handling and waste management equipment. In densely turn drives the need to transport goods and populated cities, load handling solutions must be quiet, safe and low in emission materials. levels. OUR ANSWER: With our advanced solutions, OUR ANSWER: Our load handling solutions are used in urban locations and services and products, our business areas are surrounding areas. For example, the advanced design and electrification of present throughout the global cargo delivery chains Hiab’s on-road offering makes it ideal for urban locations. and can answer to the growing transportation needs. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas STRATEGY Annual Review 2018 11 Energy demand Digitalisation Global energy demand is estimated to grow at a rate of 1–2 The intensive development of digital percent per year for the next few decades. solutions continues in all areas of society. In the coming decades, improved productivity CUSTOMER NEED: The growing energy demand creates a and reduction of inefficiencies will largely be need to further explore, produce and transport energy from driven by digital development. various sources, such as from offshore production. Energy mixes are changing with the focus increasingly on renewable CUSTOMER NEED: Customers seek energy production. More efficient and reliable equipment are intelligent cargo handling solutions that required to help produce and transport energy. optimise operations and reduce inefficiencies while improving productivity OUR ANSWER: Our reliable products and efficient solutions, and safety. such as MacGregor offshore solutions, are required to support the production and transportation of energy, both in the form of OUR ANSWER: We provide industry traditional fossil fuels and renewable energy, such as offshore shaping digital solutions in the areas of wind. Additionally, our solutions strive to fulfill the sustainability software, automation and intelligence. needs of our customers and the increasing regulatory These solutions seek to solve inefficiencies requirements. in the global cargo flow, helping our customers succeed in their endeavours while reducing environmental impact. Increasing concern for the environment The scientific community and global population largely accept climate change as a fact. Demands to reduce the environmental burden of the growing world trade increase. CUSTOMER NEED: Legislation and the public opinion as well as customers and their customers require ships, ports, terminals and surrounding cities to be quieter, safer, more energy-efficient and low in emissions. OUR ANSWER: Our eco-efficiency portfolio includes digitalisation and automation solutions as well as electric and hybrid offerings that can reduce the environmental burden of our customers’ operations. The demand for eco-efficient More about sustainability products and solutions is estimated to grow in the future, creating growth opportunities for us. in our operations from pages 22–27 and from the GRI index. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 12 Annual Review 2018 STRATEGY REFINED STRATEGY Cargotec refined its strategy for 2019–2021. We continue to work towards our vision of “Becoming the global leader in intelligent cargo handling.” The refined strategy aims to secure our profitable growth by focusing on four must-win battles: customer centricity, services, digitalisation and productivity. WE STRIVE TO BE THE LEADER IN INTELLIGENT CARGO HANDLING because we OUR THREE BUSINESS AREAS ARE IN A STRONG POSITION to capitalise on their Significant believe that the development of our operating environment and the aspirations of our customer established brands, long-term customer relationships, excellent equipment reputation and opportunities industries offer us unique value creation opportunities. Cargo traffic and load handling are among the vital global service network. By combining our equipment, service, financing and software into for profitable services that keep our global society up and running. Every day, millions of items, from raw materials to intelligent offerings we help our customers outperform their competitors. For us, this creates growth. consumer products, are transported locally and significant opportunities for profitable growth. between countries, creating demand for intelligent cargo and load handling solutions. Kalmar aims to become a service-driven Hiab is committed to strengthening its market MacGregor aims to be recognised as the leader solutions provider who guarantees availability position by focusing on customer centricity. Its in intelligent maritime cargo and load handling and performance for its customers. As a market goal is to be the number one partner and load by becoming the preferred provider of lowest leader, Kalmar is able to shape the future of its handling solution provider in all of its prioritised total cost solutions for shipbuilders, and the industry. It drives the transformation of cargo markets and segments. Hiab continues to preferred partner for ship owners and operators and material handling through openness and pioneer the industry by taking advantage of the through enabling highest lifecycle value. collaboration as well as with innovative, digitally digital opportunities for improving its customers’ enabled and eco-efficient solutions. efficiency and helping them manage the increased complexity of load handling. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas STRATEGY Annual Review 2018 13 SMARTER CARGO FLOW FOR A BETTER EVERYDAY SMARTER CARGO FLOW FOR A BETTER EVERYDAY Must-win battles Customer centricity Digitalisation Services Productivity Our way of working Lead with purpose Leader in intelligent cargo handling Empower for performance Collaborate to win At sea In ports and industries On roads Intelligent flow of MacGregor is a world-leading Kalmar offers cargo handling Hiab is the global market leader provider of marine cargo and equipment and automated terminal in on-road load handling solutions goods and cargo offshore load handling solutions, software and services that with customers operating in the solutions, services and are used in ports, terminals, distribution land transport and other delivery equipment. centres and various industries. industries. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 14 Annual Review 2018 STRATEGY TARGETS AND OUTCOMES Cargotec’s refined strategy for 2019–2021 aims to secure profitable growth by focusing on four must-win battles: customer centricity and productivity as new focus areas and services and digitalisation as continuing ones from the previous strategy period. World-class leadership remains fundamentally important but is now an integrated part of Cargotec’s processes. Must-win battles 2018 targets Win through customer centricity New must-win battle as of January 2019. We help our customers achieve their goals by aligning our offering New and way of working to serve them better. must-win battles New must-win battle as of January 2019. Productivity for growth Must-win battles 2019–2021 We focus on activities that add value and benefit our customers and us by developing our business operations and common platforms. Advance in services Grow service and increase its profitability. Create new digital service business and earnings models. Develop the current We extend our offering towards intelligent solutions that enable us to offering. Drive the behaviour towards safer service operations. Continuing serve our customers wide across their lifecycles. must-win battles Accelerate digitalisation Expand digital customer offering and create new data-driven business models. Utilise digitalisation internally to optimise processes and We build and expand our digital solutions to offer a great externally to minimise customers’ downtime and environmental customer experience and more efficient business processes. inefficiencies. Enable connectivity in all new equipment. Must-win Build world-class leadership All managers included in the continuous leadership and team effectiveness improvement process. Continuous development and battle in We strive for leadership excellence to accelerate strategy measurement of leadership an ordinary practice. Commitment to 2015–2018 implementation, and to attract and retain the best available talent. sustainability evident on all operative levels. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas STRATEGY Annual Review 2018 15 Financial targets remain unchanged Long term sustainability targets • Grow faster than the market (by 2021) • Operating profit margin 10 percent in 3–5 years* 1. Offering for eco-efficiency product group to achieve double sales • Service and software sales 40 percent of net sales, minimum EUR 1.5 billion in 3–5 years* growth compared to traditional products • Increasing dividend in the range of 30–50 percent of earnings per share (EPS), dividend to be paid twice a year 2. Industrial Injury Frequency Rate (IIFR) 4 • 15 percent return on capital employed (ROCE) in 3–5 years* • Gearing below 50 percent * Targets announced in September 2017 2018 outcomes 2019 targets New must-win battle as of January 2019. Enhance customer insight capabilities. Develop and drive adoption of customer relations management and field service tools. Engage teams and leaders in customer centricity and collaboration. New must-win battle as of January 2019. Review operating models and practices to empower frontline to act for customers, and to increase internal efficiency. Continue consolidation and implementation of shared services operations. Improve internal and external business processes by utilising digital solutions. Service sales grew largely as planned. New service concepts piloted or Continue to drive service sales. Enhance service offerings, introduced to market according to plans, but revenue generation did not meet earnings models and internal service processes by utilising expectations. Systematic safety trainings and target follow-up established for digitalisation and connectivity. Improve service excellence and service operations. operations. Efforts in new digital customer offering proceeded according to plans with market Expand digital customer offering to complement equipment and launches and customer pilots throughout the year. Internal and customer process service business. Accelerate development of new data-driven digitalisation proceeded with robotic process automation and machine learning business models. Utilise digital solutions to optimise internal and solutions. Connectivity was enabled for prioritised product lines during 2018. external processes. Drive connectivity in all new equipment. Leadership excellence activities, processes and measurements implemented Integrated into Cargotec’s processes. For leadership according to plan. 1,800 leaders have participated in our leadership development activities and targets, see the HR section on pages programmes by the end of 2018. 18–21 of this review. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 16 Annual Review 2018 STRATEGY VALUE CREATION MODEL Input Business model Competent personnel At the end of 2018, Cargotec had 11,987 Smarter cargo flow for a better everyday employees. We operate in over a hundred countries. Customer centricity Digitalisation Financial capital Must-win battles The balance sheet total amounted to EUR 3,684 million. Services Productivity Gearing was 43.8 percent. Our way of working Innovation and R&D Cargotec’s expenditure on R&D in 2018 was EUR 89.0 million, Lead with purpose representing 2.7 percent of sales. We have R&D activities in the United States, India, and in several countries in Europe. Leader in intelligent cargo Empower for performance Collaboration Cargotec collaborates with universities and other research institutions around the world. We cooperate with our customers to develop new and existing solutions to respond to their business needs. We seek opportunities with our partners to Collaborate to win develop new technologies. Natural resources Cargotec’s total energy consumption was 573.8 At sea In ports and industries terajoule, which equals 159,401 MWh. Over 30 Intelligent flow of 16% 49% percent of our electricity consumption is being produced by renewable energy sources. Heating goods and cargo MacGregor’s share Kalmar’s share and vehicle fleet fuels amounted to 81,569 MWh. Electricity and district heat was 77,832 MWh. of sales of sales Water consumption was 88,900 cubic metres. Year 2017 financial figures have been restated according to the new and amended IFRS accounting principles adopted on January 1, 2018. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas STRATEGY Annual Review 2018 17 Output Impact Cargo flow Shareholders Cargotec’s solutions, services, products and The dividend proposal** for 2018 totalled EUR 70.7 million. Our software keep things moving around the world. earnings per share was EUR 1.66. The return on equity was 7.6 Every year, close to 800 million container moves percent in 2018 and the return on capital employed was 8.0 are being made globally in ports, with every fourth percent. of them being handled by a Kalmar solution. Every other ship in the world carries MacGregor equipment. Customers Our products and solutions can help our customers to operate more efficiently and environmentally friendly. Cargotec’s business areas regularly collect customer feedback. The 2018 Net Promoter Score Service (NPS) index at Kalmar was 24, and at Hiab it was 21 (total) and 31 Service sales constituted 28 percent of our (direct customers). The most recent overall MacGregor customer total sales. satisfaction index is from 2017, when it was 74 percent.*** handling Society, employees Cargotec’s income taxes in 2018 totalled EUR 53.1 million. Salaries and Digital solution development remunerations to employees totalled EUR 567 million. 1,800 leaders In 2018 we created new solutions with customers in participated in group-wide leadership development programmes. In co-creation events and in our Emerging Business 2018, the Performance and Development Plan (PDP) completion rate Accelerator programme. We continued our was 92 percent, covering 7,100 employees globally. The work satisfaction cooperation with our peers, universities and index was 76 percent. The IIFR**** for our assembly sites was 6.7. customers, and further increased our strategic digital competence through hiring and training. Environment With our products and solutions, our customers can conduct their cargo On roads Sustainability handling operations more sustainably and safer. Kalmar’s automation Cargotec’s eco-efficiency product group* sales solutions enhance safety and efficiency at ports. Our GHG emissions at 35% during the reporting period was about 21 (2017: 18) percent of the total sales. GHG emissions assembly sites increased by one percent. Over 78 percent of waste generated at assembly sites was recycled. We promote circular economy Hiab’s share amounted to 48,700 tCO2e in 2018. As a with retrofits production and other solutions that extend the life cycle of by-product from our processes, 12,050 tonnes of sales waste were produced in 2018. products. Our certified site sales volume share was 93 (ISO9001), 92 (ISO14001) and 88 (OHSAS18001) percent of the total 2018 sales volume. *C  argotec’s eco-efficiency offering features solutions that can ** The 2018 dividends are based on Board of Directors’ proposal. Actual dividends are confirmed in the Annual General Meeting 2019. enhance the sustainability of Cargotec’s customers’ operations by *** N  PS measures customer loyalty and likelihood to recommend to others. The business area customer satisfaction data are not decreasing their operational emissions or extending product lifetimes. comparable to each other. **** Number of injuries per million hours worked on Cargotec assembly sites Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 18 Annual Review 2018 PERSONNEL WORLD-CLASS LEADERSHIP SUPPORTS SUCCESS Cargotec entered a new strategy period at the turn of the year. It is, therefore, timely to climates created are measured regularly, once or twice a year, to allow leaders to have review how our human resources (HR) work has developed during the past strategy a realistic view of the effectiveness of their team and the value they add as a leader. period. In 2015, Cargotec set a vision to become the market leader in intelligent cargo Our goal is to have over 60 percent of our teams exceeding the high-performing handling. To support this strategic pursuit in the most effective way possible, HR set in climate threshold. motion a systematic and ambitious process of building world-class, globally harmonised HR operations. To build our World-Class Leadership, group-wide leadership development programmes, LEAD and GROW, were launched in 2016 and 2017. Since then, Making great leaders is in Cargotec’s DNA approximately 1,800 persons have participated in these programmes, including most The value of any organisation is created at the interface between customers and of our current leaders. The common programmes continue on a smaller scale, but employees. Employees are, therefore, fundamental to the value of all organisations, going forward, the main emphasis will be on evolving and applying our support and only by putting employees first, can a company be truly successful. Leaders, in portfolio for leaders and teams as we want to accelerate the transformation of our turn, are the interface between individual teams, team members and the rest of the leadership. Making changes in one’s leadership behaviour is not easy, and training organisation. It is people who transform strategy into reality, and to accomplish that programmes are ever only a beginning of a transformation journey. task, they need skilled and inspiring leaders. For this reason, World-Class Leadership is a key priority in our work. Our leadership approach boils down to three themes: Lead Using our framework, we have collected relevant data for three years, and we now with purpose, Empower for performance, and Collaborate to win. These themes are have a clear picture of the kinds of leaders and teams that bring the best business applied throughout the whole organisation and across national boundaries. results. Our data shows that, on average, the measurable behaviours of our leaders account for 66 percent of the effectiveness of their teams. When we introduced the Our framework for World-Class Leadership focuses on both leadership behaviour and framework, 39 percent of our teams had high-performing climates. At the moment we the outcome of that behaviour, performance climate. Performance climate, in turn, are well above the 50 percent level. In addition, we have improved the effectiveness of correlates strongly with the output of the team. The behaviours of our leaders and the our recruitment and assessment process: almost 60 percent of the recruited new Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas PERSONNEL Annual Review 2018 19 leaders are creating a high-performing climate. Our fact-based approach to talent management pays off but we are not yet satisfied with the results. We are set to continue our systematic efforts, and this unique data will help us in reaching our goals. It allows us to offer fact-based perspectives to our leaders and motivates them to make subtle improvements that drive performance. As an important part of World-Class Leadership, we have put a lot of effort into succession planning. We have defined positions that are critical for our strategic success, and identified one or several suitable and interested successors for these positions. Armed with our leadership and system insight, the quality of our successionrelated decisions has greatly improved, and we feel that our business is resting on a solid, sustainable foundation. Performance management connects strategy to individual actions To transform strategy into reality, strategic targets must be connected to individual performance plans and targets set for employees. To accomplish this, performance management processes have been among the focus areas in developing our HR work in recent years. Our performance management is based on the Performance and Development Plan (PDP) concept and process. Using PDP, our line managers annually set and review personal targets with each team member, making sure that individual tasks and targets are linked to the company strategy. In 2018, the on-time PDP completion rate was 92 percent and digitalised PDP process covered 7,100 employees globally. In addition to annual PDP discussions, we increasingly encourage a continuous dialogue within teams to discuss their performance, roles and work climate. This allows annual targets to be divided into shorter-term targets, and the progress towards them can be discussed in a flexible way. In 2018, we worked on designing the information systems needed for continuous performance management. The rollout of these systems will take place in 2019. Company-wide incentive frameworks implemented In 2017, we designed new global sales and production incentive frameworks to ensure that all our incentive programmes are relevant and aligned with our strategy and markets. In 2018, we worked on the implementation of these frameworks in our Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 20 Annual Review 2018 PERSONNEL business areas. Business-area-specific definitions were made for the time frames and The Compass 2018 survey had a participation rate of 85 percent (2017: 86). business KPIs used to assess performance. These variations are necessary to take Employee engagement has slightly declined to 67 percent (2017: 69). However, we into consideration the different products and the production and sales cycles of our see continuous improvement in our leadership indices. The leadership behaviours business areas. index is up at 73 percent (2017: 71) and the climate index shows an increase as well, being now at 77 percent (2017: 76). Our expectation is that, with the new strategy In accordance with the must-win battles of the new strategy period, our sales incentive being assimilated and leadership indices on the rise, the engagement will follow. framework increasingly encourages customer centricity in sales work. The framework is built on the assumption that our sales persons not only offer customers products or Cargotec Business Services (CBS), operating out of Sofia, Bulgaria, was launched in services, but comprehensive solutions designed to answer our customers’ needs. 2017. Serving HR, Finance and Indirect Procurement functions, CBS works to harmonise global processes across functions, business units and regions. All our incentive programmes reinforce our high-performing culture and the pay-forImplementation has proceeded according to plan, and by the end of 2018, CBS was performance philosophy. Our incentive programmes covered 7,300 employees in live in six countries, covering 25 percent of our total headcount. New, streamlined 2018. processes and tools have been defined to serve the businesses in an efficient and timely manner. Cargotec HR business platform ensures effective global operations According to the current road map, all significant operating countries will be included and equal treatment of employees in CBS by the end of 2020. Once the implementation is complete, CBS will be a Our common functional architecture, systems and tools, now near completion, form a strategic enabler for us, establishing one common way of delivering all business solid basis for our HR work. Among them, the core enabler is ZONE, our online support services. information system that we brought into use in 2014. ZONE collects all personnel information in a single interface and makes it possible to use harmonised HR policies, Development work continues processes and tools across all our business areas and operating countries. ZONE is in the new strategy period also the main platform for planning and analysing personnel-related activities, such as As we have now defined and implemented common World-Class Leadership and the performance management process, development needs, both external and performance management processes, we will next focus on developing our internal recruitment, as well as salary and incentives. It ensures a fair and equal workforce and capability transformation and mergers and acquisitions (M&A) treatment of our employees globally. integration capabilities. With workforce and capability transformation, we mean the processes and tools to ensure that we have the right resources and capabilities in An important tool included in the common HR platform is Compass, our annual the right places for efficient strategy implementation. Strong M&A integration employee engagement survey. Employee engagement refers to the strength of the capabilities will help us to efficiently carry out people integration processes. mental and emotional connection employees feel toward the work they do, their teams, and the organisation as a whole. Through Compass, all our employees are encouraged Much has been achieved in building a strong HR framework to support Cargotec’s to share their thoughts on a wide range of topics, from work-life balance, wellbeing and strategic transformation, but we keep up our pursuit for continuous improvement in social responsibility to leadership and performance climate. Based on Compass results, the new strategy period. managers organise feedback sessions and plan actions with their teams. The whole team monitors the progress of the agreed actions throughout the year. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas PERSONNEL Annual Review 2018 21 Tone Wiese Mannsåker, LEAD WITH PURPOSE Manager, Project Support, Leader’s view AOS Division, MacGregor. “Compass is a priority for me, and I have worked consistently with my Compass Project support team results over several years. The constant changes in and around my team have leader. reflected in my Compass results where job security, engagement and drive and direction and strategy have been areas in need for improvement. Together with my team, we have decided that our main focus is to increase engagement and drive. To do that, we have put special effort in creating an environment that is favourable for work satisfaction to keep our motivation high and help us deliver the best solutions for our customers. The GROW training gave me tools to further develop my leadership skills to help my team reach its targets.” Elina Haapasalmi, Legal EMPOWER FOR PERFORMANCE Counsel on Hiab’s Legal Team member’s view team. She joined Hiab 18 “As a junior member of the team, I support the other members in all areas of months ago as a legal Hiab’s legal matters. From the beginning, I have felt comfortable working on this trainee and after her team. We communicate well, support one another and have fun together. traineeship continued to We are, of course, all responsible for creating a positive and effective work work at the Legal team. climate, but I believe that good leadership is of particular importance in this regard. We are fortunate to have a manager who leads by example, is easy to approach, takes everybody’s needs, interests and development wishes into consideration, and always remembers to thank his team members for good performance.” Robert Yuksel Yildirim, COLLABORATE TO WIN President & CEO of Yildirim Customer’s view Group of Companies, Chairman “As an international terminal operator, we work with Kalmar on many levels and of Yilport Holding Inc. have multiple touch points into their organisation. Of course, there are variations in the approaches across this spectrum, but overall the vibe at Kalmar is positive and they offer us flexible cooperation. This is easy when things go as planned. However, the true essence of an Yilport Holding Inc. consolidates individual’s motivation and the team’s performance comes out when we face the container terminal and port operations of Yildirim Group under hurdles. Over the years, I have seen a growing effort from the Kalmar team to one roof. It is acclaimed as the 12th step up in these cases, to be bold in taking either commercial or contractual biggest international container risks with us in order to overcome the challenges. The true vibe of partnership terminal operator in the world by with your supplier is revealed here. Kalmar has shown this, and has been open Drewry’s 2018 ranking. to receiving feedback for improvement.” Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 22 Annual Review 2018 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY AS A COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Cargotec is connected to industries that produce the majority of world GDP (Gross Domestic Product). These industries also produce most of the global emissions. To support an economically, environmentally and socially sustainable development, companies need to renew their operations, innovate new business models and collaborate more with each other. The needed changes will be challenging; however, we as a company see great opportunities to help companies move towards greater sustainability, and adapt our own operations to meet the United Nations sustainable development goals (SDGs). The latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report highlighted the need to decrease CO2 emissions at an unforeseen pace. The IPCC report is deeply linked to the UN SDGs through climate action, industry growth and innovation. We at Cargotec have developed our strategy to support both of these actions by focusing on digitalisation and productivity, and by advocating for a more-with-less approach both internally and in our customers’ operations. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas SUSTAINABILITY Annual Review 2018 23 2018 sustainability targets 2019 sustainability targets • IIFR* 4.0 in assembly sites • IIFR 5.0 in assembly (IIFR 4.0. by 2021 in all operations) • 100 percent of Swedish and Finnish sites to use all their electricity from renewable • 40 percent of electricity will be renewable (50 percent by 2021) energy sources • Global chemical risk management project launched (ready by 2021) • Conduct a renewed human rights risk assessment on Cargotec operations • Re-audit 50 percent of suppliers that failed in the 2018 sustainability self-assessment • 100 percent of strategic suppliers taken into the sustainability self-assessment tool questionnaire process; the Supplier Code of Conduct process finalised with suppliers that cover • Renewed human rights risk assessment implemented in M&A cases 80 percent of the direct sourcing spend * Number of injuries per million hours worked Digitalisation plays a key role in decreasing emissions in the maritime and generated from renewable sources. The target was part of a bigger internal transportation industries. It will also be a major enabler for a wider social change climate change mitigation process, which will continue in the coming years. towards a more circular economy. In the future, data sharing, common platforms and collaboration will act as key drivers in achieving these targets and connecting In our sourcing functions, we continued upgrading our supplier sustainability industries. management programme. All our strategic suppliers have now been invited to adopt the sustainability self-assessment tool, which focuses on screening By focusing on the electrification of traditional diesel-driven equipment, we help human rights and other sustainability risks in our supply chain. In addition, we support a more sustainable logistics industry. Cargotec’s offering for eco-efficiency proceeded with our supplier code of conduct process, which aims to mitigate portfolio supports our economic growth and sets an industry example on any risks for breaching international human rights. Suppliers within the process sustainability standards. now cover 80 percent of our direct sourcing spend. In 2018, we continued to expand our offering for eco-efficiency portfolio. With 17 During the year, we carried out an analysis of the most important operational products added during the year, the portfolio consists of solutions that enhance our aspects related to human rights risks and measures to mitigate those risks. We customers’ sustainability with either cleaner technologies, software solutions, or identified the main risks related to human rights violations in our supply chain and services that support circular economy. Each solution within the eco-efficiency in activities concerning mergers and acquisitions (M&A). Managing human rights offering has had to pass stringent criteria before being added to the portfolio. The risks in the supply chain is now included in our sourcing sustainability sales of the eco-efficient offering amounted to 21 percent of our total sales in 2018. programme. In terms of M&A-related human rights risks, we conducted a review Read more at cargotec.com > Sustainability > Offering for eco-efficiency. and updated the process of screening possible risks in each M&A case more straightforward. Operational sustainability work highlights in 2018 During the period, we achieved a satisfactory environmental reporting quality at During the year, we achieved our climate target of powering 100 percent of our all Cargotec sites. We were able to publish more environment-related data about assembly sites, service sites and offices in Finland and Sweden with renewable our operations, and our health and safety report was published externally for the electricity. Following this achievement, over 30 percent of our electricity is now first time. The widening of the reporting scope had a clear impact on the final Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 24 Annual Review 2018 SUSTAINABILITY OUR SUSTAINABILITY WORK In our In our Through our Supply chain Own operation Solutions Mergers and acquisitions (M&A) A comprehensive due diligence process including Software environmental, social and governmental aspects, is Our software offering can increase adapted in all M&A and integration cases. visibility, identify potential inefficiencies and help plan holistic Social responsibility improvements to increase the efficiency of resources used in Yearly employee engagement surveys measure cargo handling. employee work commitment. Human rights risk gap analysis performed and the action plan to mitigate those risks has been launched. Supply chain management Clear non-discrimination and recruitment policies as well as HR processes are in use. A comprehensive sustainability self-assessment Comprehensive safety programme throughout the Service organisation. tool has been provided to all our strategic Our service solutions can extend suppliers. product life-time and enhance the Supplier criteria, monitoring and audits R&D efficiency of operations, supporting circular economy principles. emphasise labour management practices, Continuous R&D provides new environmentally friendly human rights and safety. solutions which expand our eco-efficiency portfolio. Facilities and environment Efficient facility management with renewable energy programme and targets in place. Constant environmental risk mitigation assessments. Products Environmental certificates and management systems in use. Our hybrid, electric and energy efficient cargo handling solutions can enhance fuel Compliance efficiency. Comprehensive anti-corruption compliance programme. Third-party risk assessment in use to mitigate violations. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas SUSTAINABILITY Annual Review 2018 25 figures. More information about these can be found in the separate Global Reporting Operationally, sustainability is managed at both the corporate and business area level Initiative (GRI) index on our website: cargotec.com > Sustainability. across organisational boundaries. The key responsible organisations are units working with strategy, quality, R&D, sourcing, QEHS (quality, environment, health and safety), The Industrial Injury Frequency Rate (IIFR) for Cargotec assembly sites was 6.7. We corporate audit, HR and legal. were able to bring the rate down at many of our assembly sites, with about 22 percent of them achieving IIFR zero levels. The service site IIFR is now reported for The corporate level sustainability targets are proposed, reported on and monitored by the first time, with the current rate being 9.5. We continue our efforts to further Cargotec’s Corporate Sustainability function, and each business area has its own improve health and safety in all our operations. function responsible for coordinating its sustainability work. To increase the visibility of and communication about our sustainable business The business areas and the Corporate Sustainability function jointly implement and operations, we participated in several sustainable investment conferences in 2018. monitor the sustainability targets in both shared and separate processes. In general, As a global leader in intelligent cargo and load handling, we have put a lot of effort the results and anomalies are reported to the Extended Executive Board. In addition, into our #SmarterBetterTogether concept, with which we want to boost an industrycertain sustainability perspectives, when relevant, are presented separately as part of wide discussion around three important challenges that we want to solve: reducing other projects. Sustainability issues are always addressed separately as and when inefficiencies, improving eco-efficiency and improving safety throughout the cargo needed. flow. The Cargotec Sustainability Council aligns and agrees on actions taken on the Sustainability governance corporate and business area level regarding the development, implementation and Sustainability is on the agenda of the Cargotec Board of Directors, and the Board follow-up of sustainability targets and policies. The Sustainability Council consists of reviews sustainability at least on an annual basis. During the strategy round, the the Corporate Sustainability function (SVP Communications and Director Sustainability) Board also reviewed sustainability megatrends as well as related business and and the corporate strategy and business area management team members corporate responsibility actions. The Extended Executive Board conducts bi-annual responsible for sustainability issues. sustainability reviews and approves corporate level sustainability targets. Cargotec’s Senior Vice President, Communications is responsible for sustainability issues within Policies, management approach the Extended Executive Board. and grievance mechanisms The main goals and principles of our sustainability work are defined by Cargotec’s To ensure that targets match business area operations, the management teams of Code of Conduct and other related policies. The Code of Conduct defines our way of Kalmar, Hiab and MacGregor hold a sustainability review at least bi-annually for their working. It describes the basic principles of ethical integrity together with our Antirespective business areas, reviewing and approving possible adjustment needs of Corruption Policy, which categorically prohibits transgression of any kind in our actions. the corporate level sustainability targets. Cargotec Code of Conduct can be reviewed at www.cargotec.com. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 26 Annual Review 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Our social responsibility principles are defined in more detail in our Employment Policy human rights and environmental laws. In the supplier assessment checklist, 20 percent and in other related HR policies. The implementation of HR policies is monitored of the questions are related to issues regarding the environment, labor, ethics and primarily through our human resource information system ZONE, which has been in compliance, or health and safety. All new suppliers are audited against this supplier use globally since January 2015. ZONE offers good visibility of our workforce, enabling criteria prior to acceptance. Additionally, new suppliers receive the sustainability us to assess the implementation rate of certain HR policies and processes. To ensure self-assessment tool. that our social responsibility principles are understood everywhere at Cargotec, the Code of Conduct review is also included in Cargotec’s Performance and Development Cargotec’s economic responsibility principles are prepared in accordance with the Plan discussions. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European Union. Cargotec’s EHS (environment, health and safety) policy determines our principles Grievance mechanisms are reported to the Ethics and compliance team either directly regarding environmental and safety management. The EHS policy is included in our or through the Speak-up line. The number of cases reported during 2018 was in the integrated management systems, including processes described in the EHS and same range as in 2017. The grievance mechanism is managed by the Ethics and Quality management standards ISO9001, ISO14001 and OHSAS18001. The coverage compliance function. of externally certificated systems at Cargotec’s assembly sites based on volume are as follows: ISO9001: 93 percent ISO14001: 92 percent and OHSAS18001: 88 percent. During 2018, 55 cases of potential misconduct were reported to the Ethics and The EHS policy is also integrated into the R&D processes in each business area to compliance team. All reported cases were referred to the monthly Code of Conduct ensure that the environmental, health and safety aspects are taken into account in panel of the Extended Executive Board, which is chaired by the VP Ethics and product development at a reasonable level within each individual product type. Compliance. The Code of Conduct panel decides upon case closure, remediation and disciplinary action. During the year 43 cases were closed and improvement actions Cargotec’s supply chain management consists of Cargotec Sourcing Council, which were initiated. Some cases resulted in disciplinary actions such as warnings, includes Cargotec’s CEO, business area presidents and sourcing heads. In its annual dismissals and termination of third party relationships. 17 cases reported during 2018 meetings the council reviews sourcing development including sustainability. Each of concerned HR issues seven (7) cases related to health and safety issues, two (2) the three business areas have supply management teams that report directly to the reported cases related to information security, and 29 cases were related to unethical business area in order to better support the needs of the business. Teams collaborate business conduct such as fraud, corruption or policy violations (impacts on society). closely in, for example, supplier development and sustainability areas, to gain synergies There were no case reports related to suspected human rights violations, nor were across the entire corporation. there reports about environmental grievances. The Code of Conduct cases were reported to the Board of Director’s (BoD) Audit and Risk Management Committee on a The supplier criteria applied on both the corporate and business area level aim to quarterly basis, and the VP Ethics and Compliance provided an annual update to the ensure that our suppliers conduct their business in compliance with international full BoD. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas SUSTAINABILITY Annual Review 2018 27 As part of the investigation process, the Ethics and Compliance team agrees with relevant management team members on remedial actions, such as improved policies, training or disciplinary actions. The final decision on disciplinary actions is made by the Code of Conduct panel. 30 percent of the electricity used by Cargotec is generated from renewable energy sources. 100 percent of assembly sites, service sites and offices in Finland and Sweden are powered by renewable electricity. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 28 Annual Review 2018 KALMAR SHAPING THE INDUSTRY WITH OPENNESS AND ECO-EFFICIENCY The year 2018 was positive for Kalmar. Order volumes increased and customers showed increasing interest in automation projects. We also made strong progress in promoting openness and eco-efficiency in our industry. We believe in the successful development of the cargo handling industry through cooperation and sharing of ideas with our customers and partners, instead of each of us focusing on our own interests. In 2018, we initiated a dialogue on the key challenges and opportunities in our sector. In our own operations, we promoted transparency by, for example, developing our Kalmar Key automation platform – the only port industry platform that uses open interfaces – as well as by piloting the open XVELA collaborative stowage solution and by introducing our Kalmar Co-Create concept. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas KALMAR Annual Review 2018 29 Kalmar in brief Offering Kalmar offers cargo handling solutions and services for ports, terminals, Kalmar’s product range includes ship-to-shore cranes, rubber-tyred gantry distribution centres and the heavy industry. Our vision is to be the cranes, straddle and shuttle carriers, reachstackers, empty container handlers, preferred partner of our customers. Our mission is to help our customers terminal tractors, forklift trucks and automated guided vehicles. Kalmar’s to improve their productivity. offering also covers maintenance contracts, technical support, spare parts, training and crane upgrades. The Kalmar Terminal Logistics System, Navis terminal operating systems, the XVELA collaborative stowage solution and Bromma container crane spreaders are also part of the Kalmar business area. Sustainability Customers Our solutions and services help customers reduce fuel consumption and Our customers are ports and terminals globally as well as distribution centres emissions, optimise cargo flows, cut costs and improve operational and heavy industry mainly in Europe and in the United States. We collaborate safety, equipment availability and lifetime. We are committed to have our closely with our customers, and our customer satisfaction level is good with the full offering available as electrically powered versions by 2021. We drive Net Promoter Score (NPS) at 24. NPS measures customer loyalty and likelihood a high-performing safety culture. to recommend to others. OPERATING PROFIT* ORDERS RECEIVED AND ORDER BOOK SALES MEUR % MEUR MEUR 180 18 2,000 1,919 2,000 1,764 1,721 143.6 1,663 1,700 1,598 1,618 150 135.3 133.1 15 1,482 1,555 1,487 129.9 1,500 1,500 120 12 33% 34% 37% 34% 37% 1,012 90 9 1,000 877 900 1,000 8.9 805 786 56.8 7.8 8.0 8.3 60 6 500 500 30 3.8 3 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Operating profit* Orders received Sales, services and software and share of total sales Operating profit margin*, % Order book Sales, equipment *excluding restructuring costs Year 2017 financial figures have been restated according to the new and amended IFRS accounting principles adopted on January 1, 2018. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 30 Annual Review 2018 KALMAR We commit to emission reductions: our full offering will be available as electrically powered versions by 2021. Over the past few years, we have systematically projects, the range of automation projects was further In June, we introduced our first solution to our new enhanced the eco-efficiency of our products so that our diversified as customers were considering automation eco-efficient Kalmar Eco Range product range. The customers can reduce their environmental impact. In for smaller, existing port terminals and intermodal Kalmar Eco reachstacker significantly reduces fuel costs May, we announced our commitment to reduce cargo terminals where cargo is transferred from ships to inland and consumption as well as CO2 emissions. This will handling emissions by making our full offering available transport. help our customers to achieve both current and future as electrically powered versions by 2021. emissions limits. Despite the fact that the world political situation caused The importance of uncertainty among customers, our order book still We also launched our new-generation straddle and maintenance and service increased significantly. Our customers were particularly shuttle carriers with advanced electric systems and business is growing interested in smaller cargo handling equipment (mobile headlights for improved reliability, efficiency, driving Our Kalmar Cloud service increases the amount of data equipment). comfort and safety. available from the equipment. At the end of 2018, almost 7,000 machines were connected to this service. We Orders for Navis terminal operating systems developed Focus on our core businesses strive to further develop solutions that use operational favourably, and the piloting of XVELA collaborative In 2018, we sold the Kalmar Rough Terrain Center, a data from the equipment, data analytics and diagnostics stowage solutions with customers continued. Bromma, manufacturer of material handling equipment for rough in order to provide intelligent maintenance solutions for which manufactures container crane spreaders, terrain use. The transaction is in line with our strategy, all sectors. In 2018, we also revised our organisation to performed well. Also the demand for Kalmar’s straddle according to which we will concentrate on container further increase the benefits provided by our carriers remained strong, further consolidating our ports, heavy industry and distribution segments. We maintenance and service business to our customers. position as the market leader in this field. Our service also signed an agreement with JCE Invest AB to business grew in line with our expectations. establish a joint venture focusing on the handling of dry Growth in orders received, bulk cargo. In the future, the new Bruks Siwertell Group higher number of automation Eco-efficiency as the key will own Siwertell AB, previously part of Kalmar, and projects in solutions development BRUKS Holding AB, previously part of JCE Group. The market remained calm in the first months of 2018 In April, we introduced Kalmar FastCharge AGV but picked up during the year, as a number of our (Automated Guided Vehicle) whose power system is long-term preparatory projects turned into orders. We based on the latest lithium-ion battery technology. The secured five strategically important orders for automation fully electric power transmission is emissions-free at projects around the world. In addition to extensive mega source. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas KALMAR Annual Review 2018 31 CASE Autonomous, zero-emission cargo handling solution for Yara Kalmar will deliver fully autonomous equipment, software and services for a fully digitalised container handling solution at Yara’s facility in Norway. This means that all necessary operations related to the world’s first autonomous and electric container vessel Yara Birkeland, including loading, unloading and sailing, will be conducted in a fully autonomous manner, with zero emissions. CASE The new, upgraded Kalmar Insight In 2018, we continued to develop Kalmar Insight, a cloud-based tool that provides customers with increasingly comprehensive information on their cargo handling operations to support their decision-making. The service gathers both real-time and historical data from various sources to facilitate maintenance operations and optimise performance. In the future, Kalmar intends to concentrate other digital services related to cargo handling on the same platform. CASE Kalmar Future Generation In May, we published our vision for Kalmar’s small cargo and material handling equipment. We believe that electricity will be increasingly used as a power source and that purpose-built design and integrated serviceability will enable maximum availability and performance for the material handling fleets. In the near future, driverless vehicles will expand the benefits of automation to the entire logistics chain, and new technology will help our customers to remain ahead of the game. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 32 Annual Review 2018 HIAB CONTINUING ON THE GROWTH JOURNEY Hiab’s sales and orders received increased in 2018 for the fifth consecutive year. Our expertise in smart, digital and connected solutions puts us at the forefront of the industry. In 2018, Hiab delivered a sustainable growth, growing its order book by 51 percent, orders received by 13 percent, and sales by six percent. As the leader in on-road load handling, we see continued potential for long term growth in the industry. In 2018, we invested further in our services and in our digitalisation and automation capabilities with a specific focus on sustainable, forward-looking and fuel-efficient solutions, skills and services. We build efficient platforms and equipment for our customers, offering data-driven solutions that make their businesses more efficient. We focus on increasing our own productivity and agility, for example, with digital platforms to serve our customers even better. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas HIAB Annual Review 2018 33 Hiab in brief Offering Hiab is the world’s leading provider of on-road load handling equipment, Hiab’s class-leading load handling equipment includes HIAB, EFFER and intelligent services, smart and connected solutions. Our vision is to be ARGOS loader cranes, LOGLIFT and JONSERED forestry and recycling cranes, the number one partner and preferred load handling solution provider to MOFFETT and PRINCETON truck mounted forklifts, MULTILIFT skiploaders and our customers. hooklifts, and tail lifts under the ZEPRO, DEL and WALTCO brands. Hiab ProCareTM service, the award-winning HiVisionTM crane operating system and the HiConnect platform demonstrate Hiab’s constant drive to provide intelligent services and smart solutions that add value to its customers. Sustainability Customers We are committed to safe and compliant operations and regular supply Our customers come from a broad range of industries and segments, for chain sustainability assessments. We want to continuously improve which our load handling solutions create value. We serve customers that range quality, durability and safety in our development work. Our eco-efficient, from single truck and small fleet owners to international fleet operators, across silent and emission-free solutions help our customers enhance their private and public sectors. In 2018, our Net Promoter Score (NPS) index was operations in urban night-time deliveries, for example. 21 (total) and 30 (direct customers). NPS measures customer loyalty and likelihood to recommend to others. OPERATING PROFIT* ORDERS RECEIVED AND ORDER BOOK SALES MEUR % MEUR MEUR 180 18 2,000 2,000 157.2 150 13.5 14.5 15 134.5 1,500 1,500 120 10.8 140 12 1,259 11.7 1,149 1,116 967 1,016 1,036 1,084 90 7.3 9 1,000 909 1,000 928 100.5 840 24% 24% 24% 25% 25% 60 6 61 453 500 305 500 264 286 300 30 3 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Operating profit* Orders received Sales, services and share of total sales Operating profit margin*, % Order book Sales, equipment *excluding restructuring costs Year 2017 financial figures have been restated according to the new and amended IFRS accounting principles adopted on January 1, 2018. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 34 Annual Review 2018 HIAB Hiab was founded 75 years ago, inspiring and shaping the load handling industry ever since. Positive macroeconomics, We continued to renew and expand our class-leading Services capture profitability challenges product portfolio, and smart and connected solutions. the customer lifecycle Our business environment remained favourable in 2018. HiConnect™ enables real-time insights into our During the year, we further developed our service We see continued positive momentum particularly in customers’ fleet, load handling equipment utilisation and programmes and network to better capture the lifecycle services going forward. Underlying macroeconomics operation, enhancing uptime, productivity and safety. of our customers. and industry-specific indicators (e.g. construction, manufacturing, housing and truck registrations) were still Our demountable portfolio was upgraded. MULTILIFT After a successful introduction in the United Kingdom at high levels in the US and in Europe. Growth continued Commander provides a new way to handle containers and the Netherlands, we rolled out our ProCare™ Total also across most of APAC. safely and efficiently and MULTILIFT Ultima represents Repair & Maintenance (R&M) as a global concept. the next generation of hooklifts. We also introduced new Customers using ProCare™ Total R&M benefit from Despite our positive progress in sales and orders, our HIAB building material cranes and the JONSERED increased equipment uptime and a reduced total cost of operating profit declined. This was due to the weakening recycling crane portfolio in 2018. ownership. of the US dollar compared to the euro, as well as additional costs related to supply chain. In July, the Hiab business lines were awarded new, We got closer to our customers by expanding our stricter individual ISO certifications for quality assurance, service footprint in the United Kingdom, Germany, Shaping and inspiring sustainability and safety, replacing previous Hiab-wide France and Sweden. Our installation and competence the industry ISO certifications. In November, Hiab was named the centre in Meppel, Netherlands, offers the ready-to-beScott Phillips started as the President of Hiab in Quality Organisation of the Year at the International installed Hiab modular FrameWorks™ solutions as well October. He succeeded Roland Sundén, who led Hiab Quality Awards. as truck bodies and complete vehicle solutions for our during the years of our business turn-around and into customers in the region. Our web shop for spare parts the growth achieved during 2014–2018. Launched in 2016, the award-winning HiVision™ virtual now covers 46 countries. reality-based crane operation system improves the In 2018, we significantly complemented our loader working environment and safety of crane operators. In In 2018, HiVision™ received an upgrade that allows cranes portfolio and expanded our range of heavy 2018, the HiVision™ solution is present in more than ten technicians to perform maintenance operations cranes in the 100+ tonnemetres segment by acquiring markets, has received several innovation prizes, and has remotely. The first remote service action was done to a the Effer cranes business, a global leader in this expanded from forestry to other areas, such as waste Japanese customer. segment with a complementary sales and distribution and recycling. network. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas HIAB Annual Review 2018 35 CASE MOFFETT E-Series zero emissions helps with out-of-hours deliveries The leading UK retailer Pets at Home makes 1,400 store deliveries per week, 80 percent of them after 8 p.m. Due to the time and their urban delivery locations, they needed a silent solution. They chose the Hiab MOFFETT E-Series forklift, the world’s first electric truck-mounted forklift truck, which is virtually silent and emission-free. Pets at Home received an award for excellence for its industry-leading approach to noise reduction by the Fork Lift Truck Association. CASE Procare™ increases uptime with reduced cost of ownership Hiab rolled out its ProCare™ Total Repair & Maintenance programme as a global concept in September. At a fixed monthly price, trained professionals maintain the customer’s Hiab equipment using original spare parts. There is a clear customer demand for increasing equipment uptime and retaining value, while at the same time reducing the total cost of ownership. After its global launch in September, service contracts have already been sold in the US and Australia. CASE Hiab Vision Lab pushes the envelope In February, Hiab’s Test and Innovation centre in Hudiksvall, Sweden, was expanded to include the Vision Lab. It allows Hiab to develop new solutions utilising advanced vision technology. In collaboration with customers and partners, Hiab can simulate customer challenges and create tailored solutions where needed, as early as during the solution development phase. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 36 Annual Review 2018 MACGREGOR PROFITABILITY MAINTAINED Despite ongoing market challenges, MacGregor kept its business, excluding restructuring costs, at a break-even level in 2018. We continued to strengthen our footprint in Asia during the year. Our traditional service business improved slightly, with equipment orders received roughly at the 2017 level. On the merchant shipping side, we saw some positive developments in new vessel orders, although the market upturn was slower than expected. Whilst the mooring side of the offshore solutions business did well, the load handling activity level remained low. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas MACGREGOR Annual Review 2018 37 MacGregor in brief Maritime markets and offerings MacGregor aims to be recognised as the leader in intelligent maritime We offer engineering and lifetime service solutions for merchant cargo and cargo and load handling by becoming the preferred provider of lowest passenger vessels; the offshore oil and gas and renewable energy sectors; total cost solutions for shipbuilders, and the preferred partner for ship fishing, research and marine-resource vessels; naval operations and logistics owners and operators through enabling highest lifecycle value. vessels, and ports and terminals. Our strong portfolio includes MacGregor, Hatlapa, Porsgrunn, Pusnes, Rapp, Triplex and Flintstone. Sustainability Customers We support sustainable development by providing our customers with Our customers are shipbuilders, owners and operators whom we serve in eco-efficient solutions and services that help them optimise cargo and maritime and offshore segments with our solutions and services. Our most load handling flows as well as port turnaround times, improve safety, recent overall customer satisfaction index is from 2017, when it was 74 percent. extend equipment service life, reduce environmental impact and emissions. Our cargo boost services, for example, can reduce emissions per transported cargo unit. OPERATING PROFIT* ORDERS RECEIVED AND ORDER BOOK SALES MEUR % MEUR MEUR 80 8 2,000 2,000 60 6 1,500 1,500 5.2 1,210 1,131 1,139 53.9 1,034 40 4 1,000 828 883 1,000 2.6 598 24% 24% 778 2.3 580 571 1.9 546 521 481 530 28% 538 20 2 500 500 36% 39% 30.1 17.9 10.6 0.1 0.0 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Operating profit* Orders received Sales, services and share of total sales Operating profit margin*, % Order book Sales, equipment *excluding restructuring costs Year 2017 financial figures have been restated according to the new and amended IFRS accounting principles adopted on January 1, 2018. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas 38 Annual Review 2018 MACGREGOR We are enhancing our ​customers’ operations through digital solutions. Strategic actions To expand our footprint in China, in April we opened our MacGregor OnWatch Scout offers a new intelligent improve our capabilities first joint venture with Nanjing Luzhou Machine Co., Ltd, service for merchant ship owners. The service predicts and market reach owned by the China State Shipbuilding Corporation and monitors potentially critical issues, enabling During the year, we strengthened our capabilities and (CSSC). preventative actions to be taken and thereby reducing offering through acquisitions and joint ventures. costly unplanned downtime and avoidable expenses. It In October, we signed a Letter of Intent to strategically also lets MacGregor experts establish a remote We completed the acquisition of Rapp Marine in cooperate with CSSC. Our partnership with CSSC, connection to installed equipment and assist with February, strengthening our offering for fishery and spanning more than 30 years, provides a strong resolving performance issues. research vessels. Rapp is the market leader in foundation for future cooperation. electrically driven systems and, together with the Triplex Our new Voyage and port optimiser is currently the only product range, provides a strong platform for future Whilst developing our position in Asia, we are not platform developed for pure car truck carrier operators growth in these segments. forgetting our European heritage or the need to remain that enables analysing port calls and identifying equally focused on meeting the expectations and efficiency improvements. It can save operators as much We announced the acquisition of the marine and requirements of our customers worldwide. Our global as USD 2.5 million per vessel per year and reduce offshore businesses of TTS Group, a global provider of network now covers more than 30 countries, through environmental impact. cargo handling equipment and services for merchant which we support our customers wherever they operate. and offshore ships, in February 2018. The combination Our most recently introduced solution is the breakbulk of MacGregor and TTS will produce greater scale and Enhancing our optimiser, which is the first automated cloud-based diversification and strengthen MacGregor’s portfolio and customers’ operations cargo stowage application. It optimises the stowage of market position. We expect to close the transaction through digital solutions breakbulk and general cargoes to increase vessel during the first quarter of 2019. Together with ESL Shipping Oy, part of Aspo Plc, we utilisation rates and improve our customers’ business developed and installed autonomous discharging performance. Strengthening our cranes for their innovative and environmentally friendly position in Asia bulk carriers. These cranes will be the world’s first In October 2017, we moved our global head office to autonomous discharging cranes equipped with selfSingapore, where we have been present since 1974, to learning capabilities. be located closer to our customers in Asia. In 2018, we continued to develop our presence in one of the world’s As an integrated part of the Kongsberg Maritime leading maritime hubs. In addition to a growing ship automatic mooring solution, MacGregor equipment will owning community, more than 80 percent of global enable mooring operations to be undertaken without commercial shipbuilding now takes place in Asia. human intervention. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas MACGREGOR Annual Review 2018 39 CASE Global Product Support Centre enables better customer service During the year, the Global Product Support Centre (GPSC) in Gdańsk, Poland, further enhanced our ability to serve customers around the world. The GPSC concept expanded to Singapore at the end of the year. CASE Students collaborated to improve stevedore working conditions A Finland-Singapore Maritime Innovation Camp held in Singapore in September sought ways to improve stevedore working conditions. The Camp brought together university students from Turku, Finland, and from two Singaporean universities. The challenge was to find ways to reduce the stress level of stevedores as they work onboard. The winning team comprised members from the Turku School of Economics and the National University of Singapore. CASE Environmentally friendly lubricants and oils Our customers are moving to environmentally acceptable lubricants (EALs) and biodegradable hydraulic oils. To support this development, we created a green conversion service that combines the use of an environmentally compliant hydraulic oil with an accurate method to measure the cleanliness of the hydraulic system. Several RoRo vessels were converted as part of service testing during the year, with further similar projects underway. Year 2018 Company Sustainability Business areas Cargotec’s reporting for the year 2018 consists of five documents: the Annual review, the Financial review, the Corporate governance statement, the Remuneration statement, and the GRI index. All documents are available on the company website www.cargotec.com. Annual review 2018 Financial review 2018 Corporate governance Remuneration GRI index 2018 statement 2018 statement 2018 CONTACT US Cargotec corporation Porkkalankatu 5, Helsinki, Finland P.O. Box 61, FI-00501 Helsinki Tel. +358 20 777 4000 Websites www.cargotec.com www.kalmarglobal.com www.hiab.com www.macgregor.com Business identity code 1927402–8 Follow us Climate neutral printed matter | ClimateCalc CC-000025/FI | Hämeen Kirjapaino Oy PEFC-certified paper has been used on the printed version of this document. www.cargotec.com
