VALUES WORTH SHARING Sustainability at LGT 2017 to 2018 A look inside the Princely Collections: the illustrations in this publication depict studies of natural objects by Franz Anton von Scheidel. For more than 400 years, the Princes of Liechtenstein have form the basis for a successful partnership with our clients: been passionate art collectors. The Princely Collections a long-term focus, skill and reliability. include key works of European art stretching over five centuries and are now among the world’s major private art Illustrations: Franz Anton von Scheidel, details from collections. The notion of promoting fine arts for the general “Depictions of conchiliae in watercolor after Johann Carl good enjoyed its greatest popularity during the Baroque Megerle von Mühlfeld (1765–1840),” late 18th century. period. The House of Liechtenstein has pursued this ideal © LIECHTENSTEIN. The Princely Collections, Vaduz–Vienna consistently down the generations. We make deliberate use of the works of art in the Princely Collections to accompany what we do. For us, they embody those values that www.liechtensteincollections.at Contents 5 Making a significant contribution 6 Why we think and act sustainably 9 A new regulatory framework 10 Interview: H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein, CEO LGT 12 Taking responsibility as an investor and investment advisor 16 A new dimension in investment decision-making 18 Supporting innovative solutions 19 Social and financial returns 20 Background: Sustainability information for investors 22 Prudent operations management 24 Sustainable employee development 26 Assuming responsibility for society 28 Portrait: Bringing like-minded people together 30 An active dialog for a better world 32 Key figures at a glance 34 Our memberships and partnerships 35 Report profile 36 Risk note/Disclaimer “In wealth management in particular, the sustainable allocation of capital gives us the opportunity to make a significant contribution toward resolving environmental and social problems.” H.S.H. Prince Philipp von und zu Liechtenstein, Chairman LGT 5 Making a significant contribution Dear Client Climate change is threatening the way we live, giving rise to considerable financial costs and increasing social tensions and inequality in many countries. The Princely Family has been committed to thinking and acting sustainably for generations. This is due to our long-term political and economic responsibilities and our close links with nature, which, among other things, are the result of our involvement in agriculture and forestry over several centuries. We believe that sustainability is often neglected and we regard it as an essential requirement for the successful long-term growth of companies and of society as a whole. In accordance with this belief, we at LGT have set ourselves specific sustainability targets. For many years, we have ensured that our buildings are resource-efficient, made every effort to be a responsible employer and committed ourselves to more inclusive social development and a more sustainable approach to the environment. We take social and environmental factors into consideration in our investment products and help our private clients make their portfolios more sustainable. In wealth management in particular, the sustainable allocation of capital H.S.H. Prince Philipp von und zu Liechtenstein (left) and gives us the opportunity to make a significant contribution H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein toward resolving environmental and social problems. This sustainability report highlights the progress we have made and outlines our goals for the coming years. H.S.H. Prince Philipp von und zu Liechtenstein Chairman LGT H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein CEO LGT 6 A long-term perspective Why we think and act sustainably The destruction of the environment, which is advancing at Even with this reduction, which, based on the current situation an alarming pace, along with growing social inequality and will be extremely difficult to achieve, the negative impact on the stark increase in social and political polarization are among ecosystems and biodiversity will be profound. the biggest challenges of our times. For several years now, the glob­­al community has been trying to create a road map In 2015, the UN adopted its Agenda 2030, which sets out 17 for ad­­dress­­­­ing these challenges. Numerous studies and re­­ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to tackle these global search findings show how imperative it is that we take action. challenges on a wide scale. These goals took effect in 2016 According to a special report by the Intergovernmental Panel and apply to all 193 UN member states. The Paris Agreement on Climate Change dated 8 October 2018, the expected negawas adopted at the climate change conference in Paris in De­­­ tive impacts of the climate crisis are huge. The researchers in­­­ cember 2015 and will apply from 2020. It is designed to enable volved in the study are convinced that these can only be kept the world to combat climate change. In December 2018, at in check by swift and far-reaching changes. This means that, the climate conference in Katowice in Poland (COP24), the UN by 2030, greenhouse gas emissions must fall by 45 per­­cent member states decided on the technical framework for its globally compared with 2010 and net CO2 emissions must be practical implementation. reduced to zero by 2050 at the latest, as this is the only way to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. The three pillars of LGT’s Sustainability Strategy 2025 Sustainable investing Sustainable business Sustainable thinking We want to be a leading provider of We consider sustainability aspects We want to be a thought leader sustainable investment solutions. in all our decisions. in sustainability. We want to optimize the contribution of We reduce our environmental We want our employees to actively engage our investment solutions to the SDGs. footprint significantly. in sustainability issues and will train them accordingly. We aim to substantially increase the share A minimum of ten percent of LGT Group of sustainable investment solutions in our dividends are allocated to philanthropic We join forces with governments, compaprivate clients’ portfolios. activities. nies, NGOs, etc. to optimize our contribution to the SDGs. We measure and report transparently on We want to be a top employer that offers the sustainability quality of our investment a good work environment. solutions. 7 More information about the UN Sustainable Development Goals can be found at sustainabledevelopment.un.org While politicians engage in protracted and tough negotiations Contribution to the UN’s SDGs and processes to create a framework for efficiently combating With its new sustainability strategy, LGT aims to make a contriclimate change and social inequality, it is also up to businesses, bution to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals and help society and each individual to identify and take concrete mea­ create a better, more sustainable world. When devising the sures. LGT adopted a sustainable mindset early on; long-­term strategy, we also considered which SDGs LGT is capable of and sustainable thinking and actions have always been one of contributing to as a group. Following an internal consultation, the company’s key traits. We have therefore spent many years we identified eight goals where LGT can have substantial consolidating and broadening our commitment to sustainability, influence, specifically SDG 3, 5, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13 and 17. both in our operations and in our core business, Private Banking and Asset Management. In 2014, we defined our 2020 sustain­­­­ Binding governance structure ability targets, and worked on their implementation until 2018. The Sustainability Strategy 2025 is the result of a broad-based Over the last two years, we turned the spotlight on Private process. The CEO, senior management, Group Sustainabil­­­ity Banking in particular, working to improve transparency with Management and numerous other internal units and exter­­nal regard to the sustainability quality of the various investment advisors were involved in its development. As well as yield­­ing instruments for our clients. In 2018, with a view to taking the a set of concrete goals for greater sustainability within the com­­­ next step toward greater sustainability, we developed and imple­­­ pany, the work on the new strategy also provided an opportumented the LGT Sustainability Strategy 2025, which is based nity to adjust the governance structure. H.S.H. Prince Max von on a materiality analysis conducted in 2015. The new strategy und zu Liechtenstein chairs the new Sustainability Board, on which sets targets of a more binding nature for taking even greater senior management and various units are also represented. The account of sustainability across the whole company and the Sustainability Board sets out the strategic direction and guiding entire product range. Our objective is to create sustainable principles for sustainability. Progress toward the achievement of value for all our stakeholders: for our clients, our owner, our objectives is published regularly. employees, society and the environment. 8 A long-term perspective Responsible corporate governance out in the LGT Code of Conduct, which defines the ethical It is not just in the area of sustainability that transparency and and professional standards for all employees and is binding for clear governance are important to LGT. Responsible corporate all employees, including the mem­­­­bers of the Foundation Board governance is an essential requirement for gaining and reinand Board of Directors. forcing the trust of clients and employees as well as that of the company’s owner and other stakeholders. LGT is managed Since 1996, we have published our financial figures and other according to the principles of the separation of powers (Founimportant information in accordance with the international ac­­­­ dation Board, Group Executive Committee, Executive Boards counting standards for listed companies, despite the fact that of the companies) and of checks and balances. We support as a family-owned business we are not obliged to do so. LGT the fight against white-collar crime, money laundering, cor­­ is one of the few international private banks worldwide that ruption, tax abuses and ter­­­rorism financing and have set up has its creditworthiness assessed by in­­­­­dependent rating agencomprehensive internal con­­trols and monitoring processes for cies and receives consistently high rat­­­­ings. In 2018, Standard & this purpose. Poor’s gave LGT an A+ rating, Moody’s an Aa2. LGT’s business policy is based on performance, professionalism, fairness and high ethical standards. Our shared values are set Clear governance structure thanks to broad-based LGT Sustainability Board Foundation Board Sustainability Board Chair Think Deputy Chair Tank Members Sust. Committee Sust. Committee Sust. Committee Sust. Committee Sust. Committee Private Banking Asset Management Impact/Philanthropy Operations Human Resources Marketing & Communications 9 A new regulatory framework The finance industry has been in a state of upheaval since the Paris Agreement entered into force. A growing number of countries is introducing binding rules to make the finance industry more sustainable. Supranational organizations like the G20, OECD and EU are also demanding that the industry become more sustainable. The European Union is keen to take on a leading role by establishing a sustainable financial system. At the beginning of March 2018, the EU Commission published its “Action Plan: Financing Sus­­tain­­able Growth”, which contains ten concrete measures. The plan aims to re-direct capital flows within the EU to sus­­ tainable investments in order to achieve sustainable growth and manage financial risks stemming from climate change and social issues. In addition, it aims to foster transparency and longSmog in Shanghai: the Chinese government appears to have recognized the signs of the times and is intensifying its efforts with regard to sustainability. termism in the financial sector. The Commission has already published leg­­islative proposals in four key areas, namely: ■■ establishing a unified EU classification system of sustainable to promoting sustainable investments in their financial centers economic activities, and making those centers sustainable. ■■ incorporating sustainability in financial advice, ■■ introducing transparent sustainability benchmarks, Under China’s national plan for the protection of the envi­ron­­ ■■ and integrating sustainability aspects into the investment ment, air, water and soil contamination are to be eliminated. In processes of institutional investors and asset managers. December 2016, the People’s Bank of China published specific guidelines on issuing green bonds and, that same year, the As part of its Action Plan, the EU Commission is also working Chinese government adopted the “Guidelines for Establishing on standards and criteria for sustainable financial prod­­­ucts, a a Green Financial System”. standard for green bonds, an EU Ecolabel for financial products, the inclusion of sustainability indicators in supervisory activiIn Hong Kong, listed companies have been required to report ties and the inclusion of environmental, social and governance annually on their sustainability performance since 2016. This criteria (ESG criteria) in credit ratings. step appears to have set the wheels in motion: the Financial Ser­­vices Development Council, Hong Kong, a government Measures and activities are also increasing at the international author­­­ity, warned in a November 2018 report that the citylevel: in April 2018, on the initiative of the G7 environment minisstate risks losing its competitiveness as a leading financial ters and the United Nations Environment Programme – Finance center if the government fails to establish a robust, sus­­tain­­able Initiative (UNEP FI), the International Network of Financial Ceninvestment ecosystem. ­­­­­­­tres for Sustainability was launched. Its members are committed 10 Interview “We want to play a pioneering role” LGT is increasing its commitment to sustainability. H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein, CEO LGT, explains why and how it is doing this. Your Serene Highness, climate change and social in­­­­­How do you plan to do this? equality are giving rise to controversy around the We have identified eight SDGs that we can contribute to in world. What is your view of the situation? our operations and on the advisory, investment and impact H.S.H. Prince Max: The world’s population and the global side of our business. Now we intend to introduce some more economy have grown significantly over the past 50 years, specific initiatives and implement them correctly. In the fu­­­­­­­ture, but unfortunately, in many areas this growth has not been we will take sustainability into consideration in all areas of sustainable. The result is that dangerous environmental, our business, in our decision-making and in our products. social, economic and political mistakes have been made, which we must correct as soon as possible in order to avoid That sounds ambitious. even bigger problems. The responsibility lies with all of us. Can you give us a specific example? Politicians need to introduce legislation that focuses much We can have the greatest impact in our core business – more closely on social, environmental and economic sus­­ Private Banking and Asset Management. We intend to help tainability. But businesses and citizens also need to make our private clients to substantially increase the proportion of a greater effort to ensure that society becomes more in­­­ sustainable investments in their portfolios. Of course, we also clusive and that pollution levels are reduced. need to provide them with a broad range of sustainable prod­­­­­­ucts, offer them ideas and assessments of sustainable Which specific measures do we need to take? investment solutions and ensure that sustainability criteria One helpful guide to the areas where measures are needed are taken into account in our offering. In our institutional to create a more environmentally friendly and socially just business, we want to on the one hand improve the contriworld is the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, or SDGs. bution that our offering makes to achieving the SDGs and These are highly ambitious but meaningful objectives that to redesign them accordingly. On the other hand, we also all 193 UN member states have committed to implement­ intend to motivate the companies and the asset man­­­agers ­ing by 2030. that we work with to take a sustainable approach. Has LGT already taken any action? Is the finance industry interested in sustainability at all? We have been working hard to make our operations and Yes. For institutional investors it has become a must. In our core business more sustainable for many years. We our view, any of our competitors that fail to address this have already achieved some important milestones. For matter will lose market share, and we are al­­­ready seeing example, we have introduced a sustainability rating system ours increase as a result of our strong commitment. for private clients, expanded our range of sus­­tainable products and reduced our energy consumption. The adoption What is the situation with private investors? of the SDGs was an opportunity for us to revise our sustain­­­ The trend toward greater sustainability is far more advanced ability strat­­egy and to set ourselves clearer goals that are in among institutional investors than among their private coun­­­ line with the SDGs. terparts. Many private investors believe that the returns on 11 H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein, CEO LGT and Chairman of the LGT Sustainability Board, is calling for greater commitment to sustainability in business, politics and society as a whole. sustainable investments are lower than those on traditional the companies that will benefit from these deve­lopments products. However, the trends increasingly show that the and to sell shares in the businesses that are not in a good opposite is true. position to make the necessary changes. As a result of our many years of experience, we already have an excellent database and the connections needed to exploit this poten“A commitment to sustainability is a tial. But there is still room for improvement. process of learning and development for every organization and every individual.” And the clients of LGT will also benefit from this? Yes, through our investment strategies that contain stocks such as these. In private equity we have made a series of What is it that drives the positive performance of sus­­tainable investments that are perform­­­­ing very well and sustainable business models? offer a great deal of potential for our client business. We It is the combination of a wide range of different factors. also want to increase our expertise in impact investing More and more capital is being invested in research and and make this available to our private clients. In this grow­ innovations in sustainable technologies and business models. ing sector, we are investing in companies whose activities Almost all universities have modified their programs over bring attractive financial returns and also have a positive the last ten years and the focus of government research impact on society and the environment. funding has shifted. Times are changing and the younger generation is much more aware of the environmental and So you believe that there is further potential social challenges we face. Young people are rightly con­­ for growth? cerned about intergenerational equity and climate change. Compared to many of our competitors, we are in a strong Young talent is drawn to cool start-ups with sustainable position and we are already benefiting from that. However, products and technologies. My son takes the sharing econ­ we too can do much more than we have done in the past. omy for granted, while my father hardly uses it. For me, A commitment to sustainability is a process of learning some aspects thereof still take some getting used to. One and development for every organization and every indifinal important factor is regulation and legislation. While vidual. Only companies that generate social added value some progress has already been made in this area, there will survive in the long term – and the more they generate, are still many more changes to come. Our role is to analyze the better. exciting trends and new developments carefully, to invest in 12 Sustainable investing Taking responsibility as an investor and investment advisor The fact that our sustainable approach forms a key part of our corporate culture is clearly reflected in our investment activities. We are convinced that we can only invest successfully on behalf of our clients if we take a long-term approach that embraces environmental, social and governance (ESG) principles. We want to continue along this path in the years ahead and become a leading provider of sustainable investment solutions. The LGT ESG Cockpit: multi-level integration LGT Capital Partners firmly believes that the integration of sus­­ tainability criteria should be as comprehensive as possible. This is why we use an in-house tool, the “ESG Cockpit”, to systematically generate ESG ratings for individual stocks and pick secu­­­ rities in accordance with ESG criteria. It uses ESG data from various specialist and established information providers and is continuously being further developed. With our ESG Cockpit, we are able to analyze around 20 dif­fer­­ ­ent key performance indicators of a company within the framework of the three ESG factors and cover over 6500 companies. These performance indicators, their individual weighting and the data analyzed in the process vary from sector to sector depending on their significance for the industry in question. For instance, environmental aspects will be highly relevant for a utilities or energy company, while conduct toward em­­­ ploy­­ees or diversity will be given a much greater weight­­ing for service providers. Every performance indicator is given a numerical value. These values make up the company’s overall rating for the E, S and G segments as well as its ag­­­gre­­­gate ESG score. The decision of whether to exclude a company from or include it in LGT’s sustainable investment universe in line with Andrea Ferch, Head Sustainability Investing at LGT in Switzerland, and Alexander Zanker, Portfolio Manager at LGT Capital Partners, work on ESG con­­­siderations is made on the basis of this overall rating, further developing the LGT Sustainability Rating, which is based on the among other factors. To further improve our ESG analysis, we ESG Cockpit and gives private clients transparency about how sustainable their investments are. 13 have incorporated controversies relating to companies into the ment categories of private equity and hedge funds. We work ESG Cockpit. This involves accessing reports from over 80 000 closely with these managers and join them in exploring how sources such as the media and other public sources in 20 lan­­ they can take sustainability criteria into account in their investguages. The information is prepared by an independent re­search ment process to a greater degree. Since 2013, we have been com­­pany and relates to issues that are relevant from an ESG conducting an annual survey of our hedge fund and private perspective such as corruption allegations, human rights violaequity managers about their ESG initiatives. These results are tions or envi­­­­ronmental damage. This gives us a more com­­pre­ then published in our ESG report. We use the survey to demon­­ hensive picture in real time of how the ambitions behind our strate to our investors the extent to which the man­­agers have sustainability invest­­­ments are being implemented in practice. integrated ESG factors into their investment process, their ownership guidelines and their re­­­porting practices. In light of the growing importance of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we have started to measure how compaPrivate equity nies’ products and services impact the 17 goals in order to The number of private equity managers who take ESG criteria give investors insights into how their investment decisions into account when investing has risen continuously. No fewer contribute to achieving the various goals or obstruct them. than 65 percent of the 218 managers whose compliance with these criteria we assessed in 2019 are now rated “good” or LGT’s commitment to external investment managers “excellent”, while the percentage of managers who fail to take LGT Capital Partners makes substantial investments via external ESG criteria into consideration (rating 4) has fallen to 14 percent investment managers, in particular in the two alternative invest­­­ (2018: 17 percent). Development of ESG ratings globally 100% 14% 17% 19% 23% 80% 34% 21% 43% 25% 26% 27% 60% 30% 39% 40% 34% 32% 30% 31% 25% 20% 26% 24% 19% 23% 19% 11% 0% 8% 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 1 – Excellent 2 – Good 3 – Fair 4 – Poor 14 Sustainable investing There are still significant regional differences when it comes Only 21 percent of European managers were rated 3 or 4 to integrating ESG criteria. Europe is the clear leader, followed because they have not yet developed an institutionalized by Asia and the US. The proportion of European managers approach for integrating ESG criteria. rated “excellent” or “good” (1 or 2) has risen to 79 percent, meaning that the number of managers with these ratings has Movement on the ESG front in the US increased by four per­cent since 2018. These managers have The US, which for a long time was seen to be lagging behind introduced comprehensive systems for analyzing ESG factors in terms of ESG integration, is taking a greater interest in the and integrating them into their ownership guidelines and ESG issue of sustainability. The percentage of managers rated 1 or reporting. In Asia, 59 per­­cent of managers achieved an “excel2 has risen to 49 percent, up nine percentage points year on lent” or “good” rating, com­­pared with 49 percent in the US. year. The percentage of managers rated 4, i.e. those failing to The improved manager rat­­ings in both these regions reflect take ESG into account, has fallen by 35 percentage points over the mood that we are perceiving in discussions with US and the past six years. Asian managers and our institutional clients. Biggest improvement in Asia Institutionalized ESG efforts dominate in Europe The percentage of 1and 2-rated managers has also improved ESG integration has been an important factor for Europe-based significantly in Asia, increasing by ten percentage points year institutional investors for some time now. Many European on year to 59 percent of all Asian managers. This means that pension funds see their mission as more than just creating a managers with institutionalized processes for ESG integration sound financial framework for retirement; they also want to make up a clear majority in the region. We expect Asia to soon help their beneficiaries enjoy healthy environmental condibe a region in which robust ESG practices are the rule rather tions and a positive social climate. than the exception among the top private equity managers. ESG ratings by region 7% 11% 16% 25% 21% 14% 34% 30% 33% 26% 45% 38% Europe US Asia 1 – Excellent 2 – Good 3 – Fair 4 – Poor 15 Hedge funds Given the challenging market situation, it is encouraging to see that hedge fund managers have persisted with their ESG projects. Current ratings and long-term trend This year’s rating of hedge fund managers shows that the percentage rated “excellent” or “good” (1 or 2) has increased to 16 percent compared with nine percent last year. For the first time, one quantitative equity hedge fund manager achieved an ESG rating of 1. As in the previous year, 82 percent of hedge fund managers scored a 3 rating. We also further reduced the number of hedge fund managers with the lowest ESG rating of 4 and currently work with only one such manager compared with four last year. SDGs gaining importance LGT Capital Partners has been a signatory to the UN Principles for The SDGs were conceived as universal objectives for all counResponsible Investment (UN PRI) since 2008. The UN PRI’s objective is tries in order to solve the world’s most serious problems. Al­­­ to help its signatories incorporate sustainability issues into their investthough they were not devised as a framework for investing, ment-related decision-making processes so that they can contribute to a more sustainable financial system. Over 1900 companies across private-sector financing is also an essential component thereof. the world managing a total of USD 80 trillion between them have already Achiev­­ing the SDGs will require an estimated USD 5–7 trillion signed the UN PRI. Tycho Sneyers (above), Managing Partner of LGT worldwide until 2030. A survey of over 200 institutional invesCapital Partners, was elected to the UN PRI Board in 2018, where he tors in alternative investments that LGT Capital Partners con­ contributes his many years of experience in integrating ESG into alterducted in the winter of 2018 reveals that the vast majority native asset classes, especially private equity. He is also committed to embedding the SDGs more firmly in the financial services industry. (91 percent) of investors firmly believes that the SDGs will help the finance industry tackle urgent environmental and social issues. Al­­­though a quarter of them already integrate the SDGs into their investment activities in some way, only a tenth evaluate the impact of their investment companies on the goals. However, 40 percent are planning to do so in the next two years. The expectation that the SDGs will create new investment op­­­portunities is shared by 89 percent of investors. We believe that investors will also make increased use of the SDGs to quantify their ESG and sustainable investing activities and thus focus them more squarely on results. 16 Sustainable investing A new dimension in investment decision-making The trend toward greater sustainability is far more advanced Greater transparency among institutional investors than among their private counterThe LGT Sustainability Rating illustrates, in straightforward parts. The majority of institutional investors is now con­­vinced terms, the sustainability quality of equities, bonds, funds and that sustainable investing helps increase risk-adjusted returns. ETFs (exchange-traded funds). These are assigned to one of But sustainable investments are also becoming more and more five rating categories, ranging from one star (poor) to five stars important to private investors. People increasingly no longer (excellent) based on various sustainability criteria. Our clients want companies in their portfolio that are involved in controcan thus tell at a glance how sustainable their investment is. versial activities or that pollute the environment. We want to The rating brings a new dimension to the invest­­­ment decision support our clients in making their portfolios more sus­­tainable. and enables sustainability aspects to be fac­­tored in alongside One important step in this direction was taken in 2017 with the purely financial indicators. The rating can be as­­signed to both introduction of the LGT Sustainability Rating, which transpar­ individual investment instruments and entire portfolios. Moreently shows clients how sustainable their investments actually over, it can be used to compare differ­ent investment instruments. are. While institutional investors can draw on the expertise and databases of specialized providers and rating agencies, it is still Tried-and-tested methods difficult for private investors to gain access to reliable sustainThe investment instruments are rated by LGT’s sustainability ability information. This is where the LGT Sustainability Rating analysts in the ESG Cockpit developed by LGT Capital Partners, comes in, providing our clients with the information they need which the managers of the LGT sustainability funds have been in a clear and transparent manner. successfully using since 2009. Inclusion of financial criteria and sustainability factors with the LGT Sustainability Rating Focus on financial and Financial Investor fundamental data of Company or aspects companies and countries country Investment Investment decision Detailed analysis of the environmental and social Nonimpact of companies financial and countries aspects 17 For equities, the LGT Sustainability Rating is determined by ana­ When assessing a country’s sustainability, we attach particular lyzing the sustainability of the company in question and, for importance to observance of human rights and to political bonds, the sustainability of the underlying issuer (company, freedom and the existence of a functioning legal system. If country or supranational organization), according to around a country exhibits major shortcomings in these areas, it will 20 environmental, social and corporate governance criteria. be heavily penalized for them in the rating. For funds and ETFs, Based on the assessment of these ESG criteria, an ESG value the sustainability quality of the overall portfolio is assessed, ranging between 0 and 100 is obtained for each stock or based on the ESG scores of the individual portfolio positions bond. This ESG value is then translated into the LGT Sustain(equities and/or bonds), which are incorporated into the calcuability Rating. lation according to their share in the overall portfolio allocation. Our clients’ overall portfolios are assessed in the same way. The criteria incorporated into company ratings includes factors The LGT Sus­tain­­ability Rating has been a fixed component of such as greenhouse gas emissions, resource consumption and the investment pro­posals and custody account statements of the labor conditions of the workforce. Also taken into account our clients since 2018. are negative incidents relating to business activities or to products and services. The extent to which the products and ser­­vices have a sustainable impact or tend to run counter to sustainable development is another relevant factor. In the case of countries, air and water quality, living and health standards and innovative strength are all factors. The “Investing sustainably” brochure outlines numerous ways of making a portfolio even more socially and environmentally friendly. You can find the brochure at lgt.com/en/publications/downloads 18 Sustainable investing Supporting innovative solutions also enables talents to put their skills to use for a good cause or take their career in a new direction for the long term. Since 2007, LGT VP has supported more than 50 organizations, seconded 151 Fellows and, as at the end of 2018, invested or donated a total of USD 64.8 million. Currently, it actively sup­­ ports 18 organizations. Through its work, LGT VP makes an important contribution to implementing the Sustainable Development Goals. In 2017, LGT VP reached nearly four million people worldwide through the organizations that the foundation supports. Community health workers at the Last Mile Health organization, a port­ One of LGT VP’s portfolio organizations is Last Mile Health folio organization of LGT Venture Philanthropy, provide people living in remote regions of Liberia with medicine and help them in emergencies. (LMH). The organization’s objective is to provide access to basic medical care for people in the most remote regions of Liberia. Child and maternal mortality rates in these regions are appallThe LGT Venture Philanthropy Foundation (LGT VP) supports ingly high and the majority of deaths are avoidable. In light of organizations and companies that implement effective, innothis, LMH developed a model that trains at least one person vative and scalable solutions to social and/or environmental pro­­­­­ in basic healthcare in each village. These people are able to blems. As well as financial resources in the form of donations, swiftly recognize and treat the most common causes of death, LGT VP also provides these organizations with opera­tional ex­­­ such as malaria, tuberculosis and diarrhea. They also educate pertise and access to networks. LGT VP sets partic­­­­ular store by expecting mothers about the need for medical check-ups and the entrepreneurial and professional use of available resources. help them give birth to their children at health centers, where they receive medical assistance. Such has been the success of Moreover, through the LGT Impact Fellowship Program, the this solution that the Liberian government, together with LMH, organizations have the ability to recruit highly qualified workers has been rolling it out nationwide since 2016. With the sup­­port for their teams. As well as remedying the manpower shortages of LGT VP, LMH will be further developing its model and that are a major challenge for many young organizations, this seeking to implement it outside Liberia. 19 Social and financial returns LGT Impact invests in companies that, through their activities, combine attractive financial returns with significant social and/ or environmental impact. The LGT Impact Investing unit’s in­­ vestment strategy focuses on venture capital and growth fi­­­ nancing at companies that provide scalable solutions to social and environmental challenges. With impact investments, LGT concentrates mainly on com­­­­­­panies in the healthcare, education, financial ser ­­vices, urban mobility, agriculture and energy sectors. The partner companies operate tried-and-tested, scalable business models that cover the basic needs of low to middle income consumers. LGT’s Impact Investing unit supports dr.consulta in Brazil. They give underserved people access to high-quality products and services. In so doing, the portfolio companies support these people and, through their work, help create intact ecosystems and communities. The portfolio companies are selected by means of a multistage, discipli­­ned investment process. LGT Impact supports the portfolio business owners with a long-term perspective and positions itself as a reliable partner for the business owners and mana­gers who, besides capital, also enjoy access to experienced em­­­ploy­­­ ­ees, good networks and important management expertise. dr.consulta provides a growing number of people on low incomes with good, affordable treatment. 20 Background Sustainability information for investors It is often hard for private investors to determine how sustainable their investments are. LGT’s Sustainability Rating can help. Anyone in the European Union or in Switzerland who buys responsible investing, among other things during the a new household appliance, such as a refrigerator, television development of sustainability funds for her previous em­­­ or washing machine, can tell at a glance how energy effi­­ployer in Germany and through the selection of sustainable cient it is by looking at the EU energy label, a scheme that funds for private clients at LGT. Ferch did not believe that was introduced in 1998. The seven arrows on the label range simply offering individual sustainable products was the right in color from dark red (G = highest energy consumption) solution. “For example, if we had developed a sustainable to dark green (A = lowest energy consumption). Accord­­­ing portfolio management mandate, but had also continued to the German Federal Environment Agency, these cateto offer our other investment products without making any gories influence the purchasing decisions of around 85 changes, that would have been rather implausible. We percent of consumers, with positive results. Since the label wanted to introduce sustainability criteria across LGT’s was introduced, manu­facturers have produced increasingly investment business.” environmentally friendly appliances. “This is the perfect example of how transparency changes “We want to make sustainability a more consumers’ behavior and leads to real improvements,” says consistent part of our core business.” Andrea Ferch, who is responsible for sustainable investing for LGT’s private banking business. In mid-2015, the econoUrsula Finsterwald mist, who at the time was still Head Fund Research, was entrusted with a special task. She was asked to develop mea­­ sures to introduce sustainability throughout LGT’s private However, in contrast to institutional investors, many private clients business and to make its client portfolios more so­­ investors are still cautious about sustainable investments. cially and environmentally responsible. “Our aim in doing Finsterwald believes that one reason for this is the fear that this was to make sustainability a more consistent part of our sustainable portfolios will generate poorer returns. Several core business,” explains Ursula Finsterwald, Head Group studies have shown, however, that the performance of Sustainability Management. “We help our clients decide sus­­tainable investments is at least equivalent to that of which companies, organizations and projects to invest in, comparable con­ventional investments. Another reason is which means that we can allocate capital in a more sus­­ the lack of transparency. According to a study by the Swiss tainable way.” The question was how to persuade as many Institute for Financial Education, more than 70 percent of clients as possible to factor aspects of sustainability into the private investors surveyed would opt for more sustaintheir investment decisions. able investments if better information were available. The key to chang­­ing clients’ behavior lies in greater transparency. A credible approach For Andrea Ferch, it was only a small step from this realizaAndrea Ferch is a keen amateur gardener who has been in­­­ tion to the idea of a sustainability rating for investments. terested in environmental issues since she was very young. In “The EU energy label provides important guidance for her over-20-year career in the finance industry, she has ac­­­ consumers. Why shouldn’t an approach like this work for quired extensive experience in socially and environmentally investors in the case of equities, bonds or funds?” 21 Ursula Finsterwald (left), Head Group Sustainability Management, and Andrea Ferch, Head Sustainable Investing. In-house development did the time-consuming programming for the sustainability The response to the concept of a label of this kind within rating system, was a fully committed member of the team. LGT was very positive. “I immediately thought that it was However, patience and perseverance were required before a very good idea,” says Bruno Piller, who is responsible for the system was finally implemented. One unexpectedly big LGT’s private client business in Switzerland. “Sustainability chal­­­lenge, for example, involved integrating the five-star is very important to LGT. The rating will allow us to give as­sess­ment system into LGT’s IT landscape so that it could be our private clients transparent and easy-to-understand inforincor­­porated into client statement of assets, online banking, mation about how sustainable their investments are.” It product information sheets and LGT’s investment proposals. was clear from the start that LGT wanted to deter­mine the rating of the various investment instruments itself. Only the raw data used in the evaluation of companies or countries “Today we can provide our clients with are purchased from specialist data providers. The decision comprehensive information about the to opt for in-house development was an easy one because sustainability of their investments.” LGT already had the ESG Cockpit, a tool that had been in use for several years and that proved to be the ideal solution Andrea Ferch for creating the highly complex and comprehensive database needed for the rating system. LGT has been suc­cess­fully managing its sustainable funds with the help of the Cockpit “It was not an easy process,” says Ursula Finsterwald looking since 2009 and has analyzed more than 6500 companies back, “but it has paid off.” Andrea Ferch agrees: “Today and around 200 countries on the basis of environmental, we can provide our clients with comprehensive information social and governance criteria. about the sustainability of their investments. The rating system was the first major step in the sustainability initiative Patience and perseverance for our private client business. We will definitely be introFerch’s colleague Alexander Zanker, who is responsible ducing further measures.” for the LGT ESG Cockpit at LGT Capital Partners and who 22 Sustainable business Prudent operations management Environmentally conscious operations management is a matter of course for any company with a sustainable approach and long-term outlook. LGT has pursued prudent environmental and operations management for many years and has already reached a number of important milestones. Further ambitious targets in the areas of mobility, facility management, pro­­cure­ ment, digitalization, energy consumption and CO2 emissions applicable to the entire LGT Group were defined in the new Sustainability Strategy 2025. Sustainable facility management Our facility management has been geared toward sustainabil­­ity for years. New buildings are constructed exclusively accord­­ing to LEED or equivalent standards. The energy consumption of With energy-efficient buildings and sustainable operations management, LGT intends to further lower its CO2 emissions. existing buildings is continually being optimized. For example, in Bendern, Vaduz and Zurich, we use heat exchangers to con­­ vert the waste heat from cooling units into heating energy. On reduce Group-wide paper consumption by 30 percent per capita LGT buildings in Liechtenstein as well as some in Switzerland, compared with 2017. Wherever possible, our employees will we use photovoltaic and solar units to produce electricity and avoid business trips and use other forms of collaboration, such heat. At our Service Center in Liechtenstein, this enabled us to as videoconferences. self-generate more than 14 percent of the required electricity (2017: ten percent) and more than 30 percent of the heating We are already offsetting unavoidable CO2 emissions by purenergy (2017: 20 percent) in 2018. chasing CO2 certificates. By doing this, we are supporting the Sahanivotry run-of-river power station project in Madagascar, Reduction, substitution, offsetting the purpose of which is to prevent deforestation of the virgin By 2025, we want to reduce our per capita CO2 emissions by forest for electricity production. The project has been awarded 20 percent compared with 2017. We also want to exclusively the “Gold Standard” label and is managed and monitored by use renewable thermal and heating energy worldwide, and First Climate Markets Ltd. LGT’s material consumption and CO2 emissions (per FTE1) 2018 2017 2016 Potable water m /FTE 3 9.2 10.9 11.5 Paper kg/FTE 81 117 125 Waste kg/FTE 120 127 147 CO2 emissions kg/FTE 2 188 2 112 1 594 1 Full-time equivalents The increase in CO2 emissions per FTE is due to improved underlying data (further details on page 35). 23 Switching to alternative mobility solutions CO2 tax. The Climate Foundation promotes various innovation To reduce traffic, we actively encourage our employees to use and energy efficiency projects of small and medium-sized public transportation. In Switzerland and Liechtenstein, we offer enter­­prises that contribute to climate protection. Since it was them financial incentives to do this, and platforms for alternafound­­­ed in 2008, the Climate Foundation has invested around tive mobility solutions. In 2017 and 2018, around five percent CHF 20 million in more than 1400 companies, making it of all employees in Switzerland and Liechtenstein took part possible to save over 680 000 metric tons of CO2 in Liechtenin the nationwide “Bike to work” campaigns, which seek to stein and Switzerland. raise public awareness of car-free mobility. LGT also promotes e-mobility: an E-Bike Day in Liechtenstein was an opportunity Sustainable collaboration with suppliers for employees to give electric bicycles a try. Charging stations LGT also expects its suppliers around the world to operate for electric cars are available for both clients and employees at sustainably. All suppliers are required to sign the LGT Supplier a number of locations. Code of Conduct, in which they commit to complying with important standards and conventions, such as: Climate Foundation ■■ the LGT Code of Conduct, Since 2012, LGT has been a partner of the Swiss Climate Foun■■ the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the dation and, in that capacity, donates its net refunds from the United Nations, ■■ the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, ■■ the fundamental conventions and international labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO), ■■ the principles of the UN Global Compact. The core elements in the LGT Supplier Code of Conduct are ethics (integrity, fair competition), labor (no child labor, no discrimination, fair wages), health and safety (occupational safety), environment (protection of the environment, resource consumption) and the management system (risk management, documentation). LGT Supplier Day provides a forum for regular dialog with our suppliers on the subject of sustainability. Clients and employees can charge their electric cars in the parking garages at various locations. LGT’s direct energy consumption (per FTE1) 2018 2017 2016 Electricity kWh/FTE 3 742 4 608 4 809 Heating/cooling energy kWh/FTE 1 476 1 942 1 472 Flight kilometers km/FTE 9 519 8 365 7 999 1 Full-time equivalents 24 Sustainable business Sustainable employee development Satisfied and healthy employees are the most important asset The programs run by the LGT Academy at Schloss Freudenfels of any company. It is of the utmost importance to us that we in Eschenz, Switzerland, have been a fixture of the training offer our employees fair and attractive working conditions and measures for over 20 years. They focus primarily on particia pleasant working environment. The multiple Top Employer pants’ personal development. In 2018, 271 employees attended Awards won by LGT Bank Switzerland and LGT Bank Liechten­ twelve courses (2017: twelve courses; 269 employees). Since stein are evidence that we have succeeded in this. In its Sus­­ 2016, LGT Academy courses have also been open to interested tainability Strategy 2025, LGT has set itself further ambitious external parties and clients and the Liechtenstein Academy Foun­­­­ targets for employee development and advancement. dation makes LGT Academy content accessible to students at the University of Liechtenstein at lectures held over one semester. Education and training A company’s long-term success depends heavily on ongoing Supporting talents education and training for its employees. Each year, LGT invests As well as being an attractive employer for experienced em­­­ around CHF 6.7 million in education and training initiatives. ployees, LGT sets great store by supporting young talents. We This equates to CHF 1959 per employee in 2018. Internal train­ offer young people of various ages and levels of education ­ing measures and external courses cover both personal and a practical and diverse route into the professional world, for professional development. example through an apprenticeship in IT or business, an internship or the 18-month Graduate Program for master’s graduates. The Graduate Program started for the sixth time in the fall of 2018, with eleven university graduates. LGT is also keen to fulfill its social obligation to support young talents outside the company. With the LGT University Scholar­ ship, we award two scholarships each year that cover the annual semester fees for students studying for a master’s in finance at the University of Liechtenstein. Also, for the last five years we have been supporting a project of the Lyceum Alpinum in Zuoz. In a specially developed program, pupils at the boarding school learn how to implement philanthropic projects under the guid­­­ ance of experienced LGT employees. Tomorrow’s talents: Future Day is held each year in Switzerland and Liechtenstein. It is an opportunity for children of LGT employees to get to know the company better and look over their parents’ shoulders while they work. 25 Diversity and equal opportunities LGT adheres to a strict set of values as well as ethical and pro­­­­­fessional standards that are set out in the LGT Code of Conduct. LGT offers equal employment and promotion op­­­ portunities, regardless of gender, age, religion, nationality, eth­nicity, sexual orientation, marital status, physical ability or other characteristics protected under local law. LGT treats its employees with respect. It also respects and values diffe­­­­ring opinions, perspectives and cultural customs. In 2018, LGT’s workforce consisted of people from more than 57 countries. Some 200 employees and their partners and families enjoyed a diverse Expertise and experience are very important to us. In order to range of activities, including bubble soccer, at the first Sport & Fun Day in Vaduz. meet the needs of older employees more effectively, we have introduced flexible working hours and pension safeguarding measures. For example, under certain circumstances, employees Health management who are 57 or older (at some locations 58 or older) can take The LGT Vitality health program is designed to strength­­­en the flexible retirement. Partial retirement with a reduced working physical well-being of LGT employees. The program offers week is also an option. The range of courses with content activities and initiatives in four areas: attitude, nutrition, exerdesigned specifically for this target group has been expanded cise and relaxation. Measures implemented to date range from in the last two years. Moreover, we consciously recruit people the creation of relaxation rooms at various locations and offer­ aged 50 and over. In 2018, this group of people accounted for ­ing sports courses such as cross-country skiing, outdoor fitness around 7.4 percent of our new hires. and yoga, to a healthy range of food with complimentary fruit and free water. The first LGT Sport & Fun Day was held in Liech­­ tenstein in 2018. Around 200 employees and their partners and families took part in this day that featured an entertainment program and games. A blood donation campaign was also held in Liechtenstein in 2018 in which 85 employees took part. 26 Sustainable business Assuming responsibility for society All human beings have a duty to help create a livable future. Commitment in Asia LGT employees at all locations make a contribution to this LGT employees in Hong Kong got involved in both environthrough their involvement in a number of different activities. mental and social projects. The Green Power Hike raised more than CHF 38 000 for a “greener future”. LGT was the main Employee Volunteering Program sponsor of two Tung Wah Group of Hospitals Charity Challenge The Employee Volunteering Program offers LGT employees Races, which raised a total of CHF 220 000 for the upgrading spe­­­­cific opportunities to volunteer. Most of the initiatives are of hospitals. The annual Step Out for Children fundraiser orga­­­nized locally and benefit less privileged people or the enviattracted the support of 90 employees and their families. LGT ronment. In each of the last five years, around five per­­cent of Bank in Asia sponsors the event, which raises money for dis­­ employees worldwide have taken part in these volunteering abled children. In Singapore, in December 2017, around 100 programs. In Switzerland and Liechtenstein, for example, they provided support with inclusive events for people with a dis­­ ability (soccer tournament, computer course). Employ­­ees in Basel helped out at a barbecue run by the homeless organi­ zation Gassenküche. LGT Bank Austria supports the Teach for Austria education initiative, which seeks to promote equal opportunities for children and young people from so­­cially disadvantaged families. Volunteering in the UK Employees of LGT Vestra in London are also heavily involved in volunteering. In 2018, they staged for the second time a Prince-to-Prince Bicycle Tour, which involved ten employees cycling from Vaduz to Vienna over six days, raising money for The Prince’s Trust. The proceeds of the charity dodgeball tournament in the spring of 2017 benefited the same cause; The Prince’s Trust supports disadvantaged young people and young adults. The first soup market held by LGT Vestra in De­­­ cember 2018, in Paternoster Square in London, was also a big success. Some of London’s best restaurants donated more than 1000 liters of soup, which was served up and sold by more than 70 employees. LGT Vestra raised a total of over GBP 10 000 at this event for the organization Streets of London, LGT employees enthusiastically pitched in with the barbecue organized which helps tackle homelessness in the city. by Gassenküche, a Basel-based charity for the homeless. ©Daniela Friedli Photographie 27 employees assembled gift boxes for AWWA – People giving to people. The organization supports children, young people, senior citizens, people with low incomes and disabled people. HOPE in New York Employees of LGT Capital Partners in New York organized workshops for job seekers as part of the HOPE Program, holding practice interviews with participants and advising them on questions about the application process. LGT also supported the program at a benefit event. Drink tap water, donate drinking water Since 2016, LGT has been working with Drink & Donate, a charity committed to water projects around the world. We donate CHF 100 000 each year to a water project; LGT employ­ The first soup market run by LGT Vestra in Paternoster Square in London was a resounding success – GBP 10 000 were raised for an aid organization. ­ees can help choose which project the donation will benefit. In 2017, the funds were donated to a project that builds and repairs drinking water fountains in Nepal and in 2018 to a pro­­ ject in Tanzania for drinking water purification in hospitals and schools. As drinking tap water helps protect the environment, LGT employees in Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Austria and Dubai are being encouraged to stop drinking mineral water in plastic bottles and drink tap water instead. To help them do this, all employ­­ees are given special drinking bottles, which are also available in client areas. LGT Award for Social Commitment The LGT Award for Social Commitment was presented for the third time in 2018. The award recognizes charitable engagement in Liechtenstein. Of the total CHF 50 000 available for the award, CHF 40 000 went to Familienhilfe Liechtenstein In Hong Kong, LGT employees and their families showed solidarity with disabled children at the Step Out for Children fundraising event. and CHF 10 000 to Hospizbewegung Liechtenstein. Both organizations are committed to helping people in need of care in Liechtenstein. 28 Portrait Heidi Foppa (center), LGT Impact Fellow, plans to establish a training center for the Maasai people in the Mara Naboisho Conservancy in Kenya. Bringing like-minded people together Heidi Foppa wanted to work on a social project that suited her abilities. She was looking for an organization where she could play an active role and put her professional experience to good use. This is how she came to know the Maasai people. In a few days, Heidi Foppa will once again be traveling to the the Maasai Mara Wildlife Conservancies Association, with Mara Naboisho Conservancy in the south of Kenya. Heidi, fundraising for a year. Last summer, she gave up her job at who is originally from South Tyrol, can hardly wait to set one of the largest impact investment companies in Europe off on her second trip to the Maasai region. In her luggage for this reason. “After spending 20 years working in business she has a business plan for a new project that she wants development and sales in the finance industry, I was look­ to present to the local stakeholders: a training center for ing for a project that would enable me to give something adults and young people. “I will help them to find the nec­­ back to society,” says the 44-year-old. The Mara Naboisho essary funding,” she explains enthusiastically. Conservancy was a perfect match for her – and not only from a professional perspective. She is also passionate about The Maasai Mara region is a little like South Tyrol the history of the Maasai and their unconditional commitAs part of the LGT Impact Fellowship Program, Foppa has ment to enabling people and wild animals to live together been helping the Mara Naboisho Conservancy and the in harmony. “The clocks in southern Kenya tick a bit slower umbrella organization for the conservancies in the region, than those in Europe, but the progress being made in the 29 rest of the world is not passing the Maasai people by,” says the enthusiastic Italian. “But this time the job wasn’t explains Foppa, thinking of her own family. “My grand­ quite as easy as it would have been at home.” The Maasai parents in South Tyrol were also farmers and hunters. But are a proud people and it is very important to them that with the arrival of in­­dus­trialization and privatization, they everyone’s interests are considered. That takes both time had to find new ways of earning money. At the same time, and patience, as Foppa has discovered. However, she was they wanted to preserve their culture and traditions. Both well prepared to cope with cultural stumbling blocks of they and the Maasai realized very early on that they could this kind. “During an intense introductory week run by only succeed if they pro­­­­­tected the resources they needed the highly experienced LGT Fellowship team, we Fellows in order to live: their natural environment and, in the case learned how best to become involved in a project, what of the Maasai, the wild animals.” The approach taken by we could expect and what was expected of us.” the Maasai is impres­­­­sively far-sighted. “From a short-term perspective, the wild animals represent a danger to them. Investing in the world of tomorrow They destroy their crops and kill their livestock. But the MaaFoppa will be working as a Fellow for just under six months. ­­­­­­­sai have looked to the future and turned the wild animals In answer to the question of whether she will then return into a source of income.” to the world of finance, she laughs. “I haven’t actually left the finance industry. I’m looking for capital on behalf of Naboisho – a simple idea Naboisho and working with investors who want a social Naboisho is a 200-square-kilometer wildlife conservancy that return on their investment,” she says. “The investments we the Maasai have created over recent decades. Today, more make today will determine how the world of tomorrow than 10 000 people who live there benefit from it. The prindevelops.” She would like to continue bringing investors ­­ciple of the organization is simple. The Maasai lease their and investments together in the future. “We can achieve land to the conservancy and work with a number of com-­ great things if we can find the right people with the same panies there to offer sustainable tourism. The wild animals values. This is in the spirit of ‘Naboisho’, a battle cry in the and the resulting tourism are responsible for generating the Maasai language that means ‘come together!’” Maasai’s income, which comes from the lease payments and the jobs that have been created. The money is also used to fund the construction of schools, water systems, medical clinics and roads. “This concept has led to a lot of progress being made in recent years, and not only in Naboisho. Another 13 conservancies have been established in the surrounding area,” says Foppa. “In addition, the Maasai people’s quality of life has improved a great deal. For example, there are now several schools for the children. But there are still no educational opportunities for adults and young people. Most of them can’t read or write.” That is one of the reasons they often cannot find work. Heidi Foppa plans to change that by help­ ing to create a project to build and run a training center for adults with sustainable funding. The Mara Naboisho Conservancy and the umbrella organiTalking openly zation for wildlife conservancies in the Maasai Mara region, There, young people and adults will be able to take vocation­ the Maasai Mara Wildlife Conservancies Association, have been ­­al courses, for example to become tour guides. A camp for supported by LGT Venture Philanthropy not only through educational tourism will also be set up at the center to pro-­ funding, but also consultancy since 2016. LGT Venture Philan­­­­ ­mote intercultural exchanges and generate additional income. thropy has given them access to its networks and to the LGT Impact Fellowship. Fellows with the relevant professional exIn the medium term, the intention is for the training center perience have been recruited every year since 2009 to support to be self-financing. “Because of the many years I spent workthe dif­ferent organizations in their specialist fields. ­ing in business development, I am used to getting up to www.naboisho.com speed on new subjects quickly and writing business plans,” 30 Sustainable thinking An active dialog for a better world The only way to truly tackle issues such as climate change, the European Banking Federation’s Sustainable Finance social inequality and political polarization is by working to­­gether. Working Group as well as several sub-groups. That’s why LGT engages in regular dialog with all kinds of ■■ We are a founding member of Swiss Sustainable Finance stakeholders, first and foremost with our clients, our owner and are involved in various working groups to position and our em­­­ployees. However, we also actively discuss sustainthe issue of sustainability in Switzerland. ability with authorities and suppliers, academia and society as a whole. It is paramount to us that the infor­mation and insights we share in these discussions be sys­­tematic, clear, intelligible and targeted at specific groups. Our involvement in a number of professional organizations is another channel through which we seek to promote the issue of sustainability. ■■ Since 2008, we have been a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI). Tycho Sneyers, Managing Partner of LGT Capital Partners, has had a seat on the UN PRI Board since January 2018. ■■ Since 2012, LGT has been a partner of the UN Global Compact. ■■ As the global principles of the UN Global Compact have to be implemented locally, LGT is also involved in the Swiss/Liechtenstein chapter, the Global Compact Network Switzerland. Ursula Finsterwald, Head Group Sustainability Management, has been a member of the Board since June 2018, representing LGT and other Liechtenstein companies. ■■ Since 2012, we have been a partner of the Swiss Climate Foundation and are represented on the Board of Trustees by Ursula Finsterwald. The Liechtenstein Initiative makes an important contribution to SDG ■■ In its “Action Plan: Financing Sustainable Growth”, the EU 8.7, which reads as follows: Take immediate and effective measures Commission has published the first regulatory efforts in to eradicate forced labor, end modern slavery and human trafficking the area of sustainability. As a company headquartered in and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labor, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 Liechtenstein, an EEA country, these rules also affect us. end child labor in all its forms. Pictured: Fiona Reynolds, Chair of the However, we don’t just want to adopt those rules, we want Liechtenstein Initiative, and Olivier de Perregaux, CFO LGT and Member to actively help shape them. We are therefore involved in of the Financial Sector Commission of the Liechtenstein Initiative. 31 Think Tank Sustainable thinking among wealthy investors We are also actively engaged in dialog within LGT. To ensure The LGT Private Banking Report is a representative study of the invest­ that this dialog takes account of the latest trends and devel­ ment behavior of wealthy private individuals in Germany, Austria and opments, we have created a new committee. The Think Tank Switzerland. LGT commissions this study every two years to gain in­­­is staffed by in-house experts and works on a project basis ­­­­sights into the investment behavior and attitudes of private banking clients – and sustainability is a recurring theme in the survey. with external technical specialists and representatives of universities. It assists the Sustainability Board with opinion-form­­­­Further information can be found online at ing, supports the various committees with its expertise and lgt.com/en/publications/downloads helps with decision-making. Liechtenstein Initiative The importance of sustainability among private clients 40 million people around the world live in slave-like conditions It matters greatly to us that we ascertain the attitude of our and around 25 million are in forced labor. Many people also fall clients and potential clients toward sustainability. Only then victim to human trafficking in Europe. It is estimated that these can we provide them with the best possible advice in this area. abuses generate around USD 150 billion globally. Happily, the As part of our LGT Private Banking Report, we therefore reg­­ issue of human trafficking and modern slavery is now at the ularly survey wealthy private individuals on this subject. The forefront of political debate and measures are being taken to results of the 2018 study reveal that the global destruction combat it. of the environment and climate change are regarded as ser­­ ious problems by 84 percent of respondents, while 66 per­­cent Liechtenstein is also committed to tackling this issue. In Septem­ believe that banks and companies should do more for sustain­ber 2018, the government, together with the United Nations ability. With regard to the effectiveness of their own invest­­­ University (UNU), established the Financial Sector Commission ments, those surveyed considered all dimen­­sions to be important: on Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking. The objective of protecting the environment and the climate, improving social the Liechtenstein Initiative, as it is known, is to develop a cat­­­ conditions and enforcing ethical standards. Two-thirds see the alog of measures for improving detection of slavery and human growing gulf between the rich and poor as a cause of social trafficking, also in the finance industry, and in so doing, pre­­ problems. venting it. LGT roundly condemns child labor, forced labor and human trafficking. We do not invest in companies that are associated with these practices and we actively support the Liechtenstein Initiative. Olivier de Perregaux, Chief Financial Officer of LGT, is one of its Commission members. The Commission is chaired by Fiona Reynolds, CEO of the UN PRI. 32 Facts and figures Key figures at a glance 2018 2017 2016 Financial indicators Assets under administration CHF m 198 243 201 782 152 101 Net new assets under administration CHF m 6 757 35 985 19 687 of which net new money CHF m 6 757 17 684 11 668 of which through acquisition CHF m 0 18 301 8 019 Total operating income CHF m 1 676 1 537 1 198 Group profit CHF m 314 283 230 Appropriation of Foundation earnings and dividends CHF m -125 1 -150 -100 Group equity capital CHF m 4 112 4 113 3 643 Total assets CHF m 43 444 41 893 35 752 Ratios Tier 1 % 17.6 18.8 20.2 Cost/income ratio % 74.0 73.8 74.7 Liquidity coverage ratio % 203.3 237.7 191.0 Ratings2 Moody’s Aa2 Aa2 Aa2 Standard & Poor’s A+ A+ A+ Operations Total energy consumption MWh 17 130 20 104 15 892 Electricity MWh 12 285 14 143 12 168 Heating/cooling MWh 4 845 5 961 3 724 Paper consumption tonnes 265 358 316 Proportion of 100% recycled paper % 40 43 40 Waste tonnes 394 390 373 Flight kilometers km 31 248 270 25 671 351 20 238 393 Potable water m3 30 148 33 417 28 972 CO2 emissions tonnes 7 183 6 482 4 033 Employees Number of employees (full-time equivalents) 3 283 3 069 2 530 Proportion of women in the total workforce % 42.5 41.5 38.5 Number of part-time employees 396 373 325 Number of apprentices 3 22 23 25 Bank entry at high school graduate level (BEM) 3 8 9 8 Average years of service years 7.2 7.2 7.5 Average age years 41.6 41.4 41.3 Training costs per employee CHF 1 959 2 001 2 121 1 Proposal; 2 LGT Bank Ltd., Vaduz; 3 LGT only hires apprentices and high school graduates in Switzerland and Liechtenstein. “We believe that sustainability is often neglected and we regard it as an essential requirement for the successful long-term growth of companies and of society as a whole.” H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein, CEO LGT 34 Facts and figures Our memberships and partnerships LGT is a member of many international associations, organizaThe Montréal Carbon Pledge tions and networks for the purpose of making a contribution montrealpledge.org to sustainable development. Our most important memberships and partnerships are: TONIIC – The Global Action Community for Impact Investors toniic.com (until February 2019) Asian Venture Philanthropy Network (AVPN) avpn.asia UN Global Compact unglobalcompact.org Aspen Network of Development Entrepreneurs (ANDE) andeglobal.org UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI) unpri.org British Venture Capital Association (BVCA) bvca.co.uk Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten e.V. (VfU) CDP vfu.de cdp.net European Sustainable Investment Forum (Eurosif) eurosif.org European Venture Philanthropy Association (EVPA) evpa.eu.com Forum Nachhaltige Geldanlagen (FNG) forum-ng.org Profawo profawo.ch Swiss Climate Foundation klimastiftung.ch Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) sustainablefinance.ch The Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN) thegiin.org 35 Report profile The LGT sustainability report has been published every other year since 2012. This report, the fourth of its kind, documents the sustainability performance for the 2017 and 2018 financial years and, unless stated otherwise, relates to LGT Group. Each financial year begins on 1 January and ends on 31 De­­­ cember. The structure of this report is based on the internationally recognized guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The key performance indicators listed in the report were mainly collected from data available to the whole Group. Locationspecific key performance indicators, in particular environmental data, were prepared by the local contacts for the relevant departments. There are comparative values from the previous periods for most of the data. The key performance indicators are based on information about LGT’s locations in Basel, Bendern, Dubai, Geneva, Hong Kong, The improved data situation has led to various figures for 2017 London, Lugano, Pfäffikon, Singapore, Vienna and Zurich. Not being adjusted retrospectively. For Zurich, assumptions were all information is available for all locations. For this reason, the made for 2018 with regard to building operations (shared elecmissing data for the various indicators were extrapolated based tricity, refuse, paper/cardboard, water/wastewater, heating/ on the information actually available. Specifically, data were cooling), which will be corrected retroactively once the actual available in the various areas to the following degrees: water figures are available. A distinction was also made for the first 66 percent, heating and cooling energy 66 percent, waste 69 time between business and economy flights for 2017 and 2018 percent, electricity 70 percent, flight data 82 percent, paper in line with the VfU’s environmental report (dated 9 April 2018). 90 percent. The report can be downloaded from www.lgt.com as a PDF The consolidation framework for the key performance indicators file. The guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative can be has been designed in such a way that data from locations with downloaded from www.globalreporting.org. similar business models and national standards formed the basis for the projections. The VfU’s (German association Verein für This report contains forward-looking statements based on Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten e.V.) expectations and assumptions. Various factors may cause standard for environmental reporting of 9 April 2018, forms the actual results to deviate from the estimates given here. the basis for the calculation of emission values for the 2017 and 2018 reporting years. 36 Refutura FSC® matt, ISO white 100, 100% recycled paper, CO2 neutral, Blue Angel Risk note/Disclaimer change has taken place since its publication or that it is is a possibility that investors will not recover the full This publication is promotional material. It is for your still up to date. The information in this publication does amount they initially invested. We disclaim without information only and is not intended as an offer, solicnot constitute an aid for decision-making in relation qualification all liability for any loss or damage of any itation of an offer, public advertisement or recommento financial, legal, tax or other consulting matters, nor kind, whether direct, indirect or consequential, which dation to buy or sell any investment or other specific should any investment or other decisions be made on may be incurred through the use of this publication. product. Its content has been prepared by our staff and the basis of this information alone. It is recommended This publication is not intended for persons subject to is based on sources of information we consider to be that advice be obtained from a qualified expert. Inveslegislation that prohibits its distribution or makes its reliable. However, we cannot provide any undertaking tors should be aware that the value of investments can distribution contingent upon an approval. Any person or guarantee as to it being correct, complete and up fall as well as rise. Positive performance in the past coming into possession of this publication shall therefore to date. The circumstances and principles to which the is therefore no guarantee of positive performance in be obliged to find out about any restrictions that may information contained in this publication relates may the future. The risk of price and foreign currency losses apply and to comply with them. change at any time. Once published, therefore, inforand of fluctua­tions in return as a result of unfavorable mation shall not be understood as implying that no exchange rate movements cannot be ruled out. There LGT Group Foundation Herrengasse 12, FL-9490 Vaduz Phone +423 235 11 22, lgt@lgt.com UID: CHE-208.624.214 www.lgt.com 50335en 0619 1.7T BVD
