UN Global Compact Communication of Progress April 20, 2018 – April 20, 2019 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Period Covered: April 20, 2018 – To: April 20, 2019 To our Stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that UNISHKA Research Service, Inc. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Jeffrey Coonjohn President UN Global Compact – Communication of Progress for the Period April 2018 to April 2019 0 UNISHKA Research Service, Inc. (UNISHKA) is a worldwide alliance dedicated to fostering ethics and integrity in government, business and society. Founded in 2005 as University Research Service (URS), we began operations by reaching out to local legal advisors, scholars, scientists and financial experts; inviting them to collaborate with us in the creation of an international information consortium committed to gathering data and knowledge on economic, security, legal, and political issues relating to corruption. In 2014, UNISHKA incorporated in Alaska to carry on the URS legacy while implementing an anticorruption methodology created by UNISHKA called Systems Integrity Development. UNISHKA is the first U.S.-company dedicated exclusively to anti-corruption. In April 2018, UNISHKA became a signatory to the UN Global Compact. For the period April 2018 through April 2019, UNISHKA was classified as “GC Active.” UNISHKA plans to expand its actions and outcomes in the coming years, eventually growing into a “GC Advanced” member. The following is a summary of the actions and outcomes for the reporting period: Description of Actions Human Rights UN Objectives:  Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.  Make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. UNISHKA Actions:  Adopted an employee manual to protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats;  In conjunction with civil society groups, UNISHKA provided opportunities to expand gender equality in restrictive environments in the Middle East and Central Asia;  Established vetting policies to ensure that any business with whom UNISHKA does business is not complicit in human rights abuses;  Adopted a gender integration policy and employed a gender lens on all UNISHKA projects. Labour UN Objectives:  Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.  The effective abolition of child labour.  The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. UNISHKA Actions:  Created a Compliance Committee to ensure UNISHKA is implementing its work in accordance with all labor laws as well as the UN Global Compact.  Adopted a Human Resources pay scale that is significantly above local and national minimum wage standards.  Established a diversified hiring committee to ensure hiring decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria.  Employed a gender lens to Human Resources to advance gender equality. UN Global Compact – Communication of Progress for the Period April 2018 to April 2019 1 Environment UN Objectives:  Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.  Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.  Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. UNISHKA Actions:  Created a company Safety Committee to eliminate or significantly reduce the use of ingredients or products that could harm or threaten human life or health during manufacturing, usage or disposal of products.  Adopted a business strategy the focuses on supporting government implementation of environmental and wildlife protections.  Implemented a company-wide “work from home” program to reduce the use of fossil fuels.  Implemented an office recycling program and “environmentally friendly” substitution policy (i.e. paper plates instead of plastic; paper cups instead of Styrofoam, etc.). Anti-Corruption UN Objectives:  Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. UNISHKA Actions:  Adopted a “due diligence” and vetting policy to assess and mitigate the risk of corruption when doing business.  Incorporated “anti-corruption” provisions into UNISHKA standard contracts, consultant agreements, Memorandums of Understanding, etc.  Engaged and empowered independent auditors to scrutinize UNISHKA’s financial expenditures to reduce the risk to corruption in any form.  Implemented anti-corruption programs worldwide. Measurement of Outcomes  UNISHKA employs a policy of hiring refugees from counties that abuse human rights on projects that directly implicated those abuses; consequently, we have engaged two women on projects focused on problematic environments in the Middle East and Central Asia.  UNISHKA collaborates with the Mine the Gap project (https://www.minethegap.co) and meets with them on a monthly basis to maintain our gender lens and commitment to gender equality.  The Compliance Committee developed a matrix of recommendations to ensure compliance with human trafficking, anti-corruption and gender equality objectives and laws; all of the recommendations have been adopted for implementation.  UNISHKA staff participated in the UN Global Compact Regional Meeting in San Francisco, CA to discuss SDG 5 – Gender Equality and the Future of Work.  5 out of 6 of our full-time staff and all of our part-time staff have opted for the “work at home” program allowing UNISHKA to significantly reduce its carbon footprint.  Conducted worldwide research on the schemes and perpetrators of public corruption and identified those schemes to the appropriate authorities. UN Global Compact – Communication of Progress for the Period April 2018 to April 2019 2
