UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2019 Palladium works with corporations, governments, investors, communities, and civil society. With a global network operating in over 90 countries, we are in the business of making the world a better place. In collaboration with our clients, we work to empower global communities to achieve economic growth and social stability. Support for the UN Global Compact To our teams, stakeholders, clients and partners, Re: Palladium’s support for the UN Global Compact Palladium is a global impact firm, working to link social progress and commercial growth. For the past 50 years, we've been helping our clients to see the world as interconnected by formulating strategies, building partnerships, and implementing programs that have a lasting social and financial impact. We call this Positive Impact . The values of the UN Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are integrated into the work we do through our Positive Impact approach, and I would like to take this opportunity to publicly affirm our commitment to the UNGC initiative and its universal principles. The following Communication on Progress describes the ways in which the principles are embedded into our projects and our day-to-day operations, as well as our plans for the future. Yours sincerely, Rhys Morris Chief Operating Officer, EMEA Palladium International Limited Palladium International Limited – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 1/7 The UN Global Compact Universal Principles Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principles Principles 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The Sustainable Development Goals https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/ Palladium International Limited – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 2/7 1. Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 1.1. Assessment, Policies & Goals Palladium’s Code of Our belief in the universal principles of human rights is enshrined in the way we Conduct holds its do business. Our approach defines ‘Positive Impact’ as ‘the intentional employees and business creation of enduring social and economic value”, and we aspire to realise it partners to the highest in everything we do. standard of conduct, including following best Palladium’s Code of Conduct applies to all business partners and employees, practices pertaining to and outlines the company’s expectations on topics such as integrity and integrity, ethics, antiethics, anti-discrimination, child protection, privacy and information discrimination, child protection. protection, privacy and information protection. Our Whistle-blower Protection Policy outlines our commitment to ethical behaviour and zero tolerance approach to retaliation. The associated procedures provide for the reporting and investigating of suspected human rights abuses. 1.2. Implementation All Palladium staff members and key contractors are expected to complete trainings upon engagement with the company and refreshers from then onwards. The trainings cover: Whistle-blower Procedures Code of Conduct Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Child Protection Protection against Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA) (currently under development and will be rolled out in 2019) All of our contracting mechanisms include provisions obliging the business partner or employee to abide by the spirit and the letter of the Code of Conduct, as well as detailing the impact of breaching those provisions / engaging in misconduct. Palladium also ensures that any suspicion that human rights are not being respected can be reported anonymously through a dedicated whistle-blower hotline, which is made available employees and business partners in every country that we operate in. Palladium International Limited – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 3/7 1.3. Measurement of Outcomes All Palladium programmes are subject to Child Protection Risk Assessments as well as more general annual risk-assessments. We have also recently developed a Safeguarding Risk Assessment aimed at identifying programmes with a higher risk profile so that effective mitigations can be put into place. This will be rolled out during 2019. Palladium has recently drafted a PSEA Guideline to assist all personnel in preventing and responding effectively to sexual exploitation and abuse (SEA) of beneficiaries and vulnerable members of the community in countries where Palladium works. This complements our Modern Slavery Guidelines and Family Sexual and Gender Based Violence Policy. In 2019, Palladium will be rolling out a dedicated safeguarding toolkit to build the capacity of our projects and our personnel to develop appropriate training, implement additional community-based complaints mechanisms, where necessary, and to address allegations of sexual exploitation and abuse in an appropriate and effective way. Employees are required to report suspected violations of the company Code of Conduct to line managers or through the company whistle-blower mechanism. Investigations of misconduct, including suspected human rights violations, are governed by our Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for Investigations and Whistle-blower Protection Policy and SOPs. Failure to comply is subject to possible disciplinary action including contract termination, non-renewal or other appropriate actions. The outcomes of whistle-blower complaints are captured in Palladium’s whistle-blower register, which is maintained by the Internal Projects Systems Review (IPSR) and Risk Management teams. Access to the register is restricted to protect confidentiality. Investigations are conducted in conjunction with corporate functions such as HR, depending on the nature of the complaint. Upon completion of the investigation, reports are shared with donors and clients as required. 2. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Palladium International Limited – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 4/7 2.1. Assessment, Policies & Goals We ensure that the best in class principles and practices of non-discrimination, diversity and inclusiveness are embedded within our operations through our Talent Attraction &Selection Policy. Our in-house Chief Diversity Officer ensures that the core principles of diversity and inclusion are integrated throughout the business, enabling a culture of creativity, innovation, and respect for differences. Planned D&I initiatives include rolling out a refined recruitment training for all interviewing managers, finalise the establishment of a staff intake model that favours greater diversity and continue to embed D&I into the company’s operations. Palladium’s Due Diligence Policy ensures that our supply chain conforms to global best practice principles, such as those of the Ethical Trading Initiative and International Labour Organisation. Our commitment to the universal labour principles are demonstrated by our Palladium is committed Modern Slavery Statement and our dedicated Child Protection Policy. The safeguarding the rights Palladium Group also recently signed the Charter for Change, following the of our employees, Global Disability Summit in July 2018. The Charter is linked to the Convention on business partners and the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. supply chains. 2.2. Implementation Palladium’s in-house D&I function has developed Diversity & Inclusion Awareness training which is mandatory for all employees. Respectful Workplace workshops were also held in multiple office locations throughout 2018 and will continue into next year. Palladium employees and key contractors are also required to complete mandatory child protection training at least annually. Our Employee Assistance Programme ensures that our staff have access to external support should they require it. We also provide employees with a range of benefits promoting general health and well-being. Our in-house Contracts and Compliance team ensure compliance with the national labour standards of every country in which we operate. 2.3. Measurement of Outcomes Palladium’s D&I function collects information on the diversity statistics of our workforce and the current gender pay gap to inform future decision making and strategic direction. Gender reviews are incorporated into promotion and salary decisions and we are piloting a blind recruitment model to eliminate unconscious bias. As well as our general whistle-blower register, Palladium utilises a Child Protection Register to capture complaints or issues of this nature. The register and subsequent investigations are managed by the IPSR team in conjunction with the D&I function. Going forward, Palladium will be recording incidents of safeguarding concerns and reporting to our largest client. Employees are required to report suspected violations of the above policies to line managers or through the company whistle-blower mechanism. Investigation is conducted in line with the company Investigations SOP and Whistle-blower Protection Policy and SOPs. Failure to comply is subject to possible disciplinary action including contract termination, non-renewal or other appropriate actions. Palladium International Limited – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 5/7 3. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 3.1. Assessment, Policies & Goals Palladium launched its Environmental Policy this year, which outlines our commitment with regard to the company’s environmental impact and plans for next year. We have committed to: Minimising the environmental impact of our operations and service delivery Engaging in offsetting schemes and initiatives whenever this is feasible Prioritising partnerships with environmentally conscious suppliers and contractors Improving the environmental engagement of our employees Monitoring and verification of our environmental performance, including transparent reporting of progress 3.2. Implementation As part of our policy rollout, we have begun working on areas of our operations in which we can reduce our waste and resource consumption, for example by switching energy providers in our corporate offices and ensuring that recycling facilities are available throughout. An environmental risk assessment is also under development, and will be rolled out in 2019. Our Environmental Policy also lays out our plans for improving environmental engagement throughout the company and across our supply chain, which includes the development of an Environmental Awareness training and a review of our procurement processes. Palladium is currently in the process of evaluating the different options for measuring the carbon footprint of our operations, which will continue into 2019. The intention is to measure our carbon footprint before assessing the different ways in which we can ensure key parts of our business operations are carbon neutral. We will report on this outcome in our next Communication on Progress. 3.3. Measurement of Outcomes Our environmental policy commits us to monitoring and verification of our environmental performance, and to publish transparent progress reports. This is planned to begin during 2019. Employees are required to report suspected violations of the Environmental Policy to line managers or through the company whistle-blower mechanism. Investigation is conducted in line with the company Investigations SOP and Whistle-blower Protection Policy and SOPs. Failure to comply is subject to possible disciplinary action including contract termination, non-renewal or other appropriate actions. Palladium International Limited – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 6/7 4. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in it all its forms, including extortion and bribery 4.1. Assessment, Policies & Goals Palladium rejects corruption in all of its forms and has zero tolerance for bribery, including facilitation payments or graft. Expectations with regard to anti-corruption, bribery and graft are contained in the Code of Conduct. Our Risk Management Framework Guidelines require all Palladium projects to undergo annual risk assessments, compliance reviews, spot checks and site visits. Our Due Diligence Policy and Conflict of Interest Policy are designed to identify any links to public officials or other actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest so that they can be managed effectively and minimise the risk of corruption. 4.2. Implementation As part of our due diligence process, all staff, contractors and business partner representatives must verify their identity. Names of individuals and organisations are cross-referenced with an external anti-corruption database and asked to certify their compliance with relevant legislation. All employees and business partners are contractually obliged to comply with Palladium’s Code of Conduct. A mandatory Code of Conduct and Whistle-blower training takes place annually, attended by all employees and consultants. Attendance is logged to ensure full participation. A formal declaration of compliance with the Code of Conduct is required alongside the training, which includes conflict of interest disclosure. 4.3. Measurement of Outcomes Employees and business partners are required to report suspected violations of the above policies to line managers or through the company whistle-blower mechanism. Investigation is conducted in line with the company Investigations SOP and Whistle-blower Protection Policy and SOPs. Failure to comply is subject to possible disciplinary action including contract termination, non-renewal or other appropriate actions. Palladium maintains a dedicated Fraud Register that includes all current fraud cases, status and action items and is managed by our IPSR and risk management team. Investigations are conducted by the IPSR team, local representatives or external parties where appropriate. Reports and findings are escalated to management at least monthly. Projects valued over a specified threshold are subject to annual audits which can take the form of operational, financial or compliance audits. Spot checks are conducted regularly, the subject of which is defined by the IPSR team. Annual risk assessments are conducted by the IPSR team which results in a report covering recommendations and an internal audit plan. END Palladium International Limited – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 7/7
