Building with conscience. Sto SE & Co. KGaA | 2018 Annual Report Sto at a glance Sto Group 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Changes in % 18/17 Turnover 1,166.0 1,208.7 1,216.6 1,230.7 1,277.4 1,332.4 4.3 % Germany 534.7 549.2 535.4 548.7 562.8 596.0 5.9 % Non-Germany 631.3 659.5 681.2 682.0 714.6 736.4 3.1 % Investments (not including financial assets) 32.4 39.1 35.8 37.5 32.7 32.1 –1.8 % Depreciation/amortisation (without financial assets) 29.0 29.9 31.0 32.7 33.3 31.3 –6.0 % EBITDA 128.9 126.9 112.6 103.0 117.3 113.2 –3.5 % EBIT 99.9 97.0 81.5 70.3 84.0 81.9 –2.5 % EBT 99.0 96.2 81.2 68.1 82.2 80.2 –2.4 % EAT (earnings after taxes) 68.4 66.0 55.7 45.7 55.8 53.8 –3.6 % Earnings per limited ordinary share (EUR) 10.68 10.29 8.71 7.14 8.62 8.33 –3.4 % Earnings per limited preference share (EUR) 10.74 10.35 8.77 7.20 8.68 8.39 –3.3 % Cash flow from current operating activities 80.9 93.9 78.9 95.4 86.5 80.7 –6.7 % per share (EUR) 12.60 14.61 12.28 14.85 13.46 12.56 –6.7 % Total assets 703.6 751.3 641.9 714.2 749.6 784.4 4.6 % Equity capital 481.4 506.5 404.7 425.2 450.1 477.5 6.1 % in % of total assets 68.4 67.4 63.0 59.5 60.1 60.9 Employees (year end) 4,791 4,979 5,032 5,251 5,308 5,333 0.5 % of which in Germany 2,586 2,623 2,652 2,895 2,884 2,887 0.1 % of which non-Germany 2,205 2,356 2,380 2,356 2,424 2,446 0.9 % Sto SE & Co. KGaA (HGB) 2013 2014 2015 2016* 2017* 2018* Changes in % 18/17 Turnover 589.1 604.2 598.8 610.7 627.0 667.1 6.4 % Export ratio in % 16.8 17.4 18.7 20.5 19.9 20.2 Investments in property, plant and equipment, and Intangible assets 12.3 11.6 20.1 15.5 9.5 14.5 52.6 % in financial assets 6.1 6.4 9.6 14.7 18.4 5.5 –70.1 % Depreciation/amortisation (without financial assets) 12.8 13.4 13.4 12.7 12.8 12.5 –2.3 % Earnings before income taxes** 88.8 79.1 64.6 56.5 62.0 59.3 –4.4 % Net profit for the year 71.7 62.8 48.2 45.4 45.8 40.8 –10.9 % Cash flow from current operating activities*** 35.1 41.9 35.6 47.6 56.3 18.3 % Dividend per limited ordinary share (EUR) 0.25/4.56 0.25/25.14 0.25/4.56 0.25/3.00 0.25/3.78 0.25/3.78 per limited preference share (EUR) 0.31/4.56 0.31/25.14 0.31/4.56 0.31/3.00 0.31/3.78 0.31/3.78 Total assets 526.0 560.6 446.0 475.2 508.2 531.5 4.6 % Equity capital 402.0 433.9 318.7 333.1 357.9 372.6 4.1 % in % of total assets 76.4 77.4 71.5 70.1 70.4 70.1 Employees (year end) 2,118 2,134 2,148 2,133 2,102 2,093 –0.4 % (figures in EUR million unless otherwise indicated) * From 2016 in accordance with BilRUG (Accounting Directive Implementation Act) ** Until 2015 earnings on ordinary activities *** From 2014 cash flow was adapted to comply with the new DRS 21 (German accounting standard) Rounding of amounts may lead to minor deviations in totals and in the calculation of percentages in this report. Sto SE & Co. KGaA | 2018 Annual Report Foreword2 D. Events after the reporting period 42 Report of the Supervisory Board 6 E. Risks and opportunities report 42 Corporate Governance Report 11 F. Outlook report 52 Management Report for the The Sto share 56 Sto Group (IFRS) 18 Sustainability and The 2018 fiscal year at a glance 19 Corporate Social Responsibility 60 A. Group fundamentals 19 Consolidated annual financial statements B. Financial report 24 of the Sto Group (IFRS) 83 Overall economic and sector-related Statement of profit and loss 84 general conditions in 2018 25 Statement of comprehensive income 85 Business performance and development Statement of financial situation 86 of turnover 26 Statement of changes in equity 88 Income situation 28 Cash flow statement 90 Financial situation 30 Notes 91 Asset situation 32 Audit certificate 172 C. Other performance indicators 33 Responsibility statement by the Employees 33 legal representatives 179 Research and development 36 Financial calendar 180 Production and procurement 39 For reasons of simplification, the terms 'colleague' and 'employee' shall be used to refer to both female and male colleagues and employees in this Annual Report. Picture caption for title page: The new construction of the Anton Bruckner Private University brings together twelve institutes in one building, which had previously been spread all over the Austrian city of Linz. The spectacular facade consists of elements that were prefabricated at the factory. Insulation was provided by the StoVentec R rainscreen cladding system and the StoTherm Classic external wall insulation system. The planners of the architectural office Architekturbüro 1 placed hundreds of white slats in front of the areas rendered in white. These slats wrap the three-storey building, which serves as an education centre for music, dance and drama, in an undulating curtain. The slats provide shade to the classrooms and lend the entire building complex a playful lightness. Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Foreword Foreword and purchased goods once again increased significantly over the course of the year, and we were unable to compensate for this trend, even though we had adjusted our sales prices. Incoming freight costs increased considerably with a negative effect on the gross profit margin. The development of business in 2018 showed two things: Firstly, it is becoming clear that the growth initiatives, which were launched in Germany as part of the New Balance programme, triggered the intended effects on the market side. Our growth in turnover as well as our new title, ‘Global market leader for external wall insulation systems’, which we were officially awarded at the beginning of 2018, is wonderful confirmation of the results Rainer Hüttenberger, Spokesman of the Executive Board that we have achieved. It once again testifies to our excellent position in the facade systems Dear Shareholders, market, the most important product segment in the Sto Group. Sto SE & Co. KGaA reached its forecast targets We also made technological progress and in the 2018 fiscal year and once again managed once again strengthened our industry-wide, to grow significantly through its own strength. pioneering expertise with numerous innovations Without the considerable negative currency and also the acquisition of Liaver GmbH & Co. translation effects, which significantly slowed KG, which became effective on 1 January 2019. down growth within the Group, we would The second trend confirmed by the develophave even exceeded our turnover forecast. ment of business in 2018 is the need for action However, even with the increase of 4.3 % to when it comes to returns in the Sto Group. EUR 1,332.4 million, we are overall satisfied We have moved even further away from our with business development, at least in terms of targets and have to quickly counteract this sales. We are particularly pleased, as we were trend. We are addressing this issue at all stages able to strengthen our core business of facade of the value added chain: from procurement systems, despite the German market for exterand development to sales and the product mix, nal wall insulation systems (EWIS) looking like which must be aimed even more consistently at it has only marginally grown according to first high-income offers and markets than before. calculations. The improvement of profitability with a siDespite the consolidated EBIT reaching the multaneously rising business volume will be one forecast bandwidth, it decreased by 2.5 % of our main tasks in 2019. In the current year, to EUR 81.9 million year-on-year. As a result, we expect an increase in turnover of 4.1 % and return on sales, relating to earnings before EBIT between EUR 81 million and EUR 91 miltaxes, also decreased from 6.4 % to 6.0 %. The lion in the Group. However, our environment greatest pressure on gross profit came from the is fraught with numerous factors that create procurement side. The prices for raw materials uncertainty. 2 Foreword | Sto SE & Co. KGaA These include global economic developThe many uncertainties do not make it ments, which are marked by trade disputes, easy to act with foresight and to adapt to the customs duties, political unrest, and the requirements of the market and the customers. increasing protectionism around the world, as The weather is another factor that always has well as a lack of a clear way forward in many a crucial impact on Sto's turnover and earnings respects at a political and regulatory level. One development as is the continuing significant such example is climate protection, which curuncertainty among building contractors in the rently is the hot topic after the Federal Ministry German EWIS market, which we counteract for the Environment, Nature Conservation, by providing information and clarification. and Nuclear Safety (BMU) presented a relevant A huge increase in statutory provisions, e.g. draft bill in February 2019. It aims to embed relating to product licensing and labelling, and the 2030 climate target in law. We regard this to fire protection also have an effect. Despite as a massive opportunity for the industry and the numerous obstacles, we are confident that for Sto, as in objective terms, efficient building we will successfully meet the challenges ahead insulation is indispensable for achieving the and achieve our long-term target of generating specified CO2 savings. However, if the necesGroup-wide income-oriented growth. Because sary steps are not specified or implemented, it is one of our strengths to react to changes at these huge potentials cannot be exploited an early stage and from a good starting position further. and to correct our course as required. In our opinion, the current draft of the We are currently reviewing our strategic Building Energy Act (GebäudeEnergieGesetalignment, for instance. By doing so, we zes – GEG) also lacks substance. This new law, account for technological changes such as which is to be introduced in 2019, combines digitalisation and its far-reaching consequences, the provisions of the Energy Conservation Act for example, as well as the increasing im(Energieeinsparungsgesetz – EnEG), Energy portance of sustainability topics which have Conservation Ordinance (Energieeinsparveralways played an important role in our Group. ordnung – EnEV), and Renewable Energies This is expressed in our corporate mission of Heat Act (Erneuerbare-Energien-Wärmegesetz ‘Building with conscience.’, which we are now – EEWärmeG). The Building Energy Act defines developing further and modernising under aspects such as the building energy standards the catchphrase ‘Building with conscience. Rerequired by the EU. According to these standloaded.’ It continues to stand for our ambition ards, only buildings with the lowest possible for Sto to contribute to maintaining the value energy consumption may be constructed as and aesthetic appeal of buildings. The review from 2021 onward, and for public buildings of our strategy does not mean that we are this rule already applies as from 2019. The new turning our backs on the established Sto values. law, which is currently being reconciled by the Quite the contrary – our mission remains strong political bodies, is also to stipulate the building and reliable. But our environment is changing, restoration requirements crucial for potential which is why we have to continuously reflect on subsidies. In our opinion, one critical aspect of our position, our image in the eyes of market the draft bill is that the required standard of participants, ways of exploiting opportunities, the EnEV 2016 could be weakened due to the and how to best reach our targets. inclusion of electricity from renewable energies Up to now, in over 60 years of Sto's comand that potential exceptions for over-indebted pany history, we are lucky that the company municipalities are mentioned. has mostly been on an upwards trajectory. 3 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Foreword A flair for people, products, and markets, a good eye and courage to invest in the right projects at the right time, a long-term orientation – these and many other contributing factors have made the Sto Group what it is today: a successful and strong international Group, with its majority share owned by the family – ­ a Group that sets standards in its industry and holds an excellent, or even leading, position in numerous markets. Our shareholders also benefit from this position. The personally liable partner STO Management SE proposed to once again distribute around EUR 26 million from the earnings in the 2018 fiscal year. This means that limited preference shareholders will receive an unchanged ordinary dividend of EUR 0.31 and a bonus of EUR 3.78 per share, and limited ordinary shareholders an ordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 plus a bonus of EUR 3.78 per share. This would result in a dividend yield per preference share of 5.0 % based on the 2018 closing price of EUR 82.00. Our basis for the years to come is solid. We now have to improve the ratio between turnover and costs in the Group as this did not develop as planned in recent years. It is important that we have recognised the reasons for this development and are now jointly working on achieving our target returns. To do this, we need the effort of the entire workforce who is always highly committed to tackling challenges. Sto's employees are a crucial success factor for the company, and on behalf Rainer Hüttenberger of the Executive Board I would like to take this Spokesman of the Executive Board of STO opportunity to thank them for their impressive Management SE as the personally liable partner achievements. of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 4 Foreword | Sto SE & Co. KGaA 5 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Report of the Supervisory Board Report of the Supervisory Board Members of the Supervisory Board Fritz Stotmeister, Öhningen/Germany | Honorary Chairman Dr Max-Burkhard Zwosta, Wittnau/Germany, Chartered accountant and tax consultant | Chairman Lothar Hinz*, Reutlingen/Germany, Chairman of the Group Works Council and Chairman of the Works Council for the Baden-Württemberg sales region of Sto SE & Co. KGaA and StoCretec GmbH | Deputy Chairman Dr Max-Burkhard Zwosta, Chairman Maria H. Andersson ­ unich/Germany, and Head M Barbara Meister* Munich/Germany, Managing of the Fraunhofer Institute for Blumberg/Germany, Deputy Director of N4 BeteiligungsBuilding Physics Chairperson of the Group Emgesellschaft mbH, Family ployee Representative Council Officer/Single Family Office Peter Zürn and Chairperson of the Weizen Bretzfeld-Weißlensburg/GerEmployee Representative CounDr Renate Neumannmany, Member of the Managecil, Sto SE & Co. KGaA Schäfer, Überlingen/Germany, ment of the Würth Group Business consultant, Economist Roland Schey* Wolfgang Dell* Tengen/Germany, Head of Cornelia Reinecke Hattersheim/Germany, ResponFinance and Accounting of the Emmendingen/Germany, sible for Maintenance Plant Sto Group Head of Human Resources and Technology, Sto SE & Co. KGaA Member of the Management Martina Seth* Board of Sick AG Frank Heßler* Uelzen/Germany, Personnel Mannheim/Germany, Political Developer and Trade Union Prof. Dr Klaus Peter Trade Union Secretary and ­Secretary of IG BCE, Head Sedlbauer, Rottach-Egern/ Deputy regional manager IG ­Office in Hanover/Germany Germany, Chairholder at the BCE of the regional district of Institute of Building Physics Baden-Württemberg * Employee representatives at the Technical University of 6 Report of the Supervisory Board | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Dear Shareholders, and development perspectives of the Group described in the reports of the Executive Board The Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA of the personally liable partner were discussed conscientiously and with due diligence fulfilled in detail. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board the duties incumbent upon it by law, the obtained assurances that the actions of the articles of association, the German Corporate Executive Board of the personally liable partner Governance Code and the rules of procedure STO Management SE were legitimate, orderly, in the 2018 fiscal year. We have advised the and fit for purpose. None of the members personally liable partner STO Management SE in of the Supervisory Board had any conflicts of the management of the Group and continuinterest regarding the execution of their offices ally monitored its work. This cooperation was during the reporting period, and none of them constructive and based on an open and trusting missed half or more of the meetings of the exchange between the parties. The personally Supervisory Board. liable partner briefed the Supervisory Board on a regular, timely, and comprehensive basis on all Key issues dealt with by the Supervisory issues relating to the company and the Group. Board These contents were discussed in detail within During the 2018 fiscal year, the Supervisory the Supervisory Board and its committees. Board held five regular meetings, on 19 April, In addition to the Supervisory Board meet21 June, 27 July, 31 October, and 20 December ings, the Supervisory Board maintained con2018. The Supervisory Board was able to pass stant contact with the Executive Board of the resolutions at all times. The members of the personally liable partner through its Chairman Executive Board of the personally liable partner and obtained information about current develSTO Management SE were present at all the opments within the Group as well as material meetings unless topics had to be discussed in business transactions. Important questions and their absence. decisions were also discussed with the Executive The deliberations of the Supervisory Board Board in a continuous and close exchange. focused on the regular reports prepared by Overall, the Supervisory Board was always the Executive Board on the business activities comprehensively informed about the current with detailed information on the strategy, the situation of the company and Sto Group, respective economic, turnover and earnings the planned business policy, Group planning, development, opportunities and risks for the including financial, investment, and personnel company, personnel matters, and investments. planning, the income situation, and the position In particular, the current development of raw of the individual company and Group, including material and purchase prices, and questions of the risk situation, risk management, and comsales price enforcement as well as the strategic pliance situation. approach in connection with the acquisition The members of the Supervisory Board of potential acquisition objects were discussed also comprehensively reviewed decisions and intensively in 2018. The deliberations also measures of the personally liable partner as focused on Group planning. Furthermore, the and when required, sometimes based on the Board dealt with the following main topics at its preparations of the responsible committees. individual meetings: In decisions that were of crucial importance to At the meeting on 19 April 2018, the focus the Group, the Supervisory Board was always was on the 2017 annual financial statements involved immediately. The economic situation of Sto SE & Co. KGaA and the Sto Group. They 7 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Report of the Supervisory Board were explained in detail and discussed together and discussed in this context. Furthermore, the with the respective management reports, audit Board addressed various structural corporate reports of the auditor, who was present at the management measures. meeting, sustainability report and dependent On 31 October 2018, we examined the company report in accordance with Sections current development of business, and the 312 et seq. of the German Companies Act projection of the Sto Group as at 31 December (AktG). The results of the Audit Committee, 2018. We also intensively talked about specific which had been intensively reviewing the acquisition projects. documents in preparation, were included in the Planning for 2019 for both Sto SE & Co. discussion. The annual financial statements of KGaA and the Sto Group was the main item on Sto SE & Co. KGaA, and the consolidated finanthe agenda to be deliberated at the Supervisory cial statements of the Sto Group for the 2017 Board meeting held on 20 December 2018. The fiscal year were approved by the Supervisory draft of the 5-year plan for 2019 to 2023 was Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA in accordance with also debated. It is to be finalised in the meeting Section 171 of the German Companies Act scheduled for April 2019. Other important (AktG) after being subjected to comprehensive topics were the auditor’s preliminary audit of reviews by the latter which did not result in any the 2018 annual financial statement of Sto SE reservations. & Co. KGaA, the system for the early detecThe Board also finalised the Supervisory tion of risks, the risk situation, as arises from Board report for the 2017 fiscal year and warranty risks for instance, and the adoption the agenda for the ordinary Annual General of the Declaration of Conformity in accordance Meeting on 21 June 2018. The appropriation with Section 161 of the German Companies of earnings proposed by the personally liable Act (AktG). partner was approved by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board reviewed its activities The 5-year plan for 2018 to 2022 for the as part of an efficiency review in accordance Sto Group, including the planning principles with Item 5.6 of the German Corporate Govreviewed by the Finance Committee, various ernance Code (DCGK) in a special organisacorporate management measures of STO Mantional meeting of the Supervisory Board on agement SE, and the digitilisation strategy of 26 February 2018. the company were also discussed in detail. The Supervisory Board meeting on 21 July Supervisory Board committees 2018 dealt with topics relating to the Annual In the 2018 fiscal year, the Supervisory Board of General Meeting taking place on the same day Sto SE & Co. KGaA formed an Audit Commitand questions relating to the restructuring of tee and a Finance Committee. These bodies business activities in Eastern Europe. make preparations for the agenda items to be At the Supervisory Board meeting on discussed by the Supervisory Board and the 27 July 2018, the Board discussed various decisions which need to be taken. topics, including current business developIn 2018, the Audit Committee and Finance ments, particularly the development of the raw Committee held four meetings each. The Audit material prices, which had a negative effect on Committee primarily focused on the 2017 anthe gross profit margin during the course of the nual financial statement of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, year, and opportunities relating to pre-made the 2017 consolidated annual financial statemodular construction methods. The company's ment, the management reports, the dependent central purchasing unit was also introduced company report, and the auditor’s report. The 8 Report of the Supervisory Board | Sto SE & Co. KGaA 2018 interim reports and the half-year report that the management reports appropriately were also reviewed in detail. Furthermore, describe the economic situation of Sto SE & the committee members discussed the 2018 Co. KGaA and the Sto Group as well as the Declaration of Compliance, the effectiveness of opportunities and risks associated with future the internal control and risk management sysdevelopment. The effectiveness of the monitortem, as well as the internal audit. The Finance ing system within the scope of Section 91 parCommittee examined the key management agraph 2 of the German Companies Act (AktG) measures carried out by STO Management SE, was also confirmed. The auditors therefore particularly potential acquisitions, the develissued an unreserved audit opinion. opment of some of the company's business The annual financial statements of the comsectors, as well as Group planning. pany and the Group, the management reports, and the auditor reports as well as statements Corporate Governance and Declaration of to be published in the annual report which Compliance were not to be reviewed by the auditor were In the year under review, the Supervisory Board distributed to all Supervisory Board members in of Sto SE & Co. KGaA once more thoroughly a timely manner. The Audit Committee pre-exdealt with the German Corporate Governamined these documents in its meeting held ance Code. A Declaration of Conformity in on 24 April 2019. In advance of the committee accordance with Section 161 of the German and Supervisory Board meeting, other prelimCompanies Act (AktG) was issued in December inary examinations and explanatory meetings 2018 which is based on the current version of were held between the personally liable partner the Code of 7 February 2017. It is permanently STO Management SE, the Chairman of the available on the company's website. Details can Supervisory Board, and the Chairman of the be found in the Corporate Governance section Audit Committee to discuss key audit matters. of the 2018 Annual Report. At the ordinary Supervisory Board meeting on 25 April 2019, the statements and reports as Audit of the annual financial statement well as declarations were discussed in detail On 21 June 2018, the ordinary Annual General and consequently reviewed. Auditor representMeeting of Sto SE & Co. KGaA appointed atives were present at both meetings to report Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungson the audit results and provided additional gesellschaft, Stuttgart/Germany, to act as the information when requested. They confirmed auditor for the 2018 fiscal year. It audited the the effectiveness of the monitoring systems annual financial statement of Sto SE & Co. within the scope of Section 91 paragraph 2 of KGaA, prepared by the personally liable partner the German Companies Act (AktG) to the SuSTO Management SE, the management report, pervisory Board. The auditors also confirmed in the consolidated annual financial statement, writing that, apart from the audit, they did not and the Group management report for the provide the company with any other significant 2018 fiscal year as well as the dependent comservices in the fiscal year and there were no pany report in accordance with Sections 312, circumstances that could impair their independ278 of the German Companies Act (AktG). The ence as auditors. relevant audit partners with respect to Section The auditors from Ernst & Young GmbH 319a paragraph 1 sentence 4 of the German issued the dependent company report with Commercial Code (HGB) were Dr Eckart Wetzel the following audit certificate: ‘In our opinion, and Stephan Busser. The auditors confirmed based on the examination which we have car9 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Report of the Supervisory Board ried out in accordance with professional standThe Supervisory Board thanks all employees ards, the factual information contained in the of Sto SE & Co. KGaA and the members of the report is correct, and the consideration given Executive Board of the managing STO Manageby the Company for the legal transactions ment SE for their commitment and perforreferred to in the report was not unreasonably mance in the 2018 fiscal year. We wish them high.’ all every success in meeting the challenges they The Supervisory Board carried out its own inface in fiscal 2019 and in achieving their goals. depth audit of the annual financial statements, the management reports of Sto SE & Co. KGaA Stühlingen/Germany, April 2019 and the Sto Group as well as of the statements to be published in the annual report which were not to be reviewed by the auditor, and did not have any objections. The Supervisory Board approved the annual financial statement of Sto SE & Co. KGaA prepared by the Dr Max-Burkhard Zwosta personally liable partner STO Management SE, Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the consolidated annual statement for 2018 after its own comprehensive review in accordance with Section 171 of the German Companies Act (AktG), as well as the dependent company report. The Supervisory Board will hence propose the approval of the financial statements of Sto SE & Co. KGaA for the 2018 fiscal year at the Annual General Meeting of Sto SE & Co. KGaA to be held on 19 June 2019. The non-financial statements, in particular those statements and data on sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility, have been reviewed by the Supervisory Board and have been judged to be accurate in its analysis and objective. The Supervisory Board agrees to the proposal of the personally liable partner STO Management SE to recommend a dividend distribution of EUR 26,049,060.00 at the Annual General Meeting. This means that limited preference shareholders are expected to receive an ordinary dividend of EUR 0.31 as well as a bonus of EUR 3.78 per share, and limited ordinary shareholders an ordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 and also a bonus of EUR 3.78 per share. 10 Corporate Governance Report | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Corporate Governance Report/ Declaration on management of the company Corporate Governance at Sto of Compliance in accordance with Section 161 This next section contains a report from Sto SE of the German Companies Act) in the ‘Investor & Co. KGaA and its personally liable partRelations’ area of the ‘Unternehmen’ (Comner STO Management SE on the company’s pany) section. corporate governance in accordance with Item 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Bodies Code (the ‘Code’). In addition, this summarised Responsibility for managing Sto SE & Co. KGaA document incorporates the declaration on key lies with the personally liable partner STO company management practices in accordance Management SE. The bodies of the company with Sections 289f and 315d of the German also include the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Commercial Code (HGB). As a component Co. KGaA and the Annual General Meeting. of the 2018 Annual Report, this chapter is Thus, there is a separation in terms of personnel published on the website www.sto.de under between management of the company and ‘Company’ in the ‘Investor Relations’ section. monitoring of the Management Board in The supplementary remuneration report is part accordance with the statutory regulations for of the Notes to the consolidated annual finana German public limited company (Aktiengecial statement of the Sto Group. sellschaft). Both the personally liable partner As a basic principle, Sto is committed to and the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. responsible and transparent management KGaA consistently abide by the standards of and monitoring of the company (corporate proper corporate management at all times and governance), with a focus on sustainable value collaborate closely for the company's benefit. creation. All internal decision-making and control processes in the Sto Group are based on Shareholders and the Annual General this guiding principle. Meeting Statutory regulations, ethical standards, a At the end of 2018, Sto SE & Co. KGaA's sound financial policy, the Sto SE & Co. KGaA subscribed capital amounted to an unaltered strategy that is geared towards sustainability, figure of EUR 17.556 million. It is divided into and the Code all provide the foundation for 4.32 million registered limited ordinary shares corporate governance. Sometimes, there are (‘ordinary shares’) and 2.538 million limited departures from the Code in relation to issues preference bearer shares (‘preference shares’). that concern the specific requirements of a Each ordinary share always grants one vote. medium-sized family business or the legal form Preference shares do not have voting rights but of a partnership limited by shares (Kommandittake priority for the purpose of profit distribugesellschaft auf Aktien). In these cases, adapted tion and are entitled to a higher dividend. In the standards are applied instead. Deviations from year under review, there were no shares with the recommendations of the Code in its current multiple or preferential voting rights. version of 7 February 2017 and the reasons for The shareholders exercise their voting right at deviating in each case are explained in the comthe Annual General Meeting. As the personally pany's Declaration of Conformity in accordance liable partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, STO Manwith Section 161 of the German Companies agement SE is responsible for convening the AnAct (AktG). Current and previous versions of nual General Meeting and the timely dispatch of this declaration are published on the website at all statutory reports and documents, including www.sto.de and can be found under ‘Entsprethe agenda. The documents and the Annual chenserklärung nach § 161 AktG’ (Declaration Report are also available on the Sto website. 11 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Corporate Governance Report At the Annual General Meeting, the sory Board as a whole, unless the shareholder personally liable partner presents the annual or the employee representatives object to the financial statement of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, the overall fulfilment in accordance with Section consolidated annual financial statement of the 96 Paragraph 2 Sentence 3 of the German Sto Group as well as the management/Group Companies Act. A corresponding objection management report for the previous fiscal year was unanimously agreed upon and declared by and explains the key events. The annual finanthe Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. cial statement is then ascertained by the Annual Accordingly, the Supervisory Board must include General Meeting. For shareholders who are unat least two women and two men on both the able or unwilling to exercise their voting rights shareholder and employee representative sides. themselves, a proxy of the company bound by Currently, three of the six shareholder repretheir instructions is available in each case. sentatives on the Supervisory Board and two of the six employee representatives are women. Supervisory Board The composition of the company's SuperviThe Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA sory Board ensures that the necessary expertise, monitors and advises the personally liable skills, and professional experience required to partner STO Management SE in the manageproperly carry out the Board’s responsibilities are ment of its business. Furthermore, it checks for represented. All members are proven experts in compliance with the statutory disclosure rules in their respective fields. They are solely responsithe manner detailed by the Supervisory Board. ble for engaging in the education and training The work of the Board is regulated by law, the measures that are necessary for them to meet articles of association, the Code, and rules of the requirements placed on them as Superviprocedure. sory Board members, and receive appropriate In accordance with the German Co-Desupport from Sto SE & Co. KGaA in doing this. termination Act, the Supervisory Board is Among others, Maria H. Andersson and Dr composed of an equal number of shareholder Renate Neumann-Schäfer qualify as independand employee representatives, i.e. six shareent financial experts for the purposes of Section holder and six employee representatives. They 100 Paragraph 5 of the German Companies Act are introduced in the report of the Supervisory (AktG). Board that forms part of this annual report. When proposing new members, the SuperInformation on remuneration of the Supervivisory Board must ascertain that the candidates sory Board is contained in the Notes/Notes to can invest the necessary time involved and must the consolidated annual financial statement examine their personal and business relationas well as in the Declaration of Compliance in ships with the Group, corporate bodies, and accordance with Section 161 of the German major shareholders. Companies Act (AktG). The Supervisory Board is directly involved in In accordance with Section 96 Paragraph all decisions that are of fundamental impor2 Sentence 1 of the German Companies tance to Sto SE & Co. KGaA. In the 2018 fiscal Act, it must be ensured that at least 30 % year, the Supervisory Board gathered for five of the Supervisory Board consists of women ordinary meetings. The details of what was disor men respectively when new members are cussed and the focal points of the meetings are being appointed to the Supervisory Board of reported in depth in the report of the Supervico-determined listed companies. The minimum sory Board. Beyond the regular gatherings, the percentage must be fulfilled by the SuperviSupervisory Board is briefed by the personally 12 Corporate Governance Report | Sto SE & Co. KGaA liable partner STO Management SE on a continspecial knowledge required for this position. He ual, timely, and comprehensive basis about the does not simultaneously serve as the Chairman Group strategy, planning, business developof the Supervisory Board and has not been a ment, the financial and income situation, the member of the Executive Board for the past employee situation, as well as the risk situation, two fiscal years. and risk management. Any departures from A Nomination Committee is formed in addefined plans in the context of business develdition if there are upcoming Supervisory Board opment are discussed, and relevant documents elections. The next ordinary elections for shareare made available to the Supervisory Board in a holder representatives to the Supervisory Board timely manner. will take place at the Annual General Meeting It is the job of the Chairman of the Superin 2022. The elections of employee representvisory Board to coordinate the Board's work, atives are conducted in compliance with the steer the meetings, and represent it externally. Co-Determination Act from 1976. They start Between meetings, he maintains close contact with the announcement by the company and with the members of the Executive Board of finish with the election. the personally liable partner STO Management SE, discussing – in particular – issues relating Personally liable partner to strategy, business development, and risk Sto SE & Co. KGaA is led and managed by the management. Executive Board of the personally liable partner The Supervisory Board reviews the consolSTO Management SE. It acts under its own idated annual financial statement of the Sto authority and in the interests of the company Group and the annual financial statement of while keeping the needs of shareholders, emSto SE & Co. KGaA on the basis of the findings ployees, and other stakeholders in mind with a of the auditor and Audit Committee. Prior to view to achieving sustainable added value. For the publication of the half-year financial report this purpose, the Management Board develops and the interim reports within the first and a strategy and ensures its implementation. In second half of the year, the Executive Board addition, it makes arrangements necessary to discusses these reports with the Chairman of ensure compliance with legal requirements and the Supervisory Board and the Chairman of the internal corporate guidelines within the Sto Audit Committee, who consult with the other Group. members of the Supervisory Board. The responsibilities of the personally liable The Supervisory Board regularly checks the partner also include the preparation of the anefficiency of its work. To increase the efficiency nual financial statement of Sto SE & Co. KGaA as much as possible, technically qualified comand the consolidated annual financial statement mittees are formed. Sto SE & Co. KGaA features of the Sto Group, as well as the establishment an Audit Committee and a Finance Committee. and further development of the risk manageIn the periods leading up to the Supervisory ment and control system. Detailed information Board meetings, they deal with complex issues about risk management is provided in the and prepare the findings for the full SuperviGroup management report, which is part of this sory Board meetings. The Chairperson of the annual report. relevant committee provides the Supervisory Without exception, the personally liable Board with reports on the committee’s work. partner STO Management SE complies with The Chairman of the Audit Committee is statutory regulations, and observes the Code, independent and, as a financial expert, has the as well as other recognised external standards, 13 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Corporate Governance Report and company regulations. Information about any suitable female candidates during the 2018 the applicable remuneration system of the STO fiscal year. This means that the proportion of Management SE Executive Board is summarised women at the second management level below in the Group management report; the earnings the Executive Board still falls short of the quota of the Executive Board are summarised in the target set. Notes to the consolidated annual financial The obligation applicable to the Supervisory statement of the Sto Group. Board in accordance with Section 96 Paragraph 2 Sentence 1 of the German Companies Act Diversity (AktG) stipulating that it must be comprised In accordance with Section 76 Paragraph 4 of at least 30 % women or men respectively of the German Companies Act (AktG), the is fully satisfied: currently, three of the six Executive Board of listed companies sets target representatives of the shareholders on the figures for the percentage of women in the two Supervisory Board and two of the six employee management levels below the Executive Board. representatives are women. At the Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien (corresponds approximately to a partnership limited Key practices of Corporate Governance/ by shares) established in accordance with SecCompliance tion 278 Paragraph 3 of the German CompaOver and above the statutory regulations and nies Act (AktG), this is the responsibility of the the German Corporate Governance Code, personally liable partner STO Management SE. there are additional company management The latter also promotes diversity as required by practices that Sto SE & Co. KGaA applies. These the Code and considers it an important success include both internal regulations and external factor for the future of the Group. Industry-spestandards such as the ‘UN Global Compact’. cific conditions and the current proportion of Sto joined this global initiative in 2009. It is women in the workforce were also taken into run under the auspices of the United Nations account when setting the target quotas for the and encompasses ten principles in the areas of two management levels below the Executive human rights, labour standards, environmental Board. protection, and anti-corruption. Measures that The Executive Board of the personally liable we have put in place in order to implement the partner STO Management SE has established ‘Global Compact’ are outlined in the chapter on the goal of achieving a quota of 0 % for man‘Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsiagement positions a level below the personally bility’. This report also represents the annual liable partner, i.e. the division manager level, Communication on Progress (COP) required by and of 10.8% for the department manager level the ‘Global Compact’. by 30 June 2017. On 31 December 2018, 0 % Our most important internal regulations of the division manager positions and 8.2 % of include the ‘Principles for Cooperation and the department manager positions were held by Management within the Sto Group’, a set of women. By 31 December 2020, these percentGroup-wide practice guidelines for all employages are to be at 0 % and 12.0 % respectively. ees and managers. In addition to regulations Despite the relevant requests having been for internal work procedures, they also include submitted during the process of searching for information on the principles stipulated by candidates when making new appointments at ‘Global Compact’. the first and second management levels below Compliance with laws, internal and external the Executive Board, it was not possible to find regulations, as well as responsible handling of 14 Corporate Governance Report | Sto SE & Co. KGaA risks is part of the Corporate Governance at Share trading Sto. Procedures and systems for compliance Persons with management functions at STO are linked to the Group's risk and opportuManagement SE or Sto SE & Co. KGaA must nity management. Within the framework of disclose any private transactions involving Sto compliance management, Sto creates the prelimited preference shares to the German Federal requisites for making internal regulations and Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) and to directives known throughout the Group and Sto SE & Co. KGaA in accordance with Art. 19 all business practices legally compliant. This of the MAR (Directors’ Dealings). No notificaillustrates our strong commitment to ethical tions of Directors’ Dealings occurred in fiscal and fair behaviour in our own organisation, 2018. and creates the framework for dealing with our environment. The compliance organisation Accounting and auditing of financial and systems at Sto ensure legally compliant, statements risk-aware, opportunity-oriented, and informed The accounting of the Sto Group is based on action in a dynamic business environment, in the International Financial Reporting Standorder to guarantee the Sto Group's competiards (IFRS) as applied in the European Union. tiveness and sustainable success. The annual financial statement of the parent company Sto SE & Co. KGaA is based on the Transparency reporting standards of the German Commercial Sto provides information to its shareholders, Code (HGB). financial analysts, the media, and the general The annual financial statement of Sto SE public in an even-handed and timely manner & Co. KGaA as well as the statement of the through regular, open, and up-to-date comSto Group, including the respective managemunication. The most important topics include ment reports, are audited by an independthe economic situation and development of the ent auditing company elected at the Annual company/Group as well as important business General Meeting following a proposal by the changes within the Group. The company uses a Supervisory Board. The nomination proposal is variety of media for this purpose. preceded by an independence check in order to All key information – such as annual and ensure that any conflicts of interest that might interim reports, press releases, and voting rights give rise to doubts concerning the impartiality announcements, insider information, as well as of the auditor are ruled out at an early stage. all financial and sustainability reports – is availaThe auditing company commissioned by Sto, ble online under ‘Company’ on the Sto website Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungs(www.sto.de) – much of it also in English. Angesellschaft, Stuttgart/Germany, has issued a nual and half-yearly financial reports are lodged corresponding statement in this regard. The auwith the companies register and the German ditor responsible takes part in the deliberations federal government gazette (Bundesanzeiger) of the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA on the day of publication. concerning the annual financial statement and All key dates for publications and functions the consolidated annual financial statement as are listed in the calendar of financial events, well as in the corresponding Audit Committee which is announced well in advance. The finanmeeting where he reports on the key findings cial calendar, valid as of the end of March 2019, of his audit. can be found both in the 2018 Annual Report and on the company’s website. 15 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Corporate Governance Report Information in accordance with Sections are held by the Stotmeister family who thus 289a and 315a of the German Commercial holds 90 % of the voting rights. Code (HGB) and explanations by the personally liable partner Holders of shares with special rights The following information reflects the situation At Sto SE & Co. KGaA, there are 2,538,000 as at the balance sheet date. preference shares with a special right in the form of an advance dividend in the amount of Composition of subscribed capital EUR 0.06 as well as a minimum dividend in the The subscribed capital of Sto SE & Co. KGaA amount of EUR 0.13 per preference share in amounts to a total of EUR 17,556,480.00. It is accordance with Section 16 of the articles of divided into 4,320,000 registered limited ordiassociation of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. nary shares ('ordinary shares') and 2,538,000 limited preference bearer shares ('preference Type of control of voting rights in case of shares') at a notional nominal value of EUR 2.56 employee shareholdings each. The employees have no autonomous shareholding in Sto SE & Co. KGaA. Nevertheless, no emRestrictions on voting rights or the ployee is prevented from acquiring and selling transfer of shares preference shares on the capital market. To the knowledge of the personally liable partner STO Management SE, there are no Appointment and dismissal of the restrictions relating to the transfer of preference Management Board as well as amendshares. In accordance with Sections 4 Paragraph ments to the articles of association 1, 16 of the articles of association of Sto SE & In the legal form of a 'Kommanditgesellschaft Co. KGaA, the preference shares do not confer auf Aktien' (KGaA, partnership limited by any voting rights. Of the 4,320,000 ordinary shares), the personally liable partner has the shares, the Stotmeister family holds a total of legal authority to manage and represent the 3,888,000 shares (Stotmeister Beteiligungs company. The personally liable partner of Sto GmbH 3,887,996 shares, Jochen Stotmeister SE & Co. KGaA is STO Management SE. It acts 1 share, Gerd Stotmeister 1 share, Helga through its Executive Board. The co-determined Stotmeister 1 share, Heidi Heimburger 1 share), Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA is not while 432,000 shares are held by Sto SE & Co. authorised to appoint or dismiss the personally KGaA. The ordinary shares held by the family liable partner or its Executive Board. Rather, the are limited in their transferability due to the fact personally liable partner has joined the comthat they are registered shares and hence repany by means of a corresponding declaration. quire the consent of the company, represented The appointment and dismissal of the Executive by the personally liable partner (furthermore by Board of STO Management SE is carried out by family-internal agreements), and are not traded the Supervisory Board of STO Management SE on the capital market. in accordance with the provisions of the articles of association and the law. As stipulated by SecDirect or indirect shareholdings in capital tions 278 Paragraph 3, 133, 179 of the German exceeding 10 % of the voting rights Companies Act (AktG), amendments to the artiThe 432,000 ordinary shares held by Sto SE & cles of association of Sto SE & Co. KGaA require Co. KGaA do not have any voting rights. As a resolution by the Annual General Meeting of described above, the remaining ordinary shares Sto SE & Co. KGaA. This resolution requires a 16 Corporate Governance Report | Sto SE & Co. KGaA majority of at least three quarters of the voting share capital represented at the adoption of the resolution. Furthermore, amendments to the articles of association also require the consent of the personally liable partner STO Management SE in accordance with Section 285 Paragraph 2 of the German Companies Act (AktG). Powers of the personally liable partner STO Management SE, in particular with regard to the possibility of issuing or buying back shares At Sto SE & Co. KGaA there is currently neither authorised nor contingent capital; no share buyback programme is in place either. Material agreements of the company under the condition of a change of control following a takeover bid With the exception of a syndicated loan contract, the company has not entered into any significant agreements which would become effective in the case of a change in control. The aforementioned syndicated loan contract stipulates legal consequences in the case that 50 % or more of the capital shares or voting rights in Sto SE & Co. KGaA are to be transferred to one or more persons acting in concert. This does not apply as long at Stotmeister Beteiligungs GmbH directly or indirectly holds more than 50 % of the capital shares and more than 50 % of the voting rights in Sto SE & Co. KGaA. Compensation agreement of the company with the members of the Executive Board of the personally liable partner or employees in the event of a takeover bid The company has not entered into any compensation agreements with the members of the Executive Board of the personally liable partner or employees in the event of a takeover bid. 17 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) The Sto Executive Board (from left to right): Michael Keller, Rainer Hüttenberger, Jan Nissen, and Rolf Wöhrle. Members of the Executive Board of STO Management SE in the fiscal year of 2018 (personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA) Rainer Hüttenberger, Jan Nissen, Stein am Rhein/Switzerland | Spokesman of Trossingen/Germany | Chief Technology the Executive Board responsible for Marketing Officer responsible for Process Engineering, Inand Sales Sto Brand International novation, Materials Management, and Logistics Michael Keller, Rolf Wöhrle, Bonndorf/Germany | Chief Sales Officer Bad Dürrheim/Germany | Chief Financial responsible for Sales Sto Brand Germany, Officer responsible for Finance, Controlling, Distribution, and Central Services IT, Legal, and Internal Audit 18 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The 2018 fiscal year at a glance • The Sto Group grows organically in 2018: despite significant negative currency effects, turnover increases by 4.3 % to EUR 1,332.4 million • Domestic turnover increases by 5.9 % to EUR 596.0 million, and turnover abroad by 3.1 % to EUR 736.4 million • Earnings down on previous year due to significant increases in procurement costs, but achieving the forecast key figures • Compared to the previous year, consolidated EBIT decreases by 2.5 % to EUR 81.9 million; earnings before tax (EBT) at EUR 80.2 million (previous year: EUR 82.2 million) • Return on sales down from 6.4 % to 6.0 % • Unaltered dividend of EUR 0.31 per limited preference share and EUR 0.25 per limited ordinary share plus a bonus of EUR 3.78 per share • Cash flow from operating activities amounts to EUR 80.7 million (previous year: EUR 86.5 million) • Slight rise in Group's workforce by 25 to 5,333 employees • Outlook for 2019: increase in turnover of 4.1 % to around EUR 1,387 million and an EBIT of between EUR 81 million and EUR 91 million expected A. Group fundamentals System build-up of StoVentec R 1 Sub-construction 2 Insulation Business model 3 Carrier board The Sto Group is a major international manu4 Base coat 5 Reinforcement facturer of products and systems for building 6 Finishing render coatings. The product range is divided into four product groups: the core business of StoVentec R is a ventilated facade systems encompasses external wall rainscreen cladding system insulation systems (EWIS), a segment in which with a seamless render surface, our company occupies a leading position, and which can be supplied in both a rainscreen cladding facade systems (RSC). In the non-combustible and a flamefiscal year of 2018, the share of this product retardant version. StoVentec group was 47.7 % of the total group turnover. Carrier Boards made of exFacade coatings, which includes render and panded glass granulate form the paint systems, made up 22.7 % of the turnover core of the system, for which a in the year under review. Products for interiors, thermal bridge-free sub-consuch as plaster and paint systems for home The comprehensive expertise of the Sto struction is available. The cover and office spaces, decorative coatings, interior Group is a strategic factor in its success. We can picture of our Annual Report claddings, and acoustic systems for regulating provide our customers with everything relating shows the Anton Bruckner sound, reported a turnover share of 14.3 %. to facades from a single source, thanks to our University in Linz/Austria. Its Furthermore, Sto produces and sells high-qualrange which offers products that complement facade was constructed with ity floor coatings and products for concrete one another perfectly, and at the same time StoVentec R. repair which are attributed to Other product give building owners maximum freedom to groups. create their own designs. Sto boasts extensive 19 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) knowledge not only on our core business of for external wall insulation systems’. A scientific facade systems, but also on related areas such study conducted by the University of St. Gallen as design and consultancy services and for in cooperation with the German business magalternative coating materials or claddings such azine ‘Wirtschaftswoche’ confirmed that Sto SE as brick slip and stone facades. As the individual & Co. KGaA meets all the criteria required for components of our range of services work in being included in the world market leader index. perfect harmony with one another, efficiency can be boosted and value maintained in the long term. Our business model is built on a foundation Building with conscience. of expertise, quality, and customer benefits, The Group’s innovative strength is one and is complemented by a consistent market of the keys to its corporate success and the presence in every country. This has enabled Sto positive image the Sto brand has cultivated. to carve out a position for itself as one of the Worldwide, we are regarded as one of the industry sector’s best-known product brands technological pacesetters in the industry, estabon the international stage. We maintain four lishing trends in the area of products, systems, core values at the heart of our brand strategy and services. To secure this leading position – something that we continually optimise and while also developing new growth markets, adapt to suit the current general conditions. research and development are considered core These core values are Close, Experienced, strategic activities at Sto. This is also reflected in Performing, and Advanced. Since the beginning our corporate vision ‘Technology leader in the of 2018, Sto has had the honour of officially sustainable design of living space tailored to being able to call itself the ‘world market leader human needs. Worldwide.’ Sto subsidiaries Sto partners 20 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sales markets tribution as a second distribution channel for a The Sto Group’s business activities are divided number of years now. Via this channel, selected into the regional segments of Western Europe products that we have clearly defined as distinct and Other, with the latter broken down into from our core business and that have their own Northern/Eastern Europe and America/Asia market niche, such as lacquers and fillers, are for internal reporting purposes. Our corporate provided via wholesalers and specialist retailers. management is primarily focused on these reWe intend to expand two-stage distribution gions. In Western Europe, which includes includgradually over the coming years and to tap into ing Germany and which is also the most imporadditional sales potentials. tant market, Sto generated a share of 76.9 % of the consolidated turnover in 2018. 11.8 % was Group structure attributed to Northern and Eastern Europe while The registered office of the operating parent America and Asia generated 11.3 % of the company is Sto SE & Co. KGaA in Stühlinbusiness volume. The most significant individual gen/Germany in the South of the state of market is Germany. In the year under review, it Baden-Württemberg. In addition to functioncontributed around 44.7 % to the consolidated ing as the Group’s holding company, it is also turnover of the Sto Group. responsible for operating domestic business We continuously work on systematically involving facade systems and coatings as well as targeting and tapping into selected regions in interior products. order to exploit additional sales potential worldOn a domestic level, the main companies of wide, spread the business risk, and compensate the Sto Group are the following: for fluctuations in individual countries. The • StoCretec GmbH, located in Kriftel/Germany, globalisation of our business activities is hence a is responsible for the areas of floor coatings key strategic target for Sto. At the end of 2018, and concrete repair. the Group was represented in 36 countries with • Innolation GmbH, located in Lauingen/ 49 subsidiaries of our own as well as their operGermany, produces insulants and develops ating sites, and maintained supply partnerships innovative insulant technologies. with sales partners in numerous other countries. • Verotec GmbH, located in Lauingen/GerSto products are used both in the construcmany, produces carrier boards for acoustic tion of new buildings and in the renovation of systems, rainscreen cladding systems, and existing buildings. The comparative importance architectural elements on behalf of other of these two market segments in individual Group companies. It also sells its products regions depends on the characteristics specific and services to external partners. to each country. Renovation business generates • VeroStone GmbH, located in Eichstätt/Gerthe majority of Group turnover worldwide. many, is the company within the Group that specialises in natural stone as a construction Customers and distribution system material. The Sto brand range is targeted at profes• Ströher GmbH, located in Dillenburg/Gersional applicators such as painters and building many, and its subsidiaries, focus on brick contractors, as well as architects and planning surfaces, outdoor ceramics, and interior tiles. offices, who are supported locally by means of • Südwest Lacke + Farben GmbH & Co. KG, a direct distribution system. In Germany, this located in Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany, is the covers almost the entire country. Additionally, Group’s specialist for paints and lacquers, Sto has also been developing multi-stage disand works primarily with trading companies. 21 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) Abroad, the Group’s business is largely tem. The primary key operating ratios employed handled by national companies operating indeare net turnover, earnings before interest and pendently, with the service spectrum offered in taxes (EBIT), earnings before tax (EBT), and each case being tailored to suit local conditions return on sales. Additionally, ROCE (Return on and specific requirements. For the most part, Capital Employed) is used as a key figure for the products are either produced on site, or monitoring return on capital employed. It is purchased via the Group. A list of all subsidiarbased on the EBIT divided by the average capiies of Sto SE & Co. KGaA is reproduced in the tal employed. These key figures are also used in Notes for the Group. the planning and controlling process. The business fields are each managed by a The reports compiled within this standardteam of product managers which is responsiised reporting are submitted directly to the ble for products and systems worldwide. The Executive Board of STO Management SE, which Heads of the Business Fields are responsible then forwards all relevant information to Sto’s for the strategic positioning of their areas and Supervisory Board. Additionally, management products, and coordinate marketing and sales meetings between the Executive Board and the objectives with the subsidiaries. This allows executive staff of the subsidiaries or sales reus to become better acquainted with the vast gions take place on a regular basis. This control range of different requirements that the various system strengthens the decentralised entrepremarkets have and tap into additional sales poneurial responsibility of our employees at a local tential through our targeted market approach level while also guaranteeing a high degree of and specialist technical expertise. transparency within the Group. The business fields are complemented by In addition to the internal indicators, we central units such as technical service or stratealso regularly monitor external early indicagic marketing. These provide global support to tors as part of our planning processes and as all our subsidiaries and product groups when it a means of corporate and risk management. comes to dealing with issues that are present Especially relevant are economic data and on an overarching level. This creates the right detailed industry information such as the deconditions for efficient management on a velopment of the building construction volume global scale, and for targeted further developor the segments of new construction and ment of the service portfolio. renovation. The specifications relating to the Declaration Business management control system on management of the company, as outlined in Sto SE & Co. KGaA's business affairs are Section 315d of the German Commercial Code managed by the four-strong Executive Board of (HGB), as well as the specifications according the personally liable partner STO Management to Sections 289a and 315a German CommerSE. It develops the Group strategy and ensures cial Code (HGB), and the explanations by the its implementation. The parent company Sto personally liable partner can be found in the SE & Co. KGaA, its subsidiaries, and the other ‘Corporate Governance Report’ chapter of Group units are controlled and managed by the Annual Report and online at www.sto.de/ reference to strategic and operational targets Unternehmen/Investor Relations. The non-­ as well as key financial covenants. These are financial statement in line with Section 315b of based on business figures which are uniformly the German Commercial Code (HGB), provided determined throughout the Group and which, as a supplement to the Group management in turn, are part of a standardised reporting sysreport, is contained in the ‘Sustainability and 22 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Corporate Social Responsibility’ chapter of the This corporate vision, along with the other Annual Report, which is also available to view principles on which our practice is based, is online at www.sto.de/Unternehmen/Investor defined in the Sto Guiding Principles, providing Relations. It provides information about key employees and managers with guidance when considerations in five areas: environmental matmaking strategic and operational decisions. ters, employee matters, social matters, respect Our Sto-Guiding Principles define our strategy, for human rights, and combating of corruption which contains the following core compoand bribery. nents: • Income-oriented growth – We align our Fundamentals of the remuneration system decisions with this overarching corporate The remuneration of the members of the Execobjective. utive Board consists of a fixed component and a •  Internationalisation – By systematically variable component, which can carry signifideveloping and penetrating selected regions, cantly more weight, but is capped. The variable we increase our sales opportunities and reelement comprises a long-term incentive, based duce our dependency on individual markets. on the turnover development of the Sto Group, •  Development of alternative distribution and the ROCE key figure of the past three channels – Sto’s proven direct distribution fiscal years in comparison to the target for this system is being expanded to include a mulreporting period, as well as an income-dependti-stage distribution concept. This will enable ent short-term incentive. No stock options are us to attract additional groups of customers granted. and widen our base. The members of the Supervisory Board of Sto •  Group expertise – Organic further developSE & Co. KGaA receive a fixed remuneration ment or suitable acquisitions reinforce and and a compensation for costs incurred. The expand the Sto Group's expertise. Chairman of the committee is entitled to four • Attractive employer – We develop and imtimes and his or her deputy to two and a half plement measures to recruit new specialists times the amount of the basic remuneration. and managers, and to improve our employThe Chairman of a Supervisory Board Comees’ levels of qualification, performance, and mittee is additionally remunerated with a fixed satisfaction. annual amount. If a committee has only been • Research and development – We continformed for part of a fiscal year, it is paid on a ually intensify our activities in the area of pro rata basis. R&D in order to consolidate our position as The Notes contain additional information on an innovative pacesetter in the sector, and the remuneration of administrative bodies in underpin the vision as a technology market the company. leader. Additionally, we take an active role in trade associations and interest groups so that Strategic objectives we can contribute to the process of shaping The Sto business model is oriented towards general conditions within the industry and long-term success. In our view, the essential the technology it uses. foundations for this are sustainable, solid busi• Corporate Social Responsibility – By conness management, constant progress, and a sistently implementing and developing our financially strong basis. We pursue the goal of strategy of sustainability, we take responglobal technology leadership in the sustainable sibility towards customers, the company, design of living space tailored to human needs. employees, other stakeholders, shareholders, 23 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) and the environment. Our business activities between EUR 80 million and EUR 90 million, support awareness of the importance of but remained below the previous year's level of value-conserving construction and attractive EUR 84.0 million. This was mainly attributable building design. to the enormous cost increases in procurement, which continued through the entire course of the year and which could not be fully offset B. Financial report by increasing the sales prices. Significantly higher incoming freight costs also exerted Overview of business performance in 2018 significant pressure on the gross profit margin. and general statement on economic develIn 2018, earnings before taxes (EBT) totalled opment EUR 80.2 million (previous year: EUR 82.2 milSto SE & Co. KGaA, a major international lion; forecast: EUR 78 million to EUR 88 million), manufacturer of products and systems for and the return on sales was 6.0 % (previbuilding coatings, was able to grow from its ous year: 6.4 %; forecast: 5.9 % to 6.6 %). own resources in the fiscal year of 2018. ConCompared to 2017, consolidated net profit solidated turnover grew by 4.3 % year-on-year for the year dropped from EUR 55.8 million to to EUR 1,332.4 million, almost reaching the EUR 53.8 million. At 15.6 %, the return on capforecast increase of 4.4 % that would have ital employed (ROCE) was also lower than the taken it to around EUR 1,333 million. Had it previous year (previous year: 16.1 %), but still not been for the negative currency effects of within the forecast range of 14.9 % to 16.8 %. EUR -15.3 million in the year under review, organic growth would have accounted for an increase of 5.5 % compared to the previous Building with conscience. year, although the cold spell in March and the extremely hot weather at the end of July and The Sto Group’s financial and asset situation during August inhibited construction work in remained solid, with the equity ratio increassome markets. On the other hand, the favouring to 60.9 % (previous year: 60.1 %) and able weather conditions at the year end were cash and cash equivalents to EUR 105.3 milhighly conducive to positive development. lion (previous year: EUR 84.4 million). Taking In particular, the turnover-generating growth borrowings into account, net financial assets initiatives that had been launched back in 2017 stood at EUR 90.5 million (previous year: as part of the New Balance programme proEUR 72.6 million). Cash flow from operating duced positive effects in the year under review. activities stood at EUR 80.7 million (previous These initiatives primarily included mediumto year: EUR 86.5 million). long-term measures, such as the improvement Through its Executive Board, the personof sales efficiency. Within certain sections, we ally liable partner STO Management SE will were also able to benefit from the diversificapropose an unaltered dividend payout of tion of our product range, which was consistEUR 26,049,060.00 to the Annual General ently geared towards growth areas. Meeting on 19 June 2019. This means that The development of earnings in 2018 was limited preference shareholders will receive an disappointing even though all key performance ordinary dividend of EUR 0.31 and a bonus indicators were in line with the forecast values. of EUR 3.78 per share, and limited ordinary Standing at EUR 81.9 million, the consolishareholders will receive an ordinary dividend of dated EBIT was within the planned range of EUR 0.25 plus a bonus of EUR 3.78 per share. 24 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The current reporting period got off to a tween the EU and the Italian government, and good start because of the much more favourthe many questions surrounding Brexit. able weather conditions compared to the As in previous years, the strongest sources previous year. In total, consolidated turnover of momentum were to be found in developing exceeded typical seasonal expectations during and emerging countries. In these countries, the first three months. GDP rose by a total of 4.6 % (previous year: For 2019 as a whole, we expect to see 4.7 %). In China, the economy lost some of growth in consolidated turnover of 4.1 % to its momentum, with its GDP rising by 6.6 %. around EUR 1,387 million. As things stand, Meanwhile, in Brazil and Russia, growth was up earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) are only slightly. likely to amount to between EUR 81 million In 2018, the German economy grew for the and EUR 91 million. The Executive Board of STO ninth year in a row but lost some of its momenManagement SE continues to view the business tum: According to calculations by the Federal prospects of the Sto Group as positive at the Statistical Office (Destatis), the priceand caltime of compiling the Group management endar-adjusted GDP was 1.5 % higher than the report. The expected development of the Sto 2017 level, following on the heels of a 2.2 % Group is discussed in more depth in the ‘Outincrease in each of the two previous years. The look report’ section. main drivers of growth in 2018 came from within Germany: There was an increase in both private (+1.0 %) and public consumer spending Overall economic and (+1.1 %) compared to the previous year, but sector-related general growth was also lower than in recent years. Gross investment rose much more sharply than conditions in 2018 consumption, increasing by a total of 5.4 %. Building investments were up by 2.4 % and Global economic development most of these went into public civil engineering. The global economy slowed more and more over the course of 2018. According to the International trends for the construction International Monetary Fund (IMF), which had sector originally expected the global economy to grow The European construction industry remained by 3.9 %, global growth in 2018 decreased on a growth course in 2018 but lost a lot of from the previous year's rate of 3.8 % to 3.7 % momentum in the 19 member states of the once adjusted for price changes. EUROCONSTRUCT network. In their November The industrial nations increased their 2018 forecast, the construction experts said they gross domestic product (GDP) by a total of were expecting to see a lower increase than 2.3 % (previous year: 2.4 %). The biggest share the previous year, with a drop from 4.1 % to of the growth was attributable to the USA, 2.8 %. Growth in the construction sector was which saw an increase of 2.9 %. By contrast, strongly supported by the largely healthy genthe eurozone suffered a noticeable slowdown eral economic conditions in most EU states, the in growth from the previous year's rate of very low interest level, and greater immigration 2.4 % to 1.8 %. The primary factors hampering and internal migration. Pent-up demand also growth were the restrictive US trade policy and played an important role in quite a few Eurothe less dynamic Chinese economy. In Europe, pean countries. Whereas residential construcuncertainty was also created by the conflict betion had been one of the key growth drivers in 25 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) previous years, it was civil engineering that was 6 % is forecast for the non-residential sector, the greatest stimulator of growth in 2018. This including commercial buildings. Office space sector is expected to have increased by 5.0 % construction, which benefited from the healthy (previous year: 1.8 %). By contrast, in residengeneral economic situation, is thought to have tial construction – which accounted for around seen particularly strong growth of 9 %. 47.6 % of all European construction in 2018 2018 was another successful year for the – the increase slowed to 2.8 % (previous year: Chinese construction industry. According 5.6 %). Within this context, new residential to GTAI, investments in real estate increased building projects still experienced an increase by a hefty 10.2 % in the first seven months of 5.5 %. Meanwhile, the figure recorded for compared to 7.9 % for the corresponding maintenance and modernisation measures on period of 2017. This growth was exclusively existing residential buildings was 0.7 %, only attributable to the residential construction secslightly above the previous year’s level. In the tor, which experienced an increase of 14.2 %, non-residential construction sector, the volume while the office construction and retail space of construction services rose by 1.5 %. sectors suffered a decrease (-9.9 % and -8.9 % The German construction market mainrespectively). Over the course of the year, tained a stable growth rate in 2018: according demand became slightly less dynamic overall to provisional calculations by the HDB (General due to rising prices and various purchasing association for the German construction restrictions. Energy efficiency is one area of industry) and the ZDB (German Construction the Chinese construction industry that offers Confederation), turnover in the main construcconsiderable potential, as buildings account for tion sector increased by 6.0 %. A nominal a large share of primary energy consumption. increase of 6.5 % in the residential construcThe Chinese government also wishes to reduce tion sector is assumed by both organisations. this significantly, but the necessary initiatives are However, expansion in the areas of production not currently in place. There is also appreciable and building completions was limited to the still demand in the area of refurbishments because booming apartment construction sector, with so many buildings are in need of renovation. the construction of conventional owner-occuThe emphasis here is on renovating interiors as pied homes stagnating at the previous year's the renovation of facades is usually subject to level. The HDB and ZDB are expecting a 7.0 % a complex decision-making process involving a increase in turnover for the commercial and large number of apartment owners. industrial construction sector in 2018; for the public sector, a rise of 5.0 % is anticipated. In the November edition of ‘Germany Trade Business performance and and Invest’ (GTAI), building investments in the development of turnover USA were predicted to increase by around 6 % in 2018, although the sector lost more In the 2018 fiscal year, the Sto Group genand more steam in the second half of the erated a turnover of EUR 1,332.4 million year. Additional construction and real estate (previous year: EUR 1,277.4 million). Despite financing costs have acted as the main brake strong negative currency translation effects, on demand for residential and commercial this meant growth was up by 4.3 % compared property since the summer of 2018. Overall, the to the previous year. The appreciation of the residential construction volume is expected to euro against the US dollar, Swiss franc, Swedish have increased by 7 %. Meanwhile, growth of krona, and Turkish lira inhibited a stronger 26 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto Group Turnover In 2018, consolidated turnover in Germany in EUR million amounted to EUR 596.0 million – a plus of 5.9 % as compared to the previous year's 1,300 1,332.4 value of EUR 562.8 million. An increase of 1,277.4 1,200 1,230.7 3.1 % to EUR 736.4 million (previous year: 1,208.7 1,216.6 1,166.0 1,100 EUR 714.6 million) was achieved outside of 1,000 Germany. Without including negative currency 900 translation effects, this means that the underlying growth outside of Germany was 5.2 %. In 800 comparison to the previous year, the share of 700 Group turnover generated outside of Germany 600 decreased slightly from 55.9 % to 55.3 %. 500 400 Sto Group Regional breakdown of 300 consolidated turnover 200 Western Europe 100 (incl. Germany) 76.9 % 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 increase. Once adjusted for these turnover-­ reducing currency translation effects, which amounted to EUR -15.3 million (previous year: EUR -6.7 million) in the reporting period, this Northern/Eastern equates to organic growth of 5.5 % as comEurope 11.8 % pared to 2017. America/Asia Sto Group Domestic and foreign 11.3 % turnover in EUR million Turnover in the Western Europe seg736.4 700 714.6 ment (including Germany) grew by 5.5 % on 681.2 682.0 600 659.5 2017 to EUR 1,024.4 million (previous year: 631.3 596.0 EUR 970.8 million). In contrast to the strong 549.2 548.7 562.8 534.7 535.4 500 sales performance in Germany, business development in France and Switzerland, in particular, 400 fell short of expectations. In Switzerland, exchange rate developments also had a negative 300 impact on the level of turnover achieved. In the Northern/Eastern Europe segment, 200 Sto demonstrated growth of 3.4 %, with the turnover figure rising to EUR 156.7 million 100 (previous year: EUR 151.5 million). Turnover in Northern Europe, which was additionally hit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 by negative exchange rate effects, fell short of Germany Non-Germany 27 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) expectations. This contrasted with the develin the other business fields. This was mainly the opment of the Eastern European companies, result of very good demand for floor coatings. which although varied was largely positive. The America/Asia segment recorded a Income situation decline in turnover from EUR 155.1 million to In 2018, development of earnings at the Sto EUR 151.3 million. In addition to disappointing Group was heavily affected by the substantial business development in the USA, the exchange increase in procurement costs for raw materials rate losses in the US dollar zone – in particuand purchased goods, which was higher than lar – had a dampening effect. Net growth was we expected it to be and continued to exert achieved in Asia. This is exclusively attributable pressure over the entire course of the year. to demand in China, which remained strong in This led to a significant rise in material costs, spite of difficult general conditions. which amounted to EUR 615.9 million in 2018, exceeding the 2017 value by 7.9 % (previous Performance of product groups year: EUR 570.6 million). Much to its satisfaction, Sto managed to To offset the persistent cost pressure when increase turnover in its core business of facade buying in raw materials and purchased goods, systems. Although provisional estimates for the focus of Sales in 2018 was on sales price 2018 suggest that the volume only increased adjustments. For example, sales prices were slightly on the German EWIS market – a marraised twice in the same calendar year in the ket which has been waning for years – and German market of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. Howalthough the controversial debate concerning ever, these measures have not yet proven suffithe use of external thermal insulation composciently effective, with the result that the cost of ite systems continued to rage, Sto was still able goods sold rose significantly at the Sto Group to win market share and generate turnover from 44.7 % in the previous year to 46.2 %. growth. The main factors contributing to this Personnel expenses in the Group increased were the diversified product range and the to EUR 352.3 million, mainly due to collective turnover-boosting growth initiatives of the New wage agreements. As a result, they were 3.1 % Balance programme, as well as the intensificahigher than the previous year's value (previous tion of sales activities. Significant growth was year: EUR 341.8 million). recorded in the area of external wall insulation At EUR 273.9 million, the other operating systems based on mineral wool. expenses remained slightly below the previous In the product group of facade systems, year’s level (previous year: EUR 274.8 million) which contributed 47.7 % of total turnover, the despite significantly higher freight costs in Sto Group achieved a total growth of 5.6 % the year under review. These were offset by to EUR 634.9 million. In the business area of reductions in other cost items. Other operatfacade coatings with its high margins, turnover ing income fell by 16.1 % to EUR 22.9 million fell by 1.7 % to EUR 302.3 million. This was (previous year: EUR 27.3 million). This is beparticularly due to the decline in turnover in the cause the value for the previous year included USA and China, and meant that the correan extraordinary source of income amounting sponding share in Group turnover dropped to to EUR 3.8 million that had come as part of a 22.7 %. In 2018, turnover generated by interior settlement following the conclusion of court products increased by 2.5 % to EUR 190.7 millitigation proceedings in the USA. The balance lion (share: 14.3 %). An increase of 12.2 % to of other operating income and other operEUR 204.5 million (share: 15.3 %) was recorded ating expenses stood at EUR -251.0 million as 28 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA compared to EUR -247.5 million in the previous EUR 7.9 million). Once again, this is because year. the value for the previous year included an In comparison to the previous year, consolextraordinary source of income amounting idated earnings before interest, taxes, and deto EUR 3.8 million that had come as part of a preciation/amortisation (EBITDA) fell by 3.5 % settlement following the conclusion of court from EUR 117.3 million to EUR 113.2 million. litigation proceedings in the USA. Depreciation and amortisation of intangible In 2018, income from financial investments assets as well as property, plant, and equipment and investment property in the Sto Group toamounted to EUR 31.3 million and was hence talled EUR -1.7 million, following EUR -1.8 million 6.0 % below the previous year’s value (previous in the previous year. Within this context, interest year: EUR 33.3 million). This had the effect of income remained largely stable at EUR 0.7 milreducing consolidated earnings before interest lion, with the interest expense increasing marginand taxes (EBIT) by 2.5 % to EUR 81.9 million ally from EUR 2.5 million to EUR 2.6 million. (previous year EUR 84.0 million). The Sto Group recorded a drop in total consolidated earnings before tax (EBT): these deSto Group EBIT in EUR million creased by 2.4 % to EUR 80.2 million (previous year: EUR 82.2 million), with a return on sales of 6.0 % following 6.4 % in the previous year. 100 The tax rate rose from 32.1 % in the previous 99.9 90 97.0 year to 32.9 %. The Sto Group’s net profit for the year fell by 3.6 % from EUR 55.8 million to 80 84.0 81.9 81.5 EUR 53.8 million. 70 70.3 Sto Group Net profit for the year 60 in EUR million 50 40 70 68.4 30 60 66.0 20 50 55.7 55.8 53.8 10 40 45.7 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 30 When broken down by segment, EBIT in 20 Western Europe amounted to EUR 77.0 million 10 and hence remained virtually unchanged in comparison to the previous year (previous year: EUR 77.1 million); in Northern/Eastern Europe, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 EBIT increased to EUR 1.9 million despite precautionary measures having proven necessary Diluted and basic earnings were EUR 8.39 in Sweden (previous year: EUR -1.4 million). The per limited preference share (previous year: America/Asia segment achieved a significantly EUR 8.68), and EUR 8.33 per limited ordinary lower EBIT of EUR 3.2 million (previous year: share (previous year: EUR 8.62). 29 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) As at 31 December 2018, the ROCE (return financial requirements – which can fluctuate on capital employed) figure had fallen from significantly with the seasons over the course of 16.1 % to 15.6 % as compared to the same the year – are mainly covered using operating day of the previous year. cash flow and available liquidity. Where necessary, we also make use of temporary credit Sto SE & Co. KGaA – Dividend facilities based on a syndicated loan agreement Earnings before income taxes of the parent whose remaining term expires in 2022. Furthercompany Sto SE & Co. KGaA, determined in more, we made use of leases during the year accordance with the German Commercial Code under review. At the 2018 year end, the present (HGB), amounted to EUR 59.3 million comvalue of disbursements due from finance leases pared to a figure of EUR 62.0 million for the in the future stood at EUR 0.4 million (previous previous year. Net profit for the year fell from year: EUR 0.6 million). EUR 45.8 million to EUR 40.8 million. The finanTo minimise the effect of exchange rate cial and asset situation of Sto SE & Co. KGaA fluctuations on consolidated earnings, foreign remained extremely solid, with an equity ratio currency items are netted within the Group. Adof 70.1 % (previous year: 70.4 %). ditionally, during the planning phase we deterThrough its Executive Board, the personmine the foreign currency cash flows within the ally liable partner STO Management SE will Group for the following year, and devise suitapropose a total unaltered dividend payout of ble hedging strategies on this basis. Planned EUR 26,049,060.00 to the Annual General cash positions are hedged through instruments Meeting on 19 June 2019. This means that congruent to the time and economic state from limited preference shareholders will receive an the area of derivatives. ordinary dividend of EUR 0.31 and a bonus of Most of the Sto Group subsidiaries operating EUR 3.78 per share. Limited ordinary sharein the eurozone are integrated into a cash-poolholders will be paid an ordinary dividend of ing system which is used to control liquidity EUR 0.25 as well as a bonus of EUR 3.78 per management centrally. This allows us to net share. cash surpluses and cash requirements within the Group, and minimise the number of external Financial situation banking transactions. We invest any surplus The most important objectives of financial liquidity under conditions that are as favourable management in the Sto Group are to ensure as possible to improve our net interest income. the Group’s liquidity worldwide, optimise The duties of the Sto Group's treasury financial expenses and income, and control and department include the recognition of financial minimise currency and interest risks. Sto uses resources for internal and external financing a wide range of financial instruments in order as well as the control of financial risk manageto ensure as little dependence as possible on ment. By doing this, we are taking into account individual markets and methods of financing. the Group’s continuing internationalisation and When working with banks, top priority is given the increasing risk management requirements to those that enjoy the highest credit ratings that come with it. and are able to build long-term relationships characterised by mutual trust. Liquidity movements in 2018 We aim to establish a balanced relationship In 2018, cash flow from operating activbetween equity and debt capital in order to ities within the Sto Group dropped from ensure a long-term financing scope. Our current EUR 86.5 million to EUR 80.7 million. The lower 30 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA earnings and higher income tax payments were amounted to EUR -31.0 million (previous year: essentially counteracted by effects from the EUR -40.7 million). change in provisions and the lower increase in In 2018, cash flow from financing activicapital that was tied up in net current assets. ties totalled EUR -24.2 million (previous year: Net interest income and other financial earnings EUR -24.9 million). Once again, the majority remained virtually stable at EUR -1.8 million. of this was accounted for by the dividend The cash flow margin fell from 6.8 % to 6.1 %. payout to shareholders, which increased from A total of EUR 35.9 million was used for EUR 21.0 million to EUR 26.4 million compared investment activities in 2018 (previous to the previous year. year: EUR 45.0 million). Outflows relating to In 2018, net changes from exchange rates investments in property, plant, and equipment and, in accordance with IFRS 9, impairments as well as Intangible assets decreased slightly due to anticipated losses on cash and cash from the previous year's value of EUR 32.4 milequivalents, amounted to EUR 0.2 million (prelion to EUR 32.0 million. In addition, funds vious year: EUR -2.3 million). of EUR 11.0 million were disbursed in 2017 In the course of the year, the Sto Group’s from the acquisition of an investment that was cash and cash equivalents rose by a total consolidated using the equity method (2018: of EUR 20.9 million from EUR 84.4 milEUR 0.0 million). In the year under review of lion to EUR 105.3 million. Once again, this 2018, funds amounting to EUR 33.0 million sum significantly exceeded the borrowings (previous year: EUR 49.7 million) were released of EUR 14.8 million (31 December 2017: from financial investments on expiry of the EUR 11.8 million) declared on the reference maturity date, and cash and cash equivalents date of 31 December 2018. of EUR 37.9 million were reinvested (previous year: EUR 54.0 million). Thus, cash flow from Investments investment activities adjusted for deposits There was a slight change in the amount and disbursements for financial investments invested in property, plant, and equipment, and Intangible assets at the Sto Group. This Sto Group Cash flow statement decreased from EUR 32.7 million in the in EUR K previous year to EUR 32.1 million, which was significantly below the planned budget of 2018 2017 EUR 42 million. Firstly, this was because of a Cash flow greater reluctance to invest in companies that from operating activities 80,684 86,478 were not developing as planned and, secfrom investment activities –35,866 –44,965 ondly, because some projects ended up being from financing activities –24,192 –24,852 postponed. Across the Group as a whole, Change in cash and cash equivalents EUR 26.8 million (previous year: EUR 27.4 milfrom changes in exchange rates and lion) of the total amount was invested in the impairments in accordance with Western Europe segment, EUR 2.0 million IFRS 9 246 –2,310 (previous year: EUR 1.8 million) in the Northern/ Cash and cash equivalents Eastern Europe segment, and EUR 3.3 million at beginning of period 84,422 70,071 (previous year: EUR 3.5 million) in America/Asia. Change in cash and cash equivalents 20,872 14,351 In the year under review, investments in Cash and cash equivalents tangible assets within the Group amounted to at the end of period 105,294 84,422 EUR 30.5 million and hence remained slightly 31 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) Sto Group Investments and depreciaWithin this context, the reduction in intangible tion/amortisation (without assets to EUR 47.8 million (31 December 2017: financial assets) in EUR million EUR 49.1 million) contrasted with a marginal increase to EUR 254.9 million in the area of prop40 erty, plant, and equipment (31 December 2017: 39.1 EUR 254.3 million) and with a marginal increase 37.5 35.8 32.7 to EUR 11.1 million in terms of investments 30 32.4 32.7 32.1 reported on the balance sheet using the equity 31.0 33.3 29.0 29.9 31.3 method (31 December 2017: EUR 11.0 million). At EUR 22.4 million, other non-current assets 20 remained at the previous year's value. Current assets demonstrated a year-on-year gain of 8.6 % to EUR 448.2 million (31 Decem10 ber 2017: EUR 412.8 million). At EUR 97.9 million, inventories were slightly above the previous year's level (31 December 2017: EUR 96.7 mil2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 lion). Current trade receivables increased by Investments Depreciation/amortisation 7.8 % to EUR 134.7 million (31 December 2017: EUR 125.0 million), in particular due to below the 2017 level of EUR 30.6 million. One the healthy business development at the 2018 focal point was the expansion of the Groupyear end. There was also a clear increase in wide distribution network, primarily in Austria current financial assets from EUR 76.5 million and Germany. In addition, we once again made to EUR 83.3 million due to financial investments replacement and expansion investments as part with maturities ranging from more than three of the ongoing ‘Retrofit’ programme, such as months up to a year. Other current assets dethe replacement of two stacker cranes at the creased from EUR 27.7 million to EUR 24.5 millogistics centre at the Stühlingen headquarters. In total, intangible assets accounted for Sto Group Balance sheet structure EUR 1.6 million (previous year: EUR 2.1 million) as at 31 December 2018 of the Group investments. In 2018, there were no investments in financial assets (previous Assets Liabilities year: EUR 11.0 million). Asset situation Non-current assets As at the reference date of 31 December, 42.9 % Equity the consolidated balance sheet of Sto SE 60.9 % & Co. KGaA witnessed an increase from EUR 749.6 million in the previous year to EUR 784.4 million. In the category of non-­ Current assets current assets, which were worth a total Non-current provisions 43.7 % and liabilities of EUR 336.2 million (31 December 2017: 15.3 % EUR 336.8 million), fixed assets decreased Current provisions slightly year-on-year by 0.2 % to EUR 313.8 miland liabilities Cash 23.8 % 13.4 % lion (31 December 2017: EUR 314.4 million). 32 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA lion. This item mainly includes refund claims. liabilities from EUR 2.2 million to EUR 6.1 milCash and cash equivalents increased year-onlion. Trade payables increased slightly year-onyear from EUR 84.4 million to EUR 105.3 million. year to EUR 47.2 million (31 December 2017: On the liabilities side, equity rose from EUR 46.0 million). Current financial liabilities EUR 450.1 million to EUR 477.5 million thanks grew from EUR 28.5 million to EUR 32.6 milto the positive development of income, resultlion while other current liabilities fell from ing in a figure that was 6.1 % above the value EUR 45.3 million to EUR 44.4 million. at the 2017 year end. The item of Share of miAt the end of December 2018, total bornority interests, accounting for EUR 7.6 million rowings amounted to EUR 14.8 million after (31 December 2017: EUR 7.8 million), primarily EUR 11.8 million in the previous year. Taking related to the proportion of minority shareholdinto account cash and cash equivalents of ers with a stake in Ströher. As at 31 December EUR 105.3 million, net financial assets stood at 2018, the equity ratio within the Sto Group EUR 90.5 million, an improvement on the previhad improved to a very solid 60.9 % (31 Deous year (31 December 2017: EUR 72.6 million). cember 2017: 60.1 %). The total non-current provisions and liabilities increased slightly year-on-year from C. Other performance EUR 118.7 million to EUR 119.7 million. Both indicators the post-employment benefit provisions and the other non-current provisions remained largely Employees stable at EUR 99.3 million (31 December 2017: EUR 99.1 million) and EUR 14.6 million (31 DeAt the 2018 year end, the Sto Group had 5,333 cember 2017: EUR 14.6 million) respectively. employees worldwide as compared to 5,308 on Deferred tax liabilities decreased slightly from the same day of the previous year (+25 employEUR 2.3 million to EUR 2.1 million. Non-current ees; +0.5 %). While the number of personnel borrowings increased to a total of EUR 3.3 milat the German locations remained more or less lion (31 December 2017: EUR 2.0 million), stable at 2,887 (previous year: 2,884), certain mainly because of a publicly funded investment subsidiaries outside of Germany with shortand loan. Meanwhile, non-current financial liabilities and other non-current liabilities remained at the Sto Group Number of employees previous year's level, amounting to EUR 0.3 million and EUR 0.01 million respectively. 2,800 2,895 2,884 2,887 There was a net increase in current provisions and liabilities to EUR 187.2 million 2,623 2,652 2,586 2,400 (31 December 2017: EUR 180.7 million). Other 2,380 2,356 2,424 2,446 2,356 2,205 2,000 current provisions decreased by EUR 3.4 million to EUR 45.5 million (31 December 2017: 1,600 EUR 48.9 million). The most significant item in this case, recorded in the area of warranty 1,200 provisions within sales, relates to insurance 800 refund claims that are included on the assets side as other current assets. Current bor400 rowings increased from EUR 9.8 million to EUR 11.5 million and current income tax 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Germany Outside of Germany 33 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) medium-term growth prospects experienced a HR strategy slight increase. These new appointments were In the year under review, we consistently purcontrasted by targeted restructuring measures in sued the HR strategy defined for the Sto Group regions battling difficult general economic condithat keeps us steadily on course in the area of tions. The total number of personnel employed Human Resources (HR). The HR context within outside of Germany stood at 2,446 (previous which we had to operate in 2018 was shaped year: 2,424), meaning that the percentage of by the following factors: the increasing importhe Group's workforce employed outside of Gertance of flexibility, cross-cultural competence, many rose from 45.7 % to 45.9 % year-on-year. increased cost pressure, the ongoing shortage As at the end of December 2018, the workof specialists, the need to respond as quickly force figures were as follows for each of the as possible, the ageing workforce, a noticeable various segments: 4,094 employees in Western shift in values, and new requirements for our Europe (incl. Germany), 636 in Northern/Eastern specialist personnel and managers. Guided Europe, and 603 in America/Asia. by these general conditions, we successfully introduced the measures that had been planned Sto Group Employees by region for all the key issues in our HR strategy in 2018, and made significant progress in these areas. To be specific, these included: • Promoting the Sto culture: This culture is Western Europe (not including Germany) based on mutual respect, enables our work22.7 % force to play their part in shaping the company, and encourages our employees to take Germany responsibility for ambitious targets. We are 54.1 % constantly developing the Sto culture while at the same time upholding its core values. Northern/Eastern During the year under review, we made the Europe 11.9 % necessary preparations for the employee survey scheduled for 2019, and stepped up America/Asia dialogue between Management and the 11.3 % workforce. In addition, the new concept for appraisal interviews at Sto SE & Co. KGaA The average age of the Sto workforce in was successfully introduced at the Stühlingen 2018 was 43.5 (previous year: 43.4), and the site and at StoCretec GmbH. proportion of female employees in the Group • Professional personnel and managerial amounted to approximately 25 %, a figure development: Customised qualification similar to the previous year’s. Sto recognises programmes are our way of ensuring that that teams with a heterogeneous make-up have our workforce is constantly prepared for the shown themselves to be better at solving comdemands of the future, and systematically plex tasks, and it therefore considers diversity developing our stock of expertise. Addito be one of the keys to the company being tionally, we want to discern specific areas successful in the future. We are constantly of management potential that are present examining the extent to which diversity is in the Group. In addition to systematically present within the company, which enriches our improving managerial development, in 2018 corporate culture. we strengthened our network of consultants 34 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA in the areas of coaching and organisational principle, we aim to keep the rate of reportable development. accidents at work or on the way to and back • Employer attractiveness and securing the from work consistently below 10 accidents per next generation of employees: We are 1,000 employees per year. In 2018, the rate consistently working to boost our attractiveat Sto SE & Co. KGaA was 16.2 compared to ness as an employer and add talented young 12.6 the previous year. Around half of these professionals to our team. We do this to consisted of trips or falls, and were the result of ensure that the Group can keep expanding inattentiveness or inappropriate practice. In the at all its locations around the world, and to year under review, no incidents occurred due to play an active role in combating the shortage defective machinery or installations. As a means of young talent and skills. We also establish of preventing accidents, employees receive attractive general conditions for applicants ongoing training in occupational safety, and and employees, as well as a solid vocational we raise their awareness on the subject to help training programme. In addition to this, we them become more attentive and act in a less established an IT system for applicant manrisky manner. In the event that serious accidents agement at specific companies. do occur, they are systematically subjected to an • Creating competitive employment condiinvestigation and the relevant risk assessment is tions: Our aim is to give our employees an adapted or revised in light of the findings. attractive working environment that affords them a great deal of flexibility, while at the At the end of 2018, the Sto same time ensuring that the Group is taking Group had 5,333 employadvantage of efficient cost structures. The ees worldwide. previous year, various measures had been implemented as part of the New Balance programme. With a view to anchoring these securely within the Group, we offered our employees a wide range of support. In addition, the pay systems underwent further development, and the general conditions for mobile working were improved. Another item on the agenda for 2018 was occupational reintegration management. Alongside these key issues, the HR department also works continuously to improve efficiency and professionalism in everything it does. To this Our aim is to keep our fluctuation rate end, a global HR conference was held in 2018 within the Sto Group in the lower single-digit and a system was developed to provide key percentage range. This rate is calculated indicators for controlling the HR department. by looking at the number of exits from the company (not including natural ones, such as Working safety people entering retirement) in relation to the One of the most important elements of our HR average number of permanent staff. In the year policy is preventing accidents or at least keepunder review, this value increased to 3.8 % in ing the number as low as possible. As a basic Germany (previous year: 2.9 %), which was 35 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) mainly attributable to the personnel restructurprofessional training at Sto in Germany. The ing measures implemented as part of the New range of available options includes 25 different Balance programme. The percentage of volunindustrial and commercial training paths. In tary terminations remained virtually unchanged addition, we also offer the option of completat 2.0 %, demonstrating that Sto continues to ing an integrated work/study programme in a be an attractive employer. variety of subjects within the Group. In 2018, the average period of employment At the year end, the number of trainees and with the Sto Group was 10.8 years. During the work/study programme students in Germany tocompleted fiscal year, one of our employees talled 214 (previous year: 199). In relation to the was honoured for 50 years of service, the first total German workforce, this equates to a share one ever to reach this milestone at Sto. of 7.4 %. As a result, Sto far exceeds the 4.8 % training rate of all the businesses working in the Health management chemical industry in Germany. We believe that ensuring the well-being of our employees includes establishing an environment that promotes health and enhances performance. We support this through a health management programme that is structured around our target groups. In relation to this, further options were offered in 2018 in the areas of nutrition, sport, and protection against influenza. Furthermore, cooperation with the Sto Sports Club is to be stepped up even further over the coming years and its range of offers is also to be broadened. The Health ManIn autumn of 2018, Sto trainees constructed a woodland agement Team was reorganised for even faster playground, which was an initiative of the 'Jung & Alt – individually tailored support and authorisation Attraktives Dorfleben' (Young & old – Attractive village of health-promoting measures. life) association in Stühlingen-Mauchen/Germany. Further education and training activities A special page dedicated to providing extenWith the aim of fostering the skills and interests sive information about professional training can of our workforce as well as preparing them for now be found on the Sto Group website. Not the requirements they will need to fulfil in the only that, but in 2018 we once again took part near future, the Sto Group offers a comprein numerous education fairs and careers days hensive range of opportunities for gaining within Germany. These events provide prospecqualifications and further training. In the year tive employees with the opportunity to gain an under review, the focus was on managerial and in-depth insight into the Sto Group as an emsales training, as well as the range of available ployer and find out more about the company. methodology training, e.g. in the area of project management. Research and development Training at Sto At the start of the new training year in SepThrough our intensive and continuous R&D tember 2018, 80 young people started their work, we are consistently enhancing the skills 36 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA that are present within the Group, securing Product innovations the position we are aiming for as a technology In terms of product innovations in 2018, the leader in our industry sector, and opening up emphasis was on further expanding the Stoopportunities for tapping into new markets and Color Dryonic product line. The new additions finding new customers for Sto. Furthermore, to this included StoColor Dryonic S, a version our extensive activities mean that the materials offering optimised resistance to fading, and a we need to ensure the high quality of our prodparticularly wide choice of colours. The biomiucts are always available in sufficient quantities metic StoColor Dryonic facade paints follow and offer a reasonable cost-benefit ratio – in a principle found in nature by repelling water spite of the constantly changing situation to keep facades dry, thereby protecting them concerning raw materials, which is affected by against algae and fungi. general regulatory, ecological, and economic Within the interior segment, the StoColor conditions. Rapid paint is one of the most successful Our Group-wide development activities take products. In 2018, it underwent an extensive replace predominantly at our Stühlingen headlaunch and further improvement. Among other quarters. In addition, there are R&D departthings, the wet scrub resistance (an important ments based at various sites in and outside of indicator of the product's fitness for purpose) Germany. Their activities are geared specifically was further optimised without altering the towards the national situation concerning the other outstanding features of the product. supply of raw materials, product features, and Sto has developed the StoPrim GT primer price structures. In 2018, a total of EUR 13.5 specifically for use with silicate products. With million (previous year: EUR 14.1 million) was its special gel structure, it enables work to recorded with an impact on profit and loss for be carried out without any drips and ensures research and development – corresponding to a streak-free result. It is suitable for virtually 1.0 % (previous year: 1.1 %) of consolidated all interior substrates. This dispersion silicate turnover. primer is particularly beneficial when used on The regulatory challenges surrounding crumbling or absorbent substrates that place research and development activities became very high demands on the primer. In addition, even more severe during the year under reStoPrim GT is free of solvents and plasticisers, is view. Among other things, there were various a low-emission product, and contains very few reclassifications and changes in the labelling preservatives, thereby meeting the requirements obligations with regard to the raw materials for healthy and ecologically sound interior used, both in Europe and at a national level. For construction. example, new EU-wide regulations were introThe StoColl Mineral HP high-performance duced concerning the limit values for the labelbonding mortar is a newly developed product ling of particular input materials. This resulted in that has been designed for use in external wall considerable additional expense being incurred insulation systems, specifically for mineral wool by Sto in some areas, e.g. the costs of qualifying and EPS insulation boards. The mineral-based alternative raw materials and suppliers. It has mortar adheres brilliantly to a large number of also tied up resources that were originally mildly absorbent substrates such as wood and intended for areas of innovation. In addition, board materials, solid wood, and bitumen. It is fire protection requirements have become much non-combustible, highly permeable to water more stringent, with the result that existing vapour, offers good stability under load, and is systems have had to be adapted accordingly. easy to apply. 37 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) StoMurisol SW plus has been specially and development project that was extremely developed for the plinth area of buildings. It is thorough, this highly functional facade paint a new mineral-based bonding and reinforcing was shown to be capable of breaking down mortar that can also be used as a float-finish nitrogen oxides and ozone, and preventing the render. Furthermore, it is capable of withstandformation of secondary fine particulate matter. ing a water pressure of 1.5 bar. Thanks to the The R&D department that was responsible at our integrated moisture protection, there is no end helped oversee the experiment by participatneed for additional sealing of the render coat in ing in numerous conversations and discussions, the plinth area, which avoids having to switch and by contributing scientific expertise. Provided products within the coating system. The advanthat the paint is given enough space to perform tage of single-component mortar compared to its function, StoColor Photosan has the potential two-component solutions lies in the constructo become an important component for improvtion site logistics. ing air quality in congested urban areas. The StoPox 590 EP coating has been In addition to the many new regulations and modified and successfully repositioned on the decrees issued at a national and European level, market for highly stressed floor slabs made the other key challenges faced by R&D in 2018 from waterproof concrete. The special feature included unusually severe shortages of raw maof this epoxy resin coating, which is primarily terials right through to their complete unavailused in underground and multi-storey car parks, ability, particularly as a result of the EU REACH is that it combines water vapour permeability Regulation. Consequently, directly interchangewith crack-bridging properties. This makes the able materials had to be found and additional product unique on the market. fallback plans had to be drawn up to ensure In the wake of the emissions scandal in the long-term security of supply going forwards, as automotive industry and the resulting pubwell as the customary high quality of Sto prodWith its intense colours, StoColor lic discussions, the existing product StoColor ucts. The complexity of production and diversity Dryonic S keeps facades dry and Photosan attracted a great deal of attention in of the products produced at the different sites bright for a long time. 2018. In the course of a fundamental research also play a significant role within this context. Fundamental research One of the prerequisites for successful development and product adaptation work at Sto takes the form of the extensive fundamental research activities that we use – among other things – to unlock new and improved technologies. To ensure that as much expertise as possible feeds into our research, our R&D team regularly works with universities and external partners as well. Among other things, we have continued to participate in a project that is being funded by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research and run jointly between us and the Institute of Building Materials Research and Chair of Building Materials (IBAC) at Aachen University. 38 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Production and procurement The basis for the reliable, high quality of our products is our outstanding production expertise. Sto is constantly working on the further development of applications and methods, as well as the optimisation of production processes, so that it can remain at the same high level and continually acquire new skills and areas of expertise. The most important products/materials produced in-house at the Sto Group are coating materials such as renders and paints, as well as adhesive and reinforcing compounds. We also produce some of our expanded polystyrene (EPS)-based insulants exclusively for supply within the Group at the Innolation sites In order to be able to continuously improve The Sto Group's production facilities in Lauingen/Germany and Amilly/France. This the performance of the production facilities are regularly inspected and modernallows us to strategically develop our technical within the Sto Group, we constantly check the ised as necessary. expertise in this sensitive area, and reduce the rate of defective batches. Our aim is to keep extent to which we are dependent on suppliers. this proportion of the total production volume Moreover, our Swedish subsidiary produces that cannot be delivered due to defects below special insulants based on EPS. 0.1 % across the Group. At the European Sto factories, this level of quality is already being International production network achieved almost consistently. Potential weakAt the 2018 year end, the Sto Group’s global nesses are identified and eliminated as early as production network comprised 31 locations, possible, which is something that our employof which 11 were in Germany and 20 outside ees receive training in worldwide. of Germany. In the year under review, all of Due to the market conditions and our cusSto’s factories operated in twoor three-shift tomer structure, the business of the Sto Group operation at least some of the time. As in is dominated by orders with short lead times. the previous year, the capacity utilisation was For this reason, a high level of goods availabilmostly good. ity – which is also facilitated by having flexible The Group's existing production capacity is production conditions – and a fast delivery being modernised and expanded on an ongoservice are absolutely vital for the company. ing basis as part of the 'Retrofit' programme, Hence the Sto Group does not consider key e.g. the filling system for water-based primer figures relating to order receipt and backlog to products in Stühlingen. In 2018, there was a be significant. particular focus on renewing the electronic system controls at the parent plant in Stühlingen, Tested quality management a process which had begun the previous year. All key production facilities are registered and The control technology in the storage area and audited within the integrated management for receiving raw materials has already been system of the Sto Group that incorporates the successfully replaced. existing quality, environmental, safety, and 39 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) energy management systems of each individProgram' (SHARP). Meanwhile, Sto Scandinavia ual facility. Additionally, the majority of the AB in Sweden and Beissier S.A.U. in Spain have Group’s plants are certified in accordance with been audited in accordance with OHSAS 18001 external standards. At the 2018 year end, 25 (Occupational Health & Safety Assessment out of a total of 31 locations had been assessed Series). Both programmes are designed to mainin accordance with the international qualtain high standards of health and safety. Verotec ity management standard ISO 9001, and 15 GmbH and Innolation GmbH have received according to ISO 14001 for their environmental OHRIS (Occupational Health and Risk Managemanagement system. In the course of the year, ment System) certification in recognition of their 20 production sites in and outside of Germany occupational health and safety system, and underwent successful recertification in accordare thus meeting global standards concerning ance with ISO 9001:2015, with surveillance health and safety at work, while Sto Sp. z o.o. audits taking place at five production compain Poland is operating in line with the AQAP nies and four sales companies. In addition, 13 (Allied Quality Assurance Publications) standard. production sites were recertified in accordance Furthermore, Sto has introduced the with ISO 14001:2015 and surveillance audits ISO 50001 energy management system at sevwere carried out at two production companies eral of its locations over recent years. As at the and three sales companies. Internal audits were end of 2018, Sto SE & Co. KGaA’s headquarters conducted at the headquarters and five plants in Stühlingen, all the production sites and Sales belonging to Sto SE & Co. KGaA, as well as at Centres in Germany, and four subsidiaries had five subsidiaries in and outside of Germany. received certification. In the area of EPS insulation board production, Sto is enhancing its existing quality manProcurement agement strategy by implementing advanced The key raw materials sourced by the Sto Group measures beyond the standard that has been in include base materials such as sand, cement, place to date. These are designed to ensure that and lime, as well as speciality chemicals and a high level of product quality is maintained by crude oil based raw materials. Examples of all the suppliers involved in the manufacturing other items that are procured include insulants, process. Innolation GmbH in Lauingen/Germany mesh, and containers. acts as a Group-wide centre of expertise for In 2018, the situation on the procurement insulants. Among other things, 2018 saw the markets was characterised by very strong dedevelopment and introduction of new software mand for those input materials that are importo digitally link up the areas of production, qualtant to Sto. Within some sub-areas, this led to ity control, and maintenance. As a result, we are a tense supply situation involving long delivery now capable of quickly capturing and evaluattimes and bottlenecks, as well as above-average ing machine data, process and quality paramprice increases. There was a particularly heavy eters, stoppages or faults, shift schedules, and increase in the material costs of binding agents, quality records, as well as product tracebacks. pigments, and packaging materials such as Overall, the software helps prevent defects in containers and pallets. In addition, there were production and increases transparency. appreciable delays involving upstream suppliers, The factories of the US subsidiary Sto Corp. e.g. in the case of additives, binding agents, and in Glendale (Arizona) and Rutland (Vermont) dispersion powders. The procurement situation have been audited in accordance with the local also became more and more acute with regard 'Safety & Health Achievement Recognition to insulants such as polystyrene and mineral 40 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA wool, which meant having to cope with costs this function was further expanded. So-called that were significantly higher than planned. indirect procurement supports the subsidiaries To counter this development, we intensified by providing tailored advice, experienced knowthe strategic stockpiling of key input materials how, and state-of-the-art procurement tools. and, to an extent, secured supply by putting As a means of identifying price fluctuations contracts in place. In addition, we built up a and supply bottlenecks early on, we systematpool of alternative suppliers to provide our ically monitor the supply chain at every stage, procurement network with some extra breadth. from the purchase of raw materials to storage All in all, we were – for the most part – able to and all the way through to the customer. We ensure supply for customers over the course use special software to assist us in this process. of the year, but managed to offset the adverse By consistently applying and constantly optitrend in purchase prices only partially. In 2018, mising this system, we are able to continuously the Group's cost of sales ratio rose by 1.5 perimprove the supply chain within the Sto Group. centage points in total, from 44.7 % to 46.2 %. In addition, our comprehensive classification Apart from the high demand from the of the marketing structure for individual items construction and also other sectors, bottlenecks makes for an efficient and faster planning and became an increasing problem within the logisscheduling process. tics sector as did delivery complications, leading With a view to optimising efficiency within to a continuous increase in transport costs. The the buying process even further, we began factors that were primarily the reason for this implementing a software solution for supply rewere the serious shortage of lorry drivers across lationship management in mid-2018. Processes the whole of Europe, the sharp increase in diesel prices in the second half of the year, and The raw materials delivered for the extension of the HGV toll on 1 July 2018 renders and paints are checked to include federal highways in Germany as well at the quality lab. as motorways. The situation was exacerbated by the very low water levels in Germany's rivers over the summer, which led to reduced production at some supplier sites. On the other hand, Sto was able to save on electricity and gas costs in the energy sector. The early price negotiations and conclusion of contracts also played a crucial part in securing these reductions. Procurement management The basis for uninterrupted security of supply at all production locations of the Sto Group is proactive procurement management. This is based on many years of close cooperation with suppliers. The parent company Sto SE & Co. KGaA acts as an internal service provider within the Group for the professional procurement of capital goods, services, and consumables. In 2018, 41 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) were also improved for a defined set of product that handles all indirect material requirements groups by incorporating the forecast from Sales with a standardised approval process across the into planning at an early stage. As a result, we Group. It is also linked directly to the Groupare able to achieve a high OTIF (on-time and wide SAP system. in-full delivery) for Sto customers. Twice a year, we perform a systematic supplier evaluation at our key European Sto D. Events after the companies. This involves assessing the comreporting period panies based on the criteria of price, quality, commercial cooperation, sustainability, and Between the end of the 2018 fiscal year and supply conditions. The results are weighted in the point at which this report was signed off, different ways and are condensed into a single there were no other events with a significant key figure. The maximum score is 100; in the impact on the earnings, financial, and asset case of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, the target score situation of the Sto Group. was 90.0, as was the case in the previous year. Its result of 87.2 (previous year: 87.5) meant that it fell slightly below this value in the year E. Risks and opportunities under review. The main reasons for this were report the aforementioned bottlenecks on the procurement markets and transport market, which Risks and opportunities led to delivery delays. As a company with an international orientation Inventory ratios (average inventory in relation and business activities, Sto SE & Co. KGaA is to annual sales) are agreed with the Sto subregularly confronted with opportunities and sidiaries as part of Group-wide stock managerisks. This means that managing these opportument. In 2018, these values ranged between nities and risks in a way that focuses on our ob3.0 % and 38.5 %, depending on whether the jectives is an integral part of our management company concerned was a production and/or of the company, and is crucially important to sales company. The process of defining the tarensuring that the Group follows a positive path gets also involved analysing the relevant market over the long term. The risk strategy developed conditions, such as product launches and logisby STO Management SE, as the personally liable tics-related changes. Higher stock values were partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, asks for opporapproved in cases where this was necessitated tunities that arise to be exploited with rigour, by production-related or strategic stockpiling. while undertaking risks only where a commenThanks to the Sto Group's consistent and prosurate contribution to earnings can be expected active approach to inventory management and and a threat to the company's existence can be ongoing monitoring of materials with longer excluded. Generally speaking, we define risks stock turnover periods, the targets were largely and opportunities as potential deviations from met during the year under review. To prevent the planned result. bottlenecks involving raw materials and trading The positive general economic conditions goods, stocks on hand were increased during that we are currently experiencing in our the course of the year in some cases. key markets are an opportunity to generate In 2018, the Sto-eProcure system was also additional growth using our own resources. launched at Sto Ges.m.b.H in Austria. Sto-eProThe fact that we are well positioned in terms cure is a transparent internal ordering system of technology, have once again managed to 42 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA improve the product range in comparison controlling department immediately of any new with the previous year, and our close proximrisks which are identified in the course of the ity to customers and high customer retention year. level should create favourable conditions for Sto works with internationally renowned developing more strongly than the market as a insurance companies to insure material propwhole. erty and assets against loss and consequential business interruption caused by unforeRisk management system seeable events such as fire, explosion, or The active management of risks is pursued at natural disasters. Third-party liability damage Sto by means of a comprehensive risk managecaused by Sto or Sto products is also covered by ment system (RMS), which forms an integral insurance. We bear minor damage ourselves, part of our business, planning, and control while maintaining a sufficiently high coverage processes. This system allows us to identify and against major claims. In spite of our meticulous analyse risks in good time, assess the expected approach, the insurance coverage may turn out effects on the finance, income, and asset situto be insufficient in isolated cases. For this reaation, and have the opportunity to implement son, we regularly review the insurance coverage appropriate countermeasures where necessary. within the Group and perform risk analyses in The most important component of the RMS order to reduce the risk of underinsurance. In is a detailed reporting system, which records this area, we also seek the advice of an interall operational activities in the Group both in nationally operating and experienced industry terms of quantity and quality in accordance insurance broker. with a specified scheme. Through constant monitoring of clearly defined key figures, we Internal control system can identify undesirable developments at an Risk and opportunity management in the early stage and quickly initiate countermeasSto Group is extended to include an internal ures. It is supplemented by a risk manual control system (ICS). This system covers all defining various risk categories, guidelines for principles, procedures, and measures which are assessing risks, and procedural instructions for intended to ensure the effectiveness, economic every Group company. This manual is binding efficiency, and reliability of the Group accountthroughout the Group. These two instruments ing as well as compliance with the relevant are complemented by an annual risk inventory, legal regulations. Additionally, the ICS includes which is used to categorise and document all an internal monitoring system comprising current risks on a timely basis. There are three in-process elements and elements independrisk categories based on a weighted value ent of the process concerned. One example of indicating the level of damage that could be an important in-process measure is the 'dual sustained: 'low', 'medium', and 'high'. The control principle', which is supplemented by weighted damage value is calculated on the automated IT process controls. basis of the likelihood of damage occurring The digitised accounting process is controlled and the potential consequences for earnings. using the ERP software SAP, which has been In terms of the likelihood of damage occurimplemented at most Sto companies. It records ring, there are also three categories: 'below and processes all issues and data relevant to 30 %', '30 % to 60 %', and 'above 60 %'. The accounting. Sto SE & Co. KGaA has an elecmanaging director of the respective business tronic workflow in place for centralised invoice unit is required to notify the central investment processing and archiving, and this has been 43 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) gradually rolled out to the majority of subsidiThe regular management meetings between aries. Access to various types of data is clearly the Group management and the managing regulated and corresponding access restrictions directors of the subsidiaries are a further imporare in place. tant element of the ICS. A meeting focusing on A manual containing corporate accounting the annual financial statements takes place for guidelines, which is regularly updated, provides each operationally active subsidiary between the basis for drawing up the annual financial the local Management Board, representatives of statements in accordance with IFRS, which Group Accounting or Investment Controlling, must be included in the consolidated annual and, in most cases, the Chief Financial Officer financial statement of the Sto Group. This enof STO Management SE as a representative of sures the uniform implementation of valuation the Group’s parent company. The local auditor and reporting rules throughout the Group. All is also present at this meeting. Additionally, a balance sheets as well as income and cash flow national control committee – such as the Board statements drawn up by the subsidiaries and of Directors – or the Group auditor may particiother business fields are audited by the Group pate in the meeting if necessary. accounting department and the central investThe rules of procedure for managing ment controlling department to verify that they directors in the Sto Group include mandatory are correct, complete, and in compliance with rules for correct conduct of business processes, the accounting guidelines. which must be adhered to throughout the With regard to the consolidated accountGroup. ing process, the most important monitoring The transparency required for the increasmeasure independent of the business processes ingly complex corporate processes is ensured concerned is auditing of the consolidated anby the Internal Audit department, which also nual financial statement of the Sto Group and makes allowance for the growing compliance the incorporated separate financial statements requirements. As an independent department, of the Group companies by an external Group Internal Audit reports directly to the personally auditor. This ensures that inventories are taken liable partner and to the Chairman of the Sucorrectly and that assets and liabilities are aspervisory Board. The extensive company complisessed, valued, and reported appropriately. The ance system for monitoring adherence to legal compulsory measures and accounting records requirements and internal corporate guidelines additionally provide reliable and traceable is part of our risk management strategy. The sources of information. Correct accounting is internal publication of the main features of our also supported at Sto SE & Co. KGaA by the Compliance Management System in accordinvolvement of other auditing bodies such as ance with the latest recommendations of the the tax audit authorities. German Corporate Governance Code was comWe also ensure the correctness and reliability pleted at the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year. of our accounting processes by applying specific In relation to this, a Chief Compliance Officer key figure analyses, and through the processing was appointed for the Sto Group in 2018 and a and control of complex business transactions by Code of Conduct was drawn up, the worldwide different persons. The separation of administraintroduction of which is scheduled for 2019. tive, executing, accounting, and approval funcThe end of 2017 saw the launch of a standtions, and the performance of these functions ardised whistle-blower system for compliance by multiple persons ('dual control principle') breaches. This is now publicly accessible via our also reduces the attendant risks. website, www.sto.de, and not only gives whis44 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA tle-blowers the necessary protection against losses which may not be fully recovered due to sanctions, but also provides a platform on limited processing capacity. The same applies which inappropriate practice can be reported, to sustained periods of rainfall and hot spells. extensively investigated, and resolved – around Conversely, favourable weather conditions can the clock and with anonymity guaranteed if have a positive effect on business development. required. The system is open to employees, In most cases, weather-related fluctuations in managers, customers, suppliers, and other turnover also have a significant impact on earnstakeholders alike. It is administered by an ings. Measured in relation to the profit obtained independent operator and its data is stored in a year with average weather conditions, they on protected servers located in Germany. The may, in extreme cases, cause earnings before contents of the reports are processed exclusively interest and taxes (EBIT) to increase or decrease through Sto. by as much as EUR 30 million. The effectiveness of the RMS and ICS is regularly examined in accordance with the relevant Risks in procuring raw materials and exterstatutory requirements – externally by our aunal products ditor in relation to the accounting process and To manufacture its products, the Sto Group internally by the Investment Controlling, Group uses raw materials such as lime, marble and Accounting, and Internal Audit departments. quartz sands, cement, pigments, silicates, siliThe Supervisory Board and, in particular, the cones, and water-based dispersion agents. Risks Audit Committee receive regular information could arise from the concentration tendencies from the Executive Board of STO Management on procurement markets, as well as from politiSE as well as the auditor and Internal Revision. cal unrest, additional trade barriers, and natural Despite every care being taken to prevent disasters. them, it is not possible to completely rule out There is a price dependency in products that the occurrence of decisions based on personal we produce ourselves and external products judgements, flawed checks, criminal actions that are made of raw materials based on crude by individuals, or other circumstances that oil; these include paints, renders, and polystymay impair the effectiveness and reliability of rene insulation boards, for example, and even the deployed ICS. Additionally, even seamless our plastic containers (such as Sto pails). The application of the deployed systems cannot fully trend regarding these basic raw materials genguarantee the correct, complete, and timely erally used to correlate closely with the price of recording and reporting of facts in the Group crude oil. Since then it has become clear that an accounting. independent, highly volatile trend is emerging – The main risks for the Sto Group are preoften influenced by global supply and demand. sented below in order of decreasing signifiThe demand for numerous speciality chemicance: cals, for which there is a dwindling number of available suppliers around the world, is also set Dependence on weather conditions to increase further in the long run – particularly A major proportion of Sto’s products is used on in emerging and developing countries. This will the exterior. This means that their application is affect titanium dioxide, for example. In the medependent on weather conditions, something dium to long term, the price trend is expected that Sto is unable to influence. In particular, to continue climbing sharply. harsh and long winters at the beginning and/ In the Sto Group, strong increases in proor end of a calendar year may result in turnover curement prices could trigger a significant rise 45 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) in material costs. As it is not usually possible some cases, highly exaggerated media reports. to pass price increases on to customers in the The fact that energy prices are currently still short term, this results in a rise in the cost of relatively low is not very conducive to generatsales percentage. Based on our experience, ing demand. Hence, the entire industrial sector costs of sales can increase by up to 2 percentfaces the risk of failing to fully exploit sales age points, which in turn can result in a decline potential. As the market leader, Sto may feel in earnings of as much as EUR 27 million. an above-average impact, which in turn may As well as this, a rise in demand for certain be reflected in corresponding levels of turnover raw materials and goods could trigger supply and income losses. shortages. We confront the resulting risks Qualitätsgedämmt e.V., an association through advance procurement as well as early founded by German family-owned businesses contracts with our partners and suppliers. Adof which Sto is also a member, holds the belief ditionally, the Sto divisions involved in procurethat it is possible to bolster the confidence of ment, R&D, and production continually work to users and investors in the long term by providoptimise the use of materials and make it more ing them with objective information and clear flexible in order to ensure a sustainable supply explanations of the product properties that faof the raw materials that are needed. To this cade systems offer. Additionally, this sales risk is end, alternative materials and suppliers are also mitigated by Sto’s success in regional diversificataken into consideration. tion and the long-term upward trend in energy In view of the number of items we handle prices, which has made facade insulation an and our procurement volume, external products appealing prospect from a financial perspective. are becoming increasingly important to Sto. The decision-makers’ commitment to adhere For this reason, we have established an indeto the targets of achieving energy savings and pendent group focusing on quality assurance CO2 reductions increases the opportunities for for these products, which is to be gradually launching relevant incentive measures and for expanded. In addition to actually monitoring achieving better environmental conditions. the quality of external products, we are also Sto responds to the conflicting and, in some ramping up our efforts to conclude quality cases, highly exaggerated media reports with agreements with specific terms and carry out objective, fact-based communication, additional supplier audits. quality measures as well as a quality management system that far exceeds the standard level Sales risks on the market. As things currently stand, we do not expect We counter the risk of external wall insulafuture sales of Sto products to present any tion systems being substituted with competing significant risks over the long term, as the sales products by continually developing the quality, potential of facade systems should in principle safety, environmental compatibility, and effiremain high thanks to a healthy stock of older ciency of our solutions. Inherent system weakbuildings. Nevertheless, the public debate being nesses can be recognised through the analysis held in Germany on the general advantages of of product life cycles, allowing deficiencies that facade insulation systems and their ecological arise over time to be detected and eliminated. impact, has caused investors and, in particuContinuing technical progress and the knowllar, private building owners to adopt a very edge derived from this enable Sto to further cautious attitude. These feelings of uncertainty develop and improve products and systems. have been fuelled further by conflicting and, in 46 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Overall economic and industry-specific of product life cycles contributes to a higher risks risktransparency. The Sto Group with its facade systems and At the same time, however, innovations can coatings is dependent on the underlying trends involve risks. While new Sto products or product in the construction industry to a substantial versions are only ever launched on the market degree. Demand in Germany – which remains once they have undergone extensive testing, it Sto’s largest individual market – plays an imis not possible to completely rule out the posportant role in this. Here, the sale of building sibility of warranty claims being made against products responds directly to the general level Group companies. We reserve the right to react of economic activity as well as to general ecoappropriately to recognised risks through adenomic and tax-related conditions. A continued quate innovations, modification of mature proddownswing in the main German construction ucts, or the adjustment of relevant processes. sector may lead to high levels of surplus capacWhere the media reports on systems that ity and intense competition accompanied by use EPS insulation boards are concerned, at strongly declining prices. On the other hand, present the Sto Group does not believe that a sharp rise in demand would be accompathere are any significant risks of liability arising nied by the risk that it may not be possible to from past or future activities. It is particularly exploit sales potential to its full extent, at least worth noting that every case investigated by over the short term, due to factors such as Sto has met the thermal conductivity (U-value) limited capacity in traditional trade enterprises. specifications stipulated in the German Energy We counter this economy-based risk mainly Saving Ordinance (EnEV) or funding guidelines. through internationalisation of our business Sto’s comprehensive quality assurance measures activities, which ensures regional diversification ensure that our EPS facade insulation boards and makes us more independent of fluctuations meet our stringent quality requirements, and in specific countries. This also puts us in a posiwill continue to do so in the future. tion to reduce subsidiary risks for the Sto Group The US insurance industry currently does not resulting from market interest rate changes: offer any sufficiently comprehensive and ecosignificant rises in interest can result in a decline nomically viable insurance coverage for product in building investments. risks of facade systems and coatings. The On top of that, difficulties in the recruitment effects of potential damages or liability claims of craftsmen could potentially restrict the capacin the USA on the finance and income situation ity of trade enterprises. We are doing everything of the Sto Group cannot be assessed reliably on we can to counter these risks through the varaccount of the country’s legal system. In order ied activities of the Sto Foundation and the Sto to further limit the risks inherent in our activities Group that are aimed at arming Sto customers abroad, we engage the services of external with the qualifications they need. consultants during decision-making procedures, where necessary. This also applies to technical Warranty-related and legal risks matters. Ongoing research and development activities, As the range of products we provide is and the introduction of innovations, are of strarounded off by supplementary services, Sto is tegic importance for the Sto Group. These open exposed to legal risk in the form of liability asup opportunities to develop additional markets sociated with consultancy services. For example, and buyer groups, and to reinforce the loyalty employees of Sto SE & Co. KGaA provide our of existing customers. In addition, the analysis customers with support in relation to tenders, 47 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) quotations, technical issues, and building There is a particular need for cash in the first design details. Sto’s in-house Liability Directive few months of a calendar year, whereas cash instructs all employees on how to handle such inflows dominate during the second half of issues both internally and in their dealings with the year. Risks arising from these fluctuations customers. This clear set of guidelines has led to in payment flows are limited at Sto by the a marked reduction in risks. available liquid funds. In addition, Sto has at Risks can arise due to changes in general its disposal an adequate and contractually legal conditions, such as a change to classificaguaranteed variable credit facility as part of tion and labelling obligations. One of the ways a syndicated loan agreement, amounting to in which we counter these risks is by qualifying EUR 100 million. alternative raw materials. In order to reduce our exposure to liquidity risks, we also maintain intensive communication Financial risks with our banks and operate an active financial In times of recession, there is an increased risk management system. This includes the use of of default on receivables. To limit the finanderivatives in the form of interest swaps as a cial consequences potentially arising from means of reducing the risk of changes in interthis, a credit management system has been est rates in the case of long-term, interest-bearimplemented in the Sto Group. This takes into ing liabilities to banks. account the specific conditions prevailing in Sto’s treasury activities have been pooled and individual countries. In Germany, the most are handled in an independent department. important component of the system in place is This measure strengthens the recognition and a set of rules containing guidelines for granting control of financial resources for internal and and monitoring merchandise credits. Consistent external financing as well as financial risk manapplication of these rules will allow us to keep agement. Hedging strategies and clear rules for the default quota at a low level even during financial investments, foreign exchange transacdifficult economic times. tions, and internal and external financing have As a result of the internationalisation of its been defined and introduced across the Group business activities, Sto is exposed to currency worldwide. In the year under review, the strucrisks. We control these risks by means of tures and processes underwent further improvecurrency hedges. Relevant risks from foreign ment and the financing costs were optimised. currency cash flows are analysed, recorded, and Work began on implementing a central treasury reduced by applying suitable hedging measmanagement system across the Group, along ures; these processes take place throughout with Group-wide implementation of a payment the Group. Our main focus is on the currencies transaction system integrated into SAP. The aim of countries where we do not have produchere is to further improve transparency and tion equipment, i.e. where regular supply and security. The key features of a treasury guideline cash flows are necessary to maintain business with a modular structure have been sketched operations. In 2018, this applied to countries out, with step-by-step expansion and implesuch as Switzerland, Canada, and the United mentation of the guideline set to take place. Kingdom. In specific cases and where necessary, we perform additional hedging. IT risks As a result of seasonal variability, the deA global company like Sto can only be manmand for liquidity to finance current business aged with the support of complex IT systems. at Sto is subject to significant fluctuations. SAP is the central system used within the Sto 48 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Group. Serious malfunctions like system failsystems. This is regulated by a comprehenures, attacks on networks, and loss or manipsive IT Policy, with the least privilege principle ulation of data have the potential to endanger applying in each and every case. What is more, Sto’s supply readiness and result in declines in Sto makes use of services by the Cyber Security turnover. Competence Center, provided by the federal The use of Internet-based systems and cloudassociation VOICE, in order to stay constantly based services is growing, and this is imposing abreast of the latest information concerning a significant duty of care on us when it comes prevailing threats. to integrating information flows and developing our own cloud-based solutions. We have made Availability: some preparations for the hybrid IT architecture The redundant configuration of all core operathat we are aiming to have in place so that tional systems and network connections ensures the systems we use will be able to handle Sto maximum availability for all key business proinformation securely. cesses. An automated monitoring system serves The significant increase in threats such as to continuously monitor system availability. We those posed by phishing, ransomware or Trocounteract risks that might result from difficulty jans makes it necessary to intensify our training in replacing hardware components or the inabilmeasures for employees. Therefore, warnings ity to update software using a gradual strategy and recommended courses of action are pubof modernising infrastructure in the computing lished on a regular basis within Sto’s internal centre and as part of our 'Retrofit' programme. communication channels. In order to meet the requirements of Industry 4.0 activities in terms of security, the production Continuity: areas are kept separate from core systems by The core systems necessary to the company’s using special security systems that permit the operating business, such as SAP and Lotus flow of required data only. Notes, are deployed in redundant and fully virtualised form. This ensures maximum continuity Human resources risks of the systems and the appurtenant services. In The expertise and dedication of Sto employ2016, a new, state-of-the-art data centre was ees are amongst the key building blocks of put into operation. This ensures ample separacorporate success. If, in the light of competition tion between the redundant data centres. The for skilled specialists and managers, we do not data on the core systems are backed up daily succeed in recruiting appropriate personnel, and stored separately. this may have a negative impact on our future corporate development. This risk may become Integrity: even more serious in the medium to long term To prevent unauthorised access to the infordue to demographic trends, particularly in westmation systems of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, we use ern industrialised countries. Not only could the technological security systems that are available pool of talented young professionals become on the market wherever possible. Alongside this smaller, but many people may also leave the multiple-step architecture, we also counter the company for reasons of age which would entail risk by adopting a restrictive approach to issuing loss of knowledge. access authorisation and prohibiting the storage Sto SE & Co. KGaA implements numerous of company-related information in unauthormeasures to eliminate these risks and position ised, unprotected areas, such as Internet cloud itself as an attractive employer. For example, we 49 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) provide extensive career development opportuSto also operates in countries with complex nities as well as excellent further and advanced tax regulations which could be interpreted in training, and we take steps to make achieving various different ways. Any future interpretation a good work-life balance easier. This enables us or development of the tax system could impact to win over new professionals and executives, tax liabilities, profitability, and business activities. as well as foster the sense of loyalty felt by Sto is subject to regular audits by financial those already working for the Sto Group. authorities in relation to taxes and levies. Tax and duty-related risks are identified and evaluEnvironmental risks ated on an ongoing basis with the support of Production at Sto takes place in modern, largely local, external tax specialists. automated plants. This means that manufacturing processes pose only minor environmental Opportunities and risks for business risks. We have also implemented an environdevelopment in 2019 mental management system in the Group Predictions on future business development which is geared to international standards. are generally subject to major uncertainty. At More information about our environmental proSto, one of the major factors to account for is tection measures can be found in the section the set of highly volatile general conditions to entitled 'Production and procurement' and in which the international construction industry the Sustainability Report in this Annual Report. is exposed. Furthermore, our planning is based both on our own forecasts concerning trends Risks concerning processes and added in currencies that are relevant to Sto, which value may also be subject to significant fluctuations, Events outside of our control, such as natural and on the assumption that a stable political disasters or other incidents such as fire, can environment will prevail. Should these premises heavily compromise production or operating prove incorrect, however, then expectations for processes in particular. This could in turn lead to 2019 may deviate from the actual situation. bottlenecks or even stoppages resulting in a deAdditionally, the risks presented may bring viation from planned production volumes. We about some short-term influencing factors that counteract such risks by introducing fire precaumay have either a positive or a negative effect tions, for example, and – when financially viable on Sto’s development. Currently, this includes – by taking out insurance coverage. the ongoing controversial debate surrounding the ecological impacts, fire protection issues, Tax-related risks and efficiency associated with facade systems, As a company operating worldwide, Sto is and surrounding building culture in general. subject to different tax legislations and regulaThis debate is continuing with no end in sight tions in various countries. Any changes to these in the foreseeable future. With this in mind, it tax rules may lead to higher tax expenses and is not possible to make a reliable prediction of payments. In addition, changes to laws and how EWIS sales will develop. If there are further regulations can have a significant impact on declines, Sto will be particularly heavily affected tax demands and liabilities, and on deferred tax given its position as a market-leading company. assets and liabilities of the company. Moreover, The issue of sovereign debt within the euuncertainty in terms of tax in some regions can rozone continues to have risks associated with restrict the company's ability to exercise its own it. Fundamental challenges such as huge debt rights. levels and a loss of trust in some countries have 50 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA yet to reach a satisfactory conclusion, or any have the corresponding effect and facade prodconclusion at all, meaning that the possibility uct manufacturers may not be compensated for of a resurgence in the financial and economic the advance expenses they have incurred. Delays crisis cannot be ruled out altogether. in decisions on the policies underpinning these Other uncertain factors are the effects of the measures also exacerbate the risk to which proausterity measures that local authorities are takviders are exposed, as potential building owners ing in various European nations (in some cases, may refrain from making investments, resulting on a significant scale) as part of fiscal consolidain temporary demand shortfalls. tion efforts. In the affected countries, this could Provided that the economy performs better result in a decline in construction investments in than expected in regions where we only make the public sector. plans with a great degree of caution, 2019 will If the global economy fares better in 2019 see opportunities for business development. than research institutes have predicted, the Targeted internationalisation of our activities demand for raw materials may rise at a disprowill also open up opportunities for growth, portionate rate and lead to sharp non-schedarising from exploiting new markets as well as uled price increases. These higher costs could from more intensive development in countries be offset by turnover effects resulting from in which we are already represented. higher demand for construction services and by In the long term, we estimate that opportupassing on the costs in the form of higher sales nities for Sto will outweigh the risks. The need prices. Additionally, opportunities could arise if to install energy efficiency measures within raw materials prices develop more favourably buildings in order to reduce CO2 emissions is than assumed in our forecasts. set to rise. Furthermore, decision-makers in the Energy prices, including in particular the area of climate protection are now speaking price of crude oil, may lead to risks or opportuwith one voice. As we also expect to see prices nities depending on trends going forward, since for key fossil fuels to escalate again in the methis will have an impact on the time it takes for dium term, we believe that facade systems will energy investments to pay off. become increasingly appealing from a financial The dependency of the construction industry perspective as well. For Sto, as the leading manon the weather remains a significant element ufacturer of external wall insulation systems, of uncertainty. Despite technological progress, this means additional sales potential. extreme weather conditions can still prove a hindrance for construction activities. Conversely, Overall risk exposure favourable conditions in the winter months, in The risks are listed below in descending order which work on the construction site is often not according to their potential impact on earnings possible, can have a positive impact on turnover and have been categorised on the basis of their and earnings. weighted damage value: Government funding has shown to have a positive impact on the sale of facade systems. Risk type Risk Therefore, Sto can expect opportunities to arise category when new programmes are launched or existing Dependence on weather ones are extended. This does, however, require conditions high these incentive measures to be designed in a transparent way that is tailored to the relevant Risks in procuring raw materials target groups. Otherwise, the measures may not and external products high 51 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) Growth of 2.0 % is forecast for the indusRisk type Risk trial nations as a whole, and the USA will be category the biggest contributor to this if it grows by Sales risks average the expected figure of 2.5 %. As things curOverall economic and rently stand, the eurozone and Japan are – by industry-specific risks average contrast – set to see below-average expansion Warranty-related and legal risks average of 1.6 % and 1.1 % respectively. The developing and emerging countries are expected Financial risks average to grow by a total of 4.5 %. This will primarily IT risks average be driven by India and also by China, which is Human resources risks low still likely to experience above-average growth Environmental risks low in spite of the anticipated slowdown. The IMF Risks concerning processes anticipates a significant revival of the economy and added value low in Brazil. Meanwhile, the Russian economy Tax-related risks low is – once again – expected to expand only slightly, and the Turkish economy to stagnate The assessment of the overall risk for the Sto completely. Group is carried out using our risk management As things currently stand, Germany is exsystem. Following the assessment of current pected to suffer an economic downswing as a and potential future individual risks, and taking result of the weaker global economy and Brexit, into account the countermeasures already among other factors. The German Federal Govinitiated, the Executive Board of the personally ernment has significantly adjusted its forecast liable partner STO Management SE and the downward for the current year and is now only Supervisory Board have come to the conclusion expecting to see growth of 1.0 %. As recently that no assessable risks are discernible at presas the autumn, an increase of 1.8 % was still ent that could have enduring and significant on the horizon. adverse consequences for the asset, income, and finance situation of the Sto Group. Trends for the international construction industry F. Outlook report In the opinion of the EUROCONSTRUCT network, the European construction industry Global economy will continue to expand until 2021, although The many economic and political uncertainties there will be a gradual decrease in the growth have dampened the outlook for the global rate. Growth is likely to decline significantly in economy in 2019. At the beginning of the the areas of new residential construction and year, the International Monetary Fund revised renovation, in particular. Meanwhile, the civil its forecast for global economic growth from engineering sector is expected to see a higher 3.7 % down to 3.5 % accordingly. The biggest percentage rate of growth over the next few risks include the trade disputes between the US years. In the view of the EUROCONSTRUCT and China, and the US and Europe, US tariffs, experts, the total volume of construction will inincreasing protectionism, and the decrease in crease by 2.0 % in 2019. They are expecting to economic momentum in China. Brexit and the see increases of 1.1 % for residential construcgeneral conditions in Italy and France could also tion, 1.5 % for non-residential construction, have a dampening effect on the economy. and 4,5 % for civil engineering. 52 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The HDB and ZDB associations believe that The current reporting period got off to a construction activity in Germany will congood start thanks to the much better weather tinue to experience a high level of growth in conditions than the previous year. Overall, 2019. Once again, they are expecting to see a consolidated turnover thus exceeded typical nominal sales growth rate of 6 % in the main seasonal expectations during the first three construction sector. In light of this, an increase months. of 5.5 % is expected in residential construction, As things stand, consolidated earnings and turnover in both commercial construction before interest and taxes (EBIT) are likely and public-sector construction is likely to rise by to amount to between EUR 81 million and 6 %. EUR 90 million in 2019, and earnings before As things currently stand, the US construction taxes (EBT) to between EUR 78 million and industry is expected to grow slightly less strongly EUR 88 million. Where the resulting return on in 2019 than in the previous year. According to sales is concerned, we are likely to see a value GTAI, building investments are set to increase by between 5.6 % and 6.3 %. After allowing for around 5 %. Construction consultants Dodge the application of IFRS 16, we expect the return Data & Analytics expect growth to slow down in on capital employed (ROCE) to be between virtually every category of real estate, including 13.0 % and 14.6 %. residential buildings, retail facilities, and wareThis forecast is based on the expectation houses. At best, a slight increase in growth can that the global economy will grow, and that be expected in office space construction. Howthe volume of construction will increase globever, if additional trade tariffs are introduced, ally as suggested, thereby providing a solid this could dampen the forecast. foundation for positive development of the It is likely that the construction industry Sto Group throughout the world. We are also in China will be able to continue its positive assuming that we will largely be able to offset growth in 2019 in spite of the weakening further increases in the costs of procuring raw economy. This is mainly attributable to the materials and external products in 2019 by full order books. According to GTAI, 18 % higher sales prices for our customers. We are more residential building projects were started also assuming a largely stable euro rate. From between January and July 2018 than during our perspective, there are various uncertainties the corresponding period of the previous year as a result of the many economic risk factors, when measured by the amount of living space. particularly in the USA, China, and specific Prices are continuing to increase drastically and European countries. although this is resulting in a further drop in The United Kingdom’s exit from the EU may momentum, the lack of investment options have a negative impact on sales figures in the means that the Chinese real estate market country. We are paying close attention to the should still develop positively. exit negotiations that are currently under way. However, we believe that Brexit will not have a Projected performance of the Sto Group significant impact on Sto for reasons including Assuming normal weather conditions, Sto the relatively low business volume that the expects business development to remain posUnited Kingdom accounts for. itive in the 2019 fiscal year. Group turnover In the area of facade systems, we expect the is expected to increase by 4.1 % to around business volume to continue growing in 2019. EUR 1,387 million, with growth rates falling in The objective advantages offered by energy-rethe mid-single digit range in all segments. lated facade insulation hold significant potential 53 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) for EWIS sales across the globe. With this in Once again, we are expecting procurement mind, our range of products meets the very bottlenecks to occur in 2019, although the highest quality standards in terms of insulating tense situation linked to the high level of deperformance, ecology, cost-effectiveness, fire mand should improve slightly compared to the protection, durability, and design freedom. previous year. We are expecting further price However, the ongoing debate on the use of exincreases, particularly in relation to insulants, ternal wall insulation systems in Germany may organic binding agents and additives, as well as have a negative impact on the industry sector freight costs. and on Sto as the market leader. We have planned a budget of around Another aspect that remains unclear is what EUR 43 million for investments in property, the political landscape is going to look like in plant, and equipment, and Intangible assets in terms of implementing climate protection meas2019 (without including the right-of-use assets ures and promoting energy efficiency. Although according to IFRS 16). The main focal points inthe need for action was once again affirmed at clude the planned construction of a new logisthe International Climate Conference held in tics building at Südwest Lacke + Farben GmbH the Polish city of Katowice at the end of 2018, & Co. KG in Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany. The aim the agreed compromise on limiting the increase here is to improve the efficiency of logistics at in global warming does not contain any conthe site as well as that of the finished goods crete steps. Nor has Germany yet managed to and raw materials warehouses. Moreover, we define how the climate targets laid down at the will once again be investing in the long-term United Nations Climate Change Conference in measures that have been developed as part Katowice are to be achieved. of our 'Retrofit' programme for modernising/ We remain in a very competitive position in replacing the production equipment within our other product areas too, and believe that the Group. In addition, we will be continuing we will see a growth in business volume here with the Group production control automation in 2019. In our view, the greatest potential for programme that has been running for several growth lies in interior coatings within the inteyears. rior products range. In the HR area, we are planning to slightly With economic effect from 1 January 2019, increase the number of employees in line Sto SE & Co. KGaA acquired 100 % of the with the company's growth targets. New limited partnership shares of Liaver GmbH & appointments are planned in countries with Co. KG as well as all company shares of Liaver medium-term growth prospects. Meanwhile, Beteiligungen GmbH. The company is located targeted restructuring measures are once again in Ilmenau, a city in the German state of Thurlikely at companies battling difficult general ingia, and the process of fully consolidating it economic conditions. The HR strategy will will commence from the current year. It is one remain in place without any changes. In 2019, of the few German manufacturers of expanded the focus will be on the scheduled Group-wide glass granulates made from recycled waste employee survey, and on the managerial develglass. In addition, Liaver has earned itself a solid opment that will allow us to rigorously exploit international position as an innovative supplier and develop the potential that exists within the thanks to its highly sound-absorbing, non-cominternational organisation. bustible, and fibre-free acoustic products. Thus, Turning to the area of financing, we do it is expanding Sto's technological expertise in not currently have any extraordinary measures this business area. planned for 2019. 54 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Review of strategic direction for achieving these aims, and by introducing The Sto Group has enjoyed long-term success the review of our strategic direction we have throughout its corporate history. With a view put ourselves firmly on the right track at an to sustaining this in the years to come, we early stage. have decided to start reviewing our strategic direction and aligning it with the challenges General statement on future development and opportunities for Sto, some of which are Sto is one of the leading providers of high-qualnew. In 2019 and the years that follow, we will ity facade systems and coatings with an be fine-tuning our approach on the market side outstanding brand in the industry, an extenaccordingly and, in particular, intend to improve sive, top-quality product range that takes profitability. Our primary aim of achieving account of various regional and quality-based Group-wide income-oriented growth remains requirements, an excellent position on the unchanged. international stage, and a strong capacity for inKey measures in 2019 will include continunovation. We set the pace of technology in the ing projects launched during the New Balance industrial sector and want to reinforce this poprogramme, which have already produced sition over the long term. The factors that reinpositive effects on the market side in 2018. force the success we have had in our corporate After a thorough analysis, we have defined development include our extensive sales base promising areas of growth within which we are and our well-qualified, dedicated workforce. targeting investments, are increasingly gearing For 2019, we are anticipating a 4.1 % growth our worldwide sales activities towards targetin turnover and an EBIT of between EUR 81 milgroup-based segmentation, and have thus lion and EUR 91 million. We also believe that begun to optimise our process organisation. In we will be able to strengthen our robust asset addition, we intend to improve our transaction and financial situation even more. and project activities. Alongside the growth initiatives, one of our Stühlingen/Germany, April 2019 top priorities is to increase the gross profit margin within the Group in the short term. To this Sto SE & Co. KGaA end, we intend to tap optimisation potential represented by STO Management SE in every area of the company – from adjusting Executive Board the sales prices based on efficiency-enhancing measures in procurement and development right through to optimising the product mix. By concentrating on higher-margin offers and markets, we aim to free up the resources required to bring about an improvement in the quality of our earnings. We continue to aim for an increase in turnover to EUR 2 billion as well as improved profitability by 2022. In addition to relying on organic growth, we intend to make selective acquisitions where the right opportunities arise. Our strong market position and our success factors provide us with an excellent starting point 55 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | The Sto share The Sto share Sto limited preference share data 2018 on the stock markets Stock markets showed a disappointing develTicker symbol STO3 opment in 2018. All major indexes worldwide suffered losses for a variety of reasons. These ISIN DE0007274136 reasons included the continuous decline in WKN 727413 early indicators in the euro zone, the ECB's Share category Non-voting decision to end its bond purchase programme, preference share political uncertainty with regard to Brexit and Italy, interest rate hikes by the US Federal Market segment Regulated market Reserve, weakening growth in China, and the Level of transparency General Standard trade war between the USA and China. The Euro Stoxx 50, which is heavily dependent German Securities Exchange on world trade, lost around 15 % of its value sector Consumer in the year-end comparison, the American German Securities Exchange Home Construction Dow Jones Industrial Index over 6 %, and the subsector & Furnishings Chinese leading index Shanghai Composite just Number of limited under 25 %. preference shares 2,538,000 The DAX was at the bottom of the Western European share indexes, falling by 18.3 % Number of non-listed limited in its first year of losses since 2011. In 2018, ordinary shares 4,320,000 the German stock market barometer, which Share price trend for 2018 (indexed on 30 December 2017 = 100) 120 S to limited preference shares 110 DAX D AXsector 100 Construction 90 80 70 60 50 40 Jan. Feb. March April May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. 56 The Sto share | Sto SE & Co. KGaA is dependent on foreign trade, suffered disSto limited preference share proportionately from the trade conflict and key figures the concerns that arose in the course of the Values per share in euros year about a global economic slowdown. The 2018 2017 outperformance of German second-line stocks that had lasted several years also came to an Earnings per preference share 8.39 8.68 end for the time being with the global decline Cash flow from current in share prices in autumn of 2018. Due in paroperating activities 12.56 13.46 ticular to a very weak fourth quarter, the SDAX Equity 74.31 70.04 recorded a loss of around 20 % at the end Dividend payout per limited of the year. Construction stocks in Germany preference share recorded an even more pronounced decline: Dividend 0.31 0.31 the Construction sector index of the Frankfurt Bonus + 3.78 + 3.78 Stock Exchange dropped by around 36 %. Share price at year end* 82.00 125.90 Sto share declines significantly Year high* 128.00 132.00 The difficult environment in 2018 also imYear low* 79.20 90.00 pacted the rate of the Sto share. Year-on-year, PER (31 Dec) 9.77 14.51 the stock went down in value by 34.9 %. After PER (high) 15.26 15.21 a stable start to the year, the highest price in PER (low) 9.44 10.37 2018 of EUR 128.00 was already achieved at the end of January. This was followed by a deCapitalisation of preference shares scent until the lowest price of EUR 79.20 was on 31 Dec (in EUR millions) 208.1 319.5 reached on 18 December. At the end of 2018, * XETRA closing price the share was listed at EUR 82.00. The market capitalisation of around Diluted and basic earnings were EUR 8.39 2.538 million Sto limited preference shares per limited preference share (previous year: hence significantly decreased from approx. EUR 8.68) and EUR 8.33 per limited ordinary EUR 319.5 million on 31 December 2017 to share (previous year: EUR 8.62). EUR 208.1 million at the end of the year under In 2018, the parent company Sto SE & Co. review. KGaA reported earnings before income taxes (HGB) of EUR 59.3 million and a net profit for Income situation burdened by high the year of EUR 40.8 million. Through its Execprocurement costs utive Board, the personally liable partner STO In 2018, Sto SE & Co. KGaA’s consolidated Management SE will propose a total dividend turnover rose by 4.3 % to EUR 1,332.4 milpayout, which is unchanged compared to the lion. Consolidated earnings were affected previous year, of EUR 26,049,060.00 to the by significant cost increases in procurement Annual General Meeting on 19 June 2019. This which could not be offset by raising the sales means that limited preference shareholders will prices and saving on other expense items. In receive an ordinary dividend of EUR 0.31 and a total, consolidated EBIT decreased by 2.5 % to bonus of EUR 3.78 per share. Limited ordinary EUR 81.9 million as compared to the previous shareholders will be paid an ordinary dividend year, and the consolidated net profit for the of EUR 0.25 as well as a bonus of EUR 3.78 per year declined by 3.6 % to EUR 53.8 million. share. 57 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | The Sto share Based on the 2018 closing price of EUR 82.00, the proposal would result in a dividend yield of 5.0 % per preference share. Based on the closing price for 2017 of EUR 125.90, this means a yield of 3.3 %. Trading volume in 2018 The number of Sto SE & Co. KGaA limited preference shares that were traded in the XETRA electronic system of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in the 2018 fiscal year went down to 541,693, compared with 707,045 shares in the previous year. Shareholder structure As at 31 December 2018, it is estimated that more than 50 % of the 2.538 million Sto limited preference shares were in the hands of institutional investors. The remaining shares were free float. The number of non-listed limited ordinary shares remained unaltered at 4.32 million. 90 % of these were held by the Stotmeister family via Stotmeister Beteiligungs GmbH. As at the reference date, the remaining 10 % were held by Sto SE & Co. KGaA. 58 The Sto share | Sto SE & Co. KGaA 59 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility This report presents the combined non-financial optimised for home and office interiors, decodeclaration of the Sto Group and Sto SE & Co. rative coatings, interior claddings, and acoustic KGaA in accordance with Sections 289b and systems for regulating sound. Furthermore, Sto 315b of the HGB (German Commercial Code). produces and sells high-quality floor coatings It complements the Group management report and products for concrete repair which are and the management report of Sto SE & Co. attributed to Other product groups. KGaA for 2018, which is part of this Annual In terms of regions, business activities of Report and is available on the website www. the Sto Group are divided into the segments sto.de. of Western Europe and Other, with the The non-financial declaration provides inforlatter being broken down into the regions of mation on the major factors in the five areas Northern/Eastern Europe and America/Asia of environmental matters, employee matters, within the internal reporting framework. Our social matters, respect for human rights as well corporate management is primarily focused on the combating of corruption and bribery. The these regions. declaration is based on the ten principles of the The Sto business model is oriented towards UN Global Compact and describes the correlong-term success. The corporate vision is to sponding measures, results, and potential risks. be the worldwide technology leader in the sustainable design of living space tailored to human needs. The key foundation for longPart A term success is sustainable and solid economics, constant progress, and a financially sound Business model and sustainfooting. ability management at Sto Detailed information on the structure, strategy, and the competitive situation of the Sto Group and the segments is available in the The Sto Group Group management report. Sto SE & Co. KGaA specialises in products and systems for building coatings and is one of the Assuming responsibility most important global manufacturers in this Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsiindustrial sector. In the 2018 fiscal year, the bility (CSR) have been important topics for Sto Group, which is listed on the regulated market ever since the company was founded, and they of the German stock exchange, had 5,333 emare anchored in our Guiding Principles and are ployees in 49 operating companies as well as its part of our corporate mission 'Building with places of operation worldwide and achieved a conscience.' in a condensed form. consolidated turnover of EUR 1,332.4 million. A major part of Sto's business model is the The product range of the Sto Group is contribution that our products make to susdivided into four product groups: the core tainability in the construction sector, especially business of facade systems combines external to climate protection. We have been developwall insulation systems (EWIS), a segment in ing and selling facade insulation systems for which our company occupies a leading position, more than 50 years now, and thanks to their and rainscreen cladding facade systems (RSC). efficient building insulation capacity, we have The product group of facade coatings includes been able to help achieve significant savings external render and paint systems. Products for in energy through both the refurbishment of interiors encompass plaster and paint systems existing buildings and the construction of new 60 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Thermal insulation helps to protect the environment The energy savings from the use of Sto facade insulation systems correspond to around 103 billion litres of heating oil. = 28,000 l 4,000 l 250,000,000 l x 25.75 million oil tanks x 3.68 million tanker lorries x 412 oil tankers Between 1965 and 2018, facade insulation systems from Sto played a direct role in saving the barely conceivable volume of 103 billion litres of heating oil. With this, Sto has made a notable contribution to global climate protection: the facade insulation systems from the southern Black Forest have managed to avoid around 330 million tonnes of CO2 emissions. In 2018 alone, Sto products reduced emissions of this combustion gas by around 20 million tonnes. buildings. The Sto systems that have been Sustainability strategy installed worldwide since 1965 have resulted In order to strengthen the topic of sustainability in around 103 billion litres of heating oil being in the strategic orientation, to professionalise avoided up to and including 2018, with the activities and bundle measures, we established year under review accounting for around the Sustainability department at Group level 6 billion litres of this figure alone. The result­ in 2012. This department reports directly to ing reduction in CO2 emissions totalled more the Chief Technology Officer. In addition to than 330 million tonnes, including approx. our self-imposed claim, which is anchored in 20 million tonnes in 2018. In this way, Sto our Guiding Principles, we are thus meeting makes a significant continuous contribution to the increased demands of our stakeholders, climate and environmental protection. This also especially our customers and legislators. The improves the living comfort and quality of the measures include consultations, concepts and relevant buildings. instruments to take account of sustainability Furthermore, our high-quality facade and aspects at product level and in the organisacoating systems protect the building fabric and tion. These are implemented in all areas of thus ensure the conservation of value, longevity the company: from product development, and resource efficiency of buildings. In the procurement, production, sales and marketing, interior, our positive contribution lies above all to communication. The aim is to identify and in health protection and well-being through address demands and needs in order to create a wide range of low-emission products and a stable basis for continuous, income-oriented products that are free from harmful substances. growth and also to make a positive, social conApart from that, we are also addressing new tribution which is important for environmental product requirements that arise due to sustainprotection. able building concepts and, for example, are To ensure that we are ready to face future intensively working on the subject of a recycling challenges, we are following the development economy as a strategic focal point of our prodof megatrends, changes in the market, as well uct-related sustainability activities. as regulations and laws that are relevant to Sto. 61 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility In 2018, we focused our efforts primarily on 'CSR topics'. This survey covers the relevant areas including: training and responsibilities for the individual • Germany’s Climate Action Plan 2050, the issues within a company, compliance with social purpose of which is to steer the country standards, such as the prohibition of child and towards a largely greenhouse-gas-neutral forced labour, equal treatment of men and future women, measures for occupational safety, envi• Topics on compliance with climate action ronmental and resource protection, corruption targets which were discussed at the 2018 and violations of the law, donation activities, Katowice Climate Change Conference in as well as social commitment. If standards are Poland not complied with and deviations are reported, • Global weather events in 2018 the measures to be taken are to be described. • Energy efficiency as a cornerstone of the The information is recorded centrally at Sto and move towards renewable sources of energy then evaluated. In conjunction with the new and climate protection plans CSR disclosure rules and the different levels of • The recycling economy and resource effimaturity regarding sustainability in the various ciency as elements of resource, climate, and regions and companies, our questionnaire is environmental protection regularly revised and an extended reporting sys• Operational and product-related environtem for sustainability and CSR in the Sto Group mental protection as a means of conserving is being implemented. To this end, we identified ecosystems relevant topic areas and key figures in the • Compliance with strict requirements regardreporting period and then evaluated options ing the use of ingredients which are susfor data to be recorded centrally using IT-based pected of being damaging to human health systems. A decision regarding implementation is and the environment expected in 2019. • The health and well-being of employees, applicators, and users Structures and regulations for sustainability • Qualification and training in order to combat Sto has been reporting voluntarily on its CSR a shortage in young talent, and skills activities for many years, based on the ten • Commitment to social issues, signalling principles of the UN Global Compact, which ­solidarity and individual support we joined in 2009. The UN Global Compact is a global strategic initiative for responsible In terms of the introduction and implemencorporate governance and global justice under tation of voluntary CSR measures we act in the auspices of the United Nations. Signatories accordance with the motto 'think global – of the Global Compact commit to aligning act local'. Hence our principles, especially their business activities and strategies with ten the compliance with the ten principles of the universally acknowledged principles taken from UN Global Compact, apply to all regions and the areas of human rights, labour standards, companies worldwide. The specific measures environmental protection, and the fight against to comply with and promote these principles as corruption. They are also committed to supportwell as specific activities to promote sustainable ing the objectives that go hand in hand with construction may vary locally. They are geared this. to the respective local needs and circumstances. Since the 2017 fiscal year, capital market-­ Since 2010 we have been conducting annual oriented companies with more than 500 emsurveys among all Sto companies on selected ployees and total assets of more than 62 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA EUR 20 million or a turnover of more than European CSR Directive and the explanatory EUR 40 million in Germany are required to memorandum to the German CSR Directive disclose non-financial information. Due to this Implementation Act as one of the international so-called CSR disclosure rule, we modified our frameworks on the basis of which a CSR report disclosure structure in 2017 and provide more can be prepared. direct and detailed information on the specific Furthermore, we have started to align our aspects we are to cover as part of non-financial sustainability activities with the United Nations' reporting (see Part B). We use the UN Global 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Compact as the basis, which is named in the adopted in 2015. We believe we can make the largest contribuGoal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote tions to the following of the 17 Sustainable inclusive and sustainable industrializaDevelopment Goals: tion and foster innovation. Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote Goal 11: Make cities and human settlements inwell-being for all at all ages. clusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and Goal 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and sustainable economic growth, full and production patterns. productive employment and decent Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate work for all. change and its impacts. 63 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility As part of their sustainability initiative 'StoAt Sto SE & Co. KGaA, the specifications Climate', our Austrian company Sto Ges.m.b.H. of external frameworks are complemented by also published a comprehensive sustainability company-internal guidelines. In particular, report about their CSR activities in 2018. This these include the 'Principles of Cooperation was generated in accordance with the Global and Management within the Sto Group', which Reporting Initiative guidelines (GRI-4 core and we use to translate the general ideas outlined extended requirements) and particularly refers in our Guiding Principles into concrete actions. to fiscal years 2016 and 2017 in the Austrian Furthermore, the following guidelines and prinmarket. ciples form an integral part of our thirteen straSince 2014, Sto has participated in the sustegic Group goals: 'Corporate Social Respontainability initiative Chemie³ in Germany, which sibility and Sustainability', 'Technology leader was initiated jointly by the German Chemical through a sustainable product range tailored Industry Association (VCI), the Mining, Chemto human needs', 'Living the corporate culture ical and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE), and through management and employees' and the German Federation of Chemical Employers’ 'Promoting a constructive collaboration with Associations (BAVC). It encompasses imporemployee representatives'. These goals form the tant guidelines for sustainable development basis for our Group-wide strategic planning tool in Germany’s chemical industry and provides and are assigned appropriate measures. various tools for implementing these in practice, including the 'Chemie³ Sustainability Check', Key sustainability factors which Sto is applying in various European Sto In addition to the Chemie³ sustainability check companies. we use our Sustainability Compass in order to Sto also participated in the activities carried perform a concrete evaluation of single sustainout by the initiative in 2018, and made use of ability activities at company and product level. various Chemie³ events to engage in discusNot only does this tool ensure that all aspects sions on examples of best practice, and actively of sustainability are taken into consideration, helped organise a webinar on sustainability it also provides a source of support during reporting. decision-making processes in accordance with The companies of the Sto Group also participate in various sustainability initiatives in their respective countries. For example, we have been involved in the Sustainability Management Initiative (Wirtschaftsinitiative Nachhaltigkeit, WIN) of the State of Baden-Württemberg for many years now, and signed the WIN charter in 2014. In addition to the UN Global Compact, Sto is thus committed to twelve guiding principles and goals of sustainable economic activities of companies based in Baden-Württemberg. In Austria, Sto Ges.m.b.H. is a member of 'respACT – austrian business council for sustainable development', the leading business platform for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and sustainable development in Austria. 64 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA our corporate mission of 'Building with conthe products and services of the manufacturers science.'. As different criteria often have to be on a daily basis. The aim of the market research weighed up, the Sustainability Compass helps survey is to find out who has managed to have us create a four-dimensional mindset encomimpress their customers – which equals the passing ecology, economy, social aspects, and German expression of 'Stein im Brett'. There are well-being in order to arrive at the best possible more than 30 product categories, ranging from solution. This approach gives a pivotal role to acoustics to EWIS. Companies were assessed not only the values that define the main areas with regard to quality, price, user-friendliness, of focus and the direction in which decisions and recommendations. are made, but also the information that enables Based on our stakeholder analysis carried out analysis and evaluation to remain as objective in 2017, we identified the following as relevant as possible. stakeholder groups: shareholders, authorities/ state, customers/consumers, service providers/ Dialogue with stakeholders suppliers, society/the public, representatives, Maintaining dialogue with our stakeholders is employees, press/media, and the competition. an exceptionally important part of our sustainaThe 'Stakeholder analysis – sustainability check' bility efforts. We do this in a variety of formats process involves determining and documentin order to accommodate the many different ing stakeholders’ requirements and deriving subjects that are raised, often in specialist or obligations. At the same time, we are meeting product-specific areas. These include our own the new requirements relating to the recertificolloquiums involving architects, planners, cation of our quality management in accordtradesmen, and energy consultants, as well ance with ISO 9001:2015, our environment as events held by and with market partners, management system in accordance with ISO and a range of trade fairs – another area in 14001:2015, and our energy management which sustainability is becoming an increasingly system in accordance with ISO 50001:2018. In pressing issue. In 2018, key areas of focus were, accordance with the revised standards, organfor example, dismantling and recycling building isations need to develop an understanding for materials, the safe use of specific ingredients their own context, must evaluate opportunities or avoiding their use, healthy living spaces, and and risks, while paying special attention to sustainable construction with suitable building including everyone involved in the planning of products. the management systems. The frequency with Among other things, we consider the which the requirements of interested parties are awards that Sto wins every year to be acstated is incorporated into the evaluation of the knowledgement of this commitment. In 2018, environmental aspects. the company was voted Gold Winner of the We participate in both national and internaArchitects' Darling Award in the category of tional trade associations to discuss important external thermal insulation systems for the third issues that affect different companies, such as time in a row in Germany. Sto SE & Co. KGaA new legislation and sustainability criteria for won the 'Stein im Brett' award for the second building products, the harmonisation of product time. Since 2017, the Münster-based building directives, or the grading of hazardous materiinformation company ibau has been awarding als. For example, Sto has been a member of the this prize on behalf of skilled tradesmen in GerGerman Sustainable Building Council (DGNB many. The award is based on a survey of more e.V.) since 2008 and has served on its advisory than 2,500 people who come into contact with board for building products since 2016. 65 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility At association level, Sto takes part in the and the regional meetings of the Wirtschaftsi'Sustainable Building' working group of nitiative Nachhaltigkeit (Economic initiative for Deutsche Bauchemie e.V. (German Association sustainability). for Manufacturers of Construction-chemical Products), the 'Sustainability' working group of Product Information the Verband der deutschen Lackund DruckWe consider it vital to engage with these envifarbenindustrie e.V. (German Paint and Printing ronmentally relevant and health-related topics Ink Industry Association, VdL), the Verband für in an open and honest manner, as it is not just Dämmsysteme, Putz und Mörtel e.V. (Associadown to us to determine how the sustainability tion for Insulation Systems, Renders, and Morof our products is interpreted and evaluated – tars, VDPM), as well as the respective European the opinion and decisions of the public, experts, umbrella associations in each area (such as market partners, and customers also play a role. FEICA, CEPE, EMO, and EAE). Furthermore, Sto Comprehensive information and transparhas been an active member of the Bundesverency on our products, especially with regard to band energieeffiziente Gebäudehülle (Fedaspects related to the environment and health, eral Association for Energy-efficient Building aim to provide assistance in this regard. Envelopes, BuVEG) since 2017. This association We provide numerous services that are promotes the potentials that building envelopes designed to support customers and market have for the urban culture, good living and partners in their quest for sustainable solutions. work spaces, and the economical use of energy. The expert service provided by Sto employees In Austria, Sto is a partner of the Austrian Susrepresents the most important element in this. tainable Building Council (ASBC). For this reason, we also communicate susSto also maintains a direct dialogue with tainability to our staff in detail and give them non-governmental organisations (NGOs), intensive training in handling it. This personal experts, media representatives, and research approach to delivering information is accominstitutions. We exchange views on the latest panied by eco-labels, product declarations, and sustainability issues in the construction industry product data sheets. and the specific desires and demands being expressed by society, politics, and our marLabels & certificates ket partners. The Österreichisches Institut für Environmental labels and certificates such as Baubiologie und Bauökologie (Austrian Institute Der Blaue Engel, TÜV, and natureplus® are for Building Biology and Building Ecology, IBO) primarily aimed at end consumers, private in Vienna and the IG Passivhaus Tirol (Tyrolean consumers, and public procurers. For building Passive House Union), which connects experts certification systems such as the one provided from the building industry and would like to by the DGNB, environmental certificates are establish the passive house concept as a new often used as proof of a particularly high standard, are doing important scientific and ecological standard. Products are evaluated practical work in the fields of building biology based on various criteria defined by the relevant and building ecology. Additional key sources of issuing authority. momentum and opinions are provided at and Sto exclusively uses recognised test seals and by events held as part of the Chemie³ sustainseals of quality, and has had a large number ability initiative as well as those held by the of products certified in the areas of thermal initiating associations VCI, IG BCE, and BAVC, insulation, facade coating, and interiors; the national networks of the Global Compact, recertification is carried out where a certifi66 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA cation has expired. The natureplus® eco-label been labelled would then have to be given for EWIS confirms not only that the products eco-labels from a range of different regions or efficiently save energy, but also that stricter entheir certificates would require additional decergy efficiency requirements are fulfilled in the larations. This is one of the major reasons why product’s production, environmental properties, we have stepped up the provision of Sustainaand substances in the system components. The bility Data Sheets. Blue Angel (Der Blaue Engel) for EWIS certifies the use of materials which result in less of an Sustainability Data Sheets impact on the environment compared with The voluntary self-declaration in the form of a other products within their product group, and Sustainability Data Sheets, which we specifiwhich contain no harmful substances requircally developed ourselves, plug gaps that may ing disposal, demonstrate excellent durability, be left by existing product information or and are installed in accordance with statutory eco-labels, and meet the increasing demand for regulations. concrete, product-specific data on ecological A large part of our interior product range and health-related criteria. Spanning around carries the TÜV seal of quality awarded by TÜV four pages, they provide all the key information SÜD – 'low-emission, physiologically harmon the DGNB and LEED building certification less, and production monitored' – or has been systems, as well as substances, emissions, and tested for harmful substances in accordance other environmental aspects. Like our Technical with Oeko-Tex® standard 100. Several of our Data Sheets and Safety Data Sheets, our Susproducts are also natureplus®-certified, meaning tainability Data Sheets are available to downthat they adhere to the very strictest criteria in load free of charge or can be posted directly to respect to their composition, substance prohianyone who requests them. Sustainability Data bitions, substance restrictions (emissions), raw Sheets in 18 different languages were available material extraction, pre-product manufacturing, for over 500 Sto products as at the end of production, and processing. For the Swiss mar2018. ket, we additionally label our interior products with the Swiss eco-label from the Stiftung Farbe Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) (Paints Foundation). Whereas in France, Sto Environmental Product Declarations (EPD) in interior products are all labelled with the French accordance with EN 15804 represent a third VOC label 'Émissions dans l’air intérieur'. building block in our efforts to provide information about the sustainability of Sto products. Central to these declarations is a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) as well as additional information, e.g. about aspects such as the production process, service life, and provisions for recycling of a product over its entire life cycle. EPDs are purely informative and do not assess a product, The numerous eco-labels available in the but require verification from an independent form of private and public product labels are third party. This internationally valid document posing an increasing challenge. In most cases, explains numerous building product properties they are only recognised at national level and from an environmental perspective and procan therefore only offer added value in a single vides useful data for determining a building’s market. As a result, products that have already sustainability, a factor that primarily depends on 67 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility the building material used. There is a particular to select building products not only according demand for EPDs for building certifications on to technical, economic and aesthetic paramethe Scandinavian market as well as for building ters, but also on the basis of concrete environprojects certified in accordance with LEED and mental information that reflects the complete DGNB. life cycle of a building product. Sto caters to We are also increasingly using what are this development by providing EPDs and by known as sample EPDs for our products. These keeping a close eye on and participating in the have been developed in collaboration with PEF programme. At the same time, we believe various associations on the basis of framework this poses methodical risks and additional costs formulations, with each representing a product for our company. In principle, we prefer the group. This removes the need for the time-concomparison of building products at the building suming process of calculating and producing level in relation with a specific building project, individual, product-specific EPDs for every single since building products are intermediate prodmanufacturer. ucts whose performance and environmental As part of its consumer protection efforts, impacts can only be assessed concretely and the European Union wishes to promote the proholistically on the building. Furthermore, a high vision of individual, product-specific, ecological data quality and uniformity of databases must parameters and launch a standardised eco-label be guaranteed in order to exclude uncertainties on the European market that is based on a life in the calculation and to not distort the direct cycle assessment. To this end, the European comparison of construction products. The Commission initiated the Product Environmental provision of life cycle assessments on the basis Footprint (PEF) project and various pilot projects of individual products – sample EPDs would no from 2013 to 2017, including some on paints longer be usable according to the philosophy and insulation materials that Sto was informed of direct comparison of individual construction about and some of which Sto was involved products – involves a great deal of effort, which in. The EU started a consultation process in we would have to take into account and plan 2018 to obtain feedback on the use of existing for accordingly in a timely manner in terms of environmental labels and methods of ecological personnel and within our organisation. evaluation of products to allow them to make a decision on the further development of PEF for the evaluation and communication of environmental information after the pilot phase. At the same time, the European Commission set up a technical working group to revise the criteria for life cycle assessments in accordance with the European standard EN 15804 and to verify their compliance with the PEF methodology used. This development is relevant with regard to the comparison of the environmental performance of individual construction products, in particular the so-called 'grey energy' and the CO2 balance, as envisaged, for example, by the European Commission or the DGNB. In future, planners, architects and consumers are 68 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Part B Information on the principles 1 to 6: Human rights and labour standards Report on the material At the end of 2016, the Federal Cabinet non-financial aspects based adopted the National Action Plan for Business and Human Rights 2016-2020 (NAP), on the ten principles of the thus implementing the corresponding guiding UN Global Compact principles of the United Nations. The aim is to enforce compliance with human rights in global supply chains. In addition to the state's duty to The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact protect, the responsibility of companies is also addressed. The Federal Government expects all Human rights companies to integrate the following five core 01 Businesses should support and respect the elements of due diligence in the field of human protection of internationally proclaimed rights in the supply chain into their business human rights. processes in a manner appropriate to their size, 02 Businesses should make sure that they are industrial sector, and position: not complicit in human rights abuses. 1) A human rights policy statement 2) Procedures for the identification of actual or Labour potential adverse impact on human rights 03 Businesses should uphold the freedom of 3) Measures to ward off potentially adverse association and the effective recognition of impacts and review of the effectiveness of the right to collective bargaining. these measures 04 Businesses should uphold the elimination of 4) Reporting all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5) A grievance mechanism 05 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. As a concrete goal, the NAP stipulates that 06 Businesses should uphold the elimination of by 2020 at least half of all companies in Gerdiscrimination in respect of employment and many with more than 500 employees will have occupation. verifiably integrated the core elements of due diligence in the field of human rights (defined in Environment the NAP in Chapter III) into their business pro07 Businesses should support a precautionary cesses. To this end, the German government has approach to environmental challenges. developed a monitoring procedure that monitors 08 Businesses should undertake initiatives to the progress of companies according to scientific promote greater environmental responsi­ standards. If less than 50 % of companies have bility. implemented the NAP by 2020, the NAP will call 09 Businesses should encourage the develfor further steps, including legislative measures. opment and diffusion of environmentally It is important to us that all actors along friendly technologies. the value chain are guided by the principle of sustainability, including in particular the obserAnti-Corruption vance of international human rights, and labour 10 Businesses should work against corruption standards. in all its forms, including extortion and Compliance with legal and ethical stand­bribery. ards is integral to our understanding of good 69 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility corporate governance. The principles laid We also require our suppliers to accept the down in our mission statement and in the UN Global Compact principles and thus assume Global Compact, our 'Principles of Cooperation certain minimum obligations. We procure the and Management within the Sto Group', the majority of our raw materials from countries strategic Group goals as well as the general that have implemented high social standards obligation to comply with the law apply to our which they also monitor. Through our 'Supplier own sites and companies. Code of Conduct' we generally demand volunIn order to identify and avoid human rights tary self-commitment to the above standards violations, appropriate data and information and principles, and use a questionnaire to obare required. Complaints mechanisms that are tain information on the compliance with them. accessible to those potentially affected are Due to the complexity of today's supply chains, an essential part of providing the necessary we are evaluating the participation in a suitable data. With the introduction of a whistleblower industry-specific initiative, such as the chemical system for compliance infringements, we have industry's 'Together for Sustainability' initiative, been offering such a standardised complaints to further promote 'Sustainability in the supply mechanism since 2017. This is described in chain'. more detail under Principle 10 'Anti-CorrupWith regard to our products, we see an tion'. We obtain information on deviations and important contribution to the observance and corresponding countermeasures regarding the consideration of human rights in providing ten principles of the UN Global Compact via our professional and transparent information. We annual 'CSR inquiry'. provide information on the correct use of our Our Group-wide value-competence model products as well as their ingredients and harmplays a special role in ensuring ethical, moral ful substances in our Technical Data Sheets, and fair conduct. Important values such as Safety Data Sheets, and Sustainability Data 'responsible, trusting, honest' are anchored in Sheets which we provide internationally in the this model. In accordance with our four brand language(s) of the respective country. values 'Close, Experienced, Performing, and In a broader sense, socially relevant issues Advanced', we have also described specific such as health and well-being can also be seen behaviours that we expect from our employees from the perspective of human rights and labour and managers. This competence model forms standards. Where buildings are concerned, this the basis for our employee-oriented processes particularly touches on areas such as thermal within the Sto Group worldwide. For example, and acoustic comfort, indoor air hygiene, and we use this model when selecting new employhealth protection. Sto building products, such as ees and when evaluating and developing our sound-absorbing acoustic panels and paints with workforce. a photocatalytic effect, have the potential to In 2018, we appointed a Chief Compliance make a direct, positive impact on these subjects Officer for the Sto Group, and have drawn up of concern. At the same time, the ongoing a Compliance Code, which will be introduced analysis and external monitoring to which we internationally in 2019. subject our products ensure that applicators and Discrimination based on origin, gender, reliusers receive safe goods of excellent quality. gion or belief, disability, age or sexual identity Any potentially harmful substances are indiwill not be tolerated. Detailed information on cated transparently in Safety and Sustainability the topic of diversity can be found in the CorpoData Sheets as well as Environmental Product rate Governance Report in this Annual Report. Declarations. Many of our products are certified 70 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA in accordance with natureplus®, TÜV SÜD, and ensure that the energy demand for buildings is other eco-labels. This confirms that the impact decreased significantly. Since 1965, more than of raw materials or emissions on health and the 300 million tonnes of CO2 emissions have been environment is either ruled out altogether or avoided by the use of Sto products and systems. reduced to a minimum. In 2016, we introduced an energy management system in line with the global ISO 50001 Information on the Principles 7 to 9: standard in order to provide a methodical tool Environment for recording, implementing, and tracking all Environmental protection is an essential aspect the climate protection activities taking place in of our sustainability activities. Our products the Sto Group. In doing so, we have laid the contribute to minimising the environmental foundations for a continuous improvement impact of buildings, e.g. through energy-savprocess relating to energy efficiency. At the ing insulation measures, the protection of the same we are meeting the legal requirements building envelope, and measures to maintain for performing energy audits in accordance the building fabric. We are also actively working with EN 16247-1. As at the end of 2018, the to minimise the environmental impact of our headquarters of Sto SE & Co. KGaA in Stühproducts, our production and our corporate aclingen/Germany, five production locations, 84 tivities, for example by using renewable energy, SalesCentres as well as four subsidiaries includusing resources sparingly and avoiding waste. ing external warehouses and branch factories We strive for the responsible use and prohad a certification. The systems that have been curement of natural resources (water, energy, implemented ensure that the use and purchase materials, and land) in the manufacture and of renewable sources of energy are constantly sale of our products and services. Each individmonitored, and that energy consumption and ual employee is to contribute to the protection the CO2 emissions of our fleet of vehicles are of the environment within his or her sphere of permanently reduced. Energy efficiency measresponsibility and influence. We also go beyond ures implemented in buildings and investments legal standards and commit ourselves to volunare also monitored, and we encourage employtary environmental and energy management ees to play an active role in all our initiatives for standards such as ISO 14001 and 50001. saving energy. In the context of replacement and new investments in operating resources, Climate protection machinery and equipment, an examination of We see climate protection as a focal point of energy efficiency in accordance with the state our activities. Of particular relevance for the of the art is also taken into account in addition German market is the Climate Protection Plan to the technical and economic aspects. Our me2050 adopted by the German government in dium-term goal is to identify verifiable changes November 2016. The goal of this plan is to via our energy management system. achieve an almost climate-neutral building stock We have defined the optimisation of enerby 2050. This calls for demanding new building gy-related services as an important goal in the standards and long-term renovation strategies Sto Group. To achieve these values, individual for existing buildings as well as a gradual shift projects were defined and action plans were away from fossil heating systems. Sto believes drawn up. Yearly consumption values that are that the plan reinforces the direction in which recorded and analysed monthly, form the basis the company is moving, and that its high-qualfor the determined key figures. Measured by ity facade insulation systems do their part to the units audited, we have been able to achieve 71 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility total energy savings of around one percent per we calculate the CO2 emissions generated duryear since 2014. Fuel consumption accounts for ing raw material supply and production in the around one third of the total energy consumpcase of these products, and balance the them tion of the business units in the realm of the with emission certificates that benefit a climate certification. This is why we attach particular protection project. In 2018, the StoCryl BF 700 importance to the appropriate selection of comand StoCryl V 700 products from the StoCretec pany cars, balance travel and route planning GmbH portfolio were made climate-neutral as well as training for sales representatives on via ClimatePartner. Among other things, the efficient driving. An important element of our relevant certificates are used to support a energy management system is the network hydropower project in Madagascar, which con­'Energieeffizient bei Sto' (Energy Efficiency at tributes to avoiding around 450 tonnes of CO2. Sto). This network was founded in 2016 and, In Austria we also made our products StoColor via the Verband der Chemischen Industrie e.V. Sil In and StoColor Climasan for interiors as well (German Chemical Industry Association), is regas StoColor Lotusan and StoSilco® blue for the istered as the official energy efficiency network facade climate-neutral via certificates of the of the German federal government and repreecoregion of Kaindorf. Through the targeted sentatives of the German economy. If offers a build-up of humus in the Kaindorf ecoregion, systematic and open exchange of experience depleted soils are made fertile again, the water and ideas between company units and locations absorption capacity is increased, and wash-offs in order to increase energy efficiency. The are reduced. As a result, up to 36 tonnes of network members meet twice a year. Measures CO2 per hectare of arable land are bound in the that have been implemented are presented and form of humus every year and stored in the soil discussed as to whether they can be transferred in the long term. Our StoTherm Wood insulato other locations as well. During the meetings tion system is not only climate-neutral, but also in 2018, it became clear that the technical climate-improving: Photosynthesis and storage measures have already been fully exploited in of carbon during the growth phase of a tree many areas, and the focus must shift to process means that insulation boards made of wood as optimisation in order to realise more energy a raw material compensate significantly more savings. The Austrian Sto Ges.m.b.H. has taken CO2 than is emitted during its manufacture. an alternative path in the implementation of climate protection measures: It records its CO2 emissions which cannot be avoided through procurement, production, administration and Urkunde Partner im logistics, throughout the entire company, and Klimaschutz compensates for them by purchasing CO2 certificates. The company is thus-climate neutral StoCretec GmbH StoCryl BF 700 from 2018 to 2021 and supports a hydroelectric Klimaneutrale Farbe 2018 Diese Urkunde bestätigt die Kompensation von Treibhausgasemissionen durch project in Uganda as well as a solar and wind zusätzliche Klimaschutzprojekte. CO2-Äquivalente 400.000 kg energy project in India. Unterstütztes Klimaschutzprojekt Wasserkraft Antsirabé Madagaskar ClimatePartner-ID 11656-1805-1001 Ausgestellt am Climate protection on product level 08.05.2018 Another measure to protect our climate on Über folgende URL erhalten Sie product level are our CO2-neutral products. weitere Informationen über die Kompensation und das unterstützte Klimaschutzprojekt: climatepartner.com/11656-1805-1001 Based on an Environmental Product Declaration, 72 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Mobility, logistics, and procurement the use of software solutions for online meetMobility represents a key area of climate proings that can be conducted from the workplace tection in terms of reducing kilometres, fuel has risen sharply and is at a high level with an and CO2. With the help of modern monitoraverage of 250 active users. ing systems we optimise truck and transport With respect to procurement, regional routes, ensure a solid degree of utilisation, products – wherever this is possible and ecouse DHL GoGreen, and promote economical nomically feasible – are given preference in and environmentally conscious driving. By proorder to keep the transport routes short and ducing building products regionally we avoid the resource consumption low. In Germany, many transport kilometres. In Villach/Austria, around 72 % of the purchasing volume of the for example, local production compared with main raw materials, such as mineral extenders, imports from Germany means that 315,000 and packaging are procured within a maximum truck kilometres are avoided at an annual proradius of 350 km, and insulation boards usually duction volume of 8,000 tonnes of material, within a maximum radius of 250-300 km. which corresponds to savings of over 94,000 Our climate protection activities are also litres of diesel and a reduction in CO2 emissions attributable to procurement through the of around 550 tonnes per year. In 2018, Sto consistent sourcing of certified green electricity Ges.m.b.H. was appointed a 'climate-active from 100 % hydropower. This made it possible mobile partner' for the project 'Tour optimito avoid 10,522 tonnes of CO2 in 2018 when sation and sustainable mobility' and officially compared to the German electricity mix. belongs to the Austrian network of climate-acAs a manufacturing company that uses raw tive energy and mobility professionals. materials from mining and the chemical indusWe are also continuously reducing our try and that markets its products worldwide, emissions through the composition of our it is unavoidable to have an influence on the passenger car fleet. The average value of CO2 environment. However, through conscious emissions for newly ordered passenger cars in handling, we consider the resulting risks to the Sto Group fell by around 6 % from 127 g/ be relatively small and well manageable. km in 2014 to 119 g/km in 2018, while fuel Major environmental damage, for example consumption for the passenger car fleet was due to unintentional leakage of chemicals, is reduced by 7.2 % from an average of 6.9 l/100 avoided through high safety standards. Internal km to 6.4 l/100 km over the same period. In environmental officers at the production sites addition, we are investing in e-vehicles to test ensure that hazards are identified at an early new, environmentally friendly forms of indistage and measures are initiated as quickly as vidual mobility – not least to secure locations possible. in rural areas where there are hardly any alterWe see a general, non-insurable business natives to individual means of transport. For risk in that natural events can influence the business trips by train, Sto employees use the supply of raw materials and production. BahnCard Business which guarantees mobility Identifiable risks in our companies due to the in long-distance trains within Germany using effects of weather are recorded via our risk 100 % green electricity. In order to avoid travmanagement system. In principle, our sales are el-related emissions and costs, we have also subject to weather-related fluctuations in many installed video conference rooms worldwide – markets. This risk is explained in the managein 2018, 33 of these systems were available at ment report. 28 locations and are used regularly. In addition, 73 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental management systems therefore, resource protection are concerned. An important element of corporate environWithout a protection layer, buildings would age mental protection are our established envimuch more quickly and then require refurbishronmental management systems. As at the ment years earlier than anticipated. Additionend of 2018, almost half (15 out of 31) of our ally, our especially hard-wearing coatings help production sites worldwide had been exterprotect the rain screen of insulated buildings nally certified in accordance with international from external influences – an increasingly imstandard ISO 14001. The implemented systems portant factor to consider given the rising numensure a methodical and verifiable group-wide ber of storms and occurrences of heavy rainfall approach and allow the continuous identifiwith accompanying hailstorms worldwide. cation of improvement measures, which is an We see another challenge in the fact that the essential requirement for optimum control of positive contribution of Sto products to climate business operations. and building protection is not recognised and Environmental aspects at ISO 14001-certified valued to the desirable extent and is therefore sites are identified and assessed once a year and not fully exploited. This applies in particular to cover the entire product life cycle, i.e. from rethe German market. Controversial discussions search and development through procurement about the use of external thermal insulation and production to sales and disposal. Concrete systems have arisen as a result of contradicenvironmental goals are derived from this, tory and sometimes much exaggerated media e.g. the reduction of waste through optimised coverage with partially inaccurate information. processes. The result is validated as part of an These cause uncertainty among private building internal audit. The process owner is responsible owners and have led to losses of business. We for implementation. counter this sometimes unobjective reporting Within the scope of the certificates 9001 and with technical and factual information and 14001 (DQS-AZ: 003651), no deviations from education, for example within the framework legal requirements were identified by internal of the 'Dämmen lohnt sich' (Insulation is audits in 2018. No deviations are currently worth it) campaign of Qualitätsgedämmt e.V. reported by the operators. Compliance with the (Association for Quality Insulation), in which we contents of the quality and environmental manare actively involved. We seek a direct dialogue agement systems at the relevant locations, that with our stakeholders such as customers, include occupational health and safety, infraplanners, architects, investors, representatives structure and buildings, security, environmental of environmental associations, and politicians, protection and obligations, has been substantifor example in specialist committees for the ated through safety-related supervision. building industry. Furthermore, we continuously optimise our Environmental and resource protection on products with regard to a better environmenproduct level tal compatibility and health protection. These Aspects of environmental and resource protecinclude the reduction and avoidance of the use tion also pay an important role in our products. of solvents and plasticisers that began in the The majority of Sto products are coatings which 1980s, the consistent encapsulation of biocides are used to protect buildings. This is, in itself, as film protection agents since 2010, and the one of the most important contributions we early switch-over from the now banned flame make towards sustainability as far as durability, retardant HBCD to polymer FR in EPS insulation weather protection, building preservation, and, boards in 2015. 74 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA To avoid biocides as film protection agent, Sto mixtures containing titanium dioxide, but this offers various solutions, in particular our facade would nevertheless have practically unimplepaints StoColor Dryonic and StoColor Lotusan, mentable consequences in the waste sector. which use a biomimetic active principle to enTogether with the relevant associations, we are sure dry facades that are protected against algae working to ensure that the use of titanium dioxand fungi. The avoidance of biocides is also the ide is not seen as a material issue, but as a dust topic of 'preservative-free products'. In 2018, issue. Thus, the protection of health against this played a major role in the area of in-can titanium dioxide dust would be regulated and preservation of indoor products. With the use of guaranteed within the framework of occupain-can preservatives, the industry has succeeded tional health and safety, while the safe use of in ensuring that the majority of paints, varnishes, the substance of titanium dioxide in products and other organic coatings are now water-based would remain label-free. and solvent-free. The preservation prevents the For exteriors, Sto has also been offering Stoproducts from being attacked by bacteria and Color Photosan, an innovative facade coating fungi. In-can preservatives are covered by the that actively counteracts environmental polluBiocidal Products Ordinance and are subject to tion and significantly reduces the formation of the two-stage authorisation procedure described fine dust. In numerous cities, the statutory limits therein. At the same time, the demand has for fine respirable dust are being exceeded more risen for preservative-free products without and more often. This impairs people's quality of compromising the functionality and shelf life of life and health. Our surface-active facade paint the products. In order to meet these demands, automatically and effectively breaks down nitrowe have adapted the product property 'pregen oxides and ozone pollution, and can thus servative-free' for dispersion silicate products. make an important contribution to improving Through our activities in associations, we are at the air quality in cities and municipalities. the same time committed to reaching a standOur activities to make our products easier ardised definition of the term 'free of preservaand better to dismantle and recycle have again tives', and appropriate handling of preservatives formed a focal point in 2018. We regard this in technically demanding product groups. as a major future trend in the construction inFurthermore, a political discussion on the use of titanium dioxide was held in 2018. A procedure for classifying titanium dioxide as a hazardous substance is underway via the European Commission, which was put to a vote within the Commission in 2018. Classifying and labelling all mixtures containing titanium dioxide, including paints and varnishes, as 'presumably carcinogenic by inhalation' would have far-reaching consequences for the marketing, environmental labelling, and disposal of these products and, in our view, appears neither Ewald Rauter, Head of Product reasonable nor justified since titanium dioxide Management at Sto Ges.m.b.H. is not released in powder or dust form by Sto (left), and Managing Director Walter products. By the end of 2018, classification Wiedenbauer are delighted about and labelling are to be restricted to powdery the TRIGOS award. 75 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility dustry. In particular, these activities include the Furthermore, two research projects were further development of our innovative facade launched in 2018 that focus intensively on insulation system StoSystain R, which enables the recycling of building products and are significantly optimised separation, reuse and actively accompanied and supported by Sto. In recycling of the main components by means cooperation with DECHEMA Gesellschaft für of a hook-and-loop fastening technology. In Chemische Technik und Biotechnologie e.V. Austria, this development received three awards (DECHEMA Association for Chemical Techin 2018. nology and Biotechnology), the pilot project Further approaches for increased resource 'KUBA – Nachhaltige Kunststoffwertschöpfungprotection and recycling are the use of skette: Pilotfall Kunststoffe in Bauwirtschaft recyclates, such as waste glass in StoVentec und Gebäuden' (KUBA – Sustainable plastics Carrier Boards and PET in Sto acoustic panels, value chain: Pilot case – Plastics in the building as well as the selection of raw materials and industry and buildings) was initiated. The aim components that can be recycled as easily as of the project is to develop a concept for the possible and fed back into existing circuits. sustainable use of plastics from the building These include, for example, stainless steel sector and for the recycling of a considerable and aluminium in RSC sub-constructions. In part of the carbon in building plastics. The addition, packaging materials and uncontampilot project started in December 2018 and is inated, HBCD-free EPS insulation boards are funded by the Federal Ministry of Education recycled via certified return systems. At the and Research (BMBF). Austrian location in Villach, unused paints, plasThe research project 'RESSOURCE.WDVS – ters, renders, and adhesives from Austria and Ressourceneffiziente Nutzung von qualitätsabroad are returned to the cycle for recycling gesichertem Sekundär-EPS sowie der minerproduction and processed into our own highly alischen Fraktionen aus WDVS' (RESSOURCE. recyclable products – at a consistently high WDVS – Resource-efficient use of quality-­ quality and to the benefit of the environment. assured secondary EPS and mineral fractions Calculations have shown that a reuse in Villach from EWIS) is being carried out in cooperation is more profitable than disposal at the place of with the Institute for Water, Resources and origin despite longer transport routes. Environment at Münster University of Applied We attach special importance to developSciences. The aim of this project is to develop ments in the area of dismantling and recycling a collection and recycling concept for EWIS methods for external wall insulation systems waste which, in addition to developing a with polystyrene. In 2018, the implementasuitable processing technology for separating tion of the solvent-based Solvolyse process EWIS components, also includes optimised (­CreaSolv® process) for the recycling of EPS logistics and reliable separation of EPS qualities insulation materials and other polystyrene (HBCD-free / HBCD-contaminated). products was continued. As part of the ­'PolyStyreneLoop Cooperative', a first plant Information on Principle 10: with a capacity for 3,000 tonnes of EPS waste Anti-Corruption per year is being built in the Netherlands. This All forms of bribery and corruption are unmeans that, in addition to thermal recycling acceptable for us and will not be tolerated. in waste incineration plants, there will also be Further details relating to corporate governance a material recycling option for EPS waste with at Sto can be found in the Corporate GovernHBCD available from 2020. ance Report in the current Annual Report. We 76 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA also require our suppliers to observe the Global The Bright Hill Pre-School in Windhoek/ Compact principles. Namibia is one of the international projects The transparency required for the increasthat Sto has supported for many years. With ingly complex corporate processes is ensured our financial support, training as well as by the Internal Audit department, which also construction measures have been successfully makes allowance for the growing compliance implemented in the past. Around 120 children requirements. are cared for in the pre-school in the mornings In 2017, Sto introduced a reporting channel and learn English in particular in order to be in case of compliance infringements. This able to attend a state school later. The institute reporting channel is publicly accessible via also assists old people and those who need our website. Reliable reporting of compliance help who live in the slums of Windhoek. The infringements and the protection of whistlegrants in 2018 and 2019 are planned primarily blowers against sanctions are indispensable for extension buildings in order to improve the for effective compliance, as they contribute to working conditions for teachers and to increase the reporting, comprehensive investigation and the burglar resistance of the facility. clarification of possible misconduct. The online A charitable project in northeastern Morocco compliance reporting system is a secure way was completed in 2018. We had been commitSto supported a project of the of reporting possible infringements. This way, ted to this project since 2012 and had provided non-profit organisations Operation infringements can be recorded at any time any intensive support with planning, materials and Smile and Article 25: A special day. The system is open to employees, managknow-how. In this region, children are born clinic for the treatment of children ers, customers, suppliers, and other stakeholdwith a cleft lip, jaw or palate to an above-avwith malformations was built in ers alike. It is administered by an independent erage degree. Until then, there had been no the Moroccan city of Oujda. It was operator and its data is stored on protected specialists and no suitable clinics, and not many insulated with a Sto facade system servers located in Germany. The contents of the people can afford the necessary operations in and features Sto products in the reports are processed exclusively through Sto. the capital city. With the support of the Loninteriors. More information is available on the landing page of the reporting system on our website www.sto.de. Part C Assumption of responsibility through voluntary commitment Social commitment, and donations Sto attaches great importance to voluntary initiatives and measures that serve the good of society. They form part of our basic understanding of Corporate Social Responsibility and have a long tradition in the company. In 2018, again many activities took place. We will report on a few of them. 77 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility don-based non-profit organisations Operation annual electricity consumption of more than Smile and Article 25, which help disadvantaged eight two-person households. More than 90 % people and people in need, a new dental clinic of the hardware handed over was re-marketed, was built in the Moroccan city of Oujda to defective devices were dismantled and recycled. treat children born with malformations. For the By returning the equipment to the economic project, Sto provided an external wall insulation cycle, electronic scrap is avoided, and natural system designed to ensure a balanced indoor resources are conserved. In addition, a job for climate and low energy consumption, easy-toa person with a disability was secured through clean high-quality floor coatings, sound-absorbthe equipment donation, as AfB (Work for Peoing acoustic ceilings as well as low-emission ple with a Disability) is an inclusion company. As wall coatings. The building and the clinic were at the end of 2018, the IT company employed completed and put into operation at the end of more than 370 people at 19 locations across 2018. Every year, the facility will provide profesEurope, around 45 % of whom had a disability. sional medical support to over 600 families in The partnership with Sto brings the inclusion the poverty-stricken region. company one step closer to its vision of creating Since 2017, we have been in a special so500 long-term jobs for people with disabilities. cio-ecological commitment with the non-profit integration company AfB gGmbH, which specialises in reprocessing discarded IT hardware and returning it into the use cycle. In 2018, over 100 of Sto's decommissioned IT devices, On behalf of the entire company, mainly PCs, notebooks, and flat screens, made Marvin Gatti and Jochen Rohrer a contribution to environmental protection and from Sto's IT department accept inclusion. The cooperation between Sto and the thanks and the certificate from AfB prevented 6,961 kg of iron equivalents, Tobias Negwer and Maximilian 6,071 kg of CO2 equivalents, and 18,003 kWh Blum from AfB. of energy. The latter corresponds to the average As in the previous year, Sto's annual social project carried out by trainees at the Stühlingen location benefited the association Jung & Alt Mauchen/Germany. This association had planned to build a forest and nature playground in 2018 and was looking for helping hands. For four days, the Sto trainees transformed an overgrown property into a colourful forest playground. Since 2012, the non-profit association has been committed to helping people in the 78 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA region to make life easier for the older generation in their familiar rural environment. The association is also active in infant care. Other Sto companies also place great emphasis on social commitment and embrace it in The Sto Foundation – future through edumany different ways. In the USA, for example, cation Sto Corp. donated a total of USD 60,000 to Under the motto 'Wissen hilft' (Knowledge charitable institutions. In addition, numerous helps), the Sto Foundation has been supporting smaller fundraising campaigns took place in a range of different national and international 2018. For example, the Austrian Sto Ges.m.b.H. charitable projects since 2005. They support held a fundraising campaign for people in need. young talent in the industry sectors that are Of particular importance to Sto is the promoparticularly important to Sto: The young gention of young talent. The interactive travelling eration of painters, decorators, and plasterers, exhibition 'Green up your future', which is as well as those studying architecture and dedicated to 'green jobs' for young people, is civil engineering. The aim of the foundation funded by the Federal Ministry for the Enviis to live up to Sto SE & Co. KGaA's motto of ronment, Nature Conservation, Construction 'Building with conscience.', and it invests in and Nuclear Safety, and the European Social the craftsmanship and academic training of Fund. It is making stops in several German cities tomorrow's experts. The objective of all these between 2017 and 2019. In this context, four measures is to raise the awareness of construcKnowledge helps: at the second young Sto colleagues describe how their work tion companies and workers for environmen'Deutsche Fachschultage' (German is connected to the topics of biomimetics and tally compatible and human design of living Technical School Days) in Wupsustainability. Many short and clever videos spaces. Young individuals who require personal pertal/Germany, apprentices and show the user what this looks like in practice. or financial support and who distinguish themvocational teachers gained helpful For example, these videos demonstrate the selves through their outstanding performance, insights into various routes to Lotus effect, the StoColor Dryonic product and ambition, and remarkable commitment receive becoming qualified as a painter and the monitoring of the energy consumption of financial support. decorator. our new office building using state-of-the-art technology. With this they want to motivate others to take up a profession in the 'green area' and to learn from nature. 79 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility The funding amount was upped again with The international summer schools have effect from 1 January 2018, as the need and been supporting students with projects where demand for support have increased sharply in they do the building themselves all around the recent years. The families of the ordinary shareworld for a long time now. These projects help holders, who contribute to the Foundation’s students learn to develop awareness of the funding pot every year, have each increased different cultural, social, and energy-related the sum they dedicate to the Sto Foundation in requirements across the globe. The focus is equal shares to a total amount of EUR 300,000 also on aspects of sustainable planning and per year. The responsible parties already had a construction. In Lima/Peru, for example, a total annual budget of EUR 900,000 at their workshop for architecture students provided disposal for 2018 to finance national – and the basis for the design and realisation of a increasingly international – funding measures. public dining hall with a day-care centre. The This move serves as yet another proof of how community centre being created is making close the Stotmeister families feel to the coman important contribution to enhancing the pany and the Foundation and how commitdistrict. Additional summer schools in Germany ted they are to both. The number of projects also set up meeting and contact centres for funded increased from 43 in 2017 to 53 in the various parts of the community. year under review. The November Reihe (November Talks) was held for the thirteenth time with great success in the architecture funding area at six European universities. Once again, top-class project reports ensured the auditoriums were full, The thirteenth edition of the with animated discussions between students 'November Reihe' (November Talks) and world renowned speakers such as Tatiana with renowned speakers once Bilbao and Stefan Behling. The numerous again ensured the auditoriums presentations on contemporary architecture were packed, providing an open contribute towards preparing future architects exchange between the lecturing for possible work areas and for professional life architects and the students. and construction practices. International summer schools help student of architecture understand the different cultural, social, and energy-related requirements in relation to design and construction all around the world. In Lima/Peru, developing the design of a community centre made it possible to set the foundation for sustainable development of the 'Alto Peru' quarter. In the funding area for craftsmanship, the best of the best entered the latest round of the competition 'You've got what it takes!' which has been running since 2012 and where more 80 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA than 500 painter and decorator apprentices have been awarded boxes with high-quality tools, and iPads. Not only German and Austrian apprentices won awards – for the first time this year, excellent painter and decorator apprentices from South Tyrol in Italy were also rewarded for their hard work. For the purposes of the education pyramid of the Sto Foundation, another successful project has been continued: the second 'Deutsche Fachschultage' (German Technical School Days) at the Bergisch University of Wuppertal provided helpful insights into various routes to becoming qualified as a painter and decorator. Under the motto 'Handwerk weiterdenken' (Taking craftsmanship further), around 150 apprentices and vocational teachers came to Wuppertal/Germany. In workshops with topics In 2018, boxes equipped with high-quality tools were awarded for the first time in the best of such as project and process management, qualthe best competition 'You've got what it takes!' in South Tyrol/Italy. ity management, or further education options, they acquired information about potential career paths. The seven state vocational schools for 'Colour and design' who had extended invitations to the event were also provided with important information on the current challenges the trade is facing. More information on the numerous funding activities being carried out are available at the website www.sto-stiftung.de in the form of text, images, and videos. 81 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility 82 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) · Statement of profit and loss · Statement of comprehensive income · Statement of financial situation · Statement of changes in equity · Cash flow statement · Notes 83 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Consolidated statement of profit and loss for 2018 Notes 2018 2017 EUR EUR K 1. Revenue (1) 1,332,369,617.58 1,277,397 2. Changes in product inventories –199,069.47 –278 3. Other internally generated assets capitalised (2) 145,610.47 68 Total revenues 1,332,316,158.58 1,277,187 4. Other operating income (3) 22,925,746.00 27,285 5. Cost of material (4) –615,930,964.64 –570,602 6. Personnel expenditure (5) –352,261,642.49 –341,800 7. Other operating expenses (6) –273,853,074.09 –274,753 EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, 113,196,223.36 117,317 depreciation and amortisation) 8. Depreciation and amortisation of intangible assets as well as property, plant and equipment (7) –31,298,685.80 –33,345 EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) 81,897,537.56 83,972 9. Earnings from assets accounted for using the equity method (8) 118,210.63 0 10. Interest and similar income (9) 726,005.81 726 11. Interest and similar expenditure (9) –2,575,396.96 –2,536 EBT (earnings before taxes) 80,166,357.04 82,162 12. Taxes on income and earnings (10) –26,356,031.61 –26,338 EAT (earnings after taxes) 53,810,325.43 55,824 of which: Share of minority interests 144,312.20 293 Share of earnings attributable to the shareholders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 53,666,013.23 55,531 Earnings per share basic/diluted in EUR Limited ordinary share (11) 8.33 8.62 Limited preference share (11) 8.39 8.68 84 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2018 2018 2017 EUR EUR K EAT (earnings after taxes) 53,810,325.43 55,824 Currency translation: Currency translation differences –799,174.80 –6,842 Earnings to be reclassified in the statement of profit and loss in future periods –799,174.80 –6,842 Revaluation of post-employment benefit obligations Gains/losses from the revaluation of defined benefit plans 2,270,697.21 –4,255 Deferred taxes –491,775.31 1,138 Earnings not to be reclassified in the statement of profit and loss in future periods* 1,778,921.90 –3,117 Other earnings after taxes 979,747.10 –9,959 Total comprehensive earnings after taxes 54,790,072.53 45,865 of which: Share of minority interests 186,809.99 309 Share of earnings attributable to the shareholders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 54,603,262.54 45,555 *For further explanations concerning equity, see Note (20). For further explanations on the revaluation of post-employment benefit obligations, see Note (22). 85 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018 Assets Notes 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 EUR EUR K A. Non-current assets I. Intangible assets (12) 47,768,128.67 49,087 II. Property, plant, and equipment (13) 254,848,007.30 254,297 III. Financial assets accounted for using the equity method (14) 11,138,210.63 11,020 Fixed assets 313,754,346.60 314,404 IV. Non-current trade receivables (16) 1,068,668.70 1,208 V. Non-current financial assets (17) 500,544.60 1,175 VI. Other non-current assets (18) 334,930.40 416 VII. Deferred tax assets (10) 20,540,920.54 19,580 Other non-current assets 22,445,064.24 22,379 Total non-current assets 336,199,410.84 336,783 B. Current assets I. Inventories (15) 97,863,118.48 96,740 II. Current trade receivables (16) 134,701,624.72 124,978 III. Current income tax receivables 2,577,333.16 2,552 IV. Current financial assets (17) 83,257,458.31 76,454 V. Other current assets (18) 24,530,949.65 27,668 VI. Cash and cash equivalents (19) 105,294,493.07 84,422 Total current assets 448,224,977.39 412,814 Total assets 784,424,388.23 749,597 86 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Liabilities Notes 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 EUR EUR K A. Equity I. Subscribed capital (20) 17,556,480.00 17,556 II. Capital reserves (20) 57,803,590.41 57,804 III. Revenue reserves and other reserves (20) 394,546,765.99 367,007 Share attributable to the shareholders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 469,906,836.40 442,367 IV. Share of minority interests (21) 7,638,336.97 7,777 Total equity 477,545,173.37 450,144 B. Non-current provisions and liabilities I. Provisions for post-employment benefits and similar liabilities (22) 99,266,936.60 99,094 II. Other non-current provisions (23) 14,555,083.17 14,625 III. Non-current borrowings (24) 3,344,538.22 2,032 IV. Non-current trade payables (25) 151,000.00 355 V. Non-current financial liabilities (26) 283,000.00 316 VI. Other non-current liabilities (27) 9,580.71 9 VII. Deferred tax liabilities (10) 2,099,097.63 2,289 Total non-current provisions and liabilities 119,709,236.33 118,720 C. Current provisions and liabilities I. Other current provisions (23) 45,468,816.77 48,887 II. Current borrowings (24) 11,459,450.36 9,757 III. Trade payables (25) 47,154,982.33 46,035 IV. Current income tax liabilities 6,135,170.75 2,240 V. Current financial liabilities (26) 32,581,467.26 28,472 VI. Other current liabilities (27) 44,370,091.06 45,342 Total current provisions and liabilities 187,169,978.53 180,733 Total debt capital 306,879,214.86 299,453 Total assets 784,424,388.23 749,597 87 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Statement of changes in equity as at 31 December 2018 in EUR K Equity attributable to the shares Subscribed Capital Revenue Currency Reserve for capital reserves reserves translation pensions reserve Notes (20) (20) (20) (20) (20/22) As at 1 January 2017 17,556 57,804 380,402 11,521 –26,380 EAT (earnings after taxes) 0 0 55,531 0 0 Other earnings (after taxes) 0 0 0 –6,842 –3,133 Total comprehensive earnings 0 0 55,531 –6,842 –3,133 Dividend payout 0 0 –21,037 0 0 Deposit by associates 0 0 0 0 0 Minority shares from corporate acquisition 0 0 0 0 0 As at 31 December 2017 17,556 57,804 414,896 4,679 –29,513 Effects from the first-time application of IFRS 9 as of 1 January 2018 0 0 –1,015 0 0 Equity as at 1 January 2018 after first-time application effect 17,556 57,804 413,882 4,679 –29,513 As at 1 January 2018 17,556 57,804 413,882 4,679 –29,513 EAT (earnings after taxes) 0 0 53,666 0 0 Other earnings (after taxes) 0 0 0 –799 1,736 Total comprehensive earnings 0 0 53,666 –799 1,736 Dividend payout 0 0 –26,049 0 0 Deposit by associates 0 0 0 0 0 Minority shares from corporate acquisition 0 0 0 0 0 As at 31 December 2018 17,556 57,804 441,499 3,880 –27,777 For further details on equity, see Note (20) et seq. 88 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA of the parent company Share of Total minority equity Treasury Total interests stock (20) (21) –23,055 417,848 7,373 425,220 0 55,531 293 55,824 0 –9,975 16 –9,959 0 45,556 309 45,865 0 –21,037 0 –21,037 0 0 96 96 0 0 0 0 –23,055 442,367 7,778 450,144 0 –1,015 11 –1,004 –23,055 441,353 7,789 449,140 –23,055 441,353 7,789 449,140 0 53,666 144 53,810 0 937 43 980 0 54,603 187 54,790 0 –26,049 –337 –26,386 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 –23,055 469,907 7,639 477,545 89 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Consolidated cash flow statement for 2018 in EUR K Notes 2018 2017 1. Cash flow from operating activities Earnings before income taxes 80,166 82,162 Depreciation of fixed assets (7) 31,299 33,346 Earnings from disposal of fixed assets 458 –1,087 Earnings from valuation using the equity method (8) –118 0 Net interest income (9) 1,849 1,809 Income taxes paid –24,642 –21,644 Change in provisions –1,046 7,457 Change in net current assets –7,282 –15,565 Cash flow from operating activities 80,684 86,478 2. Cash flow from investment activities Investments in property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets (12/13) –31,966 –32,443 Payments for the acquisition of investments consolidated using the equity method 0 –11,020 Payments received from other disposal of intangible assets and plant, property and equipment 540 2,196 Interest payment received 522 579 Disbursements for financial investments –37,926 –54,000 Deposits from financial investments 32,964 49,723 Cash flow from investment activities –35,866 –44,965 3. Cash flow from financing activities Deposits from minority shareholders 0 96 Taking out of non-current borrowings (24/31) 2,500 1,000 Payments for non-current borrowings (24/31) –61 –1,268 Payments for current borrowings (24/31) –3,043 –5,739 Payments received for current borrowings (24/31) 3,512 2,880 Dividend payout (11) –26,386 –21,037 Payments of interest –714 –784 Cash flow from financing activities –24,192 –24,852 Changes in cash and cash equivalents due to changes in exchange rates and in impairments due to expected losses on cash and cash equivalents in accordance with IFRS 9 246 –2,310 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period (19) 84,422 70,071 Change in cash and cash equivalents 20,872 14,351 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of period* (19) 105,294 84,422 The cash flow statement is explained in Note (29). *Cash and cash equivalents at the end of period equal the item Cash and cash equivalents shown in the balance sheet. 90 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Notes to the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2018 General information SE & Co. KGaA on 17 April 2019 for approval at the Supervisory Board meeting on 25 April 1. Information on the company 2019. Sto SE & Co. KGaA and its connected, de­ pendent Group companies manufacture and 2. Basis of preparation market products, components, and functional Sto SE & Co. KGaA has prepared its consol­ systems – energetic and other – which are used idated annual financial statement of the Sto in and on buildings and consist of material Group for the year 2018 in accordance with components and/or coatings. Services aimed the International Financial Reporting Standards at maintaining the value of buildings also form (IFRS) as applicable in the European Union and an integral part of the company’s scope of the interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpre­ product. tations Committee (IFRIC). The supplemental commercial regulations according to Section The only shareholder of the personally liable 315e of the HGB were also applied. partner STO Management SE, Stühlingen/ Germany, is Stotmeister Beteiligungs GmbH, All standards and interpretations subject to Stühlingen/Germany, in which the Stotmeister compulsory application in fiscal 2018 were families have bundled their assigned Sto SE & observed. Co. KGaA limited ordinary shares. Effects of new accounting standards Stotmeister Beteiligungs GmbH is the major­ The accounting principles applied remained ity shareholder and ultimate parent company largely unchanged from the previous year. The of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. The address of the following standards and interpretations, which registered offices of Sto SE & Co. KGaA is were applied for the first time in 2018, are an Ehrenbachstraße 1, 79780 Stühlingen/Ger­ exception. many. It has been entered in the trade register of the district court of Freiburg under number Standards/ Title Can be applied Effects on Sto HRB 711236. Sto SE & Co. KGaA is a listed Interpretations from company. Its limited preference shares are listed Changes to IAS 40 Transfers of Investment 1 January 2018 Not applicable in the ‘Regulated Market’ segment for official Property trading on the stock exchange operated by Changes to IFRS 2 Classification and valuation 1 January 2018 Not applicable Deutsche Börse AG, Frankfurt am Main/Ger­ of share-based payment many as well as Börse Stuttgart AG, Stuttgart/ transactions Germany. The other Group companies are engaged in the same business sector as Sto SE Changes to IFRS 4 Application of IFRS 9 with 1 January 2018 Not applicable & Co. KGaA. IFRS 4 IFRS 9 Financial instruments 1 January 2018 Of importance The consolidated annual financial statement and management report of Sto SE & Co. KGaA IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with 1 January 2018 Insignificant was drawn up on 12 April 2019 by the person­ Customers ally liable partner STO Management SE and will Changes to IFRS 15 Clarifications to IFRS 15 1 January 2018 Insignificant be forwarded to the Supervisory Board of Sto 91 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Standards/ Title Can be applied Effects on Sto First-time application effects of IFRS 9 on Interpretations from equity Improvements to Amendments to various IFRS 1 January 2018 Insignificant in EUR K Effects on equity IFRS (2014-2016) (IFRS 1, IFRS 12, and IAS 1) IFRIC 22 Advance payments in con1 January 2018 Insignificant Equity as at 31 December 2017 nection with foreign currency (before the introduction of IFRS 9) 450,144 transactions Changes in cash and cash equivalents -194 Changes in financial investments -165 The IFRS 9 introduces a uniform approach to Changes in other financial assets -14 the classification and valuation of financial assets and financial liabilities. As a basis, the Changes in value adjustments to trade receivables -1,032 standard refers to the cash flow characteristics and the business model according to which Deferred taxes on first-time these are managed. In addition, the standard application effects 401 provides for a new impairment model based Equity as at 1 January 2018 on expected loan defaults compared to loan (after the introduction of IFRS 9) 449,140 defaults that have already occurred. IFRS 9 also contains new rules on the application of hedge IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework accounting, which the Group does not apply for determining whether and to what extent in 2018 as there are no derivative financial in­ and at what point in time sales revenue is rec­ struments that meet the criteria for an effective ognised. It replaces existing guidelines on the hedging relationship. recognition of sales revenue, including IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts, and IFRS 9 is applied for the first time in accordance IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes. with the modified retrospective method without adjusting the figures from the previous year. The standard uses a ‘five-step model’ for These amendments result in changes to the turnover recognition according to which the Group’s earnings, financial and asset situation company must first identify whether it has a at the first-time application effective 1 January contract with a customer as defined in the 2018. The first-time application effects of IFRS 9 standard. The company’s performance obli­ on equity are shown on the following pages. gations explicitly or implicitly defined in the contract must be identified separately and the transaction price to be received by the customer must be allocated to those performance obliga­ tions. When control is transferred, sales revenue is recognised either on the basis of a specific point in time or of a time period. The stipulations of IFRS 15 are applied as of 1 January 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. This did not have any material effect on the opening balance sheet as of 1 Janu­ ary 2018. In accordance with the transitional 92 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA provisions of the standard, the comparative were not applied in the reporting period be­ year-on-year figures have not been adjusted. In cause either recognition by the EU is still pend­ April 2016, the IASB issued clarifying amend­ ing or the application was not yet mandatory. ments to IFRS 15, which are also mandatory for fiscal years beginning on or after 1 January The Group intends to apply all standards at the 2018. In addition, the Group makes use of the time of their first mandatory application. simplification regulation of IFRS 15.C7 and IFRS 15.C5(b) and does not revaluate contracts that Standards/ Title Can be applied Effects on Sto were fulfilled or amended before the date of Interpretations from first-time application of 1 January 2018. Changes to IAS 19 Plan change, curtailment or 1 January 2019 Insignificant settlement IFRS 15 generally results in new quantitative Changes to IAS 28 Long-term interests in associ1 January 2019 Insignificant and qualitative disclosures in the notes. How­ ates and joint ventures ever, the application did not identify any mate­ rial changes with regard to the point in time or Changes to IFRS 9 Early repayment options with 1 January 2019 Insignificant negative early repayment the sales revenue amounts, and therefore did penalty not have a material impact on the statement of profit and loss. In the balance sheet, IFRS 15 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 Significant generally requires separate recognition of con­ Improvements to Amendments to various IFRS 1 January 2019 Insignificant tract assets and contract liabilities, which was IFRS 2015 2017 (IFRS 1, IFRS 11, IAS 12, and waived due to immateriality. As of 1 January IAS 23) 2018, no contract assets had to be recognised IFRIC 23 Tax risk items from income 1 January 2019 Insignificant for service obligations rendered for which no taxes unconditional payment claim exists, or for costs incurred in initiating or fulfilling the contract. In January 2016, the IASB published the IFRS 16 Leases, which replaces the previous IAS 17 In addition, there were no material changes Leases as well as related Interpretations. The to the Group’s earnings, financial and assets IFRS 16 eliminates the previous classification situation at the time of first-time application on of leases by lessees as operating and finance 1 January 2018. leases. Instead, IFRS 16 introduces a uniform lessee accounting model under which, at the A more detailed explanation of the effects on inception of the lease, lessees are required to the consolidated annual financial statement due recognise a liability equal to the present value the amendments to the standards can be found of the lease payments to be made, the lease under 6. Presentation of the major accounting liability and an asset for the right granted to use and valuation policies. the leased asset during the lease term, the right to use the leased asset. 3. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and Interpretations (IFRIC) As a result, operating leases previously rec­ issued but not yet mandatory ognised as expenses will in future have to be recognised in the balance sheet. This is largely Accounting standards not applied early comparable with the current recognition of The IASB and IFRIC have issued additional finance leases. However, the new standard standards and interpretations. These regulations contains two exceptions for lessees from the 93 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) obligation to recognise the leasing contracts in IFRIC 23 Uncertainties over Income Tax Treat­ the balance sheet. Leases where the underlying ments was issued by the IASB in May 2017. The asset has a low value, and short-term leases interpretation clarifies the requirements for the with a term of up to twelve months, can con­ recognition and valuation of uncertain income tinue to be recognised as expense. tax items. In assessing the uncertainty, a com­ pany has to evaluate whether it is likely that IFRS 16 is to be applied for fiscal years begin­ the tax jurisdiction will accept the income tax ning on or after 1 January 2019. The Group treatment. The new regulations must be applied will apply the standard retrospectively in a for fiscal years beginning from 1 January 2019. modified manner for the fiscal year beginning The Group is currently assessing which possible on 1 January 2019, i.e. the previous year’s fig­ effects the application might have on the future ures will not be adjusted. The Group will apply assets, financial and earnings situation of the this standard to contracts previously classified Group. as leases in accordance with IAS 17 and IFRIC 4. The new standard will not apply to contracts The amendments to IAS 19 relate to the ac­ that had not previously been regarded as leases counting of plan adjustments, curtailments or according to IAS 17 and IFRIC 4. In addition, it settlements made during a reporting period. is planned to make extensive use of the simplifi­ These amendments stipulate that current ser­ cation regulations existing under IFRS 16 in the vice costs and net interests be recalculated for transition from IAS 17 to IFRS 16. the remaining period if there is a modification, curtailment or settlement of a pension plan dur­ The changeover effect mainly affects leased real ing the year. This recalculation must be based estate and vehicles, for which no exemption on the actuarial assumptions valid at the time can be claimed for low-value and short-term of the event. The amendments to IAS 19 must leases. be applied to plan adjustments, curtailments or settlements that occur at or after the beginning With the application of IFRS 16, straight-line of the first fiscal year beginning on or after expenses for operating leases are replaced by 1 January 2019. Early adoption is permitted. depreciation expenses for the rights of use They only apply to plan adjustments, curtail­ and interest expenses for the leasing liabilities. ments or settlements that will be made by the An increase in fixed assets and borrowings of Group in the future. The Group does not expect around EUR 70 million as well as an increase the application to have substantial effects on in depreciation and interest expense on the the assets, financial and earnings situation. one hand, and a decrease in other operat­ ing expenses on the other are expected. This In October 2018, the IASB issued the amend­ will result in an increase in EBITDA of around ment standard ‘Definition of Significant EUR 20 million and in an increase in EBIT of less Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8’ in order to than EUR one million as well as in a lower ROCE sharpen the definition of materiality in the IFRS figure and a decrease in the equity ratio of and to harmonise the various definitions in the approx. five percentage points. In the cash flow framework and in the standards. Accordingly, statement, the changed recognition of leasing information is material when it can reasonably expenses will lead to a reduction in cash flow be expected that its omission, misstatement or from financing activities and an improvement in concealment will affect the decisions of primary cash flow from operating activities. users of general purpose financial statements. 94 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The amendment is mandatory for fiscal years shares are held, control was assured via further beginning from 1 January 2020. The Group contractual agreements. This only applied to Sto plans to analyse the effects of an application Gulf Building Material LLC., Dubai/UAE. on net assets, financial and earnings situation. In the case of joint ventures, Sto can exercise The following new regulations have not yet joint control over another company together with been approved by the EU: at least one other party via contractual agree­ ments. Joint control is the case when decisions • Amendment of the references to the frameon the relevant activities of the company must be work concept taken unanimously. Depending on the rights and • Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8 Definition obligations of the parties, joint agreements are of materiality either joint operations or joint ventures. In joint • Changes to IFRS 3 Business Combinations: operations, the controlling parties have direct Definition of a business rights to the assets and obligations to the liabili­ • IFRS 17 – Insurance contracts ties. In the case of joint ventures, the parties with joint control have a share in the net assets of the The Group has not yet started with the imple­ company by virtue of their status as partners. mentation. These changes are not expected to have substantial effects on the assets, financial In the case of associated companies, Sto SE & and earnings situation. Co. KGaA has a material influence on the busi­ ness and finance policy. This is usually the case 4. Companies consolidated when between 20 % to 50 % of the voting The consolidated annual financial statement rights in a company are held. includes Sto SE & Co. KGaA, the national and foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures, and associ­ The companies in which the capital share was ated companies. less than 50 % and which were not controlled, are consolidated using the equity method. This When evaluating the companies consolidated, applies to Inotec GmbH, JONAS GmbH, and the joint control, or the type of joint control, JONAS Farbenwerke GmbH & Co. KG. JONAS no significant evaluations or assumptions were GmbH and JONAS Farbenwerke GmbH & Co. necessary, because the allocation was clear. KG are held as an indirect investment via Sto BT GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany. In the case of subsidiaries, Sto SE & Co. KGaA is able to exercise a controlling influence as de­ The Slovak STOMIX Slovensko s.r.o was fined in IFRS 10. Control as defined in IFRS 10 renamed Sto Slovensko s.r.o, the Norwegian exists when an investor has exposure or rights Hesselberg Bygg AS was renamed StoCretec to variable returns from its involvement with Flooring AS, and the German Sto BTJ GmbH the investee and has the ability to use its power was renamed Sto Building Solutions GmbH. over the investee to affect the amount of the investee’s returns. In the present consolidated The companies consolidated are disclosed in annual financial statement, this is the case for Note (38) List of subsidiaries and investments. shareholdings of more than 50 % without The following fully-consolidated German com­ exception. In the case of fully consolidated panies organised as limited-liability entities or companies where less than 50 % of capital as partnerships according to Section 264a of 95 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) the HGB have fulfilled the conditions of Section the total cost method. The fiscal year is identical 264 (3) and/or Section 264b of the German to the calendar year. The consolidated financial Commercial Code (HGB) in terms of preparation statements were prepared in euros. Unless oth­ facilitation options and disclosure and make use erwise indicated, all values were rounded up or of the exemption rules: down in line with commercial rounding to the nearest thousand euros (EUR K). • StoCretec GmbH, Kriftel/Germany • Innolation GmbH, Lauingen/Germany The consolidated financial statements were • Sto BT GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany generally prepared according to the cost-of-ac­ • Verotec GmbH, Lauingen/Germany quisition principle, except for derivatives and • VeroStone GmbH, Eichstätt/Germany assets measured at fair value. • Gefro Verwaltungs-GmbH & Co. KG, Stühlingen/Germany The major accounting and valuation policies • Südwest Lacke + Farben GmbH & Co. KG, applied in preparing the consolidated financial Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany statements are as follows: • Ströher Produktions GmbH & Co. KG, Dillenburg/Germany Currency translation Monetary items (in particular, cash and cash 5. Consolidation principles equivalents, receivables and liabilities) are first The assets and liabilities of the domestic and translated at the rate prevailing on the trans­ non-domestic companies included in the con­ action date and then measured at fair value solidated financial statements are recognised through profit and loss as at the reference date. and measured in accordance with the uniform Non-monetary items recognised at historical accounting methods. cost of acquisition or production are translated using the rate at the time of the transaction. Receivables and liabilities as well as expenses and income between consolidated companies The financial statements of the consolidated are netted. Inventories and transactions are ad­ companies prepared in a foreign currency are justed for interim results. The income tax conse­ translated in accordance with the functional quences of consolidation are taken into account currency principle using the modified closing through the recognition of deferred taxes. rate method in accordance with IAS 21. The shares in a joint venture or an associated The functional currency is defined as the na­ company accounted for using the equity tional currency in question as the companies method are valuated according to the same perform their business independently in finan­ accounting and valuation policies which are cial, economic and organisational terms. also applied to the determination of the share of equity of fully-consolidated companies. Assets and liabilities were translated at the clos­ ing rate, and expenses and income at annual av­ 6. Presentation of the major accounting erage rates. Equity is translated at historic rates. and valuation policies Any resultant currency translation differences The current/non-current distinction is observed are recognised separately under equity and with in the recognition of assets and liabilities. The no effect on profit and loss until such time as statement of profit and loss was prepared using the subsidiary in question is deconsolidated. 96 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The exchange rates used for currency translation are set out in the following table: Closing rate on Average annual rate EUR 1 = 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 2018 2017 AED United Arab Emirates 4.2039 4.4119 4.3270 4.1845 BRL Brazil 4.4440 3.9729 4.3085 3.6054 CAD Canada 1.5605 1.5039 1.5294 1.4647 CHF Switzerland 1.1269 1.1702 1.1550 1.1117 CLP Chile 794.3524 738.6330 758.3645 737.7068 CNY People’s Republic of China 7.8751 7.8044 7.8081 7.6290 COP Columbia 3,717.0885 3,584.3845 3,502.5432 3,379.2622 CZK Czech Republic 25.7250 25.5400 25.6470 26.3260 DKK Denmark 7.4673 7.4449 7.4532 7.4386 GBP Great Britain 0.8945 0.8872 0.8847 0.8767 HUF Hungary 320.9800 310.1400 318.8900 309.1900 MXN Mexico 22.4921 23.6612 22.7054 21.3286 MYR Malaysia 4.7317 4.8536 4.7634 4.8527 NOK Norway 9.9483 9.8403 9.5975 9.3270 PAB Panama 1.1446 1.2010 1.1780 1.1393 PLN Poland 4.3000 4.1709 4.2615 4.2570 RUB Russia 79.4605 68.8668 74.0416 65.9383 SEK Sweden 10.2548 9.8438 10.2583 9.6351 SGD Singapore 1.5591 1.6024 1.5926 1.5588 TRY Turkey 6.0588 4.5464 5.7077 4.1206 USD USA 1.1450 1.1993 1.1810 1.1297 Business combinations Costs incurred within the scope of a business Business combinations are accounted for using combination are recognised as expenses and the acquisition method. The cost of acquisition reported as administrative costs. An agreed of a company comprises the sum total of the contingent consideration is recognised at fair consideration transferred, measured at fair value at the time of acquisition. Any subse­ value at the time of acquisition, and of the quent changes to the fair value representing shares without a controlling influence (minority an asset or a liability are either recognised in interests) on the company acquired. The pur­ the statement of profit and loss or in other chaser valuates the shares of minority interests earnings. A contingent consideration classified of the acquired company, either at fair value or as equity is not remeasured, and its settlement at the corresponding share of the identifiable at a later date is accounted for in equity. net assets of the company acquired. 97 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) When the Sto Group acquires a company, the mum lease payments or the activated fair value classification and designation of financial assets of the assets which is depreciated on a straightand liabilities in accordance with the contrac­ line basis according to the economic useful tual terms and conditions, and the economic life. The obligations arising from future lease circumstances and conditions are assessed. payments are carried as discounted liabilities. Goodwill is measured at cost of acquisition on In the case of operating leases, the lease pay­ first-time recognition, calculated at the surplus ments are recognised as expenses directly in the of the consideration transferred and the shares statement of profit and loss. without a controlling influence on the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Such goodwill Intangible assets is submitted to testing once a year or as needed Goodwill is not amortised on a scheduled to determine any impairment in its value basis, but only on a non-scheduled basis as a (impairment-only approach). If any impairment result of a lack of recoverability based on an in the value of the goodwill is established, the impairment test. For this, the carrying amount corresponding impairment is recognised accord­ of the cash-generating unit (CGU), including ingly. If the consideration transferred is below the allocated goodwill, is compared with the the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary recoverable amount of the CGU. A CGU is acquired, then the difference is recognised with the smallest identifiable group of assets that an impact on profit and loss in equity. generates cash inflows that are independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups In the case of successive corporate acquisitions, of assets. The recoverable amount of a CGU is the previously acquired equity share is remeas­ the higher value of fair value less cost of sale ured at fair value at the time of acquisition and and the value in use. At the balance sheet date, the result is recognised through profit and loss. the recoverable amount was determined on the basis of the value in use. Leases The assessment as to whether a contract in­ If goodwill is found to be impaired, its value cludes a lease is made at the time of contract­ is adjusted accordingly. If the impairment is ing on the basis of the economic content of greater than the value of the goodwill, the ex­ the contract and calls for an evaluation as to cess amount is distributed across the remaining whether settlement of the contractual agree­ assets of the CGU. ment is dependent on the use of a certain asset and whether the contract grants a right to use For the CGUs Sto, Beissier S.A.S, and Ströher, the asset, even if this is not explicitly specified. significant due to their existing goodwill, fore­ casts were made on the basis of external factors Leased property, plant, and equipment satisfy with regard to the economic situation in order the conditions for classification as finance leases to determine turnover and gross income. The in accordance with IAS 17 provided that all the main forecasts based on internal factors were in opportunities and risks incidental to ownership each case related to empirical values regarding of these assets have been transferred to the les­ the 5-year plan, in particular with regard to see. In this case, property, plant, and equipment steady turnover growth in the single-digit per­ in question are recognised at the lower value, centage range due to growing sales potential, which is either the present value from the mini­ a constant gross profit, a constant discount in­ 98 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA terest rate per company and a 1 % growth rate Research and development costs for the period beyond the planning horizon. Research and development costs were recog­ nised with an impact on profit and loss since A 5-year plan as of 31 December 2018 for capitalisation of the development costs in the the fiscal years 2019 to 2023 of the respective form of Intangible assets is not possible under CGUs is the starting point for determining the IAS 38 as the requirements are not met. The value based on the best possible information main tasks of the research and development available internally and externally. This is based department are the identification of alternative on the expectation of a positive development of materials, products, and processes. demand for thermal insulation as well as on the planning of maintenance investments. Property, plant, and equipment Property, plant, and equipment are recognised A growth rate of 1.0 % was assumed for all at acquisition or production cost less cumula­ CGUs, as in the previous year, since this suffi­ tive depreciation and cumulative impairment ciently reflects the uncertainty which increases losses. during this time period. The cost of acquiring property, plant, and For discounting the cash flows, the weighted equipment comprises the purchase price average cost of capital after taxes (WACC after including import duties and non-refundable taxes) is used as the discount factor, which purchase taxes as well as any costs directly at­ differs by country-specific variations. Based on tributable to bringing the asset to the location the respective WACC after taxes, the implicit and condition necessary for it to be capable of WACC before taxes is determined by iteration. operating. The WACC takes into account both equity costs, which include a risk-free basic interest rate, the The production costs for property, plant and respective country risk, and the entrepreneurial equipment comprises the expenditure incurred risk (market risk premium multiplied by a specific in utilising goods and services for such a beta factor), as well as borrowing costs. The production or manufacture. In addition to the discount rates before taxes were between 7.8 % directly attributable costs, this also includes a and 12.1 % (previous year: 5.8 % to 11.3 %). reasonable share of the necessary overheads. The following pre-tax interest rates were used Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line for CGUs which are key CGUs in the sense of basis using the following useful lives: goodwill: Sto: 9.3 % (previous year: 7.3 %), Beissier S.A.S.: 10.9 % (previous year: 8.3 %), Useful lives Ströher: 9.3 % (previous year: 7.3 %). Buildings 20 to 30 years Management believes that no expected change Fixtures to land 8 to 12 years in key assumptions will cause the carrying Technical equipment and machinery 8 to 10 years amount of the CGU to exceed its recoverable Other plant, operating and business amount. equipment 3 to 10 years The essential goodwill items are listed in The useful lives and residual carrying amounts Note (12). are audited regularly. 99 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Maintenance and small repairs are recognised a customary transaction less the incurred costs, through profit and loss. whereas the value in use is the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected from Plants under construction are assigned to prop­ the use of an asset plus the remaining value erty, plant, and equipment and are recognised at the end of its useful life. The recoverable at their procurement and production costs. amount is either estimated for an individual Depreciation only takes place from the time of asset, if it generates cash and cash equivalents readiness for operation. independently from other assets, or for the cash-generating unit in total. Borrowing costs Borrowing costs which are to be directly If the impairment no longer exists or has assigned to the acquisition, construction or decreased, a reversal of the impairment loss is manufacture of an asset for which a substantial recognised as income in the statement of profit period of time is required in order to render and loss. No reversal is made to an impairment the asset ready for its intended use or sale are of goodwill. capitalised as part of the cost of acquisition or production of the relevant asset. All other Financial assets accounted for using the borrowing costs are recognised as an expense equity method in the period in which they were incurred. The financial assets accounted for using the Borrowing costs are interest and other costs in­ ­equity method relate to a joint venture for curred by a company in connection with taking which a contractual agreement exists regarding on debt capital. the joint control of the company, and to two associated companies. The Group did not hold any assets to which borrowing costs were directly allocated. The The shares are first accounted for at their cost unallocated portion of borrowing costs was of acquisition. Then the carrying amount of the insignificant. shares is increased or decreased annually to recognise the share of after-tax profits or losses, Impairment on property, plant, and equipdistributed dividends, impairment, and other ment, and intangible assets changes to equity. In determining an impair­ Property, plant, and equipment, and intangible ment loss for the Group’s share in the invest­ assets are tested for impairment if there is any ment accounted for using the equity method, evidence that their carrying amount may no the difference between the recoverable amount longer be recoverable. If the carrying amount and the carrying amount of the share is recog­ of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an nised in profit and loss as an impairment loss. impairment loss is recorded with an impact on profit and loss for property, plant and equip­ Trade receivables and other financial assets ment, and intangible assets initially recognised Trade receivables and other originated financial at acquisition or production cost. The recov­ assets were recognised at amortised acquisition erable amount is the higher value of the net costs net of any individual value adjustments realisable amount and the value in use. and flat-rate value adjustments in accordance with IFRS 9, which take sufficient account of The net realisable amount is the amount which the expected default risk. can be recovered from the sale of the asset in 100 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The impairment model under IFRS 9 requires All receivables and financial assets were tested the recognition of expected losses and replaces for existing impairment and default risks. The the impairment model under IAS 39, which default risk for trade receivables increases signif­ is based on losses incurred. When valuating icantly if they are more than one year overdue. impairments in accordance with IFRS 9, the sim­ plified approach was chosen, which leads to the Inventories expected impairment of trade receivables over Inventories were recorded at the lower of the entire term being taken into account. The acquisition or production cost and the net real­ model can be applied to financial assets that are isable amount. The net realisable amount is the valuated at amortised costs or at fair value with recoverable selling price in the ordinary course changes in value recognised in other earnings. of business less the costs of completion and the costs necessary to make the sale. Suitable models for determining default rates were developed to implement the new impair­ Costs incurred in bringing the inventories to ment rules. The starting point for this was an their location and present condition were rec­ analysis of historical default rates within the ognised as follows: Sto Group. These default rates are reviewed annually and adjusted if necessary. The value • Raw materials, processing aids, operating adjustments in the consolidated financial materials, and trading goods statements were all recognised in profit and – Weighted average price loss, and the amount of impairment losses in • Finished assets and assets under construction accordance with IFRS 9 was mainly the result –D  irect labour and material costs as well as of overdue items and, in the case of individual a reasonable share of the production over­ value adjustments, based on the existence of heads based on the normal capacity of the objective indications. Defaults on receivables led production equipment net of borrowing to a direct derecognition of the receivables in costs. question. Cash and cash equivalents The expected 12-month losses were deter­ Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in mined on the basis of credit default swaps in hand and credit balance with banks including order to calculate the impairment of finan­ liquid deposits available at short notice, which cial investments. Impairment losses on other can be converted into cash and cash equivalents financial assets were divided into relationships at any time, with original settlement periods of with suppliers and associated companies. The a maximum of three months and which are not credit rating by Creditreform was used for the subject to any significant fluctuations in value. calculation. The expected 12-month losses based on credit Furthermore, credit assessment of customers default swaps were used to determine the was carried out by obtaining information from impairment of securities, and cash and cash credit agencies and using credit management equivalents. software, which was also used to determine a credit limit. If the individual credit limit was Financial instruments exceeded, an approval was only given after an According to both IAS 39 and IFRS 9, a financial examination of the specific case. instrument is a contract that gives rise to a 101 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) financial asset for one company and a financial Financial instruments measured at fair liability or equity instrument for another. value through profit and loss Financial instruments at fair value through profit Financial instruments result from contractual or loss include financial assets held for trading, agreements that do not necessarily have to be derivatives as well as financial assets and equity drawn up in writing. instruments for which the fair value option was exercised upon initial recognition. IAS 39 defines the following different categories for financial assets: Financial assets are classified as held for sale • Financial instruments measured at fair value if they had been acquired for the purpose of through profit and loss being sold in the near future. Subsequently, (Fair Value through Profit or Loss = FVtPoL) these financial instruments are examined to • Held-to-maturity financial assets determine whether the intention to sell still (Held-to-Maturity Investments = HtM) exists. Gains or losses from this category are • Loans and receivables recognised through profit and loss. (Loans and receivables = LaR) • Available-for-sale financial assets Reclassification to financial instruments meas­ (Available-for-Sale = AfS) ured at amortised costs depends on the nature of the asset and does not affect financial instru­ IFRS 9 defines the following different catements designated at fair value through profit or gories for financial assets: loss under the fair value option. • Financial instruments measured at fair value through profit and loss Held-to-maturity financial assets (Fair Value through Profit or Loss = FVTPL) Held-to-maturity instruments in accordance • Financial instruments measured at fair value with IAS 39 are non-derivative financial assets with no impact on profit and loss with fixed or determinable payments and fixed (Fair Value through Other Comprehensive maturities if the Group has the intention and Income = FVOCI) ability to hold them to maturity and if there is • Financial assets measured at amortised costs an active market for such assets. After initial of acquisition recognition, held-to-maturity financial assets (Financial Instruments at amortised costs are measured at amortised costs of acquisition = FAAC) using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss for the Financial liabilities are classified as follows period in which the assets are derecognised or in accordance with IAS 39 and IFRS 9: impaired, and through the amortisation process. • Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss (according to IAS 39 Financial Loans and receivables Liabilities Held for Trading = FLHfT, according According to IAS 39, loans and receivables are to IFRS 9 Financial Liabilities measured at fair non-derivative financial assets with fixed or value through profit and loss = FLTPL) determinable payments that are not quoted in Financial liabilities measured at amortised an active market. After initial recognition, loans cost (FLAC) and receivables are measured at amortised costs of acquisition using the effective interest method net of any impairment losses. Gains 102 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA and losses are recognised in profit or loss for Financial assets measured at amortised the period when the loans and receivables are costs of acquisition derecognised or impaired. Financial assets measured at amortised costs of acquisition are debt capital instruments for In the case of current receivables and liabilities, which the business model condition is met to amortised costs of acquisition equal the nomi­ the extent that cash flows are generated from nal or settlement amount in principle. the holding, or holding and sale of assets, and for which the cash flows consist exclusively of Available-for-sale financial assets interest and principal payments. According to IAS 39, available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or are designated as available for sale and not determinable payments and fixed maturities allocated to any of the three above-mentioned are recognised at amortised acquisition costs categories. After initial recognition, they are if the Group has the intention and ability to measured at their fair value. Unrealised gains hold them to maturity and if there is an active and losses are recognised directly within equity. market for such assets. After initial recognition, If such a financial asset is derecognised or held-to-maturity financial assets are measured impaired, the cumulative gains or losses hith­ at amortised costs of acquisition using the erto recognised within equity are recognised effective interest method. Gains and losses are through profit and loss. recognised in profit or loss for the period in which the assets are derecognised or impaired, Financial instruments measured at fair and through the amortisation process. value with no impact on profit and loss Financial instruments measured at fair value Financial assets are assigned to one of the with no impact on profit and loss in accordance above valuation categories upon initial recogni­ with IFRS 9 comprise equity instruments and tion. Where permissible and necessary, they are debt capital instruments where the business reclassified at the end of the accounting period. model condition is met, i.e. where the company intends to hold or sell these instruments to The Group expects a significant increase in the generate the contractually agreed cash flows. In default risk for a financial asset if contractual addition, the cash flow condition must be met payments are more than 365 days overdue. In for debt capital instruments, i.e. the cash flows addition, the Group may in certain cases expect of the financial instrument consist exclusively of that a financial asset will default if internal or ex­ interest and principal payments. ternal information indicates that it is unlikely that the Group will receive all outstanding contractual Financial instruments in this category are meas­ amounts in full before all credit collateral held ured at fair value and changes in value or gains by it is taken into account. A financial asset is or losses are recognised without impact on depreciated if there is no reasonable expectation profit and loss in reserves. When a debt capital that the contractual cash flows will be realised. instrument is derecognised, the accumulated gains or losses are reclassified to the statement All purchases and sales of financial assets in ac­ of profit and loss (‘recycling’). When an equity cordance with normal market conditions are re­ instrument is derecognised, any incurred gains corded on the trading day, i.e. the day on which or losses remain in reserves. the Group assumes the obligation to buy or sell 103 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) the asset. These transactions are in accordance derivative financial instruments are recognised with normal market conditions if delivery of the at their fair value as of the date on which assets takes place within a defined period. the contract is entered, and are measured in subsequent periods at their fair value with an Financial liabilities at fair value through impact on profit and loss. An asset or liability is profit and loss recognised depending on whether the fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit is positive or negative. and loss comprise financial liabilities held for trading as well as other financial liabilities which Derivative financial instruments are currency are initially recognised as financial liabilities at forwards. These are used to hedge the risk fair value through profit and loss. arising from fluctuations in the cash flow of a recognised asset, a recognised liability, a highly The Group has not yet made use of the probable future transaction, or a currency risk designation of financial liabilities at fair value of an unrecognised firm commitment. through profit and loss. The fair value of the currency forwards is Financial liabilities at amortised cost calculated on the basis of the current forward Financial liabilities measured at amortised costs exchange rate for contracts with a similar matu­ are initially recognised at fair value and subse­ rity structure. quently measured using the effective interest method less value adjustments, repayments and In the fiscal year of 2018, there were no hedges taking into account discounts, premiums, and satisfying the strict hedge accounting criteria. transaction costs. Treasury stock Gains or losses are recognised through profit Sto SE & Co. KGaA’s treasury stock is deducted and loss upon derecognition or disposal. from equity. The purchase, sale, issue and redemption of treasury stock is not recognised A financial liability is derecognised if the obliga­ in profit and loss. tion underlying the liability no longer exists. Post-employment benefit provisions If an existing financial liability is exchanged by Actuarial measurement of the post-employment some other financial liability of the same lender benefit provisions is based on the project­ subject to substantially different contractual ed-unit-credit method for defined benefit plans terms and conditions, or if the terms and con­ for pension schemes as defined in IAS 19. ditions of an existing liability are significantly Under this method, the pension obligations and changed, then such an exchange or modifica­ acquired entitlements existing at the balance tion will be treated as derecognition of the orig­ sheet date are determined on the basis of aver­ inal liability and recognition of a new liability. age life expectancy, future salary and pension The difference between the respective carrying increases, the expected retirement age, and the amounts is recognised through profit and loss. expected fluctuation. Derivative financial instruments Average life expectancy is estimated on the In the Group, derivative financial instruments basis of acknowledged biometric models. are used for hedging of currency risks. The Actuarial gains and losses are recognised after 104 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA the consideration of deferred taxes in other Deferred taxes earnings with no impact on profit and loss. As a matter of principle, deferred taxes are rec­ ognised for all temporary differences between The defined benefit asset or liability comprises the tax balance sheet and the consolidated the present value of the defined benefit obliga­ balance sheet. tion less existing plan assets which are used to directly settle obligations. The plan assets are They are not set up if a temporary difference qualified insurance policies that are protected arises from goodwill or the initial recognition against access by creditors and cannot be paid of other assets and liabilities from a transaction out to the Group. Valuation is based on the fair (other than a business combination) which value. As for the pension plan of the Euro com­ affects neither tax earnings nor commercial panies, this corresponds to the present value of earnings. the covered liability. Deferred tax assets which are not expected to Other provisions be recognised in a defined period of time are In accordance with IAS 37, provisions are formed value-adjusted. At each balance sheet date, an for present liabilities towards third parties from assessment is made as to whether the asset can a past event which is likely to result in a future be capitalised. In addition, deferred tax assets outflow of economic resources, the amount of on tax loss carryforwards are to be recognised if which can be estimated as accurately as possible. use can be expected. Provisions are reviewed and adjusted at each Deferred tax liabilities are formed for temporary balance sheet date. differences arising from shares in subsidiar­ ies, associated companies, and joint ventures Provisions in which the interest effect exercises unless the parent company is able to control a significant effect in connection with the the reversal of the temporary difference and settlement of the obligation are recognised at the temporary difference is unlikely to reverse the present value of the expected expenses. The within a defined time period. discount is based on risk-free interest rates. The settlement amount also includes any expected Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if increase in costs. the deferred taxes relate to one and the same tax payer and the same taxation authority and if If the conditions for setting up a provision are there is a legally enforceable right to set off the not met but the likelihood of an outflow of tax reimbursement claims against tax liabilities. resources embodying an economic benefit is not unlikely, the corresponding liabilities are Deferred taxes are measured in accordance with reported under contingent liabilities. the applicable national income tax rates ex­ pected as of the date of realisation, on the basis Trade payables and other financial liabilities of applicable or enacted tax law or the changes Trade payables and other financial liabilities are to the tax law that can be reliably estimated. measured at amortised cost of acquisition. Any differences between historical acquisition costs Deferred taxes are recorded as tax asset or ex­ and the settlement amount are reported in pense in the statement of profit and loss unless accordance with the effective interest method. they relate to other earnings items recognised in 105 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) equity that have no impact on profit and loss. In by the Group in exchange for the goods or this case the deferred taxes are also recognised services. If a contractual consideration includes in equity with no impact on profit and loss. a variable component, the Group determines the amount of the consideration to be received Recognition of income and expenses in exchange for the transfer of the goods to Revenues from contracts with customers are the customer. The variable consideration is esti­ recognised when control of the goods or ser­ mated at the inception of the contract and may vices is transferred to the customer. be included in the transaction price only if it is highly probable that there will be no significant In the manufacture of products and systems change in the cumulative amount of revenue for thermal insulation and building coatings, and if the uncertainty associated with the varia­ revenues from contracts with customers mainly ble consideration does not exist. result from deliveries of goods, which are generally recognised at the time of delivery. The In determining the transaction price, expected payment period is usually 30 to 90 days after rebates and discounts are separated from the delivery. In addition, services are provided on agreed price, both in the case of the separate a small scale for which the sales revenues are sale of goods or services and in the case of the recorded in the period in which the services are combined sale of goods and services, according rendered. The payment period is usually 30 to to the principle of individual valuation, without 60 days after the service has been rendered. revenue being recognised for them. Some contracts are designed in such a way Advance payments received from customers are that both an original delivery of goods and an short-term, i.e. at the inception of the contract associated craftsman’s service are provided. This it is expected that the period between the is a service obligation to be accounted for as transfer of the promised good or service and a whole, as the delivery and processing of the payment will not exceed one year. Therefore, materials are related in accordance with the un­ the Group makes use of the simplification derlying agreement. Revenue is recognised after regulation of IFRS 15 and does not adjust the the complete service has been rendered. amount of the promised consideration by the effects of a significant financing component. The Group is responsible for providing the statutory warranty for remedying defects that In addition, the Group makes use of the sim­ existed at the time of sale. Provisions are set up plification regulation of IFRS 15.121 and does for the expected utilisation. Furthermore, in very not disclose any remaining service obligations rare cases, the Group grants a warranty that whose underlying contracts have an expected extends beyond the statutory period. This is a original term of one year or less. Revenue other separate performance obligation of the Group than from contracts with customers is recog­ for which the sales revenues are not recognised nised if it is probable that economic benefits as contract liabilities due to insignificance and will flow and if the revenue amount can be are recognised with an impact on profit and determined reliably, irrespective of the time of loss over the contract term. payment. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or to be received, The amount of revenue recognised corresponds taking into account contractually agreed pay­ to the consideration expected to be received ment terms, excluding taxes or other levies. 106 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Interest income and interest expenses are rec­ meet his payment obligations according to ognised for all financial instruments measured the conditions of a debt instrument. Financial at amortised cost using the effective interest guarantees are treated as insurance contracts rate. This is the discount rate used to discount pursuant to IFRS 4 as contingent liabilities until estimated future cash receipts and payments a claim will become probable. An obligation is over the expected term of the financial instru­ then recognised in the balance sheet. ment or, if applicable, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or Events after the balance sheet date financial liability. Interest income is reported Value-enhancing events occurring after the in the statement of profit and loss as part of balance sheet date which provide significant financial income. information on the Group’s situation at the bal­ ance sheet date are included in the statement Operating expenses are reported upon utilisa­ of financial position. Events occurring after tion of the service or on the date on which they the balance sheet date that impact value are are caused. disclosed in the notes. For some projects, income and expenses from Discretionary decisions by Management construction contracts are recognised accord­ The preparation of the consolidated financial ing to the degree of completion (percent­ statements requires discretionary decisions by age-of-completion method). The percentage of Management, which affect the recognition and completion is determined on a pro rata basis ac­ valuation of the reported assets, and liabilities, cording to the costs incurred up to the balance income, and expenses in the period under sheet date in relation to the total estimated review. costs for the project. This affected the segment reporting in accord­ Funding from the public sector ance with IFRS 8 where the business areas Amer­ Funding from the public sector is recognised in ica and Asia were pooled as one segment under accordance with IAS 20 if there is certainty that Other. This arrangement of segments results the conditions for the funding will be met in from internal management control and internal the form of conditions and that the funding will reporting which follows this control as well as be granted. from comparable economic characteristics relat­ ing to the products and sales methods that have Expense-related funding is collected through led to comparable gross profit margins. profit and loss in the period in which the expenses to be defrayed are incurred. The con­ Current financial assets included financial ditions to be fulfilled will be reviewed when the instruments that met the business model and grant is called in in order to prevent repayments cash flow conditions, so that they were classi­ later on. fied as financial instruments at amortised costs. Financial guarantees Estimates and assumptions by Financial guarantees extended by the Group Management are contracts which obligate the making of The preparation of the consolidated financial payments, and indemnify the guarantee holder statements requires Management to make esti­ for a loss arising from a debtor who did not mates and assumptions on the basis of available 107 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) information, which affect the recognition and EUR 2,289 K) and the deferred tax assets at valuation of reported assets, debt, income and EUR 20,541 K (previous year: EUR 19,580 K). expenses as well as contingent liabilities in the The income tax liabilities total EUR 6,135 K period under review. (previous year: EUR 2,240 K), the income tax receivables EUR 2,577 K (EUR 2,552 K). In particular, the expected future business development, the circumstances prevailing at • Non-current and current provisions the time of preparation of the consolidated The assumptions for the calculation of financial statements and the development of warranty provisions are based on empirical the global and industry-related environment values for complaints and the latest infor­ deemed probable were taken as a basis. mation available. Furthermore, uncertainties arise with regard to pending court cases In applying the Group’s accounting policies, regarding compensatory damages in terms Management has made the following estimates of compensation payments and the duration or assumptions that have a material impact of the proceedings. In general, we expect on the valuation in the consolidated financial the provision to be utilised only after damage statements: recovery. • Impairment of non-financial assets • Pension benefits If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, The expense from defined benefit plans after the fair value is compared with the value in termination of employment and the present use as a further impairment test. The calcu­ value of pension obligations are determined lation of fair value less cost of sale is based by actuarial calculations based on various on data from binding sales transactions assumptions. These parameters include between independent business partners con­ future discount rates, the mortality rate, cerning similar assets or observable market the expected age of retirement, and future prices less directly attributable costs of selling pension increases. Due to the complexity the asset in question. The discounted cash of the valuation and its long-term nature, a flow method is used to calculate the value defined benefit obligation reacts sensitively in use. The cash flows are derived from the to deviations from these assumptions. All finance plan for the next five years, but with­ assumptions are reviewed at balance sheet out expansion investments. The value in use date. is also dependent on the underlying discount as well as on the growth rate. In determining the discount rate, Manage­ ment relies for guidance on the interest rates • Taxes of corporate bonds in the respective currency Uncertainties exist concerning the interpre­ with at least an AA rating; these interest tation of complex tax-related regulations, rates are adjusted to the expected term of amendments to taxation law as well as the the defined benefit obligation by extrapola­ extent and time of origin of earnings taxable tion. at a future date. The mortality rate is based on publicly acces­ On 31 December 2018, the deferred tax lia­ sible mortality tables for the country in ques­ bilities stood at EUR 2,099 K (previous year: tion. Future increases in wages and salaries 108 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA as well as pensions are based on expected On 31 December 2018, the carrying future inflation rates for each country. The amount of the trade receivables to­ expected age of retirement is determined talled EUR 135,770 K (previous year: on the basis of company-specific data of the EUR 126,186 K). past few years as well as future expectations. • Provisions The present value of the perfor­ Management is required to make assess­ mance-oriented liabilities in the amount ments, especially as regards recognition and of EUR 134,377 K (previous year: valuation of warranty provisions. Provisions EUR 133,745 K) will be netted against the for warranties are set up if the occurrence of fair value of the plan asset in the amount of a warranty commitment is considered to be EUR 35,110 K (previous year: EUR 34,651 K). probable. For instance, the assessment of the Post-employment benefit provisions degree of probability and the extent is based amount to EUR 99,267 K (previous year: on past experience, external experts, and EUR 99,094 K). current information available. • Fair value of financial instruments As at 31 December 2018, the carrying To the extent that the fair value of financial amounts of the current and non-current assets and financial liabilities recognised in warranty provisions amount to EUR 38,758 K the statement of financial position cannot and EUR 9,056 K respectively (previous year: be measured by means of data sourced EUR 38,965 K and EUR 9,148 K respectively). on an active market, it will be determined using measurement methods, including the On the date of preparation of the consolidated discounted cash flow method. The input financial statements there were no significant parameters included in the model are based risks to the underlying assumptions and esti­ on observable market data as far as possible. mates which would have required significant adjustments of the carrying amounts of the A net receivable of EUR 186 K (previous assets and liabilities recognised in the consoli­ year: liability of EUR 237 K) resulted from the dated balance sheet in the following account­ financial instruments measured at fair value ing period. on 31 December 2018. • Receivables Individual value adjustments, and value ad­ justments are made in accordance with IFRS 9 for receivables in order to take account of expected losses due to customers’ inability to pay. The appropriateness of value adjust­ ments of receivables are assessed on a caseto-case basis and are also based on maturity and experience with regard to defaults in the past, as well as changes in payment behav­ iour. 109 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Consolidated segment reporting as at 31 December 2018 Information on geographic Western Europe Other segments by sales markets Northern/Eastern Europe America/Asia in EUR K 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 External revenues 1,024,410 970,751 156,671 151,532 151,289 155,115 Inter-segment revenues 40,880 38,203 1,738 1,415 41 25 Segment turnover 1,065,290 1,008,954 158,409 152,947 151,330 155,139 EBITDA 102,139 103,545 4,554 1,926 6,677 11,459 Depreciation/amortisation* 25,132 26,485 2,687 3,317 3,479 3,543 EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) 77,007 77,059 1,867 –1,392 3,198 7,916 Interest income 902 840 232 229 381 376 Interest expense 2,978 2,914 322 303 64 37 EBT (earnings before taxes) 74,930 74,985 1,777 –1,466 3,515 8,255 Segment assets 597,444 562,254 84,222 86,444 79,640 78,766 Investments 26,800 27,426 1,973 1,827 3,299 3,487 Employees as at the balance sheet date 4,094 4,050 636 652 603 606 Notes on product groups in EUR K Facade systems Facade coatings Interiors 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 External revenues 634,866 601,501 302,307 307,629 190,728 186,034 Segment reporting is explained in Note (30). * The depreciation/amortisation of the current year includes EUR 14 K (previous year: EUR 1,622 K) of impairment expenses. Of that amount, EUR 7 K (previous year: EUR 1,075 K) are attributable to Western Europe, EUR 7 K (previous year: EUR 465 K) to North/Eastern Europe, and EUR 0 K (previous year: EUR 82 K) to America/Asia. 110 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Reconciliation/ Group consolidation booking entries 2018 2017 2018 2017 0 0 1,332,370 1,277,398 –42,659 –39,643 0 0 –42,659 –39,643 1,332,370 1,277,398 –174 388 113,196 117,317 0 0 31,299 33,346 –174 388 81,898 83,972 –788 –719 726 726 –788 –719 2,575 2,535 –56 388 80,166 82,162 23,118 22,133 784,424 749,597 0 0 32,072 32,740 0 0 5,333 5,308 Other product groups Group 2018 2017 2018 2017 204,469 182,234 1,332,370 1,277,398 111 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Notes on the statement of profit and loss (1) Revenues For the purposes of segment reporting, rev­ enues are broken down by geographic sales market and business segment. (2) Other internally generated assets capitalised As in the previous year, other capitalised, internally generated assets mainly comprise the internally generated asset for constructed Technical equipment and machinery as well as Buildings. (3) Other operating income in EUR K 2018 2017 Income from the reversal of provisions and accrued liabilities 6,912 8,617 Income from the reversal of value adjustments to receivables and other assets 5,229 4,200 Income from changes in exchange rates 3,913 3,886 Proceeds from derecognised receivables 416 482 Income from the disposal of assets 423 1,217 Income from recharged expenses to third parties 115 79 Funding from the public sector 76 139 Other operating income 5,842 8,665 Total other operating income 22,926 27,285 Income from asset disposals does not include In the previous year, other operating income any special effects in the current fiscal year (pre­ saw an addition of an extraordinary income of vious year: EUR 846 K at VeroStone GmbH). EUR 3,842 K (USD 4,250 K) from the settlement of a court litigation proceeding in the USA. Funding from the public sector essentially consists of research grants. To some extent, this funding is subject to certain conditions. We assume that we can meet the conditions imposed. 112 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (4) Cost of material in EUR K 2018 2017 Raw materials, processing aids, and operating materials 280,745 264,194 Goods purchased 322,323 297,159 Total expenses for raw materials, processing aids, operating materials, and goods purchased 603,068 561,353 Temporary staff 3,375 3,347 Commission production 9,488 5,902 Total expenses for services purchased 12,863 9,249 Total expenses for materials 615,931 570,602 Expenses for commission production were mainly attributable to StoCretec Flooring AS (formerly Hesselberg Bygg AS) to the amount of EUR 5,337 K (previous year: EUR 2,426 K) and to Sto Epitöanyag Kft. to the amount of EUR 1,761 K (previous year: EUR 1,375 K). (5) Personnel expenditure in EUR K 2018 2017 Wages and salaries 286,685 278,237 Social security contributions 38,852 39,325 Expenses for social security contributions, and for support 26,725 24,238 Total personnel expenses 352,262 341,800 Expenditure on post-employment benefits pri­ In the year under review, approx. EUR 13.5 mil­ marily comprises additions to the post-employ­ lion (previous year: approx. EUR 14.1 million) ment benefit provisions as stated in Note (22). were recognised with an impact on profit and loss. Annual average headcount Number 2018 2017 Employees 5,164 5,123 Trainees 197 204 Total number of employees 5,361 5,326 113 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (6) Other operating expenses (7) Depreciation/amortisation The amortisation of intangible assets and the in EUR K 2018 2017 depreciation of property, plant, and equipment are analysed in the appropriate parts of these Selling and marketing costs 129,923 132,919 Notes. Administration costs 49,552 48,772 Rental and lease payments 29,591 29,273 (8) Earnings from financial assets accounted for using the equity method Operating costs 29,574 29,378 Value adjustments to Earnings from financial investments accounted receivables and other assets 9,599 9,353 for using the equity method amounts to Other staff costs 7,151 6,498 EUR 118 K (previous year: EUR 0 K) in the year Expenses due to changes under review. in exchange rates 4,630 4,923 Losses from the disposal (9) Net interest income of non-current assets 881 130 in EUR K 2018 2017 Other expenses 12,952 13,507 Other interest and similar Other operating expenses 273,853 274,753 income 726 726 Interest and similar expenses –760 –667 The item Selling and marketing costs mainly Interest expense for post-employment benefit obligations –1,590 –1,634 includes outbound freight, warranty services as well as advertising and travel expenses. Compounding interest of other non-current provisions and liabilities –214 –221 Value adjustments of receivables and other Interest expense for assets include defaults on receivables of finance leases –11 –13 EUR 1,082 K (previous year: EUR 2,260 K) which have not been adjusted as well as addi­ tions to value adjustments. Total net interest income –1,849 –1,809 Expenses from currency translation changes primarily comprise exchange rate losses arising between the date of the transaction and date of payment as well as currency translation losses using closing rates. 114 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (10) Taxes on income and earnings Breakdown of tax expense in EUR K 2018 2017 Actual domestic tax expense 19,310 16,765 Actual non-domestic tax expense 8,280 10,866 Actual tax expense 27,590 27,631 of which off-period tax expense 984 –31 Expense/income from reversal of tax liabilities (off-period) –5 –44 Actual taxes on income and earnings 27,585 27,587 Deferred tax income/expense, domestic –1,133 –717 Deferred tax income/expense, non-domestic –96 –532 Deferred tax income/expense –1,229 –1,249 Income tax expense reported 26,356 26,338 In the 2018 assessment period, the statutory corporate tax in Germany was levied at a rate of 15.0 %, which is the same as in the previous year. Including trade tax and the solidarity sur­ charge, this resulted in an aggregate tax rate of 28.6 % (previous year: 28.6 %). The local income tax rates for foreign compa­ nies ranged between 0 % and 34.0 % (previ­ ous year: 0 % to 35.7 %). Deferred taxes were measured using the tax rates valid or enacted as of the balance sheet date. In 2018, the realisation of tax loss carryforwards from previous years that had not been subject to deferred taxes, led to a reduction in current taxes on income and earnings of EUR 183 K (previous year: EUR 50 K). Tax loss carryforwards were valued at EUR 25,210 K (previous year: EUR 22,484 K). Tax loss carryforwards of EUR 18,317 K (pre­ vious year: EUR 15,969 K) are available for an indefinite period, while EUR 4,321 K (previous year: EUR 4,063 K) may only be utilised within 115 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) five years, and EUR 2,572 K (previous year: Recording actuarial profits and losses with no EUR 2,452 K) only within ten years. impact on profit and loss in accordance with IAS 19 resulted in a decrease in equity due Of the tax loss carryforwards, a sum of to the decrease in deferred tax assets in the EUR 14,751 K (previous year: EUR 14,339 K) amount of EUR 492 K in the current fiscal year is assumed to not be available for the time (previous year: increase in equity due to the being. Of these, EUR 7,858 K (previous year: addition of deferred tax assets in the amount of EUR 7,959 K) are available for an indefinite EUR 1,139 K). period, while EUR 4,321 K (previous year: EUR 3,928 K) may only be utilised within No deferred taxes were recognised for tem­ five years and EUR 2,572 K (previous year: porary differences of EUR 5,709 K on the EUR 2,452 K) only within ten years. profits retained by subsidiaries (previous year: EUR 5,392 K) as, historically, these profits have Of the tax loss carryforwards rated available, always been used to extend business activities EUR 7,470 K (previous year: EUR 5,173 K) were at the individual locations and will continue to attributable to companies whose earnings for be used for this purpose in the future. the year of 2018 was negative. As the affected companies are mainly those companies with a The following deferred tax assets and liabilities profit history and as the earnings plans of the are recognised to allow for recognition and val­ affected companies for the following years are uation differences in the individual items of the positive, the tax loss carryforwards in the corre­ balance sheet and the tax loss carryforwards: sponding amount were classified as available. A total of EUR 795 K (previous year: EUR 1,061 K) of deferred tax income accounted for temporary differences and tax rate changes. Deferred tax income from temporary differ­ ences amounts to EUR 830 K (previous year: EUR 3,086 K). Deferred tax expenses from changes to the tax rates amount to EUR 35 K (previous year: EUR 2,025 K). In the previous year, the effects from the change to the tax rate mainly affected the Group companies in the USA (tax rate re­ duction from 37.6 % to 23.1 %) and in France (tax rate reduction from 33.3 % to 28.0 %) and were attributable to announced tax rate reductions. Deferred tax assets with no impact on profit and loss amounted to EUR 9,117 K at the bal­ ance sheet date (previous year: EUR 9,041 K). 116 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Balance sheet item in EUR K Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Intangible assets 206 224 1,568 1,704 Property, plant, and equipment 1,631 645 4,919 5,107 Non-current financial assets 515 589 209 93 Inventories 1,818 1,796 204 174 Current trade receivables 1,532 1,526 1,011 336 Current financial assets 81 2 1 233 Other current assets 4 0 352 128 Cash and cash equivalents 167 69 491 9 Post-employment benefit provisions 16,175 16,399 71 434 Other non-current provisions 346 509 15 17 Non-current borrowings 31 20 0 0 Non-current liabilities 54 72 0 0 Current provisions 1,450 1,792 633 1,481 Current borrowings 53 164 0 0 Trade payables 69 86 28 0 Other current liabilities 1,419 1,112 0 0 Loss carryforwards 2,393 1,891 0 0 Tax reimbursements not yet utilised 0 111 0 0 Gross amount 27,944 27,007 9,502 9,716 Balancing 7,403 7,427 7,403 7,427 Balance sheet recognition 20,541 19,580 2,099 2,289 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are netted if the Group has a legally enforcea­ ble right to set off the actual tax reimbursement claims against the actual tax liabilities, and the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities related to income taxes levied by one and the same taxation authority from the same tax payer. 117 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Change in deferred taxes in EUR K Consideration in Statement of profit and loss Equity Total Deferred taxes as at 1 January 2017 7,382 7,825 15,207 Intangible assets 101 0 101 Property, plant, and equipment 1,690 0 1,690 Non-current financial assets –222 0 –222 Inventories –98 0 –98 Current trade receivables 3 0 3 Current financial assets 13 0 13 Other current assets 88 0 88 Cash and cash equivalents –70 0 –70 Post-employment benefit provisions 224 1,139 1,363 Other non-current provisions 18 0 18 Non-current borrowings 1 0 1 Non-current liabilities 0 0 0 Current provisions –443 0 –443 Current borrowings 57 0 57 Trade payables 34 0 34 Other current liabilities –335 0 –335 Loss carryforwards 338 0 338 Tax reimbursements not yet utilised –149 0 –149 Currency translation effects –382 77 –305 Deferred taxes as at 31 December 2017 8,250 9,041 17,291 118 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Change in deferred taxes in EUR K Consideration in Statement of profit and loss Equity Total Deferred taxes as at 1 January 2018 8,250 9,041 17,291 Intangible assets 116 0 116 Property, plant, and equipment 1,241 0 1,241 Non-current financial assets –305 115 –190 Inventories 2 0 2 Current trade receivables –875 211 –664 Current financial assets 270 41 311 Other current assets –215 0 –215 Cash and cash equivalents –444 34 –410 Post-employment benefit provisions 525 –492 33 Other non-current provisions –160 0 –160 Non-current borrowings 11 0 11 Non-current liabilities –17 0 –17 Current provisions 493 0 493 Current borrowings –111 0 –111 Trade payables –40 0 –40 Other current liabilities 308 0 308 Loss carryforwards 543 0 543 Tax reimbursements not yet utilised –113 0 –113 Currency translation effects –154 167 13 Deferred taxes as at 31 December 2018 9,325 9,117 18,442 119 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Reconciliation of expected and reported income tax expense in EUR K 2018 2017 Earnings before income taxes 80,166 82,162 Expected income tax expense (tax rate: 28.6 %; previous year: 28.6 %) 22,927 23,498 Reconciliation: Tax-free income and permanent differences 3,005 –178 Change in tax rate 35 2,025 Deviations of local tax rates from Group tax rate –807 443 Deferred tax income on tax loss carryforwards capitalised for the first time –251 –149 Tax reduction for tax loss carryforwards not yet capitalised –183 –50 Effects of non-recognition of tax loss carryforwards 664 818 Off-period taxes 978 –74 Other effects –12 5 Income tax expense reported 26,356 26,338 Effective tax rate (%) 32.9 32.1 (11) Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the proportion of earnings attributable to Sto SE & Co. KGaA’s shareholders by the weighted average number of limited ordinary and limited preference shares outstanding in the year under review. In addition to the issued shares, diluted earn­ ings per share also include potential shares (e.g. from options). Both at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, there were no potential shares. Hence, undiluted earnings per share correspond to diluted earnings per share. Amount Ordinary shares Preference shares 2018 2017 2018 2017 Weighted average number of shares outstanding – basic/diluted 3,888,000 3,888,000 2,538,000 2,538,000 120 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA in EUR 2018 2017 Share of earnings attributable to the shareholders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 53,666,013 55,530,938 basic/diluted earnings – of which: Limited ordinary shares 32,378,057 33,506,415 Limited preference shares 21,287,956 22,024,523 in EUR 2018 2017 Earnings per share – basic/diluted Limited ordinary share 8.33 8.62 Limited preference share 8.39 8.68 In the fiscal year of 2018, the following dividend was paid out from the earnings of 2017: EUR 4.03 (previous year: EUR 3.25) per ordinary share, consisting of a basic dividend of EUR 0.25 (previous year: EUR 0.25) and a bonus of EUR 3.78 (previous year: EUR 3.00), as well as EUR 4.09 (previous year: EUR 3.31) per pref­ erence share, consisting of a basic dividend of EUR 0.31 (previous year: EUR 0.31) and a bonus of EUR 3.78 (previous year: EUR 3.00). In the fiscal year of 2018, the payout to the ordinary shareholders hence amounted to EUR 15,669 K (previous year: EUR 12,636 K) and the payout to the preference shareholders amounted to EUR 10,380 K (previous year: EUR 8,401 K). The total payout amount was EUR 26,049 K (previous year: EUR 21,037 K). 121 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Further notes on the statement of profit and loss in accordance with IFRS 7 The Sto Group categorises financial instruments as follows: • Financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss • Financial assets measured at amortised costs of acquisition • Financial instruments with a value recogni­ tion according to IAS 17 • Financial instruments that are subject to hedge accounting • Financial instruments outside the scope of application of IFRS 7 (equity investments) Net earnings from financial assets categorised in accordance with IFRS 9 in EUR K 2018 2017 Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL) 132 –590 Financial assets at amortised cost (FAAC) –4,154 –5,377 Liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost (FLAC) –489 92 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss (FLTPL) 35 0 Net earnings from financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value through profit and loss include changes in market value as well as exchange-rate related income and expenses from these financial instruments. Interest ex­ penses and interest income are not part of net earnings. 122 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Financial assets measured at amortised costs include value adjustments of receivables and other assets, income from the reversal of value adjustments for receivables and other assets, as well as proceeds from derecognised receivables in the amount of EUR -3,954 K. Total interest income and expense from financial instruments not recognised at fair value through profit and loss in EUR K 2018 2017 Interest income 534 630 Interest expenses 654 654 Net interest income –120 –24 Impairment losses on financial assets by class in EUR K 2018 2017 Measured at amortised costs of acquisition 9,599 9,353 Income and expenses from measurement at fair value are reported under other operating income and other operating expenses, respec­ tively. 123 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position (12) Intangible assets Changes in intangible assets from 1 January until 31 December 2017 in EUR K Industrial property rights and licences including Payments software Goodwill made on account Total Cost of acquisition/production 1 January 2017 39,697 43,881 513 84,091 Additions 1,412 0 673 2,085 Disposals 865 1,198 0 2,063 Transfers 311 0 –299 12 Exchange rate differences –497 –108 0 –605 31 December 2017 40,058 42,575 887 83,520 Cumulative depreciation and impairment losses 1 January 2017 28,762 5,506 0 34,268 Depreciation for the year 2,632 0 0 2,632 Impairment losses 5 0 0 5 Disposals 852 1,198 0 2,050 Transfers 5 0 0 5 Exchange rate differences –366 –61 0 –427 31 December 2017 30,186 4,247 0 34,433 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2016 10,935 38,375 513 49,823 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2017 9,872 38,328 887 49,087 124 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Development of intangible assets from 1 January until 31 December 2018 in EUR K Industrial property rights and licences including Payments software Goodwill made on account Total Cost of acquisition/production 1 January 2018 40,058 42,575 887 83,520 Additions 1,198 0 425 1,623 Disposals 1,160 0 649 1,809 Transfers 157 0 0 157 Exchange rate differences –214 –6 0 –220 31 December 2018 40,039 42,569 663 83,271 Cumulative depreciation and impairment losses 1 January 2018 30,186 4,247 0 34,433 Depreciation for the year 2,426 0 0 2,426 Impairment losses 0 0 0 0 Disposals 1,159 0 0 1,159 Transfers 2 0 0 2 Exchange rate differences –199 0 0 –199 31 December 2018 31,256 4,247 0 35,503 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2017 9,872 38,328 887 49,087 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2018 8,783 38,322 663 47,768 As in the previous year, the useful lives for Goodwill is not subject to scheduled amortisa­ patents are generally 20 years, provided there is tion and is only adjusted if it is not recoverable. no lower statutory period of protection, 3 to 8 years for software, and 3 to 20 years for other intangible assets. These assets are depreciated exclusively on a straight-line basis. 125 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Goodwill Goodwill reported, amounting to EUR 38,322 K (previous year: EUR 38,328 K), breaks down as follows: Cash Generating Units in EUR K 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Sto SE & Co. KGaA 15,760 15,760 Beissier S.A.S., La Chapelle La Reine/France 3,635 3,635 Ströher GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany 3,570 3,570 Südwest Lacke + Farben GmbH & Co. KG, Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany 2,780 2,780 Beissier S.A.U., Errenteria/Spain 2,679 2,679 Sto Sp. z o.o., Warsaw/Poland 2,402 2,402 Sto Epitöanyag Kft., Dunaharaszti/Hungary 1,764 1,764 Sto Isoned B.V., Tiel/Netherlands 1,189 1,189 Sto Norge AS, Oslo/Norway 1,001 1,007 Miscellaneous under EUR 1,000 K 3,542 3,542 Total goodwill 38,322 38,328 With the exception of Sto SE & Co. KGaA and Ströher GmbH, the cash-generating units (CGUs) identified for purposes of calculating goodwill are identical to the legal entities. The Sto CGU comprises Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stüh­ lingen/Germany, Verotec GmbH, Lauingen/Ger­ many, and StoCretec GmbH, Kriftel/Germany. The CGU Ströher consists of Ströher GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany, Ströher Fliesen GmbH, Dil­ lenburg/Germany, Ströher Produktions GmbH & Co. KG, Dillenburg/Germany, as well as GEPADI Fliesen GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany. 126 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA 127 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (13) Property, plant, and equipment Changes in property, plant, and equipment from 1 January to 31 December 2017 in EUR K Land, land rights Payments and buildings Other plant, made on including plant Technical operating and account and buildings on land equipment business equipment under owned by others and machinery equipment construction Total Cost of acquisition/production 1 January 2017 342,999 205,798 190,213 14,536 753,546 Additions 8,443 6,999 10,751 4,462 30,655 Disposals 1,557 2,281 8,075 101 12,014 Transfers 6,633 5,722 901 –13,268 –12 Exchange rate differences –3,317 –3,544 –1,705 –112 –8,678 31 December 2017 353,201 212,694 192,085 5,517 763,497 Cumulative depreciation and impairment losses 1 January 2017 180,409 158,463 155,915 273 495,060 Depreciation for the year 9,213 9,302 10,577 0 29,092 Impairment losses 1,521 77 5 14 1,617 Disposals 1,121 1,910 7,842 0 10,873 Transfers 53 28 –85 0 –4 Exchange rate differences –1,935 –2,515 –1,256 14 –5,692 31 December 2017 188,140 163,445 157,314 301 509,200 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2016 162,590 47,335 34,298 14,263 258,486 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2017 165,061 49,249 34,771 5,216 254,297 of which leased assets classified as financial leases, carrying amount as at 31 December 2017 0 0 650 0 650 128 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Development of property, plant, and equipment from 1 January to 31 December 2018 in EUR K Land, land rights Payments and buildings Other plant, made on including plant Technical operating and account and buildings on land equipment business equipment under owned by others and machinery equipment construction Total Cost of acquisition/production 1 January 2018 353,201 212,694 192,085 5,517 763,497 Additions 4,275 4,482 12,759 8,933 30,449 Disposals 325 1,589 7,562 135 9,611 Transfers 182 1,442 1,229 –3,010 –157 Exchange rate differences –175 124 57 10 16 31 December 2018 357,158 217,153 198,568 11,315 784,194 Cumulative depreciation and impairment losses 1 January 2018 188,140 163,445 157,314 301 509,200 Depreciation for the year 9,134 9,245 10,480 0 28,859 Impairment losses 0 0 0 14 14 Disposals 303 1,592 7,331 0 9,226 Transfers –21 –33 52 0 –2 Exchange rate differences 247 149 107 –2 501 31 December 2018 197,197 171,214 160,622 313 529,346 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2017 165,061 49,249 34,771 5,216 254,297 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2018 159,961 45,939 37,946 11,002 254,848 of which leased assets classified as financial leases, carrying amount as at 31 December 2018 0 0 407 0 407 129 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Property, plant and equipment in the amount of Impairment losses on property, plant, and EUR 27,088 K (previous year: EUR 26,873 K) are equipment amounted to EUR 14 K (previous encumbered with land charges which serve to year: EUR 1,617 K). The impairment loss in secure payables to banks. The land charges are 2018 related to a building under construction valued on the balance sheet date at EUR 89 K and a machine under construction, which were (previous year: EUR 118 K). impaired due to lower market prices. The future payments due from finance leases are shown in the following tables: in EUR K up to 1 year 1–5 years 5–10 years 31 Dec 2017 Lease payments 280 330 3 613 Interest portions 9 8 0 17 Carrying amount / present value 271 322 3 596 in EUR K up to 1 year 1–5 years 5–10 years 31 Dec 2018 Lease payments 192 234 0 426 Interest portions 5 6 0 11 Carrying amount / present value 187 228 0 415 Call options have mostly been agreed for the plants and equipment leased under financial leases which are expected to be exercised. Leases are based on a weighted interest rate of 2.5 % (previous year: 2.5 %). (14) Financial assets accounted for using the equity method As at 31 December 2018, the carrying amount Companies accounted for using the equity of shares accounted for using the equity method require the joint approval of all share­ method stands at EUR 11,138 K (previous year: holders to pay dividends or repay loans. in EUR 11,020 K). The Group had no contingent liabilities or con­ Positive earnings of EUR 118 K (previous year: tingent receivables as of the balance sheet date. EUR 0 K) as well as cumulative losses of EUR 320 K (previous year: EUR 365 K) resulted from investments accounted for using the equity method. 130 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (15) Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of ac­ quisition/production cost and the net realisable amount. Impairment in relation to the gross amount came to EUR 8,667 K (previous year: EUR 8,430 K). Net carrying amounts are reported as follows: in EUR K 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Raw materials, processing aids, and operating materials 23,170 23,095 Work in progress 8,242 9,091 Finished products and goods 65,019 62,721 Payments made on account 1,432 1,833 Total inventories 97,863 96,740 Inventory with a carrying amount of EUR 2,120 K (previous year: EUR 1,892 K) serve to secure liabilities to banks. On the balance sheet date, the value amounted to EUR 505 K (previous year: EUR 595 K). (16) Current and non-current trade receivables in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2018 current non-current 31 Dec 2017 from Third parties 134,700 1,068 135,768 124,976 1,208 126,184 Companies accounted for using the equity method 2 0 2 2 0 2 Total trade receivables 134,702 1,068 135,770 124,978 1,208 126,186 The fair values of trade receivables equal Trade receivables with a carrying amount of their carrying amounts. Value adjustments of EUR 1,771 K (previous year: EUR 737 K) serve EUR 20,572 K (previous year: EUR 20,837 K) to secure liabilities to banks. On the balance were taken into account. sheet date, the value amounted to EUR 264 K (previous year: EUR 229 K). 131 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (17) Non-current and current financial assets in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2018 current non-current 31 Dec 2017 Financial assets from third parties 82,163 501 82,664 76,429 525 76,954 Other receivables and financial assets from companies accounted for using the equity method 652 0 652 2 650 652 Positive fair value of derivative financial instruments 442 0 442 23 0 23 Total financial assets 83,257 501 83,758 76,454 1,175 77,629 Financial assets from third parties include cash investments due for settlement in more than three months. In addition, this item includes receivables from suppliers amounting to EUR 3,935 K (previous year: EUR 3,503 K). In the reporting period, value adjustments were made on financial assets in the amount of EUR 370 K (previous year: EUR 0 K). As in the previous year, the total positive fair value of derivative financial instruments results from currency hedging transactions. Derivative financial instruments as a whole are described in greater detail in Note (31). 132 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (18) Other non-current and current assets in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2018 current non-current 31 Dec 2017 Other receivables from third parties 14,415 11 14,426 18,138 3 18,141 Other tax reimbursement claims 3,326 0 3,326 3,049 0 3,049 Prepaid expenses 6,203 324 6,527 6,103 413 6,516 Other payments made on account 587 0 587 378 0 378 Total other assets 24,531 335 24,866 27,668 416 28,084 Other tax reimbursement claims include VAT reimbursement claims of EUR 3,157 K (previous year: EUR 2,873 K). No adjustments were made to Other assets in the period under review and in the previous year. (19) Cash and cash equivalents in EUR K 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Credit balances with banks 104,473 83,738 Cheques, cash in hand 821 684 Total cash and cash equivalents 105,294 84,422 In the reporting period, value adjustments in the amount of EUR 455 K were included due to IFRS 9. 133 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (20) Equity Capital reserves Changes in equity and minority interests are Capital reserves essentially comprise additions analysed in the statement of changes in equity. from premiums. Subscribed capital Revenue reserves and other reserves On 31 December 2018, the share capital of Sto Revenue reserves and other reserves comprise SE & Co. KGaA amounted to EUR 17,556 K. the following items: It was divided into 4,320,000 registered limited ordinary shares and 2,538,000 limited • Reserves for accrued profits: preference shares with no voting rights with a Reserves for accrued profits include the notional nominal value of EUR 2.56 per share. current profits and profits from previous The figures for the 2018 fiscal year correspond years earned by Sto SE & Co. KGaA and its to the previous year. subsidiaries that were not distributed. The limited preference shares each beforehand • Currency translation reserve: bore a higher dividend than the limited ordinary The currency translation reserve is used to shares by EUR 0.06. A minimum dividend of record any differences arising from the trans­ EUR 0.13 per limited preference share was lation of the financial statements of foreign guaranteed. If net income is not sufficient for subsidiaries. an advance dividend of at least EUR 0.13 per limited preference share in one or more fiscal • Reserve for pensions: years, then the missing amounts (without inter­ The post-employment benefit reserve con­ est) are subsequently paid from the net income tains actuarial gains or actuarial losses from of the following fiscal years prior to a dividend the post-employment benefit provisions being paid on limited ordinary shares. arising from differences between the actual development and the assumed trends as well Stotmeister Beteiligungs GmbH, Stühlingen/ as changes in the assumptions underlying Germany was holding all but four of the limited calculations. ordinary shares of Sto SE & Co. KGaA not in the ownership of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. The • Treasury stock: personally liable partner STO Management SE, As at 31 December 2018, Sto SE & Co. Stühlingen/Germany, does not have a share in KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany, held treasury the capital of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. stock in the form of 432,000 registered limited ordinary shares with a notional value The limited preference shares of Sto SE & Co. of EUR 1,105,920.00. This is equivalent to KGaA are listed at the stock exchanges in 10 % of all ordinary shares, or 6.3 % of the Frankfurt/Main and Stuttgart/Germany in the share capital of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. Treasury ‘Regulated market’ segment. The limited ordi­ stock is not entitled to dividends. The figures nary shares are not listed on the stock market. for the 2018 fiscal year correspond to the previous year. The shares of STO Management SE, Stühlingen/ Germany, are held to 100 % by Stotmeister Beteiligungs GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany. 134 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Proposed dividend in EUR K 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017* Change in % In accordance with Sections 278, 58 (4) of the German Stock Corporation Act, the dividend Equity attributable to the sharedistributed is based on the unappropriated holders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 469,907 442,367 6.2 % surplus recorded in the financial statements Current borrowings 11,459 9,757 17.4 % prepared according to German commercial law. Non-current borrowings 3,345 2,032 64.6 % Hence, a net income of EUR 41,486 K (previous Less cash and cash equivalents 105,294 84,422 24.7 % year: EUR 46,759 K) was recorded. Net assets 90,490 72,633 24.6 % % of equity 19.3 % 16.4 % The personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. Equity ratio 60.9 % 60.1 % KGaA, STO Management SE, Stühlingen/Ger­ many, proposes via its Executive Board at the Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) 15.6 % 16.1 % Annual General Meeting of Sto SE & Co. KGaA * before effects from IFRS 9 a dividend payout per limited ordinary share of EUR 0.25 (previous year: EUR 0.25) plus a bonus In the fiscal year of 2018, the equity attributa­ of EUR 3.78 (previous year: EUR 3.78) to form a ble to the shareholders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA total of EUR 4.03 (previous year: EUR 4.03), and rose by 6.2 % as compared to the previous EUR 0.31 (previous year: EUR 0.31) plus a bonus year. This was essentially the result of the in­ of EUR 3.78 (previous year: EUR 3.78) to form crease in revenue reserves. a total of EUR 4.09 (previous year: EUR 4.09) per limited preference share, and hence a total As in the previous year, no net debt has been payout amount of EUR 26,049 K (previous year: incurred in the current fiscal year. EUR 26,049 K). Due to the credit line agreed with a banking It is also proposed to retain EUR 15,000 K consortium in December 2012, most recently (previous year: EUR 20,000 K) as revenue extended in 2017, the Group is subject to reserves and to carry the remaining amount of complying with financial covenants. In case EUR 437 K (previous year: EUR 710 K) forward of non-compliance the lenders are entitled to to a new account. terminate the loan for good cause. The agreedupon covenants were complied with in the year Notes on capital management under review as well as in the previous year. The purpose of capital management is to en­ sure that the Group effectively achieves its goals (21) Share of minority interests and pursues its strategies in the interests of the The shares of equity on the part of minority shareholders, employees and other stakehold­ interests in the past fiscal year as well as in the ers and that it successfully implements the previous year were attributable to shareholders defined strategies. In particular, management of the Ströher Group, Dillenburg/Germany, UAB focuses on achieving the minimum return on TECH-COAT, Klaipèda/Lithuania as well as to invested assets sought by the capital market as shareholders of Sto Italia Srl, Empoli/Italy. All well as on maintaining a solid return on equity. non-controlling interests are insignificant for the In selecting financial instruments, the Group Group. attaches importance to matching-maturities finance. 135 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (22) Post-employment benefits and similar EUR 9.20 per year of service and depending liabilities on the employee’s status. The widow’s pension Provisions for post-employment benefits are amounts to 60 % of the old-age and invalidity recognised in accordance with entitlement aris­ pension. ing under the company pension scheme. The benefits provided by the Group vary according In Switzerland, the current benefits agreements to the legal, tax and economic situation in the for employees are effected by plans which are individual country and are based on the length regulated by Federal Law on Occupational Oldof service and the salary of the entitled em­ age, Survivor’s and Disability Insurance (BVG). ployees. The Group pension scheme primarily Pension plans in Switzerland are administered comprises defined benefit obligation plans. In by collective foundations which are financed addition, there are also some defined contribu­ by regular employee and employer contribu­ tion plans. In the case of defined contribution tions. The final pension benefits are contribu­ plans, the Company pays contributions into tion-based with specific minimum guarantees. public or private pension funds in accordance Due to these minimum guarantees, pension with statutory or contractual obligations. Upon plans in Switzerland are allocated as being payment of these contributions, no further defined benefit plans, although they possess obligations accrue for the company. Current many properties of defined contribution plans. contribution payments (net of contributions The deficient cover can be remedied by various to statutory pension funds) are reported as methods, such as increasing employee and post-employment benefit expenses for the year employer contributions, lowering the interest in question and in 2018 were valued in the Sto rate for retirement assets, or reducing future Group at a total of EUR 1,070 K (previous year: benefit claims. EUR 1,106 K). The generally applicable calculation methods Contributions to statutory pension funds came that are based on assumptions were used for to EUR 20,974 K (previous year: EUR 18,702 K). the calculations. The sensitivity analysis listed below shows the impacts of potential devia­ The available company pension schemes are tions. for the most part based on internally funded defined benefit plans. Post-employment benefit provisions are calcu­ lated in accordance with IAS 19 (Employee ben­ Benefit obligations assumed by the German efits) using the projected unit credit method, companies primarily exist for old-age, invalidity, which is the standard international method. For widow’s and orphan’s pensions. A prerequisite this purpose, future obligations are measured for receiving benefits is that upon occurrence of on the basis of the benefit entitlements ac­ the event the employee either had a minimum quired as at the balance sheet date. In making period of service of 10 years after the age of this assessment, assumed relevant trends are 25, or had been in an employment relationship taken into account. Actuarial calculations are with Sto or has a non-lapsable entitlement. necessary for all pension systems. Old-age pension is granted with receiving state Actuarial gains or losses arise from changes in pension. The monthly old-age or invalidity the plan assets or deviations in actual trends pension amounts to between EUR 5.11 and (e.g. income and pension increases, changes in 136 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA interest rates) from the assumptions, and from changes in the assumptions underlying the calculations. All actuarial gains and losses are recognised in equity in full and with no impact on profit or loss in the period in which they arise. Actuarial gains and losses reported within equity are presented in the following provisions table. Summary of the post-employment benefit provisions in EUR K 2018 2017 Pension plan of the Euro companies –89,409 –87,236 Pension plan of Sto AG, Switzerland –9,858 –11,858 Total –99,267 –99,094 137 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Changes in post-employment benefit provisions Pension plan of the Euro companies in EUR K Present Fair value Liability value of the of the from the defined-benefit plan assets defined-benefit obligation obligation As at 1 January 2017 –89,287 8,414 –80,873 Current service cost –2,967 0 –2,967 Interest expense/income –1,719 157 –1,562 Expenses for post-employment benefit obligations recognised through profit and loss –4,686 157 –4,529 Pension benefits paid 2,311 –226 2,085 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in demographic assumptions –91 0 –91 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in financial assumptions –4,303 400 –3,903 Experience-based adjustments –56 0 –56 Profit/loss from reassessment recognised in other earnings –4,450 400 –4,050 Employer contributions 0 131 131 As at 31 December 2017 –96,112 8,876 –87,236 138 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Pension plan of the Euro companies in EUR K Present Fair value Liability value of the of the from the defined-benefit plan assets defined-benefit obligation obligation As at 1 January 2018 –96,112 8,876 –87,236 Current service cost –3,200 0 –3,200 Interest expense/income –1,665 154 –1,511 Expenses for post-employment benefit obligations recognised through profit and loss –4,865 154 –4,711 Pension benefits paid 3,181 –227 2,954 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in demographic assumptions –659 0 –659 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in financial assumptions –457 421 –36 Experience-based adjustments 155 0 155 Profit/loss from reassessment recognised in other earnings –961 421 –540 Employer contributions 0 124 124 As at 31 December 2018 –98,757 9,348 –89,409 Current service costs are included in staff costs; interest expenses on the obligation is reported under interest expenses, Note (9). The plan assets of the Euro companies are qual­ ifying insurance contracts in the form of almost risk-free direct insurances. The contributions to the plan assets for the following fiscal year are expected to amount to EUR 124 K (previous year: EUR 120 K). 139 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The calculation of pension provisions was based on the following assumptions, with the predominant share of the amount recognised in the balance sheet being accounted for by Germany. Germany Non-Germany 2018 2017 2018 2017 Discount rate as at 31 December in % 1.95 1.75 1.95 1.75 Future pension increases in % 1.50 1.13 2.40 2.40 Age of retirement in years 65 65 62 – 65 62 – 65 Since 31 December 2018, the Heubeck 2018G The running period of the performance-ori­ (previous year: Heubeck 2005G) tables have ented liability of the Euro companies averages been used as the biometric basis for calcula­ at 18.85 years (previous year: 18.78 years) at tions in Germany. the end of the reporting period. Pension plan of Sto AG, Switzerland in EUR K Present Fair value Liability value of the of the from the defined-benefit plan assets defined-benefit obligation obligation As at 1 January 2017 –38,934 26,576 –12,358 Currency differences 3,304 –2,260 1,044 Current service cost –1,233 0 –1,233 Interest expense/income –226 154 –72 Expenses for post-employment benefit obligations recognised through profit and loss –1,459 154 –1,305 Pension benefits paid 2,631 –2,631 0 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in demographic assumptions 0 0 0 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in financial assumptions 351 245 596 Experience-based adjustments –804 0 –804 Profit/loss from reassessment recognised in other earnings –453 245 –208 Employer contributions 0 969 969 Employee contributions –2,722 2,722 0 As at 31 December 2017 –37,633 25,775 –11,858 140 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Pension plan of Sto AG, Switzerland in EUR K Present Fair value Liability value of the of the from the defined-benefit plan assets defined-benefit obligation obligation As at 1 January 2018 –37,633 25,775 –11,858 Currency differences –1,363 966 –397 Current service cost –1,290 0 –1,290 Interest expense/income –248 170 –78 Expenses for post-employment benefit obligations recognised through profit and loss –1,468 170 –1,298 Pension benefits paid 5,321 –5,321 0 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in demographic assumptions 0 0 0 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in financial assumptions 2,369 241 2,610 Experience-based adjustments 134 0 134 Profit/loss from reassessment recognised in other earnings 2,503 241 2,744 Employer contributions 0 951 951 Employee contributions –2,980 2,980 0 As at 31 December 2018 –35,620 25,762 –9,858 The plan assets of Sto AG, Switzerland, take The calculation of post-employment benefit the form of qualifying insurance contracts. All provisions of Sto AG, Switzerland, was based regulatory benefits such as disability, death and on the following assumptions: longevity are integrally covered in the insurance contract. Switzerland 2018 2017 The contributions to the plan assets for the Discount rate as at 31 December in % 0.95 0.65 following fiscal year are expected to amount to Future salary increases in % 1.00 1.00 EUR 970 K (previous year: EUR 954 K). Age of retirement in years 65 65 The BVG 2010 Generation Life Table was used as the biometric base for calculation. The running period of the performance-ori­ ented liability averages at 16.90 years at the end of the reporting period (previous year: 17.10 years). 141 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The following shows a quantitative sensitivity analysis of the most important assumptions as at 31 December 2018: in EUR K Effects on the performance-based obligation of the Euro countries 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Discount rate Decline by 0.5 % 10,357 9,265 Increase by 0.5 % –8,208 –9,073 Pensions Decline by 1.0 % –12,331 –10,888 Increase by 1.0 % 10,794 11,909 Life expectancy Decrease by 1 year –2,594 –3,809 Increase by 1 year 3,391 4,268 Retirement age Decrease by 1 year 1,924 1,272 Increase by 1 year –1,522 –2,565 in EUR K Effects on the performance-based obligation of Sto AG, Switzerland 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Discount rate Decline by 0.5 % 3,303 3,553 Increase by 0.5 % –2,876 –3,089 Salary adjustments Decline by 0.5 % –290 –306 Increase by 0.5 % 286 310 Life expectancy Decrease by 1 year –620 –709 Increase by 1 year 594 682 To determine the above sensitivity analysis, the provisions were determined based on the internationally applicable projected unit credit method taking into consideration the changed 142 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA parameters while keeping the other parameters steady. These provisions were then compared to the provision recorded as at 31 December 2018. The following amounts are expected to be paid over the next few years as part of defined-ben­ efit liabilities: in EUR K Expected Expected disbursements disbursements as at 31 Dec 2018 as at 31 Dec 2017 Within the next 12 months 4,088 3,952 Between 1 and 5 years 18,151 17,843 Between 5 and 10 years 29,331 24,062 Expected disbursements within the next 10 years 51,570 45,857 (23) Non-current and current provisions in EUR K Human resources Production Sales Other Total division division division provisions As at 1 January 2017 17,326 1,243 37,421 1,680 57,670 Currency differences –17 0 –907 –121 –1,045 Consumption –3,928 –131 –8,881 –320 –13,260 Additions/formation 2,420 137 23,781 1,190 27,528 Actuarial gains 0 0 0 0 0 Compounding of interest 75 18 123 1 217 Reversal –4,257 0 –3,289 –52 –7,598 As at 31 December 2017 11,619 1,267 48,248 2,378 63,512 Currency differences –9 0 –670 –7 –686 Consumption –5,417 –196 –15,858 –517 –21,988 Additions/formation 2,755 101 20,316 1,220 24,392 Actuarial gains 0 0 0 0 0 Compounding of interest 68 15 155 0 238 Reversal –851 0 –4,232 –361 –5,444 As at 31 December 2018 8,165 1,187 47,959 2,713 60,024 of which current 3,989 406 38,903 2,171 45,469 of which non-current 4,176 781 9,056 542 14,555 143 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Provisions in the staff area have been set aside of commercial representatives as well as provi­ for anniversary expenses, termination settle­ sions for litigation risks. Provisions for warranty ments and similar obligations, among other obligations are carried as liabilities for individual things. cases. Provisions of the production division comprise, In addition to provisions for acceptance obliga­ inter alia, asset retirement obligations and tions and safe-keeping obligations, the remain­ disposal costs. ing other provisions comprise additional factual circumstances subordinate in nature in terms of Provisions in the sales area essentially comprise their recognition. provisions for warranties, compensation claims (24) Non-current and current borrowings in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2018 current non-current 31 Dec 2017 Liabilities to banks 10,270 3,117 13,387 8,486 1,707 10,193 Liabilities under finance leases 187 228 415 271 325 596 Other borrowings 1,002 0 1,002 1,000 0 1,000 Total borrowings 11,459 3,345 14,804 9,757 2,032 11,789 The conditions applicable to the liabilities under finance leases are explained in Note (13). (25) Trade payables in EUR K 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 from Third parties 47,164 46,256 Companies accounted for using the equity method 142 134 Total trade payables 47,306 46,390 The trade payables result almost entirely from The fair values of trade payables correspond to current liabilities. the carrying amounts reported. 144 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (26) Non-current and current financial liabilities in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2018 current non-current 31 Dec 2017 Negative fair values of derivative financial instruments 256 0 256 260 0 260 Other liabilities towards customers 15,114 0 15,114 13,307 0 13,307 towards employees 1,099 0 1,099 1,082 0 1,082 Other 16,112 283 16,395 13,823 316 14,139 Total financial liabilities 32,581 283 32,864 28,472 316 28,788 As in the previous year, the total negative fair value of derivative financial instruments results from currency hedging transactions. Derivative financial instruments as a whole are described in detail in Note (31). (27) Non-current and current other liabilities in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2018 current non-current 31 Dec 2017 Advance payment received on orders 1,045 0 1,045 1,601 0 1,601 Other liabilities from other taxes 9,397 0 9,397 8,668 0 8,668 social security liabilities 2,833 0 2,833 3,350 0 3,350 towards employees 25,191 0 25,191 25,599 0 25,599 Other 5,904 10 5,914 6,124 8 6,132 Total other liabilities 44,370 10 44,380 45,342 8 45,350 145 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (28) Further notes on financial instruments in accordance with IFRS 7 Reconciliation of balance sheet items with financial instrument categories as at 31 December 2017 in EUR K Valuation Carrying Financial instruments No category in amount financial Amortised Fair Value Not accordance instrument costs of acquisition value recognition within the with IAS 39 in the balscope of ance sheet IFRS 7/Hedge Carrying Fair in acc. with accounting 31 Dec 2017 amount value IAS 17 Assets Equity investments n.a. 11,020 0 0 0 0 0 11,020 Trade payables LaR 126,186 126,186 126,186 0 0 0 0 Other receivables and financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets AfS 15 15 15 0 0 0 0 Held-to-maturity investments HtM 7,175 7,175 7,156 0 0 0 0 Financial assets held for trading FAHfT 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Derivative assets with hedge relationship n.a. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 without hedge relationship FAHfT 23 0 0 23 0 0 0 Other assets LaR/n.a. 98,499 70,415 70,415 0 0 0 28,084 Total other receivables 105,712 77,605 77,586 23 0 0 28,084 and financial assets Cash and cash equivalents LaR 84,422 84,422 84,422 0 0 0 0 Liabilities Borrowings FLAC 11,193 11,193 11,193 0 0 0 0 Liabilities under finance leases n.a. 596 0 0 0 596 0 0 Total borrowings 11,789 11,193 11,193 0 596 0 0 Trade payables FLAC 46,390 46,390 46,390 0 0 0 0 Other liabilities and financial liabilities Derivative liabilities with hedge relationship n.a. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 without hedge relationship FLHfT 260 0 0 260 0 0 0 Other liabilities FLAC/n.a. 73,879 28,529 28,529 0 0 0 45,350 Total other liabilities 74,139 28,529 28,529 260 0 0 45,350 and financial liabilities 146 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Reconciliation of valuation categories under IAS 39 to the valuation categories under IFRS 9 as at 01 January 2018 in EUR K Valuation Carrying Valuation Change Valuation Carrying category in amount category in of the adjustment amount accordance accordance valuation with IAS 39 with IFRS 9 category 1 Jan 2018 1 Jan 2018 Equity investments n.a. 11,020 Equity investments n.a. 0 0 11,020 Trade payables LaR 126,186 Trade payables FAAC 0 –1,032 125,154 Other receivables and Other receivables and financial assets financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets AfS 15 Other investments FVTPL 0 0 15 Financial investments HtM –7,175 Held-to-maturity investments HtM 7,175 > 3 months FAAC 7,175 –17 7,158 Derivatives without Derivatives without hedge relationship FAHfT 23 hedge relationship FVTPL 0 0 23 Financial investments LaR –64,672 Other assets LaR/n.a. 98,499 > 3 months FAAC 64,672 –148 64,524 LaR –5,743 other financial assets FAAC 5,743 –14 5,729 other assets n.a. 0 0 28,084 Total other receivables 105,712 Total other receivables 0 –179 105,533 and financial assets and financial assets Cash and cash equivalents LaR 84,422 Cash and cash equivalents FAAC 0 –194 84,228 Total 327,340 Total 0 –1,405 325,935 147 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Reconciliation of balance sheet items with financial instrument categories as at 31 December 2018 in EUR K Valuation Carrying Financial instruments No category in amount financial Amortised Fair Value Not accordance instrument costs of acquisition value recognition within the with IFRS 9 in the balscope of ance sheet IFRS 7/Hedge Carrying Fair in acc. with accounting 31 Dec 2018 amount value IAS 17 Assets Equity investments n.a. 11,138 0 0 0 0 0 11,138 Trade payables FAAC 135,770 135,770 135,770 0 0 0 0 Financial assets Other investments FVTPL 49 0 0 49 0 0 0 Derivative assets without hedge relationship FVTPL 442 0 0 442 0 0 0 Other financial assets FAAC 6,301 6,301 6,301 0 0 0 0 Financial assets – associated companies FAAC 652 652 652 0 0 0 0 financial investments FAAC 76,314 76,314 76,368 0 0 0 0 Total financial assets 83,758 83,267 83,321 491 0 0 0 Other assets n.a. 24,866 0 0 0 0 0 24,866 Cash and cash equivalents FAAC 105,294 105,294 105,294 0 0 0 0 Liabilities Borrowings FLAC 14,389 14,389 14,389 0 0 0 0 Liabilities under finance leases FLAC 415 415 415 0 415 0 0 Trade payables FLAC 47,306 47,306 47,306 0 0 0 0 Other liabilities and financial liabilities Derivative liabilities without hedge relationship FLTPL 256 0 0 256 0 0 0 Other financial liabilities FLAC 32,608 32,608 32,608 0 0 0 0 Other liabilities n.a. 44,380 0 0 0 0 0 –44,380 148 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The carrying amounts of the financial instruments are aggregated as follows in accordance with the categories stipulated in IFRS 9: in EUR K 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL) 491 38 Financial assets measured at amortised cost (FAAC) 324,332 288,198 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) 0 0 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (FLAC) 94,303 86,111 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss (FLTPL) 256 260 Balance sheet items measured at fair value in EUR K 31 Dec Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2017 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss Derivatives with no hedge relationship 23 0 23 0 Available-for-sale financial assets Derivatives with a hedge relationship 0 0 0 0 Financial assets measured at fair value 23 0 23 0 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss Derivatives with no hedge relationship 260 0 260 0 Financial liabilities recorded in other earnings with no impact on profit and loss Derivatives with a hedge relationship 0 0 0 0 Financial liabilities measured at fair value 260 0 260 0 in EUR K 31 Dec Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2018 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss Derivatives with no hedge relationship 442 0 442 0 Available-for-sale financial assets Derivatives with a hedge relationship 0 0 0 0 Financial assets measured at fair value 442 0 442 0 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss Derivatives with no hedge relationship 256 0 256 0 Financial liabilities recorded in other earnings with no impact on profit and loss Derivatives with a hedge relationship 0 0 0 0 Financial liabilities measured at fair value 256 0 256 0 149 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The following financial assets and liabilities Level 3 accounted for at fair value are structured ac­ The measurement is effected using valuation cording to the following levels: methods where the influential factors are not based exclusively on observable market data. Level 1 Financial instruments traded in active markets, Neither any reclassifications between the levels the listed prices of which were adopted un­ and nor any additions or disposals were carried changed for measurement purposes. out during the reporting period. Level 2 The measurement of the portfolio of financial The measurement is made on the basis of val­ instruments at fair value as at 31 December uation methods in which the influential factors 2018 resulted in a net income of EUR 185 K are derived either directly or indirectly from ob­ (previous year: expense of EUR 238 K). The servable market data. They are measured based valuation result from fair value measurement is on the observable exchange rates, the interest a component of Other operating income (Note structure curves of the respective currencies as 3) and Other operating expenses (Note 6). No well as the currency-related basic spreads be­ netting takes place. tween the respective currencies. The derivatives are currency hedges only. Development of value adjustments of financial instruments measured at amortised acquisition costs (trade receivables, other receivables and financial assets): in EUR K Trade in EUR K Trade Financial receivables receivables assets FAAC As at 1 Jan 2017 20,791 As at 31 Dec 2017 20,837 0 Exchange rate differences –146 First-time application of IFRS 9 1,032 374 Additions 7,093 As at 1 Jan 2018 21,869 374 Consumption –2,701 Exchange rate differences –185 0 Reversals –4,200 Additions 8,062 455 As at 31 December 2017 20,837 Consumption –3,950 0 Reversals –5,224 –4 As at 31 December 2018 20,572 825 150 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Impairments in the reporting period IFRS 9 Provisions for trade receivables as at 31 December 2018: in EUR K Not 1 – 30 31– 60 61– 90 91– 120 121– 180 181– 364 365 – 730 > 730 Total due: days days days days days days days days Trade receivables 68,726 13,103 4,762 1,702 1,356 1,589 1,132 802 2,038 95,210 Risk efficient 2% 3% 6% 12% 15% 20% 26% 85% 95% Provision for risk 1,375 393 286 204 203 318 294 682 1,936 5,691 IFRS 9 Provisions for financial assets as at 31 December 2018 in EUR K Basis for Discount in % Provision for risk valuation Financial investments, and cash and cash equivalents (FAAC) 182,393 0.43 % 784 Other financial assets – associated companies (FAAC) 653 0.16 % 1 Other financial assets – Third parties (FAAC) 6,315 0.26 % 14 Total impairment loss, including individual value adjustments, for the reporting period: in EUR K Value adjustments of which of the period recovery measures Trade receivables 8,062 8,062 Financial assets at amortised acquisition and production costs 455 455 Financial assets at fair value with no impact on profit and loss 0 0 In the case of trade receivables, items that are overdue are the key indicator of impairment or the assumption of non-realisability. If trade receivables become increasingly overdue, it is assumed that there will also be an increasing lack of realisability in accordance with IFRS 9. Written-off trade receivables subject to en­ forcement measures continue to be regularly reviewed for the possibility of recovering open items. 151 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The following table shows the carrying amounts struments which typically barely differ between and fair values of the financial instruments as carrying amount and fair values. at 31 December 2018, excluding financial in­ in EUR K Carrying amount Fair value Fair Value 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018 level Financial assets Non-current Investments 49 49 Level 2 Loans 1 1 Level 2 Other financial assets 451 451 Level 2 Total non-current financial assets 501 501 Current Financial investments 76,314 76,368 Level 2 Loans 1,571 1,571 Level 2 Forward exchange contracts 442 442 Level 2 Other financial assets 4,930 4,930 Level 2 Total current financial assets 83,257 83,311 Total financial assets 83,758 83,812 Financial liabilities Non-current Borrowings 3,345 3,121 Level 2 Other financial liabilities 283 283 Level 2 Total non-current financial liabilities 3,628 3,404 Current Borrowings 11,459 11,459 Level 2 Forward exchange contracts 256 256 Level 2 Other financial liabilities 32,325 32,325 Level 2 Total current financial liabilities 44,040 44,040 Total financial liabilities 47,668 47,444 The carrying amounts of cash and cash equiv­ Market Funds, fixed term deposits, loans and alents, receivables and liabilities as well as overdrafts to credit institutions, as well as liabil­ current borrowings and other liabilities nearly ities from financial leases. The fair values were correspond to the fair values due to their short determined using the present value method terms. The financial investments and borrow­ based on interest rates appropriate to maturities ings are mainly borrower’s note loans, Money and creditworthiness. 152 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Other disclosures (29) Cash flow statement (30) Segment reporting The cash flow statement shows how the For the purpose of corporate management by Group’s liquidity position has changed in the the responsible corporate entity – the personally course of the year under review as a result of liable partner STO Management SE – the Group cash inflows and outflows. For this purpose, it is divided up into geographical business units. distinguishes cash flow from operating activi­ The geographical business units were consoli­ ties, cash flow from investing activities and cash dated to form the segments of Western Europe flow from financing activities (IAS 7 Statement and Other with the segment Other being of cash flows). broken down into the regions of Northern/ Eastern Europe and America/Asia. The business The cash flow statement solely comprises the segment of Western Europe comprises the cash and cash equivalents reported in the state­ geographical business units of the Euro zone ment of financial position that include financial (without Finland and Slovakia), Switzerland, as investments with an original term of up to three well as the United Kingdom. months. Internal reporting is carried out in accordance Based on earnings before taxes, the cash flow is with IFRS. indirectly derived from operating activities. Earn­ ings before taxes are adjusted to take account The activities of all segments included the of non-cash expenses (essentially depreciation) production and distribution of facade systems, and non-cash income. Cash flow from operat­ facade coatings, interior products and Other ing activities reflects changes in working capital. product groups. Cash inflows and outflows from investing and The netting prices between segments conform financing activities are calculated using the to arms-length conditions. Transfers between direct method. Investment activities comprise business segments are eliminated on consolida­ disbursements for additions to intangible assets tion. and tangible fixed assets as well as disburse­ ments for the acquisition of consolidated The segment results are reported in the levels companies and other business units, interest EBITDA, EBIT and EBT. received, deposits arising from the disposal of intangible assets and property, plant and equip­ Depreciation/amortisation and investments ment, as well as disbursements and payments relate to property, plant and equipment, and for financial investments. intangible assets. Financing activities comprise cash outflows from Segment assets mainly comprise property, plant payments to shareholders, interest payments and equipment, intangible assets, inventories, and the taking-out and repayment of loans, as trade receivables from third parties as well as well as changes to other borrowings. Changes other receivable and financial assets from third in items of the statement of financial position parties. analysed for the cash flow statement cannot be directly derived from the balance sheet on Income tax receivables in the amount of account of non-cash currency translation effects EUR 2,577 K, and Deferred tax receivables in and other non-cash transactions. the amount of EUR 20,541 K are listed in the 153 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) ‘Reconciliation/consolidation booking entries’ column under ‘Segment assets’. In the same column in line ‘EBT’, this table also shows the elimination of earnings between the segments as well as earnings to the amount of EUR 118 K from investments of companies accounted for using the equity method. No significant adjust­ ments were made to earnings. Owing to the broad customer structure, there is no customer with whom 10 % or more of sales revenues are generated. The breakdown of sales revenues is made ac­ cording to the customer’s head office. in EUR K 2017 Germany France Others Total External revenues 562,808 121,315 593,275 1,277,398 Intangible assets, property, plant, and equipment 191,045 27,707 84,632 303,384 in EUR K 2018 Germany France Others Total External revenues 596,003 124,897 611,470 1,332,370 Intangible assets, property, plant, and equipment 189,220 27,379 86,017 302,616 154 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (31) Financial risk management and of principle, the type and scope of hedging financial instruments operations are determined by the underlying transaction. Hedging policy The Sto Group’s international activities expose Liquidity risk it to interest and currency risks in particular. Detailed liquidity planning is the basis of liquid­ The goal of risk management is to adequately ity management. On balance sheet date, cash hedge currency risks that can arise during and cash equivalents as well as existing, unused planning. Forward exchange transactions with a credit lines were available. These credit lines are term of up to one year are generally concluded mainly a syndicated loan, which was taken out for this purpose. in 2012 and which was extended until 2022 in 2017. Guidelines have been adopted to govern the scope for hedging and internal monitoring. The following overview sets out the contractu­ Within the framework of these guidelines, only ally agreed cash outflows from financial instru­ hedging transactions with approved coun­ ments, including interest and not including cash terparties may be concluded only to hedge outflows from finance leasing contracts shown existing or planned transactions. As a matter in Note (13). in EUR K Cash outflows 31 Dec 2017 up to 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years Borrowings 9,486 1,707 0 11,193 Trade payables 46,035 355 0 46,390 Other borrowings 28,213 316 0 28,529 Derivatives 40,938 0 0 40,938 Total cash outflows 124,672 2,378 0 127,050 in EUR K Cash outflows 31 Dec 2018 up to 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years Borrowings 11,487 2,831 379 14,696 Trade payables 47,405 151 0 47,556 Other financial liabilities 32,356 283 0 32,639 Derivatives 38,656 0 0 38,656 Total cash outflows 129,904 3,265 379 133,547 There are contingencies in the amount of The amounts of the derivatives shown corre­ EUR 795 K (previous year: EUR 678 K) for spond to the un-discounted cash flows. These which no liability is currently expected to arise payments can be processed on a gross or net (Note 32). basis. 155 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) In the following table, the cash outflows are compared to the corresponding cash inflows: in EUR K Cash inflows/outflows as at 31 Dec 2017 Total up to 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years Inflow 40,701 0 0 40,701 Outflow 40,938 0 0 40,938 Balance –237 0 0 –237 in EUR K Cash inflows/outflows as at 31 Dec 2018 Total up to 1 year 1 – 5 years 5 – 10 years Inflow 38,841 0 0 38,841 Outflow 38,656 0 0 38,656 Balance 185 0 0 185 The following overview shows the changes in the liabilities from financing activities. in EUR K 1 Jan 31 Dec 2017 Cash flows New leases Other 2017 current interest-bearing loans (without the following item) 13,097 –3,696 85 9,486 current liabilities from financial leases 401 –431 63 238 271 Total current liabilities 13,498 –4,127 63 323 9,757 from financing activities non-current interest-bearing loans (without the following item) 792 1,000 –85 1,707 non-current liabilities from financial leases 329 234 –238 325 Total non-current liabilities 1,121 1,000 234 –323 2,032 from financing activities Total liabilities from financing activities 14,619 –3,127 297 0 11,789 156 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA in EUR K 1 Jan 31 Dec 2018 Cash flows New leases Other 2018 current interest-bearing loans (without the following item) 9,486 757 0 1,029 11,272 current liabilities from financial leases 271 –288 27 177 187 Total current liabilities 9,757 469 27 1,206 11,459 from financing activities non-current interest-bearing loans (without the following item) 1,707 2,439 0 –1,030 3,116 non-current liabilities from financial leases 325 0 80 –177 228 Total non-current liabilities 2,032 2,439 80 –1,207 3,344 from financing activities Total liabilities from financing activities 11,789 2,908 107 –1 14,803 The effects of the reclassification of the longobligations. The resulting risk was controlled term portion of interest-bearing loans and by means of diversification and the careful finance lease obligations as well as currency selection of counterparties. At the moment, no translation differences over time are reported cash investments or derivative financial assets under ‘Other’. are overdue or individually impaired on account of default risks. Default risk arising from financial assets The credit and default risk arising from financial The default risk of financial assets in the form assets entails the risk of a counterparty default­ of trade receivables was taken into account ing and is limited to the maximum net carrying by means of value adjustments. There was amount of the receivable due from the default­ no concentration of default risks, which were ing counterparty. mainly measured by cluster risks, i.e. risk concentrations with regard to borrower rating In connection with the investment of cash and classes, customer structure and proportion of the portfolio of derivative financial assets, there receivables from a customer in relation to total are generally default risks due to the risks of receivables. financial institutions failing to honour their 157 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Presentation of net carrying amounts of financial instruments measured at amortised costs of acquisition: in EUR K Carrying amount not due, overdue, not valuenot valueoverdue, adjusted adjusted value-adjusted 31 Dec 2017 Other financial assets 77,506 11 88 77,605 Trade receivables 80,718 21,037 24,431 126,186 Cash and cash equivalents 84,422 0 0 84,422 Total financial instruments measured at amortised cost of acquisition 242,646 21,048 24,519 288,213 in EUR K Carrying of which not due, of which overdue amount of which and value-adjusted and value-adjusted individually in accordance in accordance value-adjusted with IFRS 9 with IFRS 9 31 Dec 2018 Financial assets 25 77,906 5,337 83,268 Trade receivables 5,761 95,741 34,268 135,770 Cash and cash equivalents 0 105,294 0 105,294 Total financial instruments measured at amortised cost of acquisition 5,786 278,941 39,605 324,332 Trade receivables are assessed on the basis of Collateral amounting to EUR 6,754 K (previous the creditworthiness of the respective customer. year: EUR 6,323 K*) was held in the fiscal year Information is obtained and regularly updated for overdue and impaired trade receivables. to assess the credit quality of financial assets This mainly relates to pledged land and bank which are neither overdue nor adjusted. On the guarantees received. basis of this and other information, the financial assets are classified and credit limits defined. * figure in the previous year: EUR 555 K – transfer error 158 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The gross carrying amount of receivables The financial assets measured at fair value are which were individually value-adjusted stood at neither overdue nor impaired. EUR 20,642 K (previous year: EUR 17,417 K) in the reporting period. The gross carrying amount In the case of financial instruments that are not of receivables which are subject to impairment due, and value-adjusted in accordance with according to IFRS 9 stood at EUR 135,701 K. IFRS 9, there were no signs of possible default as of the 2018 balance sheet date. The gross carrying amount of the financial as­ sets measured at amortised cost with individual value adjustments stood at EUR 50 K (previous year: EUR 0 K). Maturity analysis of overdue and not value-adjusted financial instruments: in EUR K overdue up to 30 days 60 days more than 30 days to 60 days to 90 days 90 days 31 Dec 2017 Other financial assets 0 0 0 11 11 Trade receivables 11,637 3,759 2,075 3,567 21,037 Total overdue and not valueadjusted financial instruments 11,637 3,759 2,075 3,578 21,048 Maturity analysis of overdue financial instruments value-adjusted in accordance with IFRS 9: in EUR K overdue up to 30 days 60 days more than 30 days to 60 days to 90 days 90 days 31 Dec 2018 Financial assets 3 1,741 1,351 2,242 5,337 Trade receivables 17,704 5,837 2,245 8,482 34,268 overdue financial instruments value-adjusted in accordance with IFRS 9 17,707 7,578 3,596 10,723 39,605 159 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Currency risk Interest rate risk Payments in foreign currency are determined in Interest rate risks according to IFRS 7 arise due the budget phase for the following year. On the to possible changes in the market interest rates basis of the planned payment flows, suitable for cash investments and due to the variable hedging strategies are created, agreed upon interest rates for current and non-current liabil­ with the relevant bodies, and implemented. ities. The planned cash positions are hedged without exception through hedging instruments congru­ The volume of non-current, variable-rate ent with the time and economic state from the borrowings was so low that a change of the area of derivatives. The currency hedge mainly market interest level by 100 basis points on affected CNY/EUR, CZK/EUR, HUF/EUR, RUB/ 31 December 2018 would have had no signif­ EUR, SGD/EUR, USD/EUR, NOK/EUR, SEK/EUR, icant impact on earnings, like in the previous PLN/EUR, CAD/EUR, CHF/EUR, GBP/EUR as well year. as CAD/USD. The changes in fair value were recognised in the statement of profit and loss Due to the maturity of the financial investments with an impact on profit and loss. with a running period of up to one year, there is no interest rate risk for the as at 31 December The main operative currency risks are due to 2018. the manufacture of products in Germany and their subsequent selling and delivery to foreign subsidiaries in Euro. Currency risks occurred due to business completed in euros with subsidiaries outside the Euro zone, mainly in Switzerland, Sweden, Poland, Hungary, Great Britain, Nor­ way, and the Czech Republic. All non-functional currencies in which the Group holds financial instruments are used as relevant risk variables in the sensitivity analysis stipulated by IFRS 7. The essential currency risk results from the change in assets and liabilities in the non-­ functional currency of the CNY/EUR currency pair. If the Chinese renminbi had been 10 % lower/higher against the euro, pre-tax earnings would have been up by EUR 90 K (previous year: EUR 91 K higher), or down by EUR 74 K (previous year: EUR 74 K lower). 160 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Valuation of derivative financial ­instruments The market values of the derivative financial instruments are determined on the basis of the tradability based on reference prices and valua­ tion models and is presented as follows: in EUR K 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Nominal Total Nominal Total volume market value volume market value Forward exchange transactions/options 38,872 185 40,986 –237 Total derivative financial instruments 38,872 185 40,986 –237 The nominal volume of a derivative hedge The decrease in the nominal volume in a func­ transaction is the reference amount for which tional currency in case of the foreign currency the payments are derived. The hedged contract forwards is based on a reduced hedging volume and the risk are not the same as the nominal of payments outside the functional currency. volume but only reflect rate changes to which they refer. The market value corresponds to the As a rule, the residual maturity of the currency amount that would have to be paid at the bal­ derivatives lies within a year. ance sheet date if the hedge had been settled. (32) Contingencies in EUR K 2018 2017 Guarantees from the Sto Group to third parties 794 677 Reserve liability to cooperatives 1 1 Total contingencies 795 678 In the case of guarantees, no liability is currently expected to arise. 161 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (33) Litigation Neither Sto SE & Co. KGaA nor its Group companies are involved in any court litigation or arbitration proceedings which are liable to exert a significant influence on the Group’s economic situation or have done so in the past two years. There is no evidence that any such litigation or proceedings will arise in the future. Provisions in an appropriate amount have been set aside by the individual Group companies to allow for any expenses arising from court litigation or arbitration proceedings. (34) Other financial obligations in EUR K 31 Dec Maturity 2017 within between after one year 1 – 5 years 5 years Liabilities from operating leases 59,992 21,279 35,166 3,547 Liabilities from maintenance contracts 5,552 3,592 1,960 0 Acceptance obligations 9,035 8,663 349 23 Other obligations 580 366 214 0 Total other financial obligations 75,159 33,900 37,689 3,570 in EUR K 31 Dec Maturity 2018 within between after one year 1 – 5 years 5 years Liabilities from operating leases 59,143 20,801 35,960 2,382 Liabilities from maintenance contracts 8,167 3,490 4,193 484 Acceptance obligations 13,770 11,157 2,591 22 Other obligations 7,357 6,985 372 0 Total other financial obligations 88,437 42,433 43,116 2,888 The liabilities from operating leases comprise primarily building rental contracts as well as lia­ bilities relating to the vehicle fleet, and plants. There are no purchasing intentions at the end of the leasing contracts. Insofar as final payments are to be expected resulting from damages, provisions have been made. 162 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Of the acceptance obligations, an amount of EUR 6,639 K (previous year: EUR 5,672 K) relates to items of tangible fixed assets. Fur­ thermore, acceptance obligations relating to inventories as well as other acceptance obliga­ tions exist. (35) Auditors’ fees The following fees paid to the auditors of the consolidated annual financial statement of the Sto Group, Ernst & Young GmbH, Wirtschaft­ sprüfungsgesellschaft, Stuttgart/Germany, for services provided are recorded as expenses in 2018: in EUR K 2018 2017 Audits of financial statements 370 321 Other certification or valuation activities 4 4 Other services 0 11 Auditors’ fees in total 374 336 (36) Events after the balance sheet date Between the end of the fiscal year and the point at which this report was signed off, there were no events of particular note and with a signifi­ cant impact on the earnings, financial, and asset situation of the Sto Group. 163 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (37) Related party disclosures Beteiligungs GmbH, during the fiscal year or the IAS 24 defines related parties as persons or year prior. entities liable to be influenced by the reporting entity or are capable of influencing the report­ As at 31 December 2018, members of the ing entity in question. Executive Board of STO Management SE and the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA are All business relations with related parties were members of the executive boards and supervi­ conducted on arms-length terms. sory boards of other companies with which Sto SE & Co. KGaA maintains relations as part of its With the exception of the dividend payout, ordinary business activities. All transactions with there were no transactions between the Group such companies are conducted on arms-length and the ultimate parent company, Stotmeister terms. The volume of deliveries and services, including net interest income, between companies in the Sto Group and related parties and persons are set out in the following table: in EUR K Share Rendered Received Receivables Liabilities deliveries and deliveries and from to services services 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Inotec GmbH, Waldshut-Tiengen/Germany 47.5 % 48 75 2,987 3,638 655 654 71 134 JONAS Farbenwerke GmbH & Co. KG, Wülfrath/Germany 49.8 % 343 0 0 0 343 0 0 0 STO Management SE 859 808 4,080 3,698 90 79 1,965 1,714 Other 0 0 10 5 0 0 10 0 164 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (38) List of subsidiaries and investments as at 31 December 2018 Fully consolidated companies in Germany Capital share in % Name, registered office StoCretec GmbH, Kriftel/Germany 100 Verotec GmbH, Lauingen/Germany 100 Gefro Verwaltungs-GmbH & Co. KG, Stühlingen/Germany 100 Südwest Lacke + Farben GmbH & Co. KG, Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany 100 Südwest Lacke + Farben Verwaltungs-GmbH, Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany 100 VeroStone GmbH, Eichstätt/Germany 100 Innolation GmbH, Lauingen/Germany 100 Sto SMEE Beteiligungs GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany 100 Ströher GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany 50.1 Ströher Fliesen GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany 50.1 Ströher Produktions GmbH & Co. KG, Dillenburg/Germany 50.1 GEPADI Fliesen GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany 50.1 Sto BT GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany 100 Sto BTN GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany 100 For changes in the current year, Sto Building Solutions GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany please refer to ‘General disclosures’ (formerly Sto BTJ GmbH) 100 Note 4 ‘Companies consolidated’. 165 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Fully consolidated companies outside Germany Capital share in % Name, registered office Sto Ges.m.b.H., Villach/Austria 100 Sto S.A.S., Bezons/France 100 Beissier S.A.S., La Chapelle La Reine/France 100 Innolation S.A.S., Amilly/France 100 Beissier S.A.U., Errenteria/Spain 100 Sto SDF Ibérica S.L.U., Mataró/Spain 100 Sto Isoned B.V., Tiel/Netherlands 100 Sto N.V., Asse/Belgium 100 Sto Italia Srl, Empoli/Italy 52 Sto Finexter OY, Vantaa/Finland 100 Sto Scandinavia AB, Linköping/Sweden 100 Sto Danmark A/S, Hvidovre/Denmark 100 Sto Norge AS, Oslo/Norway 100 StoCretec Flooring AS, Moss/Norway (formerly Hesselberg Bygg AS) 100 UAB TECH-COAT, Klaipėda/Lithuania 95 Hesselberg Sverige AB, Helsingborg/Sweden 100 Sto AG, Niederglatt/Switzerland 100 Sto Ltd., Paisley/Great Britain 100 Sto Sp. z o.o., Warsaw/Poland 100 Sto Epitöanyag Kft., Dunaharaszti/Hungary 100 Sto s.r.o., Dobřejovice/Czech Republic 100 STOMIX spol s.r.o., Skorosice/Czech Republic 100 Sto Slovensko s.r.o., Zvolen/Slovakia (formerly STOMIX Slovensko s.r.o.) 100 OOO Sto, Moscow/Russia 100 OOO STOMIX Orel, Orel/Russia 100 Sto Yapı Sistemleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., Istanbul/Turkey 100 Sto Gulf Building Material LLC., Dubai/UAE 49 Sto Corp., Atlanta/USA 100 Sto Canada Ltd., Etobicoke/Canada 100 Industrial y Comercial Sto Chile Ltda., Santiago de Chile/Chile 100 Sto Colombia S.A.S., Bogota D.C./Colombia 100 Sto Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V., Monterrey/Mexico 100 Sto Brasil Revestimentos e Fachadas Ltda., Itaquaquecetuba/Brazil 100 Sto Corp. Latin America Inc., Panama/Panama 100 Shanghai Sto Ltd., Shanghai/China 100 Langfang Sto Building Material Co. Ltd., Hebei/China 100 Wuhan Sto Building Material Co. Ltd., Wuhan/China 100 For changes in the current year, Sto SEA Pte. Ltd., Singapore/Singapore 100 please refer to ‘General disclosures’ Sto SEA Sdn. Bhd., Masai/Malaysia 100 Note 4 ‘Companies consolidated’. 166 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Companies accounted for using the equity method Capital share No restrictions apply with regard to the liqui­ in % dation of assets or the payment of debts for Name, registered office a fully consolidated company within the Sto Inotec GmbH, Waldshut-Tiengen/Germany 47.5 Group. JONAS Farbenwerke GmbH & Co. KG, Wülfrath/Germany 49.8 JONAS GmbH, Wülfrath/Germany 49.8 (39) German Corporate Governance Code ous year: EUR 164 K). As at 31 December 2018, On 20 December 2018, the Executive Board post-employment benefit provisions for former of the personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. members of the Executive Board amounted to KGaA, STO Management SE, and the Super­ EUR 2,062 K (previous year: EUR 2,039 K) due visory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA issued the to offsetting against plan assets. Remuneration declaration of compliance with the recom­ paid to former members of the Executive Board mendations of the Government Commission and the Supervisory Board came to EUR 443 K on German Corporate Governance Code in (previous year: EUR 424 K). accordance with Section 161 of the German Companies Act and made it available to share­ The remunerations of the Supervisory Board holders on the Internet page of Sto SE & Co. of Sto SE & Co. KGaA and the compensation KGaA on 20 December 2018. of expenditure in this regard as stipulated in Section 6 Paragraph 3 of the regulations of (40) Remuneration of the Executive Board Sto SE & Co. KGaA for the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board of STO Management SE for the 2018 fiscal The remuneration paid to the members of the year amounted to EUR 636 K (previous year: Executive Board in the fiscal year of 2018 com­ EUR 627 K). plies with the statutory provisions contained in the German Companies Act. Current due The members of the Supervisory Board will only remunerations of the Executive Board totalled receive currently due payments for their activ­ EUR 2,689 K (previous year: EUR 2,462 K). The ities on the committee. Excluded from this are long-term incentive payments, which are also compensation and other payments to opera­ due in the short term, amounted to EUR 88 K tions employee representatives pursuant to their (previous year: EUR 0 K). Short-term and employment contracts. No compensation has long-term obligations amounted to a total of been granted for personally rendered services EUR 2,777 K* (previous year: EUR 2,462 K). outside of committee activities by the members * Total remuneration for the ExecuExpenses for future benefits after terminating of the Supervisory Board. tive Board pursuant to § 314 (1) the employment relationship (current ser­ No. 6a of the German Commercial vice cost) amounted to EUR 330 K (previous Following the decision at the annual general Code (HGB) year: EUR 309 K). Executive Board remuner­ meeting on 16 June 2015, the need for dis­ ations thus total EUR 3,107 K (previous year: closure in accordance with Section 314 No. 6a EUR 2,771 K). sentence 5-9 of the German Commercial Code (HGB) and Section 314 Paragraph 2 sentence 2 As at 31 December 2018, the non-current fi­ HGB in conjunction with Section 286 Paragraph nancial liabilities for the current members of the 5 HGB has been dispensed with. Executive Board amounted to EUR 128 K (previ­ 167 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Members of the Executive Board of STO Management SE in the fiscal year of 2018 (personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA): Rainer Hüttenberger Jan Nissen Spokesman of the Executive Board responsible Chief Technical Officer, responsible for Process for Marketing and Sales Sto Brand International Engineering, Innovation, Materials Manage­ Stein a. Rhein/Switzerland, Dipl.-Betriebswirt (FH) ment and Logistics Member of the BOD of Sto Corp., Atlanta/USA Trossingen/Germany, Bachelor of Science Chairman of the BOD of Shanghai Sto Ltd., Deputy Chairman of the Advisory Board of Shanghai/China ­Inotec GmbH, Waldshut-Tiengen/Germany Chairman of the BOD of Sto Scandinavia AB, Member of the BOD of Shanghai Sto Ltd., Linköping/Sweden Shanghai/China Chairman of the BOD of Sto Danmark A/S, Member of the BOD of Sto SEA Pte Ltd., Hvidovre/Denmark Singapore/Singapore Chairman of the BOD of Sto Yapı Sistemleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş, Istanbul/Turkey Rolf Wöhrle Member of the BOD of Sto Norge AS, Chief Financial Officer, responsible for Finance, Oslo/Norway Controlling, IT, Legal, Internal Audit, and Infor­ Member of the BOD of Sto Finexter OY, mation Technology Vantaa/Finland Bad Dürrheim/Germany, Dipl.-Betriebswirt (BA) Member of the BOD of Sto SEA Pte Ltd., Member of the BOD of StoCretec Flooring AS, Singapore/Singapore Moss/Norway Member of the BOD of Sto Scandinavia AB, Michael Keller Linköping/Sweden Chief Sales Officer, responsible for Sales Sto Member of the BOD of Sto Norge AS, Brand Germany, Distribution and Central Oslo/Norway Services Member of the BOD of Sto Finexter OY, Bonndorf/Germany, Ing.-Päd. (TU) Vantaa/Finland Member of the Supervisory Board of JONAS Far­ Member of the BOD of Sto Danmark A/S, benwerke GmbH & Co.KG, Wülfrath/Germany Hvidovre/Denmark Member of the Administrative Board of Beissier Member of the BOD of Sto Ltd., Paisley/ S.A.U., Errenteria/Spain Great Britain 168 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Members of the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA in the fiscal year of 2018: Dr Max-Burkhard Zwosta Maria H. Andersson Chairman of the Supervisory Board Munich/Germany Wittnau/Germany, Chartered Accountant and Managing Director of N4 Beteiligungsgesellschaft Tax Consultant mbH, Family Officer/Single Family Office, Munich/ Member of the Supervisory Board of STO Germany Management SE, Stühlingen/Germany Member of the Supervisory Board of STO Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Brauerei Management SE, Stühlingen/Germany Ganter GmbH & Co. KG, Freiburg i.Br./Germany Member of the Advisory Board of Matador Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Ganter Partners Group AG, Sarnen/Switzerland Grundstücks GmbH, Freiburg i.Br./Germany Chairman of the Advisory Board of Brauerei Dr Renate Neumann-Schäfer Ganter Real Estate Nr. 1 GmbH & Co KG, Überlingen/Germany Freiburg i.Br./Germany Business consultant, Economist Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Freicon AG, Member of the Supervisory Board of STO Freiburg i.Br./Germany Management SE, Stühlingen/Germany Chairman of the Advisory Board of alfer alumin­ Member of the Supervisory Board of Villeroy & ium Gesellschaft mbH, Wutöschingen/Germany Boch AG, Mettlach/Germany (until 23 March 2018) Chairman of the Advisory Board of Walter Maisch Member of the Supervisory Board of R. Stahl Familien Holding GmbH & Co. KG, Gaggenau/ Aktiengesellschaft, Waldenburg/Germany Germany Member of the Administrative Council of Member of the Supervisory Board of Testo SE & Samariter GmbH, Nürtingen/Germany Co. KGaA, Lenzkirch/Germany Member of the Foundation Council of Samariter Member of the Supervisory Board of Testo Stiftung, Nürtingen/Germany Management SE, Lenzkirch/Germany Member of the Foundation Council of Stiftung Member of the Advisory Board of EGT AG, Zeit für Menschen, Nürtingen/Germany Triberg/Germany Cornelia Reinecke Lothar Hinz Emmendingen/Germany Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board and Head of Human Resources and Member of the employee representative, Reutlingen/Germany Management Board of Sick AG Chairman of the Group Works Council and Chair­ man of the Works Council for the Baden-Würt­ Prof Dr Klaus Peter Sedlbauer temberg sales region, Sto SE & Co. KGaA, and Rottach-Egern/Germany StoCretec GmbH Chairholder at the Institute of Building Physics of the Technical University Munich/Germany Head of the Fraunhofer Institute for Building Physics, Stuttgart, Holzkirchen, and Nuremberg/ Germany Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Calcon AG, Munich/Germany 169 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Peter Zürn Frank Heßler Bretzfeld-Weißlensburg/Germany Employee representative, Mannheim/Germany Member of the Management of the Würth Political Trade Union Secretary Group, Künzelsau/Germany Deputy regional manager IG BCE of the Member of the Supervisory Board of STO regional district of Baden-Württemberg Management SE, Stühlingen/Germany Chairman of the Administrative Board of Barbara Meister ­InovaChem Engineering AG, Wetzikon/ Employee representative, Blumberg/Germany Switzerland Deputy Chairperson of the Group Employee Chairman of the Administrative Board of Representative Council and Chairperson of the Würth á Islandi ehf., Garðabær/Iceland Weizen Employee Representative Council, Chairman of the Administrative Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA Würth Norge AS, Hagan/Norway Member of the Administrative Board of Tunap Roland Schey International Trading Co., Ltd., Shanghai/China Employee representative, Tengen/Germany Member of the Administrative Board of Head of Finance and Accounting Sto Group Würth AG, Arlesheim/Switzerland Member of the Administrative Board of Martina Seth Würth International AG, Chur/Switzerland Employee representative, Uelzen/Germany Member of the Administrative Board of Personnel Developer and Trade Union Secretary Würth Logistics, Rorschach/Switzerland of IG BCE, Hanover Head Office Member of the Administrative Board of Würth Australia Pty. Ltd., Dandenong South/Australia Member of the Supervisory Board of Wuerth China Co. Ltd., Shanghai/China Member of the Supervisory Board of Wuerth Indonesia P.T., Jakarta/Indonesia Member of the Supervisory Board of Würth Szereléstechnika KFT, Budaörs/Hungary Member of the Supervisory Board Würth France SA, Erstein/France Member of the Advisory Board of Würth Técnica de Montagem Lda., Sintra/Portugal Wolfgang Dell Employee representative, Hattersheim/Germany Administrator Maintenance Plant Technology, Sto SE & Co. KGaA 170 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Members of the Supervisory Board of STO Management SE in the fiscal year 2018 (personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA): Jochen Stotmeister Chairman of the Supervisory Board Grafenhausen/Germany Dr Max-Burkhard Zwosta Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board Wittnau/Germany Maria H. Andersson Munich/Germany Dr Renate Neumann-Schäfer Überlingen/Germany Gerd Stotmeister Allensbach/Germany Peter Zürn Bretzfeld-Weißlensburg/Germany Stühlingen/Germany, 12 April 2019 Sto SE & Co. KGaA represented by STO Management SE Executive Board Rainer Hüttenberger Michael Keller (Spokesman) Jan Nissen Rolf Wöhrle 171 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Audit certificate Sto Group Audit certificate of the independent auditor To STO SE & Co. KGaA • and the accompanying Group manage­ ment report provides a suitable view of the Report on the audit of the consolidated Group’s position. In all material respects, this financial statements and the Group manGroup management report is consistent with agement report the consolidated annual financial statement of the Group, complies with German legal Audit assessments regulations and accurately presents the op­ We have audited the consolidated annual portunities and risks of future development. financial statement prepared by STO SE & Co. Our audit opinion on the Group manage­ KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany and its subsidiaries ment report does not extend to the contents (the Group), comprising the consolidated state­ of the above-mentioned non-financial group ment of financial position as at 31 December declaration and group declaration on corpo­ 2018, the consolidated statement of profit and rate governance. loss, the consolidated statement of compre­ In accordance with Section 322 Paragraph 3 hensive income, the consolidated statement of Sentence 1 of the HGB (German Commercial changes in equity, and the consolidated cash Code), we declare that our audit has not given flow statement for the fiscal year from 1 Jan­ rise to any objections to the correctness of the uary until 31 December 2018 as well as the consolidated annual financial statement of the notes to the financial statements, together with Group and the Group management report. a summary of important accounting methods. Furthermore, we have audited the Group man­ Basis for the audit opinions agement report of STO SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlin­ We conducted our audit of the consolidated gen/Germany for the fiscal year from 1 January annual financial statements of the Group and until 31 December 2018. In accordance with the Group management report in accordance German legal requirements, we have not with Section 317 HGB and the EU regulation on audited the content of the non-financial group statutory audits (no. 537/2014) while observing declaration and group declaration on corporate the generally accepted German standards for governance contained in the ‘Business man­ the audit of financial statements promulgated agement control system’ section of the Group by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW). Our management report. responsibility in accordance with these regula­ In our opinion based on the findings of our tions and principles is mostly described under audit, ‘Responsibility of the auditor for the audit of • the accompanying consolidated annual the consolidated annual financial statement of financial statement of the Group complies the Group and the Group management report’. in all material respects with the IFRSs as they We are independent of the Group companies in are to be applied in the EU, and additionally accordance with European and German com­ with German legal regulations to be applied mercial and professional legal regulations and in accordance with Section 315e Paragraph have fulfilled our German professional duties in 1 of the HGB (German Commercial Code), accordance with these requirements. Further­ and gives a true and fair view of the assets more, in accordance with Article 10 Paragraph and financial situation of the Group as at 2 Letter (f) of the EU regulation on statutory 31 December 2018 as well as of its income audits we declare that we have not provided situation for the fiscal year from 1 January any prohibited non-audit services pursuant to until 31 December 2018, Article 5 Paragraph 1 of the EU regulation of 172 Consolidated annual financial statements Audit of certificate the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto Group statutory audits. We are of the opinion that the procedures included inquiries of legal represent­ audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient atives and other persons entrusted with these and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit matters within the Group, obtaining written opinion on the consolidated annual financial statements from internal legal advisors regard­ statement of the Group and on the Group man­ ing the evaluation of the estimated outflow of agement report. funds and the likelihood of occurrence, obtain­ ing confirmation from external legal advisors, Particularly important audit matters in the and assessing internal opinions on the reporting audit of the consolidated annual financial in the consolidated annual financial statement. statement of the Group In addition, we have assessed the accuracy of Particularly important audit matters are those the estimates made by the legal representa­ matters which, according to our dutiful judge­ tives with regard to the costs incurred and the ment, were most significant in our audit of the probabilities of occurrence on the basis of the consolidated annual financial statement for the development of the amounts of provisions set fiscal year from 1 January until 31 December aside in previous years. 2018. These matters have been considered in Our auditing procedure has not given rise to connection with our audit of the consolidated any objections to the reporting of provisions for annual financial statement as a whole and in warranty risks. forming our opinion thereon; we do not express a separate opinion on these matters. Reference to related information In the following, we describe what we consider The Sto Group has provided information on the to be particularly important audit issues: accounting and valuation methods applied to the provisions for warranty risks, and on the 1) Recognition and valuation of provisions amount of contingent liabilities resulting from for warranty risks warranty risks under ‘6) Presentation of the major accounting and valuation policies’, in Reasons for determining this as a particuthe subsection ‘Estimates and assumptions by larly important audit matter Management’ as well as under ‘Notes on the The Group is exposed to considerable warranty consolidated statement of financial position’, risks. For our audit, provisions for warranty risks Note (23). are of particular importance as their recognition and valuation are fraught with uncertainties 2) Recoverability of goodwill and are highly dependent on the evaluations and assumptions of the statutory representa­ Reasons for determining this as a particutives. The assessment of the probability of dam­ larly important audit matter age occurring and estimates of the costs which Goodwill is subjected to an impairment test at would be incurred have a significant impact on least once per fiscal year as at 31 December the assets and earnings situation of the Group. and additionally during the year if there are indications of an unscheduled depreciation Auditing procedure requirement in order to determine a possible As part of our audit we have examined the depreciation requirement. These evaluations are processes established by the Sto Group for regularly based on the present value of future the identification, assessment, and reporting cash flows of the respective cash-generating of provisions for warranty risks. Our auditing units to which goodwill has been allocated. The 173 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Audit certificate Sto Group result of these evaluations depends to a large Our auditing procedure has not given rise to extent on the assessment of the future develop­ any objections to the measurement of goodwill ment of the respective parts of the company by of cash-generating units. the legal representatives and on the determina­ tion of the discount rate. Reference to related information Due to the complexity of this evaluation and The Sto Group reports on the procedure re­ the discretionary scope available in the context garding the impairment test of cash-generating of the evaluation, this impairment test was one units as well as their earnings in the Notes to of the most significant matters in the context of the consolidated annual financial statement our audit. under ‘6) Presentation of the major accounting and valuation policies’ in the subsection ‘Intan­ Auditing procedure gible assets’. Within the framework of our audit, we have followed the methodical procedure of the legal Other information representatives for carrying out the impairment The Supervisory Board is responsible for the test in accordance with IAS 36 with the assis­ report of the Supervisory Board. In all other tance of internal evaluation experts. Among respects, the legal representatives are respon­ other things, we compared the definition of sible for the other information. Other informa­ the cash-generating units with the control tion comprises the components provided for levels used in the Group at which goodwill is the Annual Report, of which we had received a monitored. We have verified whether the legal version by the time this audit certificate was is­ representatives have determined the carrying sued, in particular the sections ‘Sto at a glance’, amount and the recoverable amount of the ‘Foreword’, ‘Report of the Supervisory Board’, cash-generating units in an equivalent manner. ‘Corporate Governance Report / Declaration on The corporate planning underlying the impair­ management of the company’, ‘The Sto share’, ment tests of goodwill, especially regarding the ‘Sustainability and Corporate Social Respon­ future development of turnover and the EBIT sibility’, ‘Responsibility statement by the legal margin, have been compared with the planning representatives’ as well as ‘Financial calendar of the future development of the company set with publisher’s details’. up by the legal representatives and approved Our audit opinions on the consolidated annual by the Supervisory Board. We have discussed financial statement of the Group and the Group the major premises of the planning with the management report do not extend to other legal representatives and compared it to the information, and accordingly we express neither earnings and the inflow of cash and cash an audit opinion nor any other form of audit equivalents in the past. The derivation of the conclusion. discount rate and its individual components has In connection with our audit, we have the been assessed by questioning the peer group, responsibility to read the other information and comparing the market data with external evi­ to assess whether the other information dence and verifying the arithmetical accuracy • is materially inconsistent with the consoli­ of the calculation. We have also looked at the dated annual financial statement, the Group growth rate assumptions on the basis of longmanagement report or our audit findings or term inflation expectations for the respective • otherwise appears materially misrepre­ countries. sented. 174 Consolidated annual financial statements Audit of certificate the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto Group Responsibility of the legal representatives (systems) which they have deemed necessary and the Supervisory Board for the consolto enable the preparation of a Group manage­ idated annual financial statement and the ment report in accordance with the applicable Group management report German legal regulations and to provide suffi­ The legal representatives are responsible for cient suitable evidence for the statements in the drawing up the consolidated annual financial Group management report. statement, which complies with the IFRSs, as The Supervisory Board is responsible for mon­ they are to be applied in the EU, and addi­ itoring the accounting process of the Group tionally with the German legal regulations in for preparing the consolidated annual financial accordance with Section 315e Paragraph 1 statement and the Group management report. of the HGB (German Commercial Code) in all material aspects. They are also responsible for Responsibility of the auditor for the auditensuring that the consolidated annual financial ing of the consolidated annual financial statement gives a true and fair view of the statement and the Group management assets situation, financial position and earnings report situation of the Group. In addition, the legal Our objective is to obtain sufficient certainty as representatives are responsible for the internal to whether the consolidated annual financial controls they have determined necessary to statement as a whole is free from material enable the preparation of a consolidated annual misstatements, whether intended or not, and financial statement that is free from material whether the Group management report as a misstatements, whether intentional or not. whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s When preparing the consolidated annual position and, in all material aspects, is in financial statement of the Group, the legal accordance with the consolidated annual finan­ representatives are responsible for assessing the cial statement and the findings of our audit, capability of the Group to continue corporate complies with German legal regulations and activity. Furthermore, it is their responsibility to suitably presents the opportunities and risks disclose matters in connection with the contin­ of the development in the future, as well as to uation of corporate activity where relevant. In issue an audit certificate which contains our addition, they are responsible for preparing the audit opinions on the corporate annual financial balance sheet on the basis of the accounting statement and the Group management report. principle of continuing corporate activity, unless Sufficient certainty is a high degree of certainty there is the intention to liquidate the Group or but no guarantee that an audit conducted to discontinue operations or there is no realistic in accordance with Section 317 of the HGB alternative. (German Commercial Code) and the EU The legal representatives are also responsible regulation on statutory audits while observing for preparing the Group management report the generally accepted German principles of which gives a suitable view of the Group’s proper audits promulgated by the Institut der position and which is consistent with the Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) will always reveal a consolidated annual financial statement in all materially false statement. False statements can material aspects, complies with the German result from infringements or inaccuracies and legal regulations, and suitably presents the op­ are considered to be material if the reasonable portunities and risks of the development in the assumption can be made that they, individually future. Moreover, the legal representatives are or collectively, could influence decisions taken responsible for the precautions and measures by addressees on the basis of this consolidated 175 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Audit certificate Sto Group annual financial statement and the Group man­ uncertainty, we are obliged to point out agement report. the related disclosures in the consolidated During the audit we exercise due discretion and annual financial statement and the Group maintain a critical attitude. Furthermore, management report in our audit certificate • we identify and evaluate risks resulting or, if these disclosures are inappropriate, from materially false statements, whether to modify our respective audit certificate. intentional or not, in the consolidated We draw our conclusions based on audit annual financial statement and in the Group evidence obtained by the date of our management report, we plan and conduct audit certificate. However, future events or audit procedures as a reaction to these risks, circumstances may prevent the Group from and obtain audit evidence which is suffi­ continuing its corporate activity; cient and suitable to serve as the basis for • we assess the overall presentation, the our audit opinions. The risk that material structure and the content of the consoli­ misstatements are not detected is higher in dated annual financial statement, including the case of infringements than in the case of disclosures, and whether the consolidated inaccuracies, since infringements may involve annual financial statement presents the fraudulent interaction, forgery, intentional underlying business transactions and events incompleteness, misleading statements, or in such a way that the consolidated annual the repeal of internal controls; financial statement gives a true and fair view • we gain an understanding of the internal of the assets situation, financial position and control system relevant for the auditing of earnings situation of the Group in accord­ the consolidated annual financial statement ance with the IFRSs, as they are to be applied and the precautions and measures relevant in the EU, and additionally with the German for the auditing of the Group management legal regulations in accordance with Section report in order to plan auditing procedures 315e Paragraph 1 of the HGB (German Com­ which are appropriate for the given circum­ mercial Code); stances but without the objective of issuing • we obtain sufficient and appropriate audit an audit opinion of the effectiveness of these evidence for the accounting information systems; of the companies or business activities • we assess the appropriateness of the within the Group in order to issue an audit accounting methods used by the legal opinion on the consolidated annual financial representatives, and the reasonableness of statement and the Group management estimates and related disclosures made by report. We are responsible for instructing, the legal representatives; monitoring and conducting the audit of the • we draw conclusions about the appro­ consolidated annual financial statement. We priateness of the accounting principle of are solely responsible for our audit opinions; continuing corporate activity applied by • we assess whether the Group management the legal representatives and, based on the report is in accordance with the consolidated audit evidence obtained, whether there is annual financial statement, its compliance any material uncertainty in connection with with the law and the view it gives of the events or circumstances that could raise sig­ position of the Group. nificant doubts about the Group’s capability • we conduct audit procedures relating to the to continue corporate activity. If we come future-oriented statements made by the legal to the conclusion that there is a material representatives in the Group management 176 Consolidated annual financial statementsAudit of certificate the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto Group report. On the basis of sufficient suitable on 20 November 2018. We have been the audit evidence, we particularly retrace the Group auditors of STO SE & Co. KGaA, Stüh­ significant assumptions underlying the lingen/Germany, without interruption since the future-oriented statements made by the legal 1989 fiscal year. representatives and assess the appropriate We declare that the audit opinions contained derivation of the future-oriented statements in this audit certificate are consistent with the from these assumptions. We do not issue additional report to the Audit Committee in an independent audit opinion on the fu­ accordance with Article 11 of the EU regulation ture-oriented statements and the underlying of statutory audits (Audit report). statements. There is a significant unavoidable In addition to the audit, we performed the risk that future events could differ materially following services, which were not disclosed in from the forward-looking statements. the consolidated annual financial statements or We discuss with those responsible for monitor­ the Group management report, for the group ing, amongst other things, the planned scope companies: and time schedule of the audit and significant • Advice on accounting, general legal and audit findings, including any deficiencies in governance issues the internal control system, which we identify • Non-legally required audits for specific indus­ during our audit. tries We issue a statement to those responsible for • Non-legally required agreed investigative monitoring that we have complied with the rel­ actions with respect to financial information evant independence requirements and discuss with them all relationships and other matters Responsible chartered accountant that can reasonably be expected to affect our The chartered accountant responsible for the independence and the protective measures audit is Dr Eckart Wetzel. taken to that end. From the matters that we have discussed with those responsible for monitoring, we determine Villingen-Schwenningen/Germany, those matters that were most significant in 15 April 2019 the audit of the consolidated annual financial statement for the current reporting period and Ernst & Young GmbH which are therefore particularly important audit Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft matters. We describe these matters in the audit certificate, unless laws or other legal regulations Dr Wetzel Busser exclude public disclosure of the matter. Chartered accountant Chartered accountant Other statutory and other legal requirements Other information in accordance with Article 10 of the EU regulation on statutory audits We were elected as Group auditors at the Annual General Meeting on 21 June 2018. We were commissioned by the Supervisory Board 177 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Audit certificate Sto Group 178 Consolidated annual Responsibility statement by the financial legal representatives of the Sto Group statements (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto Group Responsibility statement by the legal representatives To the best of our knowledge, and in accord­ ance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Group, and the Group management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group. Stühlingen/Germany, 12 April 2019 Sto SE & Co. KGaA represented by STO Management SE Executive Board Rainer Hüttenberger (Spokesman) Michael Keller Jan Nissen Rolf Wöhrle 179 Financial calendar 2019 Electronic publication of the annual financial statements for 2018........ 30 April 2019 Interim report on the first half of 2019..................................................... 15 May 2019 Annual General Meeting in 2019............................................................... 19 June 2019 Report on the first half of 2019................................................................. 30 August 2019 Interim report on the second half of 2019................................................ 19 November 2019 Electronic publication of the 2019 annual financial statement............... 27 April 2020 The annual financial statements of Sto SE & Co. KGaA (HGB) are available in electronic form at www.unternehmensregister.de. In addition, they are published on the website www.sto.de or may be requested in writing by post: Sto SE & Co. KGaA F-S department Ehrenbachstraße 1 D-79780 Stühlingen This report contains forward-looking statements which are based on Management’s current assumptions and estimates concerning future developments. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which Sto cannot control or estimate precisely. If any uncertainty arises or the assumptions on which these statements are based prove to be incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from these statements. Sto is under no obligation to update forward-looking statements to incorporate any events which come to light after the publication of this report. Publisher’s details Published by Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Concept and design Straub Druck+Medien AG Text Redaktionsbüro tik GmbH Printing Straub Druck+Medien AG Photographic credits Cover photo: Christian Schellander, Villach/Austria Page 2, 18, 35, 38, 39, 41: Martin Baitinger, Böblingen/Germany Page 6: Bernd Schumacher, Freiburg/Germany Page 19, 20, 36, 61, 78: Sto SE & Co. KGaA Page 63: UN Global Compact Page 75: Helga Auer, Vienna/Austria Page 77: Operation Smile Page 79: Christoph Große Page 80 left: Kerstin Pommerenke Page 80 right: IRGE/University Stuttgart/Germany Page 81: Sto Foundation 180 Headquarters Subsidiaries – international Sto SE & Co. KGaA Belgium Canada Russia Turkey Ehrenbachstraße 1 Sto NV Sto Canada Ltd. OOO Sto Sto Yapı Sistemleri San. ve DE-79780 Stühlingen Z.5 Mollem 43 1821 Albion Rd. #1 ul. Bolshaya Yakimanka 31 Ticaret A.Ş. Telephone +49 7744 57-0 BE-1730 Asse Etobicoke RU-119180 Moscow Atatürk Cad. Yakut Sok. No:8 infoservice@sto.com Telephone +32 2 4530110 CA-ON M9W 5w8 Telephone +7 495 974-1584 TR-34815 Beykoz, Istanbul www.sto.com info.be@sto.com Telephone +1 800 221-2397 info.ru@sto.com Telephone +90 216 330 51 00 www.sto.be marketingsupport@stocorp.com www.sto.ru info.tr@sto.com Branches/Sales Centres/ www.stocorp.ca www.sto.com.tr distribution partners Brazil Switzerland Sto Brasil Revestimentos e Columbia Sto AG U.K. and Ireland Addresses and information availFachadas Ltda. Sto Colombia S.A.S. Südstrasse 14 Sto Ltd. able at: Rua Flor de Noiva, 886 Calle 79 # 68H-17 CH-8172 Niederglatt/ZH 2 Gordon Avenue Telephone +49 7744 57-1010 Quinta da Boa Vista CO-Bogota D.C. Telephone +41 44 8515-353 Hillington Park BR-08597 630 Itaquaquecetuba, Telephone +57 1 7451280 sto.ch@sto.com GB-Glasgow G52 4TG Subsidiaries – national Sao Paulo info@stocolombia.com www.stoag.ch Telephone +44 141 892 8000 StoCretec GmbH Telephone +55 11 2145 0011 www.stocolombia.com info.uk@sto.com sto@stobrasil.com.br Singapore www.sto.co.uk Gutenbergstr. 6 www.argamont.com.br Malaysia Sto SEA Pte. Ltd. DE-65830 Kriftel Sto SEA Sdn. Bhd. 159 Sin Ming Road, #06-02 Hungary Telephone +49 6192 401104 Chile No. 15, Jalan Teknologi 3/3A, Amtech Building Sto Épitöanyag Kft. info.stocretec.de@sto.com Industrial y Comercial Surian Industrian Park, SG-Singapore 575625 Jedlik Ányos u. 17 www.stocretec.de Sto Chile Ltda. Kota Damansara, Telephone +65 64 533080 HU-2330 Dunaharaszti Verotec GmbH Volcán Lascar Oriente 781 MY-47810 Petaling Jaya, Selangor info.sg@sto.com Telephone +36 24 510210 Hanns-Martin-Schleyer-Straße 1 Parque Industrial Lo Boza Telephone +603 8070 8133 www.sto-sea.com info.hu@sto.com DE-89415 Lauingen/Donau CL-Pudahuel-Santiago www.sto-sea.com www.sto.hu Telephone +56 2 949 35 93 Sweden Telephone +49 9072 990-0 info@stochile.com Mexico Sto Scandinavia AB USA infoservice.verotec@sto.com www.stochile.com Sto Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. Gesällgatan 6 Sto Corp. www.verotec.de Prol. Reforma #51-803 SE-582 77 Linköping 3800 Camp Creek Parkway SÜDWEST Lacke + Farben China Paseo de las Lomas. Santa Fe, Telephone +46 13 377100 Building 1400, Suite 120 GmbH & Co. KG Shanghai Sto Ltd. Álvaro Obregón. Mexico, D.F. 01330 kundkontakt@sto.com Atlanta, Georgia 30331 Iggelheimer Str. 13 288 Qingda Road Telephone +52 55 6384099 www.sto.se Telephone +1 800 221-2397 DE-67459 Böhl-Iggelheim Pudong info@stomexico.com marketingsupport@stocorp.com CN-201201 Shanghai Slovak Republic www.stocorp.com Telephone +49 6324 709-0 Telephone +86 2158972295 Netherlands Sto Slovensko s.r.o. info@suedwest.de www.sto.com.cn Sto Isoned BV Môtovská cesta 276 UAE www.suedwest.de Lingewei 107 SK-960 01 Zvolen Sto Gulf Building Material LLC. VeroStone GmbH Denmark NL-4004 LH Tiel Telephone +421 905 770 774 Media One Hotel Tower Willibaldstraße 38 Sto Danmark A/S Telephone +31 344 620666 info.sk@sto.com P.O. Box: 393488 DE-85072 Eichstätt Avedøreholmen 48 info.nl@sto.com www.sto.sk Level 38 Media City Telephone +49 8421 9730-0 DK-2650 Hvidovre www.sto.nl (formerly STOMIX Slovensko s.r.o.) AE-Dubai info@vero-stone.de Telephone +45 70270143 Telephone +971 45 51 55 61 kundekontakt@sto.com Norway Spain www.sto.com www.vero-stone.de www.stodanmark.dk Sto Norge AS Beissier S.A.U. STRÖHER GmbH Waldemar Thranes gate 98 A Txirrita Maleo 14 Ströherstraße 2-10 Finland NO-0175 Oslo ES-20100 Errenteria DE-35683 Dillenburg Sto Finexter OY Telephone +47 6681 3500 Telephone +34 902 100 250 Distribution partners – Telephone: +49 2771 3 91-0 Mestarintie 9 info.no@sto.com beissier@beissier.es international info@stroeher.de FI-01730 Vantaa www.stonorge.no www.beissier.es Telephone +358 207659 191 Addresses and information available at: www.stroeher.de asiakaspalvelu@sto.com Norway Spain Telephone +49 7744 57-1131 Ströher Fliesen GmbH www.sto.fi StoCretec Flooring AS Sto SDF Ibérica S.L.U. Ströherstraße 2-10 Postboks 1023 Riera del Fonollar 13 DE-35683 Dillenburg France NO-1510 Moss ES-08830 Sant Boi de Llobregat Telephone: +49 2771 3 91-0 Beissier S.A.S. Telephone 47 6927 3000 (Barcelona) info@stroeherliving.de Quartier de la Gare stocretec.no@sto.com Telephone +34 93 7415 972 www.stroeherliving.de FR-77760 La Chapelle la Reine www.stocretec.no info.es@sto.com Telephone +33 1 60396110 (formerly Hesselberg Bygg A.S.) www.sto.es GEPADI Fliesen GmbH formation@beissier.fr Kasseler Straße 41 www.beissier.fr Austria Czech Republic DE-35683 Dillenburg Sto Ges.m.b.H. Sto s.r.o. Telephone: +49 2771 3 91-0 France Richtstr. 47 Čestlice 271 home+style@gepadi.de Sto S.A.S. AT-9500 Villach CZ-251 70 Dobřejovice www.gepadi.de 224, rue Michel Carré Telephone +43 4242 33133-0 Telephone +420 225 996 311 FR-95872 Bezons Cedex info@sto.at info.cz@sto.com Telephone +33 1 34345700 www.sto.at www.sto.cz Holding companies – mailsto.fr@sto.com national www.sto.fr Poland Czech Republic Inotec GmbH Sto Sp. z o.o. STOMIX spol. s r.o. Waldshuter Straße 25 Italy ul. Zabraniecka 15 Skorošice 197 DE-79761 Waldshut-Tiengen Sto Italia Srl PL-03-872 Warsaw CZ-790 65 Skorošice Tel.: +49 7741 6805-0 Via G. di Vittorio, 1/3 Telephone +48 22 5116102 Telephone +420 584 484 111 infoservice@inotec-gmbh.com Zona Ind. le Terrafino info.pl@sto.com info@stomix.cz www.inotec-gmbh.com IT-50053 Empoli (Fl) www.sto.pl www.stomix.cz Telephone +39 0571 94701 info.it@sto.com www.stoitalia.it Building with conscience. Headquarters Sto SE & Co. KGaA Ehrenbachstraße 1 D-79780 Stühlingen Head office Telephone +49 7744 57-0 Fax +49 7744 57-2178 Info service Telephone +49 7744 57-1010 Fax +49 7744 57-2010 infoservice@sto.com www.sto.com Printed in Germany Rev. no. 01/05.19 Art. no. 09673-118
