CSR 2018 CONTENT 3 Stockmann in brief 4 CSR principles 7 CSR strategy and promise 9 CSR highlights 2018 TO THE READER 10 Reporting principles and materiality 12 Stakeholder engagement In 2018 we focused on inspiring our customers with even more responsible choices. During the year we introduced new 13 Customers responsible brands and products as part of our selection, and we 18 Personnel significantly increased the use of sustainable materials in our own 27 Products & Supply Chain brand garments. We are proud to report that already 30% of 35 Environment Stockmann’s own brand garments were made of sustainable materials and 65% of own brand jersey garments were made of 41 Finance & Governance organic cotton. Furthermore at Lindex, already 55% of the 47 GRI Content index assortment was made of sustainable materials and a remarkable share of cotton, 96%, was more sustainable. READ MORE All reviews are available in English, Finnish and In 2018 both Stockmann and Lindex have worked on their CSR Swedish at year2018.stockmanngroup.com and sustainability strategies. Stakeholder engagement has been an essential part of this process and therefore, we want to thank all of our key stakeholder groups for their valuable contribution to the strategy process. In this CSR Review we present our goals, efforts and reached VUOSI 2017 TALOUSKATSAUS 2017 targets towards more responsible business and inspiring HALLINNOINTI 2017 customers Vuosi 2017 with sustainable choices. Talouskatsaus 2017 Enjoy your read, Hallinnointi 2017and please send us feedback at csr@stockmann.com. ABOUT THE REPORT Stockmann’s 2018 reporting consists of four reviews: ‘Our year 2018’ Business Review, Financial Emilia Gädda Review, Corporate Governance, and CSR. The CSR Manager CSR Review presents our sustainability themes, targets and progress in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiatve (GRI) Standards: Core option. 3 STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 STOCKMANN IN BRIEF Stockmann, established in 1862, is a Finnish listed company engaged in the retail trade. It has over 44 000 shareholders and about 7 000 employees. The Group has three business divisions: Lindex, Stockmann Retail and Real Estate. The company has 8 department stores, 474 fashion stores and 3 properties in a total of 18 countries. The head office is located in Helsinki, Finland. In addition, the company has 5 purchasing offices in FROM THE CEO the main production countries for its own brand garments: Bangladesh, China, India and Turkey. “Stockmann supports the UN’s Global Compact initiative. Accordingly, Stockmann offers premium selections of brands, excellent customer Stockmann promotes human rights, service and inspiring shopping experience in its department stores, labour rights, environmental work and fashion stores and online. Our vision is to be the first source of anti-corruption measures. This report is inspiration for modern urban life for our customers. also the Stockmann Group’s Communication on Progress (COP) for Global Compact.” Lauri Veijalainen STORES IN CEO 18 COUNTRIES LINDEX The CEO’s review is available in the ‘Our Year 2018’ Business review. STOCKMANN RETAIL REAL ESTATE O  WN STORES F RANCHISING STORES 4 CSR PRINCIPLES STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 CSR PRINCIPLES Commitment to responsible operations is embedded in Stockmann’s values and daily ways of working. Our value proposition is to provide a premium shopping experience at department, fashion and online stores. In our CSR work this means commitment to sustainable development and offering our customers inspiring and responsible shopping experiences. 5 CSR PRINCIPLES STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 O ur CSR work covers the entire value chain in Stockmann’s operations. Responsibility starts in the supply chain, from ensuring safe working conditions to minimising environmental impacts. KEY COMMITMENTS We want to offer our customers the choice of responsibly produced products in our selections. We place the Stockmann has committed to several international declarations and conventions. customer at the core and pay close attention to • UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights employee wellbeing as well as environmental aspects. and Convention on the Rights of the Child We guarantee the safety of our products and inspire and • ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles support our customers to make more responsible and Rights at Work choices. • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Our responsibility work is guided by Stockmann’s • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human strategy and values, the CSR strategy, Stockmann’s Code Rights since 2018 of Conduct, national laws and regulations, and inter• United Nations Sustainable Development Goals national treaties, declarations and recommendations. since 2016 Our everyday work is also guided by numerous voluntary • UN’s Global Compact initiative since 2011 commitments and initiatives, as well as other principles, • amfori BSCI Code of Conduct on Group level policies and practices, such as human rights principles, since 2005 anti-corruption policy, human resources policy, • Accord on Fire and Building Safety in environmental policy, and product guidelines. Bangladesh since 2013 Stockmann operates in a highly ethical STOCKMANN’S manner, complying with the international and national laws CODE OF CONDUCT and regulations valid at any The Group’s Code of Conduct defines the ways of given time in the countries working for all employees and management staff in which it operates. In its without exception. The principles of the Stockmann business operations, Code of Conduct also apply to its suppliers and partners and covers the following main themes: Stockmann aims to • Compliance with legislation and ethical operations exceed the minimum requirements stipulated • Free competition and consumer rights by laws, regulations or • Employees and working conditions conventions. • Environment • Corruption and conflicts of interest. 6 CSR PRINCIPLES STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 UN’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Our contribution include the incorporation of sustainability in our overall business operations, including supply chains, selection, marketing and communication. We are committed to support the United Nations DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Sustainable Development Our contribution include responsibility towards our employees and people in Goals (SDGs) in our our supply chain in providing fair working environment, and towards our operations. From the 17 goals shareholders in striving for profitable business. we have identified five goals that are most material to our core business and that we can CLIMATE ACTION have the most impact on. Our contribution include cutting emissions, increasing the efficiency of energy consumption and carrying out waste sorting and recycling in our own operations. In addition, we strive to increase the use of more sustainable materials in our own brand selections. GENDER EQUALITY Our contribution include active promotion of equality in all employment categories. In addition, Lindex works to empower women in its global supply chains with projects such as WE Women by Lindex and HERproject. PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Our contribution includes active collaboration and engagement with our key stakeholder groups. We believe that together we can drive change towards a more sustainable future. Lindex has also identified that SDG 6, clean water and sanitation, is a goal to which the business can make a significant contribution to. 7 CSR STRATEGY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 CSR STRATEGY AND PROMISE In 2018 Stockmann’s CSR strategy for 2019-2021 was drawn up and approved. In the renewed CSR strategy the priorities and targets of Stockmann’s responsibility work have been defined. Our new strategy will guide our work to fulfill our CSR promise. 8 CSR STRATEGY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 I n 2018, Stockmann’s CSR strategy for the period 2019-2021 was drawn up. We launched the process Lindex’s ambition is to be recognised as a leading by analysing Stockmann’s current situation, operating environment and the driving trends in the fashion retailer, known as one of the most sustainable, open and trusted companies in the CSR STRATEGY 2019–2021 society in which we operate in. fashion industry. Lindex wants to be the company that №1 To identify relevant factors we worked across unit has gone beyond business as usual and sought to OUR VISION // STOCKMANN IS THE CUSTOMERS boundaries, and experts from Stockmann Retail and drive change. By being innovative, transparent and SOURCE OF Real Estate participated and provided their expertise to acting to create positive impact, Lindex will create a INSPIRATION the process. sustainable difference with its suppliers, partners and As part of the strategy process, we carried out a customers. Since the company’s biggest impact lies FOR MODERN, stakeholder survey and received over 300 responses in the product, ambitious goals concerning the URBAN LIFE from our key stakeholder groups. In addition, in-depth product has been set, including both environmental interviews were conducted with suppliers, shareholders and social aspects. By 2020, 80% of Lindex’s and investors, service providers, and authorities and garments will be made from more sustainable NGO’s. The feedback we received was valuable for our materials, with more sustainable processes and at business operations and provided us with important more sustainable production facilities. 100% of cotton insight into the experiences, expectations and wishes of will be either organic cotton, BCI cotton (Better Cotton our key stakeholders. In drafting the CSR strategy, we Initiative) or recycled cotton. placed emphasis on aligning it with the Group’s In 2019, Lindex will launch its new strategy and ensuring that it supports the goals of a Sustainability Ambition and targets for 2025. unique and inspiring customer experience. Inspiration In our renewed CSR strategy, the strategic targets for responsible are grouped under four priority areas that create the choices future for our responsibility work. Key performance Sustainable indicators that enable monitoring and measurement of business our CSR work have been set for each area. Our Sustainable approach Responsible renewed CSR promise is to inspire and support our shopping work CSR PROMISE // environment community customers in making responsible choices. We work for a more sustainable future. We inspire and support FOUNDATION // STOCKMANN’S VALUES AND CODE OF CONDUC T The CSR strategy – its priority areas and targets, our customers in making was approved by the Stockmann CSR Steering Group responsible choices. We work in late 2018 and by the Stockmann Management Team for a more sustainable future. in the beginning of 2019. This CSR review follows the structure of Stockmann’s CSR strategy 2016-2018 and its material themes. 9 CSR STRATEGY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2018 • Already 30% of Stockmann’s own brand garments and 55% of Lindex’s assortment were made of sustainable materials • 96% of cotton used by Lindex comes from more sustainable sources • Already 65% of Stockmann’s BOGI, CUBE, Cap Horn, Bodyguard and NOOM brand jersey garments are made of organic cotton • All of Stockmann’s business operations in Finland are ISO 14001 certified • In the beginning of 2018 Lindex expanded One Bag Habit to its all markets. Both Lindex and Stockmann charge for shopping bags on all own markets and only 30% of customers chose to buy a bag. • We reintroduced the old classic, One Way, as a temporary pop-up store. Our aim was to encourage our customers to a gender neutral way of expressing their style. • Lindex and WaterAid launched a joint project to increase the access to clean drinking water and sanitation as well as improved hygiene in Dhaka, Bangladesh. • We reduced emissions generated from domestic transports by 25% between the years 2015–2018. 10 CSR STRATEGY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 STOCKMANN’S CSR THEMES FOR TOPIC 2016–2018 STOCKMANN’S MATERIAL TOPICS BOUNDARY REPORTING CUSTOMER Customer Satisfaction Marketing and Labelling Own operations PRINCIPLES AND PERSONNEL Customer Privacy Employment Own operations MATERIALITY Labour and Management Relations Occupational Health and Safety Training and Education This CSR review presents the focus areas and results of the Stockmann Diversity and Equal Opportunity Group’s responsibility work in 2018 in accordance with the Global Freedom of Association and Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. Collective Bargaining Non-discrimination PRODUCTS & Customer Health and Safety Own brands’ The reporting period for this review is the Group’s divisions, some of the indicators supply chain, SUPPLY CHAIN Materials financial year from 1 January to 31 December describing personnel and the environment are product safety 2018. The previous report, covering the year reported only for Finland. These exceptions Procurement Practices and procurement practices in own 2017, was published on 1 March 2018. and the measurement and accounting policies Supplier Environmental and Social Assessment operations The review covers all of the Stockmann are described in connection with the relevant Group’s own operations, which in 2018 indicator. The goal is to gradually expand and ENVIRONMENT Energy Own operations comprised three divisions – Lindex, unify our reporting to make it more Emissions Own operations and indirect CO2 Stockmann Retail and Real Estate. The comprehensive. emissions for environmental figures cover also the The report has not been reviewed in full selected parts operations of our tenants in department store by a third party. Financial indicators, which are Effluents and Waste Own operations properties. The supply chain is covered to the presented in the financial statements, are extent defined in the materiality analysis. assured by authorised public accountants. FINANCE & Economic Performance Own operations The GRI indicators have been selected GOVERNANCE Anti-corruption Own operations and own brands’ according to materiality. Our goal is to report supply chain READ MORE the relevant indicators from our main Additional information about Anti-competitive Behaviour Own operations operating countries, which are Finland and Stockmann’s and Lindex’s CSR work can be found on the companies’ websites, at Human Rights Assessment Own operations Sweden, based on the revenue and employee stockmanngroup.com/en/csr and count. Due to reporting differences within the about.lindex.com/en/section/sustainability 11 CSR STRATEGY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Our work focuses on those CSR topics and activities that are most important, or material, to our business. Looking at materiality is an ongoing process at Stockmann. In 2018, as part of the CSR strategy for 2019-2021 process, we carried out a stakeholder survey and received over 300 responses from our key stakeholder groups. Our materiality assessment is based on this stakeholder survey, on the basis of which we have defined the 22 topics and indicators relevant to reporting. To address the aspects specific to its business, Lindex engages in a continuous materiality assessment of its own, to gain insight from its stakeholders and to complement the Group materiality assessment. In 2017, an assessment was carried out at Lindex, based on continuous stakeholder engagement and a large stakeholder survey involving employees, company management, the Board, selected NGOs and other organisations, media, students and suppliers. Along with the brand tracking results, materiality analysis guides Lindex’s CSR reporting and communication. Focus areas include, in particular, responsible production and materials, circular economy, working conditions, transparency and purchasing practices. 12 CSR STRATEGY STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 Stockmann engages in active and ongoing dialogue with its stakeholders to strengthen relations and better respond to the expectations and wishes placed on it. In our CSR strategy work, we have identified five key stakeholder groups that most affect and are affected by our business. STAKEHOLDER The table gives an overview of Stockmann Group’s key stakeholder groups, our interaction as well as key topics raised during the strategy period 2016-2018. ENGAGEMENT 1. Interaction 2. Key sustainability topics raised during CSR strategy period 2016-2018 CUSTOMERS PERSONNEL SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS Customers are an especially important stakeholder group to the We value our personnel and their commitment to the Stockmann aims to be an attractive and sought-after Stockmann Group, and one of our values is to inspire our customers. company. We work continuously to improve the working investment target on the capital market. atmosphere and dialogue with employees. 1. Dialogue in department stores and stores, through customer service, 1. Stock exchange announcements, financial emails and social media, via customer panel’s and surveys. Through 1. Individual and group performance and development reports, annual reporting, the website, webcasts, marketing communication, events and loyal customer programme. discussions, personnel surveys, Employees’ Councils and regular investor relations meetings and the Annual Group Council, events, workshops and intranet. General Meeting of shareholders. 2. Speed and availability of customer service, customer satisfaction, customer privacy, materials used in products, chemicals in products, 2. Employee wellbeing and workload, shift-planning, 2. Financial performance, strategy execution, share labour conditions in supply chains, animal welfare, the packaging of equality, environmental issues in department stores, price performance, sustainability performance, and stockmann.com online store orders, carrier bags and plastic. sustainable materials in products and certificates. customer and employee satisfaction. SUPPLIERS AND SERVICE PROVIDERS AUTHORITIES AND ORGANISATIONS Long relationships with goods suppliers and service providers are key to our We collaborate and engage in dialogue with authorities and sustainability work and continuous improvement in production. All suppliers are organisations to continously develop our business operations. expected to follow the Stockmann Code of Conduct. 1. Through networks, memberships, collaboration, projects, charity 1. Meetings, negotiations, workshops, projects, visits, inspections, website, surveys work, website and annual reporting. and through Stockmann’s annual Supplier Day event. 2. Labour and human rights riks in supply chains, human rights 2. Strategy execution, selection, sustainability targets and initiatives. risks related to cotton production, supply chain management, traceability of materials, animal welfare, fur products in our selection and environmental impact of the business. 13 CUSTOMERS STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 CUSTOMERS Customers are an especially important stakeholder group to Stockmann and one of the company’s values `We inspire our customers´ strongly guides the Group’s business operations. We respect and listen to our customers and make every customer encounter special. We work actively on improving our dialogue with customers to better understand their needs and expectations regarding Stockmann. Stockmann complies with valid competition and privacy legislation in its operations and promotes free competition in its sector. 14 CUSTOMERS STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 T he Stockmann department stores are known for their customerTARGETS & KEY PERFORMANCE INDIC ATORS (KPIS) C SR THEME ACTION POINTS AND PROGRESS 2018 STATUS oriented service. Excellent, professional customer service is achieved through regular personnel CUSTOMER We build ongoing We continued an active dialogue with all stakeholders. In the autumn, we In process dialogue to raise conducted a stakeholder survey and received valuable information on how we can training, starting from the comprehensive customer satisfaction develop our CSR work. Our Net Promoter Score (NPS) at department stores in INSPIRATION induction of new employees. We focus on Finland was 51 (41); significantly improved, but not yet on the long-term target level FOR of 60 (scale -100+100). At Lindex, 87% of in-store customers and 90% of online providing a best-in-class service that exceeds RESPONSIBLE store customers said that they would be likely or very likely to recommend Lindex’s customer’s expectations. Customer satisfaction CHOICES store to friends or acquaintances. surveys and customer and employee feedback provide valuable information that guides the We share information In 2018, sustainability was one of the key themes and Stockmann focused on In process about CSR work and inspiring the customers with even more responsible choices. We shared Group’s divisions in developing their sustainable choices information about sustainable choices and CSR work in department stores, stores, operations. Information concerning customer through our personnel, in social media, through press releases, reports, website, relationships is utilised in improving customer and in our responses to customers, media, and NGOs. In the future, in our service and sales, in daily management of communication and marketing our target is to inspire and support our customers even more in making responsible choices. personnel, in developing the skills, remuneration and commitment and in the We engage in CSR and We donated sample products and materials through our partners. We participated On target design of training programmes. charity projects on a in charity projects and engaged our customers with charity campaigns, such as regular basis Stockmann’s and WWF’s round-up campaign for the Baltic Sea and Lindex’s Pink Ribbon campaign. We ensure Customer There were two limited incidents concerning customers’ personal data, one in Target not CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Privacy Finland and one in Estonia. Stockmann filed notifications on the incidents to the met local data protection authorities. The Estonian data protection authority decided Stockmann and Lindex each use separate that no official procedure was required, while the incident that took place in Finland customer feedback channels. Both business is still pending with the authorities. units monitor the development of customer satisfaction and brand image in numerous ways. • Stockmann has a customer service centre Peak times for customer feedback occur • Social media is an important channel for our that is responsible for handling feedback before Christmas and during and after the customers to express their opinions. We given over phone, via e-mail and social Crazy Days campaigns. serve different target groups on Facebook, • All feedback gathered through encounters at media. Annually the centre handles • Customer experience is measured by regular Twitter, Instagram and LinkedIn. the department stores, over the phone, via approximately 180 000 cases. The quality of email inquiries sent to loyal customers. One Topics that collected the most customer email and social media are gathered for the service is measured and in 2018, 72% of of the survey metrics is the Net Promoter feedback were the Crazy Days campaign, analysis. Everyone who has asked for a the customers responded that they were Score (NPS), which measures the likelihood online store orders, customer service in response will be contacted. Customer satisfied with the service received. Target for that a customer will recommend a service, general, availability of products and the feedback is also made visible to people response time is 24h, but during peak times and which is also one of our strategic Key selection. working in support functions. the response times are longer than usual. Performance Indicators. 15 CUSTOMERS STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 • As part of our CSR work, we conducted a SERVICES TO SUPPORT A product can be extended, and environ• Electronic devices and batteries can also be stakeholder survey in late 2018. We invited RESPONSIBLE LIFESTYLE mental impacts can be minimised. returned to the department stores in Tallinn 1 500 customers to respond and received • We also offer fashion consultant, sewing and Riga. valuable feedback on how we can better We inspire and support our services and interior services to support the • Stockmann regularly organises various respond to our customers’ expectations and customers in making responsible choice of products that are tailored to the recycling campaigns in cooperation with wishes. choices and provide information customer. suppliers in its department stores in Finland on sustainable choices and our and Baltics. For example, in Finland a CSR work. Our goal is to be a source of campaign to recycle frying pans, cutlery • Customer feedback is collected through inspiration for responsible consumption and • Lindex’s website and store materials and cookware was organised with regular customer inquiries both in-stores lifestyle, and we provide our customers provide tips and product care instructions Hackman, and the Knowledge Cotton and online in nine operating countries. various services that support this goal. for washing, drying and repairing clothes Apparel brand collects second-hand • Feedback is also collected through social aimed at prolong the life of garments and clothes continuously. In addition, the media, e-mails and phone calls to Tips for choosing and reducing environmental impact. Sales department store in Tallinn collaborated customer service, through brand tracking, taking care of clothing personnel are trained to advice customers with the designer Reet Aus and the Re-use and through in-depth interviews with on this subject. Centre in a circular economy project. selected customer groups. During the collaboration, customers were • Most feedback concerned selection, • As part of our excellent customer service, Opportunities to recycle encouraged to bring used denim goods to marketing and campaigns, sustainability customers are offered information on how the department store with the aim of topics, especially chemicals, and the More to use and wash products, and on recycling reusing and recycling the material into new at Lindex customer loyalty programme. alternatives, so that the lifecycle of the • Stockmann department stores in Finland clothing. and the department store in Tallinn cooperates with the Emmy online shop that sells second-hand brand clothing. An • Lindex piloted textile collection in Sweden Emmy collection box can be found at each back in 2014. Today, Lindex’s customers department store in Finland and since can hand in used textiles and clothes for August 2018 two Emmy collection boxes recycling and reuse at all stores in Sweden, Stockmann department store in Tallinn joined can be found in the department store in Norway and Finland. The textile collection forces with the designer Tallinn. Using the boxes, our customers can is organised in collaboration with partners Reet Aus and the Re-use recycle their clothes using Emmy’s service and investigation on finding partners in Centre and encouraged customers to bring used and even collect their sales profit in the Lindex’s other sales countries is under denim goods to a form of a Stockmann gift card. progress. In 2018, Lindex collected a total of collection point at • In Finland customers can return used 166 (150) tonnes of textiles for reuse and Stockmann. The used electrical appliances and electronic recycling. The ‘Reuse and recycle’ denim clothes have been turned into a knitwear equipment, batteries, fluorescent lamps programme is a part of Lindex’s long term collection that is sold at and energy saving bulbs and nail polish to ambition to close the material loop. Stockmann Tallinn. Stockmann department stores. 16 CUSTOMERS STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 MARKETING AND LABELLING Stockmann respects the rights of information, guidance and training in the field Product information • In addition, there are several international the consumer and engages in of ethical marketing. We comply with statutory labelling, in addition and domestic brands in the Stockmann responsible marketing. This In 2018, there were no incidents of to which voluntary labels that reflect product department stores’ wide product selection policy is included in the groupnon-compliance concerning marketing sustainability may be attached to products. If that provide additional information on the wide Code of Conduct. Our communications legislation or voluntary fashion products are made from materials products’ sustainability aspects. marketing communications are principles at Stockmann. At Lindex, it was with reduced environmental impact, such as performed according to the found that six hygiene and cosmetic products organic cotton or recycled fibres, this is clearly Consolidated ICC Code on did not comply with national marketing marked using a hangtag, a print or on the • To make it easier for Advertising and Marketing Communication legislation by the market surveillance authority product packaging, as well as in the product customers to find the Practice, the Consumer Protection Act and our in Estonia. Corrective actions were information in the online store. more sustainable marketing strategy. immediately taken and the products were later We tell our customers about the origin garments, Lindex approved for sale. of the products. The country of origin is communicate which Marketing communications marked on all of Stockmann’s own brand garments are more sustainable Our marketing communications avoid all garments and home textiles as well as on all through Sustainable Choice hangtags. The misleading practices, such as false or Lindex’s garments. tags also explain in what way a garment is deceptive messages and omission of considered to be a more sustainable important information. Our marketing should choice and if there are any certificates never be inappropriate or offensive. These • Stockmann has introduced the Sustainable linked to the item. The same information is practices are known and followed by all of the DESIGN label in order to improve visible in Lindex’s online store. company’s marketing planners and are communication and provide • The Premium Quality label stands for overseen by the Marketing Director of each information of products that are great quality of wool, silk or leather used in business. made with organic cotton, lyocell products. Lindex has its own brand strategy and or recycled polyester. On the • The Even better denim label highlights the marketing guidelines regarding images, other side of the hangtag, there’s new production methods taken into use for tonality, choice of models, retouch more detailed information about denim garments to save water, energy and management etc. as well as social media the material. chemical use. guidelines. Lindex is a member of the selfStockmann • The Design From Finland label • Most of the products’ neck labels are made regulatory Swedish Advertising Ombudsman respects the rights indicates that the product has of recycled polyester. (RO) organisation, founded by the industry to of the consumer been designed in Finland, at review and maintain standards. RO receives and engages in Stockmann’s own design complaints about advertising and assesses responsible marketing. studio. whether the advertising follows the Consolidated ICC Code. RO also provides 17 CUSTOMERS STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 CUSTOMER PRIVACY Stockmann and its employees respect the privacy and inviolability of the rights of its customers. We do not reveal or use customer information other than in strict accordance with the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and Stockmann’s customer privacy policy. Training on GDPR and customer privacy is mandatory for all employees and it is included in the new employee induction programme. The Group has two loyal customer programmes; the Stockmann loyal customer programme with approximately 0,7 million active loyal customers, and More at Lindex with over 4 million members. The companies keep in touch with their loyal customers on a regular basis and offer them exclusive deals and benefits with a monetary value. The loyal customer systems’ data file descriptions can be found on the units’ respective websites. Each of the loyal customer programmes has its own customer registers, compiled in order to manage customer relationships and for customer service and marketing purposes. The personal data of Stockmann’s customers and of shareholders attending its General Meetings is handled confidentially in accordance with the applicable legislation. During the year, Stockmann received several queries from customers regarding the use of personal data. These queries were dealt with on a case-by-case basis, and appropriate measures were taken depending on the nature of the inquiry. In 2018, there were two limited incidents concerning customers’ personal data, one in Finland and one in Estonia. Stockmann has filed notifications to the local data protection authorities regarding the incidents. Estonian data protection authority decided that no official procedure was required. The incident that took place in Finland is still pending with the authorities. 18 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 PERSONNEL Motivated and engaged retail experts are the backbone of our business. We treat our employees fairly and equally according to the principle of equal opportunities. Employees are paid a fair level of remuneration for their work, and their personal and professional growth and development is encouraged. We encourage our employees to look after their wellbeing and we provide them with healthy and safe working conditions. Our aim is to be an attractive and well-liked employer in the labour market. 19 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 T he Stockmann Group’s Human Resources (HR) policies are based TARGETS & KEY PERFORMANCE INDIC ATORS (KPIS) on the company’s values, HR C SR THEME ACTION POINTS AND PROGRESS 2018 STATUS strategy and Code of Conduct, on top of which the divisions have PERSONNEL We increase well-being Despite the challenging year, Stockmann’s Organisational Health Index In process their own more detailed HR policies that at work (OHI) score, which measures employee well-being and the ability of our support the success of individuals and the MOTIVATED AND organisation to reach its full potential, has continued to improve. In 2018, the OHI score was 56 (2017: 54). However, we did not reach our ambitious well-being of the personnel. The ENGAGED RETAIL target of 65 (scale 0-100). implementation of good HR policies is EXPERTS monitored through personnel surveys, We promote clear work 84% of Stockmann’s personnel in Finland had performance and developTarget not roles and targets ment discussions (PDD) with their superiors. We did not reach our target, met performance appraisal discussions and other 100%. During the year, Stockmann renewed the PDD-process in its support feedback channels. Cooperation also takes functions. The aim of the renewed model is to support a more coaching place in local personnel committees and the and agile supervisory work where continuous interaction and feedback are Group Employee Council. The Human emphasised. At Lindex, all permanent employees have annual employee appraisal meetings with their manager and regular follow up meetings. Resources Director, who reports to the CEO of Stockmann Group, is responsible for the HR We ensure safe working There was a total of 60 reported workplace accidents in Finland, and in In process of the company. environment addition 50 on the journey to and from work (2017: total of 137, including Delicatessen business in Finland). In Sweden, there was a total of 137 (142) reported workplace accidents. The Group’s accident rate continued to EMPLOYMENT decline and was 22 (25) accidents per million working hours. The Stockmann Group is a significant employer in Finland and Sweden. At the end of 2018, the company had 7 129 (7 325) functional teamwork and improved digital As part of the streamlining efforts, During the employees in 15 countries, of whom 2 145 capabilities lie at the core. Stockmann initiated cooperation negotiations reporting year (2 212) worked in Finland and 2 341 (2 234) in In late 2017, Lindex launched an in January 2018 which concerned about 350 approximately 30 Sweden. However, the recent years have been extensive Profitability and improvement people in supply chain, finance and HR new digital expert demanding for our employees. Organisational programme. As part of the programme, the positions in Finland. As an outcome, 74 changes has been required in order to aim was to streamline operations especially at people were laid off. positions have streamline operations and improve long-term the Gothenburg Head office and support In the beginning of 2018, Stockmann been launched. business profitability. During the coming functions in Sweden, Norway and Finland. launched a digital acceleration project, with years, the Group will focus even more on During the first quarter of 2018 Lindex carried the aim of increasing e-commerce and creating and promoting a people and out restructuring measures that led to the reinforcing the omnichannel approach. The customer-centric culture where a unique reduction of 71 positions mainly at the focus has been on increasing the digital employee experience, seamless crosscompany’s Head office in Sweden. know-how within the organisation. During the 20 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 reporting year approximately 30 new digital participated in the Confederation of Finnish expert positions have been launched. Industries’ “Get Acquainted with Working In October 2018, Stockmann Group Life and Earn” (Tutustu työelämään ja announced that it has signed an agreement to tienaa) programme and offered 60 sell its Nevsky Centre shopping centre youngsters an internship position in the property in St. Petersburg Russia, to PPF Real department stores. Furthermore, Estate. The transaction was completed on 24 Stockmann collaborated with the January 2018, and it included Stockmann’s independent development and fully-owned Russian subsidiary OOO humanitarian organisation Plan Stockmann Nevsky Centre. With the International Finland. We participated in transaction, 29 employees in the subsidiary the organisation’s development project and EMPLOYEES moved to the new employer. during the summer offered short BY COUNTRY internships for youngsters in the EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS programme. In addition, the department EMPLOYEES 37% 3 000 BY DIVISION In retail the need for fixed-term employees is store in Riga gave 47 students from the age 33% 2 500 30% high, as the summer and Christmas seasons 15 the opportunity to gain a first job STOCKMANN RETAIL 32% 2 000 and campaigns increase the need for seasonal experience. REAL ESTATE  1% 1 500 employees. Use of supervised workers or • In 2018, Stockmann also participated in the GROUP’S SHARED FUNCTIONS 2% 1 000 self-employed workers is minimal at the Service Foundation for the Deaf’s LINDEX 63% 500 PURCHASING OFFICES 2% Stockmann Group, the former being limited to (Kuurojen Palvelusäätiö sr) project and 0 FINLAND SWEDEN OTHER some cases in marketing. offered trainee positions under the PoveriMEN WOMEN programme • A number of people working in sales posi• The number of fixed-term employees at tions at Stockmann department stores are Stockmann has decreased, while seasonal employees of Stockmann’s tenants in, for FIXED-TERM / FULL-TIME / PERMANENT PART-TIME workers at the department stores for Crazy example, restaurants and grocery stores. Days and Christmas are now recruited 82% 6 000 6 000 through a recruitment agency. 5 000 64% 5 000 • The Stockmann department stores offer • Lindex offers internships both at the Head 4 000 4 000 many young people an opportunity to Office and in stores and it cooperates with 3 000 36% 3 000 become familiar with the retail sector, e.g. different universities regarding internship 2 000 2 000 18% in the form of the practical training periods positions. 1 000 1 000 of various educational institutions. • At the Head Office there are about 20 0 0 Stockmann employed 200 (300) summer interns per year and most of them are FIXED-TERM PERMANENT FULL-TIME PART-TIME employees and 300 (330) interns during placed in the Design and Purchasing MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN the reporting year. In addition, Stockmann Department. 21 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 • At Lindex stores, extra workforce is needed permanent employees, for instance by representatives of Stockmann’s Group Council providing the clubs the opportunity to apply around the summer and Christmas supporting sports possibilities and through and the other by the association representing for financial support. holidays. This need is solved mainly by various staff clubs. Stockmann employees are Stockmann’s senior salaried employees. • In 2018, Stockmann organised information offering more hours to part-time rewarded for 30 years of service with sessions for its personnel, on the quarterly employees and extra employees additional holiday. Lindex has its own reward results and the strategy process. The aim of connected to the store. Each year, Lindex scheme according to which employees are • The strategic target is that a performance these sessions has been to promote a employs about 20 seasonal employees to rewarded for 25 years of service. In addition, and development discussion (PDD) is culture of openness and to strengthen work at the Head Office during the summer Lindex supports recreational and leisure conducted at least once a year with each cooperation between the units. and Christmas holidays. activities for employees, for instance by Stockmann employee. During the reporting • In Finland, Stockmann’s system for supporting sports. year, Stockmann renewed the PDD process initiatives was renewed. Now, the system is EMPLOYEE BENEFITS in its support functions. The aim of the more transparent and efficient, and allows The Stockmann Group offers its personnel the renewed model is to support a more personnel to jointly develop business ideas. benefits required by local legislation in each of LABOUR AND coaching and agile supervisory work where • Stockmann has an incentive programme the countries in which it operates. These continuous interaction and feedback are that covers every employee. Sales, benefits may include occupational health MANAGEMENT emphasised. According to the warehouse and support personnel and the services, insurance against occupational RELATIONS recommendations of the renewed PDD management have their own designated injuries and diseases, parental leave and model, a development discussion for incentive schemes, which aim to encourage retirement benefits. Personnel benefits do not The Stockmann Group monitors personnel in executive and expert positions, and motivate our employees to aim for top vary between part-time and full-time the implementation of good HR shall be carried out three times a year. results and to inspire customers. employees. practices through personnel Implementation is annually monitored: in In most countries, the employees are surveys, performance appraisal 2018, 84% of Stockmann’s personnel in offered benefits that clearly go beyond the discussions and other feedback channels. We Finland had performance and development • All Lindex employees have an annual requirements set by legislation, such as health promote a culture of openness and strive to discussions with their supervisors. development discussion with their insurance and meal benefits. All employees communicate about issues concerning our Furthermore, additional group development supervisor. The target discussions under can purchase products using an employee personnel as quickly as possible by going discussions are held in the sales operation to the performance programme were held at discount in stores belonging to the Group. In through Stockmann’s financial performance as increase inclusion. the Lindex Head office and the distribution addition, from 2018, Stockmann employees in well as by setting goals for our performance in • In Finland, the Stockmann Group’s divisions centre in Sweden every two months, as in Finland are offered four times a year, the these areas. There is a need to continue have their own Employees’ Councils that the previous year. opportunity to purchase a set of work clothes improving communication about structural convene four times a year. A similar model is • As part of the open communication, with an additional discount. Employees can changes so that it reaches all personnel followed in the Baltic countries. Human quarterly results and strategy meetings are also purchase e.g. sample clothing at a budget categories, including those who are absent. resources matters concerning Finland are held for all employees by the Lindex CEO. price in personnel sales. Annually longTwo employee representatives handled at the Group Council, whose Along with the Group and Lindex strategy, serving employees are awarded with a medal. participate in meetings of Stockmann’s Board meetings are held twice annually. future development areas are presented in In all units, employees are rewarded on their of Directors and they have the right to attend • During the spring, Stockmann’s Group these meetings and questions are 50th birthday. Stockmann supports and speak at Board meetings. One of these Council decided that Stockmann will answered. Each year after the summer recreational and leisure activities for representatives is elected by the employee continue to support staff clubs in 2018 by holidays, an inspirational event with varied 22 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 topics from the management, related to OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH, support work and family life balance as well • Stockmann uses an early intervention the Lindex vision and strategies, is held for SAFETY AND WELL-BEING as equal opportunity. In November, we model to follow up and support employees all Lindex employees. took part in the national ‘bring your child to at an early stage in order to promote their • In 2018, on behalf of management, Lindex Occupational health care is work’ day, a day dedicated to introducing working ability and health. A working ability organised workshops with employees on arranged in accordance with children to the everyday work life of their discussion is a tool for managers for how to develop the company’s people local laws and regulations in all closest adults, as well as making use of confidential discussion, and is recomstrategy and employee brand. countries of operation. children’s fresh ideas at the workplace. mended for use when something has • Lindex conducts regular dialogue with trade Employee wellbeing and occupational safety • Small events to boost well-being at work changed in an employee’s ability to work. unions, to discuss for example wages, are discussed regularly in the Employees’ included a ‘take the stairs’ theme week, Follow-up for sickness absences requires organisational changes, and other issues Councils, which operate in accordance with yoga sessions, voluntary eyesight cooperation between the manager and the raised by trade unions. the requirements of local legislation and inspections and a sports weekend lottery occupational health services, and represent all personnel groups. Employee by Otium, a foundation that supports sometimes involves a personnel well-being is measured through employee employee well-being at Stockmann. In representative and the HR department. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION surveys both at Stockmann and Lindex units. addition, Stockmann organised a ‘Work Different modes of support for the return to AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Well-being day’ for its personnel. work, such as work in trial periods or The Stockmann Group respects the basic • Stockmann offered to its personnel in part-time sick leave, are actively used at rights of its employees, such as freedom of • An Organisational Health Index (OHI) Finland the opportunity to take a seasonal Stockmann. The company also has a drug association and collective bargaining. In survey was carried out among Stockmann’s influenza vaccine. This opportunity was abuse programme to intervene in cases Finland, approximately 81 (80) % of the employees for the fifth consecutive year to highly appreciated by the personnel. Stockmann Group’s personnel are covered by measure employee well-being and the collective agreements. All Lindex employees in ability of our organisation to reach its full Sweden, Norway and Finland, excluding potential. The survey was open for all senior salaried employees, are covered by a Stockmann employees and the response collective bargaining agreement. The rate was 76%. While there was progress in company does not monitor the extent of the right direction, Stockmann’s OHI score union membership, but it does compile 56 (2017: 54), did not reach our ambitious statistics on those employees in Finland target of 65 (scale 0-100). whose trade union membership fee is • The issues and concerns expressed by deducted from their salary. In 2018, these Stockmann’s personnel were employee employees accounted for 31 (30) % of the well-being and workload, shift planning in Group’s personnel working in Finland. In other department stores, which was developed in countries of operation, statistics on union general and to take individual situations membership have not been collected. better into account, and the development of know-how. • Stockmann has in place a guidance for remote work. The aim of the guidance is to We celebrated the ‘Bring your child to work day’ in November 23 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 involving substance abuse. The principles questionnaire was sent to employees in SICKNESS ABSENCES AND representatives of different business and of this programme are updated regularly. Lindex all operating countries and the WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS personnel groups. The Group’s goal is to • As part of its normal operations, response rate among personnel was over Sickness absences and workplace accidents enable and develop the personnel’s personal Stockmann’s occupational health services 60%. The overall results of the survey were are reported in the ‘Personnel figures’ table. In skills and offer professional learning take the working ability perspective into at a high level compared to Lindex’s results Sweden, most accidents were due to slipping opportunities. consideration with every appointment and from previous employee survey as well as and falling over things as well as dropping and advise employees on severe work-related compared with other companies of the lifting things. diseases and any other risks associated same size. In 2018, medical occupational health • The number of training hours at Stockmann with work, and give recommendations • Identified development areas included care covered all employees in Finland whose Retail and Real Estate in Finland was a total where necessary, for example for a more competence development, more regular employment had continued for more than 4 of 20 000 (2017: 20 000) and this equals suitable work station. Supportive follow-ups on individual goals and skills months, i.e. 1 968 (1 989) persons at year-end. an average of approximately 9.3 (2017: 8.4) management practices, a safe working development, more transparent The occupational health care services of the hours per employee. This includes training environment and the possibility of varied communication and encouragement of Group’s units in Finland are arranged via the for sales supervisors, sales and product nutrition during the work day are also employees to give feedback. company’s own occupational health clinics training, training towards a professional considered part of the support for • In order to support employee wellbeing, and outsourced services. The personnel at the qualification and other training to increase employees’ ability to work. Information on mind workout classes were offered to Group’s own clinics mainly serve employees in professional competence. preventative action is also given out during personnel working at the Head Office in the Helsinki region. In other locations and at • Stockmann organises a wide range of the Group’s occupational safety day event. Sweden. the Finnish Lindex stores, occupational health coaching sessions in Finland, regarding In 2018, the theme of the Group’s • Performance management is used at services are provided through outsourcing. product competence, sales and service, occupational safety day was ‘well-being at Lindex to follow-up and support employees The costs of occupational health services for induction for new employees, and coaching work’. at an early stage in order to promote their year 2018 are not yet available. In Finland, the activities related to raising employee and working ability and health. Different modes cost of occupational health services for year customer experience among other things. of support for the return to work after a 2017 was approximately EUR 1.4 (2016: 1.4) • Stockmann supports the combining of work • A staff survey is conducted regularly, so sickness absence, such as work in trial million. The net cost of occupational health and studies, for example by providing that Lindex can become an even better periods or part-time sick leave, are actively services in 2017 was approximately EUR 325 opportunities for apprenticeship training. workplace. In November 2018, the used at Lindex. The company also has a (2016: 330) per employee in Finland. • In autumn 2018, Stockmann launched a drug abuse programme to intervene in renewed e-learning environment. In which cases involving substance abuse. The all e-learnings are available for the principles of this programme are available TRAINING AND personnel and the new path-based on the company intranet. Lindex conducts structure guides the user to choose the right close cooperation with the occupational EDUCATION learning entity. New e-learnings are done In autumn 2018, health services, in work-related diseases Systematic, continuous training is a core part and published as needed. The e-learning Stockmann launched and any other risks associated with work, of our HR practices and is carried out mostly program was also introduced in and for giving recommendations where through comprehensive e-learning Stockmann’s operations in Baltics. a renewed e-learning necessary, for example for a more suitable programmes and through various internal • The roll-out of the Stockmann Group’s environment. work station. training events and sessions involving Code of Conduct e-learning continued 24 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 among sales and logistics personnel in the Head Office to gain new experiences and Finland. The roll-out will continue in 2019 in perspective. This is considered a success e.g. Stockmann Retail’s Baltic operations. factor in developing Lindex further, and a way to retain competent personnel. Opportunities for a transfer within the company are provided • The average amount of training per person through Lindex’s internal labour market, at Lindex in all operating countries was 8.0 including internship opportunities in another (2017: 10.1) per employee. There were a role for shorter periods. total of 35 000 hours of training. • Continuous professional development is promoted through various in-house DIVERSITY AND EQUAL training courses and events. In addition, external management training is offered. OPPORTUNITY & NONDue to reorganisation in 2018, no major DISCRIMINATION trainings were executed. However, for the management, various change manageStockmann treats all of its ment trainings were offered and trainings employees fairly and equally, on the Customer First programme was and it values the diversity of its In 2018, Stockmann was one of the official partners of Helsinki Pride. organised for sales personnel in the stores. employees. Discrimination is strictly forbidden. SKILLS MANAGEMENT and men. We ensure that the tasks, planning has been developed to ensure AND JOB ROTATION qualifications and titles are gender neutral. equal treatment, e.g. regarding the offering of Continuous development at work and an Stockmann has an equality plan, which is Age, sex or religious beliefs are only additional working hours, and the division of active internal labour market are Stockmann’s regularly updated and approved in the considered if there is a justified reason based days off and Sunday work, and by renewing strengths. Providing employees with the company’s Employees’ Council. With the aid on the position. In 2018, we updated the the guidance for remote work, allowing more opportunity to switch duties between of statistics, the purpose of the plan is to point recruitment form and no longer ask genderpersonnel to take advantage of remote work. divisions, functions and countries promotes out structural issues in work duties and to set related questions from our applicants. We do HR Business Partners work actively in professional learning and the retention of improvement targets for achieving a more not accept age discrimination and different cooperation with supervisors to deal with and competent personnel in the company’s equal working environment. age groups are well represented in the anticipate potential cases of harassment, service. Many members of the Group’s The realisation of equality is actively company. As of 2018, we also lowered the discrimination, equal opportunity, atmosmanagement have experience gained from promoted in all employment categories. minimum age to our trainee and campaign phere and workload. In 2018, Stockmann was various parts of the company, including Mutual respect and abiding by mutually set positions. To balance the age breakdown an official partner of Helsinki Pride, the customer service duties. rules are part of this. In recruitment, we are among sales persons, we place emphasis on biggest cultural event focusing on human At Lindex, employees are encouraged to open-minded towards the various recruiting competent middle-aged female and rights in Finland. The event aims to bring up try new roles within Lindex, at stores and backgrounds of the candidates. Job male personnel as sales persons for the diversity and make room also for the offices as well as at country organisations and descriptions are designed to suit both women Stockmann department stores. Personnel marginal voices in our society. With the 25 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 partnership, Stockmann wanted to publicly gender balance is better in the support EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP 2018 show its support for equality, inclusion and functions, for example IT and similar. MEN/WOMEN under 30 years old 30-50 years old older than 50 years old diversity. At the Pride week, Stockmann’s HR Entire personnel, % 38 (8/92) 42 (11/89) 20 (9/91) Director represented Stockmann in a panel DIVERSIT Y OF GOVERNANCE Group Management Team, persons 3/6 0/1 discussion regarding equality. During the year, BODIES AND EMPLOYEES Stockmann continued the discussion on sales When choosing the members of the Board of personnel’s working clothes and in autumn a Directors, diversity is taken into account, so pilot project was launched with renewed that the persons represent different fields and EMPLOYEES BY GENDER guidelines for working clothes. Aim of the pilot professions, international backgrounds, and MEN/WOMEN 2018 2017 2016 is to encourage personnel to dress according varying age and gender. Information on the Entire personnel, % 9/91 9/91 10/90 to their own style and identity, and in this way average age of the employees is presented in With Director title, % 44/56 50/50 44/56 strengthen the culture of diversity and the ‘Personnel Figures’ table. Group Management Team, persons (%) 4/6 (40/60) 6/6 (50/50) 6/5 (55/45) inclusivity within the organisation. Board of Directors, persons (%) 5/3 (63/37) 6/2 (75/25) 5/3 (63/37) EQUAL REMUNERATION OF WOMEN AND MEN Lindex has its own global equality and diversity Equal remuneration is one of the areas in the plan. The plan includes e.g. a policy on equality and diversity plan. harassment and discrimination and it clarifies THE RATIO OF BASIC REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN BY how to act in such situations and how to EMPLOYEE CATEGORY, STOCKMANN FINLAND prevent violations. Diversity is seen as a Remuneration of women and men working at INDEX 2018 2017 2016 competitive advantage for an international Stockmann in Finland is monitored with the Sales personnel (hourly salary) 98 99 98 fashion company, where all employees are aid of an index of monthly or hourly salaries Warehouse personnel (hourly salary) 94 95 94 united in their passion for fashion, customers that compares women’s salaries to men’s Office personnel (monthly salary) 94 96 97 and trade. Lindex values and develops salaries (index 100) per employee category. Senior salaried employees and management (monthly salary) 84 85* 83 employees’ job performance and skills The latest update of the index was on 31 * Figure is restated from the 2017 report regardless of age or ethnicity, and it wants to December 2018. The causes of pay The index is only indicative, as it does not take into account the diversity of job roles and descriptions in each category. be perceived as an attractive company for all differentials include, for example, the people. Active equality and diversity work difference between job roles, level of within Lindex contributes to increased requirements and individual competences motivation and satisfaction among within the same level of difficulty, which the employees, which in turn increases the index does not take into account. Men work company’s competitiveness and profitability. relatively more in supervisor and ICT positions, The great majority of Lindex personnel are which explains some differences. women and it is considered a challenge to get men to seek employment in Lindex stores and to some extent in office positions too. The 26 PERSONNEL STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 salaries are market related and competitive, INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION inappropriate behaviour is still under progress. According to Swedish Discrimination Act, and connected to the responsibility of the role During the reporting year, no case of sexual During the reporting year, the Lindex Lindex annually conducts a salary mapping and achieved results. Differences in salary harassment or religious or political Management Team was contacted by five with the aim to detect, remedy and prevent because of gender, functional limitation, discrimination were raised at Stockmann Lindex employees in UK, regarding issues unjustified salary differences between women ethnicity, sex-transcendent identity, sexual Group. Stockmann’s HR department dealt related to unfair treatment at work. Lindex local and men who carry out equal or equivalent orientation, religion and other beliefs, age or with two issues related to inappropriate Country Manager met the employees in person work. In 2018, no unreasonable differences parental leave are not acceptable. The behaviour in Finland. One of the filed and the issues were solved in cooperation. In due to gender were discovered. The collective agreement sets the guidelines for complaints was completed during the other countries of operation, no cases of foundation of Lindex’s personnel policy is that the salary audit. reporting year, while the other complaint on discrimination or harassment were made or addressed. PERSONNEL FIGURES 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Number of personnel 31 December 7 129 7 325 7 572 Average age of personnel 37 37 37 in Finland (men/women) 332/1 813 362/1 850 430/2 133 in Finland 40 39 40 in Sweden (men/women) 147/2 194 116/2 118 128/2 254 abroad 37 38 37 Personnel on average 7 241 7 360 8 164 Sickness absences, % 4.2 4.1 4.7 Personnel as full time equivalents, on average 5 299 5 426* 5 960 in Finland 4.7 3.8 4.3 Personnel by employment contract in Sweden 4.7 4.6 5.1 18 (6/94) / 18 (6/94) / 17 (7/93) / Reported workplace accidents at workplace + on the way to fixed-term (men/women)/permanent (men/women) 82 (10/90) 82 (10/90) 83 (11/89) work in Finland, number 60+50 85+52** 148+86** fixed-term (men/women)/permanent (men/women) in 8 (7/93) / 10 (14/86) / 8 (10/90) / Reported workplace accidents at workplace in Sweden, number 137 142 132 Finland 92 (16/84) 90 (17/83) 92 (17/83) Personnel training expenses in Finland fixed-term (men/women)/permanent (men/women) in 25 (7/93) / 16 (4/96) / 22 (5/95) / (excluding direct wage costs), EUR million 0.2 0.2 0.3 Sweden 75 (6/94) 84 (5/95) 78 (6/94) * Figure restated from the 2017 CSR report Share of full-time/part-time employees of personnel, % 36/64 38/62 40/60 ** Figures include personnel in Delicatessen business in Finland 43 (24/76) / 46 ( 24/76) / 52 (24/76) / in Finland (men/women) 57 (9/91) 54 (10/90) 48 (10/90) 33 (16/84) / 35 (15/85) / 34 (17/83) / abroad (men/women) 67 (2/98) 65 (2/98) 66 (2/98) Turnover of permanent employees, on average, % 22 19 21 in Finland 17 17 22 in Sweden 9 6 6 New permanent employee hires, % 20 18 14 in Finland 12 10 5 in Sweden 6 5 4 Personnel costs, EUR million 222.0 236.2 270.4 Personnel costs, share of revenue % 21.8 22.4 23.0 27 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN We offer our customers a wide selection of safe and long-lasting quality products with sustainable choices. We promote sustainable brands and environmentally friendly products. We focus on the responsibility, transparency and traceability of our supply chains. We increase the use of sustainable materials in our own brand garments. 28 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 S tockmann’s department stores and Lindex’s fashion stores offer an TARGETS & KEY PERFORMANCE INDIC ATORS (KPIS) C SR THEME ACTION POINTS AND PROGRESS 2018 STATUS extensive range of products, consisting of hundreds of thousands of product titles. These PRODUCTS We offer a wide There were zero public product recalls in own brand products and own import On target selection of safe and products, as targeted. products sold in our stores must fulfil the durable quality quality, environmental and product safety HIGH-QUALITY products requirements set for them at any given time. SELECTION WITH We promote We introduced new, more sustainable brand products in our selection, and On target Sustainable products as part of SUSTAINABLE sustainable brands and promoted them on the sales floor and in our communications channels. department store selection CHOICES AND A environmentally Responsible products in the home merchandise area were featured in a pop Our broad product selection offers consumers TRANSPARENT friendly products up shop in the Helsinki department store and the eco cosmetic selection was opportunities to make responsible purchase SUPPLY CHAIN highlighted in the cosmetics departments. The Casa Stockmann collection introduced a bedlinen collection made of GOTS-certified organic cotton. choices. In the areas of fashion, cosmetics Stockmann’s Sustainable DESIGN label and Lindex’s Sustainable choice label and home products, the choice includes provided information on the sustainable materials used in own brand products. products made from organic and recycled materials and products with an eco-label. We increase the use of 30% of Stockmann’s own brand garments were made of sustainable materials, On target Stockmann encourages its sales personnel to sustainable materials in such as organic cotton, lyocell or recycled fibres. In addition, 65% of own brand find out about the choice of eco-labelled our own brand jersey garments were made of organic cotton. 55% of the Lindex assortment garments was made of sustainable materials and 96% of cotton was more sustainable. products in their areas of responsibility and to offer them to the customers interested in such products. We add transparency in Both Stockmann and Lindex publish comprehensive lists of own brands’ On target our own brands’ value suppliers and factories on the companies’ websites. Stockmann has also Information for personnel chain included the own brand home area in its list, as targeted. concerning the various labelling schemes regarding 30% We cooperate to 100% of fashion and home own brand suppliers have signed the Stockmann In process environmental aspects, improve working Supplier Code of Conduct, the amfori BSCI Code of Conduct or similar. In sustainability and origin conditions in our 2018, over 80% of all the own brand producers in risk countries has undergone is available on the own brands’ an amfori BSCI or similar audit. supplier network Stockmann intranet. The knowledge of of Stockmann’s own sales personnel brand garments were on eco-labels made of sustainable is surveyed materials and 65% of own brand jersey annually in garments were made connection with of organic cotton. ISO 14001 audits. 29 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 CUSTOMER HEALTH responsibilities and the action required. In cotton, Better cotton (BCI-cotton) or recycled • In the Casa Stockmann collection we AND SAFETY & PRODUCT 2018, there were no public recalls involving cotton. introduces our first bedlinen collection own brand products sold by Stockmann entirely made of GOTS-certified organic COMPLIANCE department stores or Lindex, as targeted. cotton. The Stockmann Group is However, at Lindex, two cosmetic products • In 2018, 30% (10) of Stockmann’s own responsible for the safety of the were found non-compliant with regulation on brands clothes for women, children and products it sells, ensuring that cosmetic products by market surveillance men were made of more sustainable • Sustainability is part of Lindex’s long-term they do not pose a risk to authority in Sweden due to incorrect labelling. materials, while already 65% of own brand strategy, with ambitious sustainability goals customers’ health or property. The company’s One of the products was withdrawn from sales jersey garments were made of organic set for 2020 for fibres, processes and Supply Chain organisation makes sure that and one was corrected and then approved for cotton. Our target is to increase the amount production. By 2020, 80% of Lindex’s products comply with the valid requirements sales. Furthermore, there were some incidents of sustainable materials in our own brand garments will be made from more set in legislation, such as chemical and of non-compliance with voluntary codes at garments. sustainable materials, with more sustainable product safety legislation. Products are tested Lindex that led to withdrawn of two products processes and more sustainable production by their manufacturers and importers, and from sales. One component in the packaging facilities. Stockmann tests its own brand products and for a shower gel was found being made of • In 2018, 55% (55) of Lindex garments were own imports, on the basis of regular sampling PVC. Lindex has a voluntary ban on PVC in its made of sustainable materials and 96% (95) and risk analysis. Testing ensures that the products and packaging. One baby bib was of cotton was sustainably produced. In total, products fulfil all quality and safety withdrawn from sales for precautionary 33 million garments from sustainable requirements set by legislation or the stricter reasons. materials were produced. requirements set by Stockmann. In the Casa Stockmann • 100% of Lindex’s assortment for newborn In addition, Stockmann follows product collection we babies was made of sustainable materials. notifications issued by the EU in order to MATERIALS introduced our first • 100% of Lindex’s denim products are ‘Better inform customers as quickly as possible about bedlinen collection Denim’, made from sustainable materials products that pose a risk. RAPEX, the EU rapid Responsibility is integral to the entirely made of and with processes that use less water, alert system, facilitates the exchange of processes involved in clothing GOTS-certified organic energy and chemicals. 90% of the denim information between Member States and the design and procurement of cotton. assortment is dyed with the cleanest indigo Commission on measures taken to prevent or materials and products, and dye on the market. restrict the marketing or use of products these processes are part of the • During the reporting year, Lindex has posing a serious risk to the health and safety of consumers. In Finland, Finnish Customs and the Finnish Safety and Chemicals Agency (Tukes) also promote and supervise product operations of the Stockmann Group. We are set to systematically increase the amount of environmentally less harmful, or sustainable, 55 % of Lindex garments were continued to work on and invest in introducing a more comprehensive selection of sustainable fibers, such as eco viscose and recycled polyamide. This work will safety. raw materials in the Group’s own brand made of sustainable become visible in the assortment in 2019. Possible product recalls are handled in fashion products, such as organic cotton, materials and 96% of accordance with Stockmann’s internal product lyocell and recycled fibres. We define cotton was sustainably recall instructions, which specify sustainable cotton as the use of organic produced 30 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 USE OF CHEMICALS solutions proactively. We make good use of the store are partially made of recycled When producing garments, chemicals are Finnish ‘Optikassi 2009’ research on materials. used in processes such as colouring, printing environmental impacts throughout the life cycle • During the reporting year, we have been and washing. The Stockmann Group fulfils the of packaging materials. The Stockmann Group contacted regarding our approach to use requirements of REACH and actively works to reports on packaging materials used, in seal bags for cosmetic products bought at limit the use of harmful chemicals in all of its accordance with the EU Packaging Directive. online store. We appreciate the feedback products. As part of the Group’s efforts to and strive to find an alternative solution. reduce the use of hazardous chemicals, the use of perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) has • Stockmann has made a commitment to been banned since 2014. The ban affects all reduce the consumption of plastic bags • Lindex carrier bags are made with 60% outerwear at Lindex and children’s outerwear with the Society’s Commitment to post-consumer recycled plastic, 20% in Stockmann’s own brand products, and Sustainable Development. Accordingly, post-industry recycled plastic and 20% these items are now treated with Bionicplastic bags are no longer available for our renewable oyster shell chalk. finish®ECO instead. customers on a self-service basis and we • In the beginning of 2018, Lindex expanded Since 2015, Lindex has had a cosmetic have increased our in-store communicaOne Bag Habit and now charge for a and skincare assortment, Lindex Beauty that is tions about sustainable choices in carrier shopping bags in all its stores. Only about certified with the Nordic Ecolabel. Lindex has bags. 30% of customers have chosen to buy a participated in a cosmetic network, Dialogue • Since 2017, we have charged customers for bag during the reporting year and Lindex Group, together with the Swedish Chemical carrier bags. In 2018, about 28% of our donates approximately EUR 594 000 to Agency and several cosmetic brands and customers have chosen to buy a bag and sustainable development. adopted a voluntary ban on insoluble around 18% of our customers have chosen • The One Bag Habit is a joint initiative, Lindex has continued microbeads in rinse-off products. A voluntary to buy a plastic bag. We will continue to launched by Lindex and two other Swedish ban on certain fragrances and preservatives in to work on and invest reduce the consumption of plastic bags fashion brands with the aim to reduce the cosmetic products intended for children has in introducing a more and offer our customers paper and consumption of bags and raise awareness also been adopted. comprehensive re-usable bags as part of our carrier bag of bags negative environmental impact. selection of selection. The surplus from the bags are donated to PACKAGING MATERIALS AND sustainable fibers. • Stockmann’s plastic carrier bags are 80% causes that drive sustainable development. CARRIER BAGS recycled plastic. The paper bags are made The initiative was awarded “Sustainable Stockmann aims to bring to the market highof FSC-certified paper. Brand Building Initiative of the Year” by quality packaging and to minimise the • We recommend a re-usable bag as the Sustainable Brand Index in 2018. environmental burden of packaging materials best option and we offer a selection of • Lindex online store packages are made of and offer customers material-efficient re-usable bags. 100 % recycled materials. In addition, solutions. We actively monitor developments in READ MORE • The packaging materials, such as the Lindex has reduced the use of plastic in its www.stockmanngroup.fi the packaging industry and legislative cardboard boxes, bubble wrap and packing supply chain, e.g. by reducing the plastic developments, and we monitor customer paper, used for packaging the items used on garments shipped from experience closely and aim to offer new purchased in the stockmann.com online production countries. 31 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 PROCUREMENT but we also carry a wide selection of own before any orders are placed, and after which THE CORNER­ PRACTICES brand products in women’s, men’s and systematic responsibility work continues. children’s wear designed by our own Around 91% of Lindex products and STONES Responsible, transparent and designers, and which cannot be purchased approximately 40% of Stockmann’s own OF OUR traceable supply chains form one of Stockmann’s CSR focus anywhere else. In Lindex this applies to the majority of the products. brand products are bought via the Stockmann Group’s purchasing offices. RESPONSIBLE areas and are important for our Our local CSR specialists provide PURCHASING stakeholders. Our reporting on BUYING PRACTICES FOR training and support to suppliers and factory the supply chain is based on OWN BRAND PRODUCTS owners, to help them make improvements in PRACTICES risk assessment, and the ability Stockmann does not own any factories or line with our Code of Conduct and to exert an influence. As production facilities. Instead, our own brand environmental requirements, and they also • We have a common Code of approximately 80% of the products are made by contractors. When perform announced and unannounced Conduct in place in all our Group’s revenue comes from choosing a supplier, we pay attention to a audits. Our local production and quality production countries to ensure fashion, we focus especially on responsibility number of factors. The most important criteria controllers also visit the production units on a the fulfilment of human and in the fashion supply chain and the are: the fit with the Stockmann Group’s needs, daily basis to ensure that conditions meet our labour rights development of Stockmann Group’s own supplier know-how and ability to deliver, requirements, and they report on any • We aim for long-term brands’ supply chain, which we have the best quality and price, CSR with the focus on suspected violations of the Code of Conduct. relationships with suppliers and possibility to exert an influence on. working conditions and environmental issues, In addition to audits and training, every consolidate production Our stakeholders, including customers and the potential for long-term relationships. aspect of suppliers’ operations is rated whenever possible and governmental and non-governmental All factories need to fulfil the Stockmann according to a ‘supplier scorecard’, which • We are in close contact with the organisations, are showing increasing Group’s starting requirements and commit to forms the basis for development. Suppliers most important suppliers interest in our work in the supply chain. The the common Code of Conduct and are evaluated with the score card twice a year, through our local purchase questions raised include our buying continuous improvement. We aim for long with the Code of Conduct vs. performance offices practices, the countries of manufacture, our relationships with suppliers. being included as a parameter. Based on the Supplier Code of Conduct, human rights, evaluation, we grade our suppliers, and those • Compliance with our Code of including living wages, freedom of Close cooperation with suppliers with the best results get the most orders. Conduct is monitored through association and traceability. through local purchase offices own audits and those made by a All suppliers are expected to follow the At year end, the Stockmann Group had five Our instructions for suppliers third party Stockmann Code of Conduct or local purchasing offices in China (Shanghai The Supplier Code of Conduct is the • We aim for transparency: we demonstrate a similar commitment. The and Hong Kong), Bangladesh, India and backbone of our buying practices. All suppliers share information about our responsibility issues are discussed during the Turkey. The offices play a key role in are expected to follow the Stockmann buying practices and countries of purchasing negotiations and supplier developing working conditions and identifying Supplier Code of Conduct, or the amfori BSCI manufacture and we publish our agreements. risks. In total 131 persons are employed by the Code of Conduct complemented with suppliers and factories In the Stockmann department stores, offices and they are tasked with supervising Stockmann’s additional requirements, which the major part of merchandise is made up of purchasing and production. They review the are made based on detected human rights international and domestic brand products, procedures of each factory that they use risks and other risks. These are, for example, 32 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 the ban on sandblasting of jeans, fundamental hours, occupational health and safety, special AMFORI BSCIhealth and safety, the management system requirements for animal rights including protection for young workers, protection of the AUDITS 2017-2018 and fair remuneration. angora and merino wool, leather, fur, feathers environment and ethical business behaviour. 100 and down, the ban on Uzbekistan cotton, and It also prohibits discrimination, child labour, Improving fire and building safety in 80 chemical requirements. bonded labour and precarious employment. Bangladesh 60 Unauthorised subcontracting poses a At the Stockmann Group we actively Stockmann is committed to improving factory risk to compliance with our Code. Our communicate about the amfori BSCI Code of 40 safety in Bangladesh, which is one of our most producers are always required to inform us Conduct to our suppliers and producers, and 20 important production countries. In 2013, we about the possible use of sub-contractors in we cooperate with them to ensure a better 0 joined the Accord on Fire and Building Safety 2017 2018 advance. As a result of our risk analysis, we chance of improving working conditions in our in Bangladesh, due to the risk posed by have banned the use of sub-contractors in supply chains. substandard factory buildings in the country. OUTSTANDING 5% / 8% Bangladesh altogether, this being a zeroFactories where Stockmann and Lindex GOOD 11% / 9% According to the agreement Stockmann is tolerance issue which will lead to no further own brand products are produced that are in ACCEPTABLE  60% / 75% committed to having all of the factories orders being placed. countries classified as high-risk by the amfori INSUFFICIENT 24% / 13% producing garments for the Group audited on In addition, Stockmann’s department BSCI, are regularly audited by our own audits, UNACCEPTABLE 0% / 0% the basis of three different inspections, stores have responsibility policies for wood conducted by our own local personnel, and by 2017 / 2018 concerning fire safety, electricity and structural originating from natural tropical forests and for amfori BSCI audits conducted by a third party. issues. The first contract period expired in the fur. Lindex does not sell products made from The SA 8000 (Social Accountability 8000) spring of 2018, but Stockmann has committed real fur. certificate is considered a best practice by the to the transition Accord, with the aim of amfori BSCI initiative and as an alternative to NUMBER OF AUDITS finishing the detected improvements needed Amfori BSCI cooperation the amfori BSCI audit. in the factories within the original Accord and The Stockmann Group has been a member of To improve audit quality, amfori BSCI 2018 2017 to transfer the responsibility to the local amfori BSCI (formerly known as Business audits are semi-announced by default, amfori BSCI 257 88 government as soon as possible. The situation internal 66 119 Social Compliance Initiative, BSCI) since providing producers a four-week time frame will be monitored every 6 months until the SA8000 certificate 3 13 2005. Amfori BSCI is a business-driven during which the audit will take place, instead local government is ready to take charge or initiative for companies committed to of the exact date of the audit. until 2021. improving working conditions in factories By the end of 2018, 89% of all the issues worldwide. The amfori BSCI Code of Conduct Audits and findings The amfori BSCI audits are conducted by in all the factories within the Accord had been sets out 11 core labour rights which the After each audit, be it an amfori BSCI audit, internationally accredited independent remediated, and 93% of those found in participating companies and their business own audit or Accord inspection, an audit auditors. None of the factories producing for factories producing for the Stockmann Group. partners undertake to incorporate in their report with a corrective action plan is put the Stockmann Group received the audit supply chain in a step-by-step development together. Each task on the corrective action result ‘unacceptable’ or were caught with approach. plan is given a deadline and progress is zero-tolerance issues. The main findings in the The requirements set out in the Code monitored. audits were non-compliance with the are freedom of association and collective requirements on working hours or allowing bargaining, fair remuneration, decent working one day off every seven days, and issues with 33 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 ACCORD INSPECTIONS STOCKMANN’S MAIN OWN BRAND minimum wage, until a work permit is GARMENT PRODUCTION COUNTRIES • In 2018, Lindex had around 127 (142) obtained, in order to compensate for the lack suppliers who worked with 202 (242) China 55% of social security payments. The work has 2018 2017 factories. India 11% been done in cooperation with ASAM, the Accord inspections 145 221 • Lindex has 40 suppliers that stand for 80% Bangladesh 11% Association for Solidarity with Asylum Seekers Stockmann Group’s remediation progress rate 93% 89% of the production, considered Lindex’s key EU countries 9% and Migrants. Accord remediation suppliers. Lindex has systematically Turkey 4% progress rate 89% 82% consolidated its supply chain to be able to Community projects focus on fewer suppliers and improving STOCKMANN’S MAIN OWN BRAND HOME in the supply chain PRODUCTION COUNTRIES Production countries and cooperation, working conditions and Our clothing orders create employment factory lists environmental work in the most important EU countries 55% opportunities, particularly for women, in Our goal is to provide transparent factories. China 17% developing countries. Local wellbeing and communications on issues that interest our • In addition to disclosing the suppliers and Pakistan 9% environmental protection is also promoted by stakeholders, and therefore we disclose our factories where the Lindex garments are India 9% various projects to support the status and fashion and home suppliers and the factories being sewed, Lindex has also published it Turkey 5% wellbeing of women, the education of producing own brands fashion and home processing units making prints, embroidery children, and environmental protection in the products on the divisions’ websites. and washes in Turkey and Bangladesh. The LINDEX’S MAIN PRODUCTION COUNTRIES manufacturing countries. As part of Lindex’s aim is to expand to other production Bangladesh 46% Women Empowerment programme in supply countries as well. China 23% chain, the Group is involved in HERhealth• In 2018 Stockmann’s own brand garments Turkey 7% project and most recently the WE Women by were bought from around 99 (86) suppliers Myanmar 7% Lindex project. We are also involved in several and made in around 142 (120) factories. Italy 5% projects to reduce water consumption and Around 55 % of the garments were other environmental impacts, such as the purchased directly and around 45 % Water Aid community project. through our purchasing offices. The Syrian refugees in suppliers and producers are in part the the supply chains in Turkey same as Lindex’s. In Turkey, refugees from Syria have been • During the reporting year, Stockmann’s identified to be at risk of being abused due to home area own brand products were their vulnerable status. A standard operating bought from 57 suppliers and made in 54 procedure is in place for the Stockmann factories. Over 20 % of the products were Group’s suppliers to follow if they identify Lindex is involved in purchased through our purchasing offices, Syrian refugees working in the supply chain. the HERproject and most while the majority of products were The suppliers have been trained on the recently the WE Women purchased directly. This is the first time we procedure, for example regarding applying for disclose information on our home own work permits and for paying the gross by Lindex project brand suppliers and factories. 34 PRODUCTS & SUPPLY CHAIN STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 Supplier assessment for labour placed until the violation has been corrected treatment should therefore be as efficient as Lindex’s Better Denim practices and human rights and the victim has been compensated. possible. journey started in 2014, A significant percentage of the own brand Our suppliers are expected to follow and today, 100% fashion products, approximately 90%, are TEXTILE INDUSTRY CHALLENGES the applicable environmental legislation. In manufactured in areas classified as risk AND RISKS addition, an environmental code, in use in countries by the amfori BSCI. We are aware Challenges that concern the whole textile our purchasing offices, sets requirements for that there is a risk of violation of the Code of industry include, for example, the traceability water treatment, chemicals handling, waste of the denim is Conduct and we are actively working to ensure and transparency of the supply chain, the treatment, emissions and continuous compliance. We are looking into the possibility realisation of human and labour rights improvement. ‘Better Denim’. of better incorporating human rights and throughout the chain, and the environmental Lindex cooperates with its denim children’s rights into our assessments. In impacts of production and raw materials. Our suppliers to develop the production February 2018, the Stockmann Board of risk analysis shows five particular areas of risk processes so that they have less impact on Directors approved the Group’s Human rights for our Code of Conduct and these are; the environment. Lindex’s Better Denim policy. Managements systems, Documentation, journey started in 2014, and today, 100% of In the case of a human rights violation, Trade union affiliation, Wages and Lindex’s denim products are ‘Better Denim’ we work together with the supplier to compensation, and Working hours. More products. In total, the process uses up to 85% remediate the victim. No new orders are information on the identified risks and less water, 70% less energy and 45% less management methods can be retrieved from chemicals, with the chemicals used being Stockmann Group’s website. better than those in conventional methods. The styles are dyed in the cleanest indigo dye READ MORE on the market and more sustainable trims where there are challenges with water scarcity www.stockmanngroup.com and details, such as buttons, zips and pocket and clean water. During the last years, these linings, are used. All of the cotton in our projects have been proven to be an effective denim comes from more sustainable way to increase environmental awareness and Supplier assessment sources; Better Cotton, organic or recycled improve processes. We aim for as many In February 2018, the Stockmann for environmental cotton. In addition, recycled polyester is suppliers as possible to participate in these Board of Directors approved the practices used. The jersey production process is also projects and to transition to more resourceGroup’s Human rights policy. Textile production is waterbeing developed to make it more efficient and cleaner production. intensive. Water impacts environmentally friendly. Avitera dye, which The water-related cooperation projects our supply chain mostly reduces water consumption by 30%, is used include the Sweden Textile Water Initiative through the irrigation of for dyeing jersey fabrics for part of children’s (STWI) and the Better Cotton Initiative. Lindex cotton fields and through basic collections. is also a long-term partner to WaterAid and the wet processes of textile Through Lindex, the Stockmann Group supports their work in improving access to production, such as dyeing has been involved for years in sustainability safe water, improved hygiene and sanitation in and washing. Water projects in the Group’s important production the world’s poorest communities. More consumption and water countries, such as Bangladesh and India, information can be found on Lindex website. 35 ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 ENVIRONMENT Our objective is to reduce the environmental impact of our business operations and to act in accordance with sustainable development. In our daily operations we work to reduce adverse environmental effects by cutting emissions, increasing the efficiency of energy and water consumption, and carrying out waste sorting and recycling. To ensure continuous improvement, we monitor our compliance with the Group’s environmental system and the fulfilment of the environmental goals and objectives set. 36 ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 S tockmann complies with valid TARGETS & KEY PERFORMANCE INDIC ATORS (KPIS) environmental legislation and C SR THEME ACTION POINTS AND PROGRESS 2018 STATUS requires the same from its partners. Environmental work at ENVIRONMENT We continue to improve We continued on implementing energy efficiency measures in our operations. In process Stockmann is based on the CSR our energy efficiency We increased the use of LED-lighting in our department stores and renewed REDUCED some of the escalators in the Helsinki department store to more energy strategy and on the environmental policy. The efficient ones. Our target is to improve the energy efficiency of our properties management of environmental responsibility IMPACT ON THE by 4% by 2020. is part of the divisions’ day-to-day operations ENVIRONMENT We reduce the During our strategy period we reduced domestic transport emissions by On target and it is coordinated by the Communications environmental impact approximately 25% and we exceeded our target of 10%. The centralisation of and CSR function. The divisions of our logistics warehouse operations into one distribution centre has had an important role independently set specific environmental in reducing emissions from domestic transport. targets, define indicators for monitoring the We minimise waste and 73.2% of the waste generated in Stockmann department stores in Finland was On target achievement of these targets and establish find possibilities for directed to recycling, and we exceeded the target level of 70%. In addition, the appropriate management practices. re-use and recycling total amount of waste in Finland decreased by approximately 11% compared to previous year. ENVIRONMENTAL Lindex does not have a certified principles during the cooperation. The MANAGEMENT environmental management system in use. environmental issues and targets are regularly Since 2003, an ISO 14001 Lindex stores mainly operate in leased discussed during the cooperation with service certified environmental premises in shopping centres, which mean providers, since they have an important role in management system has been that in addition to the stores’ energy-efficient achieving Stockmann’s environmental in use in Stockmann’ concept, environmental issues are taken into targets. department stores and support functions in account to the extent possible within the Finland. During the reporting year, we property in question. RAISING INTERNAL extended the scope of the certification to Stockmann’s purchasing offices operate AWARENESS ON All Stockmann’s business include the distribution centre in Tuusula, near production sites and the offices have ENVIRONMENTAL operations in Finland are Finland, and today, all of Stockmann’s made efforts to assess and minimise the ISSUES ISO 14001 certified. business operations in Finland are ISO 14001 harmful environmental impacts of their Every employee’s input is required certified. The operating methods and suppliers’ factories. for the achievement of our guidelines of Stockmann’s environmental Stockmann considers environmental environmental goals and management system have been adopted in aspects when planning and managing objectives. The personnel’s the department stores in the Baltic countries operations and when procuring products and environmental awareness is with the goal of seeking certification in the services for the Group’s own use. Stockmann maintained and enhanced coming years. requires its service providers to commit to through training and regular Stockmann’s Code of Conduct and operating internal communication, e.g. 37 ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 implement energy efficient measures in order 2019, Stockmann will conduct energy reviews to mitigate our climate impact and to improve in its premises and the outcome of these efficiency in our business operations. reviews will be used in the development of the Stockmann’s Real Estate division is energy efficiency work. responsible for the energy management in the Stockmann has one distribution centre, department stores, distribution centre and located in Finland. The distribution centre support functions. The Real Estate division serves the online store in Finland and the and the Real Estate Coordinators in the Stockmann department stores in all countries department stores monitor the energy of operation. The Stockmann distribution consumption as part of their day-to-day work. centre opened in 2016, and it has enabled In addition, in order to further improve the Stockmann to optimise its warehouse energy management and the ability to operations, reduce the amount of internal respond divergences in consumption, transportation of goods and improved the Stockmann cooperates with ISS Energy energy efficiency of the logistic operations. Management. In 2018, Stockmann continued The Stockmann distribution centre is awarded Waste exhibition at the Stockmann distribution centre. implementing the energy efficiency with the LEED Gold environmental certificate. programme, by optimising the running hours LEED (Leadership in Energy and of building systems and by optimising Environmental Design) is an internationally ventilation and lighting control in all premises recognised rating system to promote through the intranet and through information in order to reduce electricity consumption. In sustainable construction and design screens and bulletin boards placed in the ENERGY personnel facilities. The Group’s energy During the reporting year several consumption mainly consists of ENERGY AND WATER CONSUMPTION 2016-2018 environmental training sessions were electricity, district heating and 2018 2017 2016 organised. For example, environmental topics district cooling. Energy is DIRECT CONSUMPTION are part of the induction training that all new consumed by the lighting, ventilation, heating Heating fuel (MWh) 474 432 430 employees participate in. We organised in and cooling systems in the stores, warehouses Natural gas (MWh) 16 259 17 764 19 443 cooperation with our waste management and offices, as well as by other equipment and INDIRECT CONSUMPTION service provider, info sessions on waste machinery in these facilities, including lifts, Electricity (MWh) 107 502 110 651 124 460 management and sorting in the department escalators, refrigeration and IT equipment. District heating and cooling (MWh) 76 072 73 321 80 550 store in Helsinki and in the distribution centre. Energy efficiency is an important part of Water (m3) 217 501 210 607 218 110 In addition, we organised a small waste Stockmann’s environmental work, as the Heating Fuel and Natural Gas data is based on metered data for Stockmann and estimations for Lindex. Purchased electricity exhibition in our distribution centre in order to energy consumption in Stockmann’s own consumption covers all Group’s functions. Purchased heating and cooling energy consumption covers all the Group’s funcsupport waste sorting. operations has been identified to be the most tions, excluding purchising offices. Heating and cooling data for Stockmann is based on invoicing and data from service providers. Due to the significant amount of estimations and extrapolation in heat consumption for Lindex, the data quality is significant source of CO2 emissions. As part of considered fair. Reporting on water covers all the Stockmann functions (excluding the department store in Itis in Helsinki) and our environmental work we strive to Lindex’s distribution centre. 38 ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 standards. The LEED certificate has four levels: optimising the department stores’ lighting GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2016-2018 Certified, Silver, Gold and Platinum. During control and the distribution centre’s Change the planning and construction of the building, ventilation. tCO2e 2018 2017 2016 2017-2018, % Comments sustainable development and other Lindex’s stores have also focused on DIRECT EMISSIONS 1 580 1 270 1 970 24% Increased mainly due to normal environmental perspectives, such as energy minimising energy consumption, and all (SCOPE 1) fluctuation in refrigerants efficiency and geothermal energy, were taken stores follow an efficient energy consumption Stationary 180 170 170 6% combustion into account. LED lighting is in use and the checklist as a routine practice. An in-depth Refrigerants 1 400 1 100 1 800 27% geothermal system produces a significant study about electricity consumption has been INDIRECT 44 600 47 900 49 900 -7% Decreased mainly due to energy amount of the heating and cooling energy made in a representative sample of stores. EMISSIONS FROM efficiency measures and divestment PURCHASED of the Book House property needed in the building. District heating According to this, the areas of lighting, cooling ENERGY (SCOPE 2) generates the warm water needed in the and ventilation and escalators account for Purchased electricity 31 300 33 900 35 600 -8% (market-based) building. The possibility for the use of solar approximately 90% of the energy Heating and cooling 13 300 14 000 14 300 -5% energy as an energy source for the distribution consumption, and hence energy reduction OTHER INDIRECT 10 850 13 800 12 600 -21% Decreased mainly due to good centre has also been investigated. measures will focus on these, and especially EMISSIONS logistics management and (SCOPE 3) normalisation of the transport During the reporting year, Stockmann regarding the lighting result, the use of LED environment in 2018 has continued the renewal process of its lights will be increased. To reduce carbon Internal logistics 1 900 2 800 2 800 -32% lighting in its department stores in Helsinki dioxide emissions, Lindex prioritises energy External logistics 6 000 7 900 6 600 -24% and Jumbo. In both department stores, part of from renewable sources and Lindex’s longBusiness travel 850 1 100 1 200 -23% the conventional lighting has been replaced term goal is to become energy neutral. Waste 2 100 2 000 2 000 5% with LED-lighting. According to Stockmann’s TOTAL 57 030 62 970 64 470 -9% lighting concept the use of LED technology will AVOIDED 250 270 1 100 Carbon emissions neutralised by EMISSIONS certified climate projects by logistcs be incorporated more widely in the EMISSIONS operators department stores, especially in conjunction (NET EMISSIONS) 56 780 62 700 63 370 with renovation projects. Furthermore, some Reporting on greenhouse gas of the escalators in the Helsinki department emissions serves as a The greenhouse gas emissions calculation for 2017 and 2016 has been restated in order to provide comparability. store were renewed to more energy efficient management tool in the Refrigerants from Stockmann Baltic operations have been included for all reporting years. Significant amount of estimation for Lindex concerning heating and cooling. The figures presented in the table are rounded. ones. In 2018, we decided that the Stockmann Group, providing a Delicatessen in the department store in Tallinn basis for defining the areas where emissions will be renewed during 2019. According to the should be reduced and for setting reduction decision and planning, the lighting in the first targets. We are constantly developing the way operations. At Stockmann, the figures also This is the ninth time that Stockmann is floor will be fully renewed to LED-based we calculate our carbon footprint. cover the emissions of our tenants in the reporting its greenhouse gas emissions, lighting. During the reporting year, the energy The calculation of Stockmann’s carbon department stores, who operate covering the whole Group. The comparison consumption of the department stores and footprint in 2018 covers the functions of the approximately 51% of the gross leasable area figures are presented for 2016 and 2017, and distribution centre was closely monitored, and Stockmann Retail, Real Estate, Lindex and of the properties managed by Stockmann possible changes in the scope of the we took measures to improve energy Group shared functions in all the countries of Real Estate at the end of 2018. calculation are explained in the comments efficiency, for example by reviewing and operation, excluding Lindex’s franchise column. 39 ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 The Stockmann Group’s emissions are emissions generated from logistics is mainly utilised in meetings. Attention is paid to presented in the table ‘Greenhouse gas due to good logistics management and emissions from business travel, and low emissions 2016-2018’. The calculation was normalisation of the transport environment in emission options are preferred for such trips. carried out in accordance with the 2018. During the reporting year, we did not The company travel guideline recommends international Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol face similar logistic challenges as the year We reached travel via train or bus over the use of a private reporting principles. According to the GHG before. Emissions generated from business our target and car, and leasing cars have a limit set on Protocol, companies are required to report the travel decreased while emissions from waste have decreased maximum emissions. In addition, Stockmann emissions arising from indirect electricity slightly increased (scope 3). Scope 1 emissions the amount has a guidance on remote work. The remote consumption as market-based figures as well increased from previous year, mainly due to of domestic work practice creates an opportunity for the as location-based figures. The figures reported normal fluctuation in refrigerants. transport personnel to reduce commuting emissions, as in the table are reported according to the emissions with well as it supports work and family life market-based calculation method, and the REDUCING TRANSPORT approximately balance. 25% Stockmann Group’s total emissions were EMISSIONS 57 030 tCO2e, while location-based emissions The Group serves customers in a number of CDP SCORE were 54 330 tCO2e. different countries, and the distribution of In addition to publishing its annual report, the In 2018, the highest emissions, around goods to these various stores involves Stockmann Group also reports on its 78%, came from the generation of purchased transport emissions. Considerable attention is from 2015 to greenhouse gas emissions in the international energy (Scope 2), especially electricity, which paid to the efficient and less environmentally 2018. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) survey. In slightly decreased from the previous year. harmful movement of goods and we 2018, Stockmann’s score continued to be on a Approximately 54% of the electricity used by cooperate closely with our transport partners. good level, with the score B. The score Lindex is renewable energy purchased from In our logistic management, we value longFlows of goods from the Asian presents a company’s progress using a LOS Energy, for which the emissions are zero. term relationships with partners and we strive purchasing offices to the distribution centres four-step approach: the completeness of the Scope 3 indirect emissions are presented for close cooperation in order to improve the are usually by sea. Lindex is an active member company’s response (disclosure); the extent where relevant; the biggest such emissions efficiency of transport. Internal transport is of the Clean Shipping Network, which requires to which the company has assessed can be attributed to logistics. continuously optimised through route that shipping companies promote cleaner environmental issues, risks and impacts in The Group’s total reported emissions planning, by choosing optimally sized shipping and register their vessels in the Clean relation to its business (awareness); the extent declined by approximately 9%. This was transport equipment, by utilising return Shipping Index registry. In addition, Lindex also to which the company has implemented mainly due to decreased emissions in scope 2 transports, by using new equipment with uses rail transport as a fast delivery option. actions, policies and strategies to address (-7%) and the decrease of emissions lower emissions, and with systematic Shipping by rail instead of by air reduces environmental issues (management); and generated from logistics in scope 3 (-35%). follow-up and active dialogue with transport emissions significantly and the target is to particular steps the company has taken which While the emissions in scope 1 increased suppliers. The strategic target for Stockmann increase the share of rail transport. represent the best practices in the field of (24%). Regarding scope 2, the consumption of has been to reduce domestic transport environmental management (leadership). electricity at both Stockmann and Lindex emissions by 10% by 2018. We reached our REDUCING BUSINESS TRAVEL Score B means that the company has taken decreased, mainly due to energy efficiency target and have decreased the amount of EMISSIONS actions to address environmental issues measures and the divestment of the Book domestic transport emissions with To minimise travel, videoconferencing and beyond initial screenings or assessments. House property. The significant decrease of approximately 25% from 2015 to 2018. teleconferencing equipment is increasingly 40 ENVIRONMENT STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE are monitored on a monthly basis. Our are sold, using discount prices or by selling the department stores’ restaurant, kitchen The waste generated by the target in Stockmann’s operations in Finland them to the personnel in the personnel and sanitary facilities. Water consumption is divisions’ operations is mainly is to reduce the amount of waste and to shops, so that no products are left. Mildew minimised by instructing personnel and packaging waste, such as recycle as much as possible of the remaining or other spoilage of the products during tenants, preventing and repairing even the cardboard and plastic. waste as material. The total amount of waste transportation is rare. However, in such smallest leaks and procuring more efficient Biodegradable waste is also generated in decreased in 2018 in Finland by cases the products end up as waste and the water fittings to replace older ones. Stockmann Retail’s Delicatessen operations in approximately 11% (20). The target for the process is monitored by Customs. Baltics and in the Real Estate division, due to recycling rate was 70%. The recycling rate in Water consumption in Stockmann’s REUSE AND LOSS PREVENTION the tenants’ operations that include grocery department stores in Finland was 73.2%. own operations is minimal, and the THROUGH PRODUCT DONATIONS stores, restaurants and cafés. We pay close Stockmann closely cooperate with its waste operations take place in areas where there is attention to waste sorting and recycling by management service provider. Lately, special currently no scarcity of water. Measuring and providing training for personnel and tenants, attention has been paid on the waste minimising water consumption is Stockmann department stores and the developing the guidance and making sorting collection schedules in order to improve the nevertheless an important part of support functions work together to promote practices more convenient. efficiency of waste transports and mitigate Stockmann’s environmental responsibility. recycling by donating unsold products, The waste sorting is managed in emissions generated from transportation. Stockmann’s water consumption is product samples, and leftover materials and accordance with the ISO 14001 In recent years, our stakeholders has presented in the table ‘Energy and water products from the design studio to agreed environmental management system, and showed interest regarding our approach to consumption 2016-2018’. Most of the local partners and charitable organisations the results for the various business locations unsold clothing. At Stockmann, all products Group’s water consumption takes place in and various recycling workshops. In Helsinki, we have for several years cooperated on a continuous basis with the Reuse Centre and WASTE 2016-2018 its Näprä unit, by donating Stockmann’s own Stockmann Finland Stockmann Baltics Lindex Total design studio material samples to them. In Tons 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 addition, we regularly donate garment and RECYCLABLE WASTE product samples to Hope ry, a non-profit Cardboard and paper 1 071 1 211 1 604 189 245 236 1 277 1 179 1 205 2 537 2 635 3 045 organisation that distributes the donations to Bio waste 905 964 1 356 111 131 172 1 1 1 1 017 1 096 1529 Finnish families with limited means. Plastic 52 42 54 6 8 5 0 0 0 58 50 59 Other recyclable waste (metal, glass) 39 52 74 20 10 15 0 0 78 59 62 167 RECOVERABLE WASTE Mixed waste 49 157 224 247 459 470 3 2 5 299 618 699 Lindex regularly donates unsold products to Combustile waste 714 798 996 248 52 0 45 35 25 1 007 885 1 021 different charity organisations in accordance Bio waste 34 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 34 0 0 with its clothes recycling and donation policy. Hazrdous waste 3 8 13 20 14 16 1 1 1 24 23 30 At the Head Office, product samples are sold TOTAL 2 867 3 032 3 101 841 919 915 1 328 1 218 1 314 5 036 5369 6 551 at a garment sale every month, and leftover RECYCLING RATE, % 72% 70% 72% 40% 43% 48% 97% 97% 98% 73% 73% 74% garments are donated to different charities. Figures for Stockmann cover all the functions in Finland (excluding the department store in Tapiola) and Baltics. The Lindex figures covers the distribution centre in Sweden. The purchase offices also donate garments to The figures are not entirely comparable between the countries. different charities. 41 FINANCE AND GOVERNANCE STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 FINANCE AND GOVERNANCE Commitment to responsible operations forms a core part of our daily ways of working. In our decision-making, we follow principles of good corporate governance. We aim for long-term profitable operations and are taking several structural measures in order to turn our business back to profit. 42 FINANCE AND GOVERNANCE STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 ECONOMIC TARGETS & KEY PERFORMANCE INDIC ATORS (KPIS) PERFORMANCE C SR THEME ACTION POINTS AND PROGRESS 2018 STATUS The Stockmann Group’s FINANCE & We strive for ethical and We continued the roll-out of our CoC e-learning programme. At the end of In process adjusted operating result in 2018 GOVERNANCE transparent operations 2018, 59% of Stockmann’s personnel in Finland had completed the training. through commitment Of the members in the Stockmann support functions and department store was EUR 28.4 million (EUR 12.3 million). The adjusted operating PROFITABILITY to the Stockmann Code management teams, 94% had completed the training. The long-term target is WITH A of Conduct (CoC), the for 100% of the Group’s personnel to have completed the training. result improved in Lindex and Real Estate, but SUSTAINABLE UN Global Compact Stockmann Retail’s adjusted operating result BUSINESS and the amfori BSCI Our ongoing target is to have 100% of Stockmann’s suppliers to sign the was lower than in the previous year. The APPROACH Code of Conduct Stockmann CoC. reported operating result was EUR -5.0 We provide economic The Group’s adjusted operating result was positive in 2018, EUR 28.4 million Target not million, including EUR -25.0 million added value to all our (EUR 12.3 million). The net profit for the year remained negative, and the met impairment of Stockmann Retail’s goodwill stakeholders Board of Directors proposes that no dividend to be paid for the financial year 2018. Suppliers and personnel continue to be the stakeholders receiving the and other adjustments totalling EUR -8.4 most economical added value: purchases from suppliers were EUR 756.9 million. The objective of 2019 is to improve the million and salaries and other employee benefit expenses totalled EUR 188.6 Group’s operating result excluding the impact million in 2018. of Nevsky Centre. In the beginning of 2019, we We provide transparent We published integrated reviews of the business operations, financials, goverOn target launched a project aiming at reducing the and reliable CSR nance and CSR. In addition, we published CSR information in the Report by Group’s expenses by EUR 20 million by the communications with the Board of Directors, according to the EU directive 2014/95/EU for nonend of the year. an integrated view financial information. We published detailed information about our CSR strategy targets and their READ MORE progress. from Financial Statements at year2018.stockmanngroup.com We carry out a human In 2018, the due diligence project continued. By the end of reporting year, we In process rights assessment with have reviewed the fulfilment of human rights in Lindex’s sales and franchise key stakeholders countries. The work will continue in 2019. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED The Stockmann Group’s operations bring economic added value to the company’s Stockmann plc shares are listed on half of the earnings from ordinary operations. stakeholders, operating areas and market Nasdaq Helsinki. At the end of 2018, No dividend was paid on the 2017 result due areas. The majority of the economic added Stockmann had 44 393 registered to the loss. The Board of Directors proposes to value goes into personnel salaries and other shareholders, compared with 46 672 a year the Annual General Meeting that no dividend remuneration, as well as to goods and earlier. The dividend policy set by Stockmann’s be paid on the 2018 result. materials suppliers and service providers. Board of Directors is to distribute more than 43 FINANCE AND GOVERNANCE STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 VALUE TO STAKEHOLDERS Impacts Resources CUSTOMERS Sales, rental and service income and other operating income PROFESSIONAL PERSONNEL & ORGANISATION EMPLOYEES Salaries, wages, pension contributions BRAND and other benefits PRODUCTS SOCIETY Social security payments & taxes OMNICHANNEL SERVICES SUPPLIERS & OTHER PARTNERS FINANCIAL RESOURCES Cost of goods, materials & services & PROPERTIES INVESTORS & SHAREHOLDERS NATURAL RESOURCES Financial expenses DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC ADDED VALUE TO DIFFERENT STAKEHOLDERS EUR million 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Producing added value Customers Sales, rental and service incom and other operating income 1 026.2 1 060.3 1 177.5 1 435.8 1 606.0 Good suppliers and service providers Cost of goods, materials and services purchased, includes capital goods and paid rents -756.9 -790.5 -864.9 -1 147.6 -1 320.4 ADDED VALUE PRODUCED BY STOCKMANN 269.3 269.8 312.6 288.3 285.6 Distribution of added value Personnel Salaries, wages and pension contributions -188.6 -201.6 -233.0 -281.9 -315.5 Shareholders Dividends 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Investors Financial expenses -35.3 -31.8 -23.9 -22.1 -23.8 Public sector Other social security payments, taxes -37.6 -53.2 -50.1 -54.7 -37.0 DISTRIBUTED TO STAKEHOLDERS IN TOTAL -261.4 -286.7 -307.0 -358.7 -376.3 Retained in the company to develop operations 7.9 -16.9 5.6 -70.4 -90.7 Continuing operations Stockmann Delicatessen operations have been reported as discontinued operations in 2018 and 2017, the comparison year 2016 has been restated. The department store business in Russia has been reported as discontinued operations in 2016 and 2015, the comparison year 2014 has been restated. 44 FINANCE AND GOVERNANCE STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 CHARIT Y COOPERATION • In our Christmas season campaign, As part of its corporate social responsibility, together with our customers, we fulfilled Stockmann may make donations to non-profit the Christmas wishes of youngsters in public benefit organisations that fund families with limited means, with EUR education, culture, research and other social 49 300, delivered by Hope ry, a non-profit projects in the countries where Stockmann organisation that supports Finnish families operates. Charity work is guided by the with limited means. In addition, we once donation policy that is available on the again took part in a campaign organised by company’s website. In addition, Stockmann’s Home Instead senior care, encouraging business units may also support the non-profit customers to buy Christmas flowers for projects of public benefit organisations as part lonely elderly people with limited means. of their commercial campaigns and activities. • We organised to our personnel in Finland the opportunity to help families with limited means by offering voluntary work • To celebrate Finnish Nature Day, we opportunities at Hope ry. organised a weekend-long round-up campaign together with WWF Finland and Plan’s Donata Pennanen shows Stockmann’s BOGI own brand garment that came on sale on invited our customers to raise funds for the • Lindex is one of the main partners of the UN’s International Day of the Girl Child. Baltic Sea protection work. During the Pink Ribbon project. In the 2018 campaign, campaign weekend, customers of Lindex, together with its clients, donated READ MORE Stockmann department stores in Finland approximately EUR 1 million to support www.stockmanngroup.com made nearly 2 600 donations. In addition, cancer research. Since 2003, Lindex’s the department store in Riga continued its campaigns have collected a total of nearly charity campaign to reduce the use of EUR 14 million for the campaign. plastic shopping bags together with WWF • On International Women’s Day 2018, EUR 300 000 was donated for various project with WaterAid to increase access to Latvia, donating funds to the Baltic Sea Lindex highlighted the special day and causes, for example WaterAid. clean water, sanitation and improved protection work. textile female workers by donating part of • Together with other Swedish fashion hygiene in Bangladesh. The project focuses • We donated our websites, stockmann.com the sales to HERhealth. The EUR 119 000 retailers, Lindex campaigned to reduce the on an area where many of the textile and stockmanngroup.com, to the Red donation will be used to start more use of plastic bags with the ’One Bag Habit’ workers who produce clothes for Lindex Cross Hunger Day collection. Herhealth projects in Lindex suppliers’ campaign. In 2018, Lindex expanded the live. • On the UN’s International Day of the Girl factories. campaign and charge for shopping bags Child, we campaigned together with the • In Lindex’s round-up campaigns, on all own markets. During the reporting humanitarian organisation Plan customers were invited to round-up their year, Lindex’s shops generated EUR International Finland. We donated EUR 1 to purchases with an amount of their choice. 594 000 in surplus for the bags, which was Plan for each sold Crazy Days Plan labelled With the 2018 campaigns, a total of donated to, for example, finance the joint children’s own brand product. 45 FINANCE AND GOVERNANCE STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 CORPORATE department, or the Group’s Internal Audit. All HUMAN RIGHTS GOVERNANCE whistleblowing reports and discussions are ASSESSMENT treated seriously and handled confidentially. All The principles guiding Stockmann’s incidents are reported to the Head of Internal The Stockmann Group respects and promotes operations are described at the beginning of Audit and to the Director of Legal Affairs. In Our goal is to continue all human rights, as defined in the Code of this review, in the section ‘CSR principles’. 2018, no incidents were reported through the a human rights Conduct and the supplementary Human channel. assessment with our key Rights principles. Most of the Stockmann GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS stakeholders. Group’s own employees work in countries The company uses a group-wide CSR ORGANISATION classified by the amfori BSCI as low-risk whistleblowing reporting channel, which is Stockmann’s CSR Steering Group, whose countries for human rights violations. In 2018 provided by an external partner. The channel is Chairwoman is Nora Malin, Director, we continued the due diligence project where a tool for Stockmann’s own employees, as well Development, is responsible for steering, we study the fulfilment of human rights in as for business partners and other developing and monitoring CSR within the Lindex sales and franchise countries. The work stakeholders, to anonymously report any Stockmann Group. The CSR Steering Group continues in 2019. Our goal is to continue a suspected or detected violations of the Code of approves Group-level guidelines, sets goals management issues as required for the ISO human rights assessment with our key Conduct or other corporate policies using the for responsibility and defines procedures 14001 certificate. stakeholders. Human rights assessment in the channel. Stockmann’s employees also have which are implemented with the help of Stockmann’s Communications and CSR supply chain are discussed in chapter the possibility to report any suspicions to their normal management systems. The function is responsible for development, ‘Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices and supervisor, their unit’s security Stockmann’s CSR strategy is agreed on and coordination and reporting of the Group’s Human Rights’ and on the Stockmann Group manager, the company followed up in the CSR Steering Group corporate social responsibility activities. website. management, the legal and approved by the The Lindex Management Group is Stockmann responsible for the overall sustainability Management Team. directions and strategies at Lindex, working in ANTI-CORRUPTION Separate working line with the Stockmann Group level strategy. All whistleblowing reports groups related to CSR The Corporate Sustainability Team has overall AND ANTI-COMPETITIVE and discussions are targets and topical issues responsibility for developing sustainability at BEHAVIOUR treated seriously and are set up as necessary Lindex and the team works closely together handled confidentially. to prepare or with the Production Sustainability Teams Stockmann strives to carry out transparent implement the issues located at the production offices. Each and responsible operations. Stockmann’s or decisions that have department and sales country organisation policies relating to anti-corruption and antibeen dealt with by the CSR then aligns their sustainability work competitive behaviour are included in the Steering Group. In addition, accordingly. Sustainability topics are discussed Stockmann Code of Conduct and further Stockmann’s environmental regularly at Lindex Management Group specified in the Stockmann anti-corruption management group convenes meetings and are implemented and followed policy. Both are available on the Group regularly, to follow-up on environmental up through the regular management systems. website. 46 FINANCE AND GOVERNANCE STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 Stockmann’s employees and functionality of internal control is monitored by COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING management must act in the best interests of the Internal Audit, which operates as an ON CODE OF CONDUCT the company and in a manner that avoids independent unit under the CEO and reports Employees are trained in matters related to conflicts of interest. For years already, its observations to the Board Audit the Code of Conduct and encouraged to Stockmann personnel has been instructed on Committee. contact their supervisor if the best course of Stockmann policies regarding the acceptance Stockmann’s Board of Directors and the action is unclear. The Group-wide Code of of samples, gifts, travel expenses or other Group Management Team regularly evaluate Conduct is published on the Group website monetary benefits, especially from suppliers, the risk factors to which business operations and communicated internally via the intranet. through the Employee Discount Rules. are exposed and the sufficiency of risk We continued the roll-out of our CoC Likewise, the Lindex Ethical Policy has management actions, as a part of the strategy e-learning programme. At the end of 2018, 59% provided a foundation for counteracting all process. Risk management is supported by of Stockmann’s personnel in Finland had forms of corruption at Lindex. It has been internal control systems and guidelines. Risk completed the training. Of the members in the applied in all countries of operation and all management guidelines have been drawn up Stockmann support functions and department suppliers are informed of this before entering separately for the following areas, among store management teams, 94% had completed into cooperation. For example, our suppliers others: ICT and information security, finance the training. The long-term target is for 100% of are not permitted to give any gifts, other than operations, environmental issues, the Group’s personnel to have completed the ordinary courtesy corporate gifts, or any other misconduct, security and insurance. training. benefits to individual employees. The divisions’ respective management The Stockmann Code of Conduct, the Stockmann is a founding member of are responsible for making financial and Lindex Ethical Policy, the Anti-corruption policy Transparency Suomi ry, the Finnish chapter of strategic plans in their own units and for and the incorporated whistleblowing system will Transparency International, an organisation analysing business risks and evaluating be developed into an e-learning programme for operating in 90 countries that works to combat actions, as a part of strategy planning. all Lindex employees to complete. international bribery and corruption. Business risks are also analysed outside the strategic process, especially in connection with CORRUPTION RISK ASSESSMENT significant projects and investments, and are READ MORE The company’s risk management, risk The Group’s international operations pose reported to the Board of Directors as needed. factors and internal control systems are challenges for resolute anti-corruption action. Unethical business practices among explained in more detail in the 2018 Corporate Governance review at year2018. Anti-corruption policies are included in the Stockmann’s employees or various stockmanngroup.com amfori BSCI Code of Conduct and the stakeholders could cause reputational Stockmann Supplier Code of Conduct, which damage for Stockmann as well as a possible are implemented in our own brands’ supply financial impact. In 2018, there were no chain. confirmed cases of corruption and Stockmann The Board of Directors has approved was not informed of any corruption-related the company’s risk management policies, lawsuits against the Group. which concern all of the Stockmann Group’s divisions and areas of business. The 47 GRI CONTENT INDEX STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure number GRI content Location Additional information or omissions GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 102-1 Name of the organisation 47-50 GRI index Stockmann plc 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3 Stockmann in brief The origin, production conditions and health impact of products are a topic of public discussion. Topics raised 27-34Products and Supply Chain by our stakeholders are presented in the relevant section of this review. For example materials of animal orgin are dealt with in the Group's product guidelines http://www.stockmanngroup.com/en/product-guidelines 102-3 Location of headquarters 3 Stockmann in brief 102-4 Location of operations 3 Stockmann in brief, 27-34 Product and Supply chain, 47 GRI index: disclosure number 102-6 102-5 Ownership and legal form Our year 2018 Business Review, Financial Review 2018 102-6 Markets served 3 Stockmann in brief Stockmann Retail: in total 8 department stores in Finland, Estonia and Latvia. Stockmann has made a licensing agreement concerning the use of the Stockmann brand in Russia until 2023. Reviva Holding Limited’s subsidiary AO Stockmann Reviva has been responsible for the Stockmann department stores’ operations in Russia since 1 February 2016. Stockmann Real Estate: in total 3 properties in Finland, Estonia and Latvia. The sale of Stockmann's Nevsky Centre shopping centre in Russia was completed in January 2019. Lindex: In 2018, Lindex had 474 stores. Own stores were located in 10 countries in Europe: Sweden, Norway, Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, UK. 41 franchise stores were located in 8 countries: Iceland, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Kosovo, Albania, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Tunisia. 102-7 Scale of the organisation Our year 2018 Business Review 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 18-26 Personnel 102-9 Supply chain 27-34Products and Supply Chain Supplier and factory list for own fashion and home brands: http://www.stockmanngroup.com/en/supplier-and-factory-list 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply Financial Review / Report by the Board of Stockmann sold its Book House property in the centre of Helsinki in May 2018. In October 2018, Stockmann chain Directors, 27-34Products and Supply Chain signed an agreement for the sale of the Nevsky Centre shopping centre in St Petersburg. The transaction was completed in January 2019. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Report by the Board of Directors, Corporate Governance Review 102-12 External initiatives 4-5 CSR principles 102-13 Membership of associations stockmanngroup.com Activities in organisations: http://www.stockmanngroup.com/en/activities-in-organisations 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Our year 2018 Business Review 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 4-5 CSR principles, The Stockmann Group's values: http://www.stockmanngroup.com/en/core-values 41-46 Finance and Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance review, 41-46 Finance and Governance 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 12 Stakeholder engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 18-26 Personnel 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 12Stakeholder engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 12 Stakeholder engagement 48 GRI CONTENT INDEX STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 Disclosure number GRI content Location Additional information or omissions 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 12 Stakeholder engagement and entire review Key topics raised in stakeholder engagement and Stockmann's response to them are presented in the stakeholder engagement section and in the relevant section of the review. 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Financial review, All the annual reviews are available at year2018.stockmanngroup.com. statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 10-11 Reporting principles and materiality 102-47 List of material topics 10-11 Reporting principles and materiality 102-48 Restatements of information 47-50 GRI index Changes reported in connection with relevant performance indicators. 102-49 Changes in reporting 10-11 Reporting principles and materiality No significant changes in the list of material topics or topic boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period 10-11 Reporting principles and materiality 102-51 Date of most recent report 10-11 Reporting principles and materiality 102-52 Reporting cycle 10-11 Reporting principles and materiality 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 47-50GRI index csr@stockmann.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 10-11 Reporting principles and materiality, GRI This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Standards index 102-55 GRI content index 47-50 GRI index 102-56 External assurance 10-11 Reporting principles and materiality Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10-11 Reporting principles and materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components Entire review A more specific location is provided in the GRI index under the relevant topic. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47-50 GRI index Evaluation of the management approach is part of a continuous activity. Based on the evaluation, changes are made to practices in day-to-day management as well as part of annual planning and strategic planning. Based on the evaluation, changes have been made to management methods, for example, in connection with organizational changes. TOPIC SPECIFIC CONTENT Topic specific content is reported regarding aspects identified as material Economic impacts 201 Economic performance 41-46 Finance and Governance The management approach is described in the section 'Finance and Governance'. 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 41-46 Finance and Governance 204 Procurement practices 27-34 Products and Supply Chain The management approach is described in the section 'Products and Supply Chain'. 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers The aspect is defined material but the suggested indicator is not suitable. Information on Procurement practices is provided in section 'Products and Supply Chain'. A list of the own brands suppliers and producers is available at http://www.stockmanngroup.com/en/supplier-and-factory-list 205 Anti-corruption 41-46 Finance and Governance The management approach is described in the section 'Finance and Governance'. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 41-46 Finance and Governance policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 41-46 Finance and Governance 206 Anti-competitive behaviour 41-46 Finance and Governance The management approach is described in the section 'Finance and Governance'. 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, 47-50 GRI index There were no legal actions or fines for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, or monopoly practices or their and monopoly practices outcomes in 2018 Environmental impacts 301 Materials 27-34 Products and Supply Chain The management approach is described in the section 'Products and Supply Chain'. 49 GRI CONTENT INDEX STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 Disclosure number GRI content Location Additional information or omissions 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 47-50GRI index The aspect is defined material but the suggested indicator is not suitable. Information on the fulfillment of producer responsibility and regarding opportunities to recycle offered to customers is provided in section 'Customers', in the chapter 'Services to support sustainable lifestyles'. 302 Energy 35-40 Environment The management approach is described in the section 'Environment'. 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 35-40 Environment Figures include energy consumption in owned and leased properties/premises. 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organisation 35-40 Environment A limited amount of data is collected on energy consumption outside the organisation for disclosure 305-3. 303 Water 47-50 GRI index, The aspect is not defined material. 35-40 Environment, Water Consumption in Own Activity 27-34Products and Supply Chain, Waste water is covered in the section 'Environment' in the chapter 'Waste water and waste'. The wastewater 13-17 Customers from operations goes into the municipal sewer systems. The company has no emissions into the water system. Indirect Water Consumption Use of water in our supply chain is explained in the section 'Products and Supply Chain' in the chapter 'Suppliers Environmental Assessment'. Our indirect impacts also include water use in the usage phase, such as washing clothes at home. This topic is discussed in the section 'Customer' in the chapter 'Tips for choosing and taking care of clothing'. 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 35-40 Environment Water is not recycled or reused in the operations. 304 Biodiversity Not reported The aspect is not defined material. The company’s department stores and stores are located in areas zoned as commercial properties. As commercial functions are not located in conservation areas or other areas rich in terms of biodiversity, the Group’s impacts on biodiversity are low. 305 Emissions 35-40 Environment The management approach is described in the section 'Environment'. 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 35-40 Environment 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 35-40 Environment 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 35-40 Environment Indirect scope 3 emissions are presented where relevant: the biggest such emissions can be attributed to logistics and waste. 306 Effluents and waste 35-40 Environment The management approach is described in the section 'Environment'. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 35-40 Environment Social impacts 401 Employment 18-26 Personnel The management approach is described in the section 'Personnel'. 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 18-26 Personnel Not reported by gender or age group, information not available. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 18-26 Personnel Benefits exceeding the statutory level have not been reported in detail. provided to temporary or part-time employees Practices vary in different operating countries. 402 Labour/Management relations 18-26 Personnel The management approach is described in the section 'Personnel'. 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 47-50 GRI index Stockmann operates according to the notice periods specified in local labour legislation in all its operating countries. In Finland, the notice period is between two weeks and six months, depending on the duration of the employment relationship. In Sweden, the minimum is between one week to several months, depending on the duration of the employment relationship and nature of changes. Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes have not been defined in retail sector collective bargaining agreements. 403 Occupational health and safety 18-26 Personnel The management approach is described in the section 'Personnel'. 403-1 Workers' representation in in formal joint management 18-26 Personnel – worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 18-26 Personnel Information by gender is not available at the moment. Occupational diseases and lost days not reported. diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 404 Training and education 18-26 Personnel 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 18-26 Personnel Information on training by gender is not available. Information by employee category or other countries of operation is not collected in equal detail. 50 GRI CONTENT INDEX STOCKMANN // CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 Disclosure number GRI content Location Additional information or omissions 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and 18-26 Personnel transition assistance programmes 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 18-26 Personnel Information by gender or employee category is not available at the moment. and career development reviews 405 Diversity and equal opportunity 18-26 Personnel The management approach is described in the section 'Personnel'. 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 18-26 Personnel Comparison figures are in part inadequate. Information on minority group membership is not collected, as this is not permitted under Finnish legislation. Employees according to employee category not reported. The aim is to report the information in the future. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to 18-26 Personnel The reporting covers Stockmann’s operations in Finland. men 406 Non-discrimination 18-26 Personnel The management approach is described in the section 'Personnel'. 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 18-26 Personnel 407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 18-26 Personnel, 27-34 Products and Supply Chain The management approach is described in the sections 'Personnel' and 'Products and Supply Chain'. 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom 27-34 Products and Supply Chain Most of the Stockmann Group’s own employees work in countries classified by the Amfori BSCI as low-risk of association and collective bargaining may be at risk countries for human rights violations. The fullfillment of freedom of association in the supply chain is monitored through own audits and those made by a third party 412 Human rights assessment 41-46 Finance and Governance, The management approach is described in the sections 'Finance and Governance' and 'Products and Supply 27-34Products and Supply Chain Chain'. 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights 41-46 Finance and Governance, reviews or impact assessments 27-34 Products and Supply Chain 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or 41-46 Finance and Governance procedures 414 Supplier social assessment 27-34 Products and Supply Chain The management approach is described in the section 'Products and Supply Chain'. 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 27-34 Products and Supply Chain 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions 27-34 Products and Supply Chain amfori BSCI audit results taken 415 Public policy The aspect is not defined material. 415-1 Political contributions 47-50 GRI index Stockmann does not make political contributions or donations to any politicians, political parties or related organizations, either directly or indirectly. 416 Customer health and safety Products and Supply Chain The management approach is described in the section 'Products and Supply Chain'. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and 27-34 Products and Supply Chain, safety impacts of products and services 47-50 GRI index 417 Marketing and labelling 13-17 Customers The management approach is described in the section 'Customers'. 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 47-50 GRI index In 2018, there were no incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications legislation or communications voluntary principles at Stockmann. At Lindex, it was found that six hygiene and cosmetic products did not comply with national marketing legislation by the market surveillance authority in Estonia. Corrective actions were immediately taken and the products were later approved for sale. 418 Customer privacy 13-17 Customers The management approach is described in the section 'Customers'. 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 13-17 Customers customer privacy and losses of customer data * All standards: version 2018 Customer satisfaction 13-17 Customers This topic is material to Stockmann but it is not covered by an existing GRI Standard. The management approach is described in the section 'Customers'. Net promoter score (NPS), likelihood to recommend 13-17 Customers service
