Impact Report 2018 Here’s how our buildings, products and people are creating a more sustainable world. Bloomberg’s European headquarters is the most sustainable major office building in the world based on the BREEAM sustainability assessment method, receiving a 99.1% score in 2018. bloomberg.com/impact 2018 Impact Report Approach Message from Mike 02 About Bloomberg L.P. 03 Governance 04 Stakeholder engagement 05 Materiality assessment 06—07 Sustainability strategy & goals 08 Risk management 09 Considering climate 10—11 Climate scenario analysis 12—13 Thought leadership Full disclosure 14—15 Products Highlights 16—25 Beyond Bloomberg 26—27 Case study New dimensions for climate-change analysis 28—29 Operations Highlights 30—41 Beyond Bloomberg 42—43 Case study Ten years of sustainable operations 44—45 People Highlights 46—52 Beyond Bloomberg 53 Case study Cracking the code 54—55 About this report 56 Visit bloomberg.com/impact for the interactive digital version of this report. Approach Message from Mike. About Bloomberg L.P. Last year brought These efforts go hand in hand with the work that our foundation, Bloomberg Philanthropies, is doing to spur Bloomberg, the global Our products Bloomberg Professional Services progress on climate change. In partnership with the alarming new evidence Sierra Club, we have helped to close more than half of business and financial Bloomberg Professional Services — the Bloomberg Terminal® and our enterprise data management and U.S. coal power plants — 286 out of 530, and counting integration services — provide real-time data, breaking of the risks we face from — since 2011. Recently, we set a new goal of retiring information and news news, in-depth research, powerful analytics and every remaining U.S. coal plant by 2030. And we are world-class execution capabilities to help financial climate change. launching an ambitious new stage of the campaign called Beyond Carbon. It is a grassroots effort to help leader, gives influential professionals make smarter, faster and better-informed decisions. move America as quickly as possible away from oil and gas and toward a 100 percent clean energy economy. decision makers a critical Industry products Droughts, wildfires and powerful storms claimed lives We operate five web-based services — BloombergNEF, and caused billions of dollars in damages. We urgently need to do more to confront this growing crisis. We’re recruiting partners from across society to help us reach that goal. Nearly 2,700 cities, states, businesses edge by connecting Bloomberg Government, Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Tax and Bloomberg Environment — that provide Bloomberg is committed to helping lead the way. and universities have committed their support for the Paris Agreement through the America’s Pledge them to a dynamic industry-leading news, analysis and data about energy, government, laws and regulation to help subscribers We aim to get 100 percent clean power by 2025. Over coalition that we co-founded with former California navigate these complex and evolving areas. the last ten years, we have improved energy efficiency Governor Jerry Brown. Last year, through our American network of information, by 45 percent, which has cut carbon emissions while Cities Climate Challenge, we awarded grants to help News & media also producing more than $116 million in cost savings. Our European headquarters in London has been rated 25 leading U.S. cities significantly cut emissions. And Bloomberg employees contributed over 161,000 hours people and ideas. Bloomberg Editorial & Research draws on the work of 2,700 journalists and analysts across 120 countries. the world’s most sustainably designed office building, of volunteering in 2018, including thousands of hours Bloomberg Media, the company’s consumer-facing and we hope it will set an example for other companies. helping to make cities greener and more sustainable. media organization, delivers a suite of content, Our company products and strategic marketing services that connect We are also helping our clients take action by We are just getting started. In the coming year, we will audiences to ideas and intelligence across every Bloomberg L.P. is a privately held Limited Partnership bringing transparency to markets. We now provide continue to ramp up our efforts to fight climate change platform — digital, TV, radio, print and live events. headquartered in New York City. We have nearly environmental, social and governance (ESG) data and build a stronger, more resilient global economy. 20,000 employees based in 177 locations around for more than 11,500 companies, tools to analyze the I hope you’ll join us. the world, with primary offices in the United States, Our operations growing green bond market and in-depth research the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, China, Our business operates in 4.9 million owned and on technologies and opportunities in clean energy. Singapore, Australia, Brazil, India and the leased square feet of space in 72 countries, including The more we can accelerate investment in projects that United Arab Emirates. 2 significant data centers crucial to our operations both reduce emissions and create jobs, the more progress and customers, 10 television studios, 12 radio studios Our business philosophy and 3 printing facilities. We publish two magazines, we can make reducing health and economic risks. But companies and investors often lack good data on climateSince its founding in 1981, Bloomberg has been Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, related risks and opportunities, which prevents them guided by the principle that transparent markets printing and distributing almost 32 million copies from taking action. Two industry-driven organizations that empower investors, fuel entrepreneurs and globally in 2018. Our employees travel over 200 million Bloomberg helped launch — the Sustainability Accounting support economic growth. Better data leads miles a year. Standards Board (SASB) and the Financial Stability Board to better decisions. Moving forward, the world needs sustainable economic growth, and we have Our people Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) — are helping to fix that. evolved our mission to provide our clients with the Our nearly 20,000 employees include engineers, data they need to navigate the changing landscape developers, data scientists, product designers, Last year, SASB published the world’s first set of and successfully transition to a low-carbon economy journalists and professionals in corporate roles. industry-specific reporting standards on sustainability This includes decision-useful sustainability data, issues. Meanwhile, more than 600 companies and analytics and news. financial institutions around the world have endorsed To learn more about Bloomberg, visit the TCFD recommendations on measuring and bloomberg.com/company. reporting risks they face from climate change. 2 2018 Impact Report GRI: 102-14 GRI: 102-1; 102-2; 102-4; 102-5; 102-6; 102-7 3 Approach Approach Governance. Stakeholder engagement. Our company’s Climate-related governance Bloomberg considers short-, mediumand long-term Collective wisdom Our stakeholders help shape our sustainability efforts by sharing valuable feedback climate-related risks and opportunities at the leaders drive our Management Committee level. The Sustainable on new ideas, best practices, emerging technologies and industry trends. Business & Finance group develops climate-related sustainability efforts. targets and strategies to mitigate risks and foster opportunities across the organization. Operations Channels Examples develops infrastructure that will be resilient in the face of physical risks posed by climate change. And Customers Bloomberg Professional Services We interviewed approximately 50 global clients this Bloomberg’s Management Committee overseees corporate business units identify opportunities and develop annual customer survey; market past year to better understand investor needs for ESG strategy and operations. The Management Committee climate-related products and content in response research; customer education; information, which helped shape our product strategy. On has six members: the company Founder, Chairman, to a market in transition to a low-carbon economy. Help Desk tickets; sales visits; an ongoing basis, our sales and Help Desk teams collect Vice Chairman, Global Head of Engineering, Global Head market-led initiatives and events. customer feedback that helps enhance our ESG products. We disclose our governance around climate-related of Finance and Global Head of Financial Products. risks and opportunities in accordance with the The Global Head of Sustainable Business & Finance reports recommendations of the FSB Task Force on to the Management Committee and has responsibility for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Employees Events and training; emails and In 2018, our Chairman’s Challenge, a yearlong internal the company‘s overarching sustainability strategy, including newsletters; Diversity & Inclusion competition to elevate diversity and inclusion efforts addressing climate-related risks and opportunities. The Communities; Sustainability Squads, across the company, spawned dozens of employee-driven Management Committee, which is consulted and updated on employee ambassador groups that activities. These initiatives increased diversity in hiring and a regular basis, provides direction and allocates resources. promote sustainability activities locally. improved physical accessibility in our offices. Management Committee Suppliers Our Supplier Code of Conduct; We work with our suppliers to ensure that our products sustainability requirements in relevant are produced ethically. In 2018, we conducted a desktop Financial Products Media Executive Office requests for proposal and master review of our core product vendors to confirm they have service agreements. the policies and practices in place to comply with our Equities Bloomberg Digital Sustainable Business & Finance Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes social and Commodities TicToc by Bloomberg environmental requirements. We also conducted on-site Fixed Income Bloomberg Radio Tech & Innovation social audits for certain promotional item suppliers. Indices Bloomberg TV Apps Bloomberg LIVE Human Resources Enterprise New Economy Forum Diversity & Inclusion Communities Interviews; site visits; Bloomberg‘s London Mithraeum engaged with nearly Maps Bloomberg Media Distribution Leadership & Talent Development educational events. 130,000 visitors during its first year of operation, Commercial Benefits partnering with schools, local communities, the City of Ad Sales Editorial & Research Recruitment London and Museum of London Archaeology. Marketing Services News Bloomberg Opinion Workplace Operations Industry Products Bloomberg Intelligence Facilities Nongovernmental Sustainability conferences; nonprofit Mike Bloomberg serves as the chair of the FSB Task BloombergNEF Bloomberg Environment Data Centers organizations (NGOs) and industry group collaboration; Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD); Bloomberg Tax Networks newsletters and other publications; in 2018, we supported the group’s efforts to promote Departments that influence Bloomberg Law business strategy Supply Chain consultation and collaboration on implementation of the TCFD recommendations. We Bloomberg Government sustainability projects. partnered with the Climate Disclosure Standards Board to Departments that influence sustainable finance products create the TCFD Knowledge Hub online and helped lead Philanthropy & Engagement forums on improving climate-related financial disclosures. Departments that influence environmental impacts Engaging with the Task Force and company peers has Best of Bloomberg Departments that influence our helped us refine our own climate-related disclosures. community impact Bloomberg Startup 4 2018 Impact Report GRI: 102-18; 102-20; 102-21; 102-22; 102-23; 102-26; 102-27; 102-29; 102-33 GRI: 102-13; 102-29; 102-40; 102-42; 102-43; 102-44 5 Approach High-impact issues Materiality assessment. High–impact issues Potential material issues for Bloomberg, viewed through the lens of: GRI 1 SASB 2 CDP TCFD Our approach to Defining the issues that have the most impact on our business — our most “material” issues — helps us shape Customer privacy / Data security Failing to provide quality products and services with responsible business practices • • our sustainability strategy, set meaningful targets and sustainability begins prioritize our activities. may result in fines, legal settlements and a loss of business. Our efforts to protect our customers can attract and retain business. with a question: In traditional financial reporting, material issues are issues that have a significant impact on a company’s Economic / Financial Our ability to continually innovate to deliver products and services to customers • • operating performance. From a sustainability with evolving needs impacts our company‘s financial health and long-term viability. What environmental, perspective, material issues are issues that have a It also impacts the transparency and efficiency of local, national and global markets. significant impact on how a company affects the social and governance environment and society. Our materiality assessment Employee engagement / Diversity & inclusion Our efforts to ensure the well-being of our employees and develop our talent improve • • includes both of these perspectives. our ability to recruit, retain and engage a high-quality and diverse workforce while issues are relevant to We believe data is most useful if it is market-relevant, increasing productivity and innovation. consistent and comparable, so we’ve used concepts of our business and materiality drawn from the major sustainability reporting Energy Our energy use contributes to climate change. Limiting our carbon emissions reduces our • • • • frameworks used by public companies around the world. impact on the environment and helps us avoid operating costs. Our leadership and innovation our stakeholders? in this space may also influence other companies to limit their own carbon emissions. Professional / Ethics / Competitive behavior • • Negative behaviors like conflicts of interest, anticompetitive activity and corruption The full picture can result in costly legal actions, fines and settlements and can damage our We use the following frameworks and standards in an integrative fashion to identify and report on material issues. reputation. Maintaining a culture of integrity, transparency and accountability helps us retain high-quality employees and attract customers. A company’s impact on economic, Impact on financial environmental or social issues performance Risk management / Compliance • • • • Managing risks to our business, including climate-change risk and supply chain risk, reduces long-term costs and enhances our company‘s resilience. 1 GRI topics: Standard, Media 2 SASB industries: Professional & Commercial Services, CDP TCFD Internet & Media Services, Media & Entertainment How a company impacts a range of FSB Task Force on Climate-related A company’s exposure environmental issues and is positioning itself Financial Disclosures to climate-related to address future climate-change scenarios How material climate-related issues could issues impact a company’s financial performance Bloomberg’s Sustainable Business & Finance team and High-impact issues are likely to impact our company senior executives conducted our original assessment in and our employees from a business, environmental 2015 in conjunction with employees, customers, vendors and/or social perspective. and external sustainable business experts. GRI SASB Medium-/low-impact issues are not likely to impact our Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Accounting Our initial materiality assessment focused on company directly, but may impact our strategic partners Standards Board A company’s environmental issues. Since then, we have expanded the and the wider community. How a company impacts a range of exposure to a range scope of our sustainability reporting to reflect a much economic, environmental and social issues How material sustainability issues impact of sustainability issues Our annual impact report focuses on our broader array of potential material issues, soliciting a company’s financial performance high-impact issues. input as needed. Our materiality assessment identifies material issues and categorizes them as highor medium-/low-impact. More online: Read our full Materiality Assessment, 2018 GRI Content Index, GRI Media Supplement and SASB Primary audiences: Cities, government, investors & companies Financial market participants disclosure at bloomberg.com/impact. 6 2018 Impact Report GRI: 102-12; 102-46; 102-47; 103-2; 103-3 7 Approach Approach Sustainability Risk management. strategy and goals. We manage our business Beyond Bloomberg We identify, assess Operations As a financial information and technology company Climate risk better by integrating with a relatively small operational footprint, some of our most significant impact comes from serving and manage risks for As the Earth’s climate changes, natural disasters such as hurricanes, droughts and wildfires are becoming more common, sea levels are rising and ecosystems environmental, social and as an innovator and a champion for new sustainability solutions — pioneering new technologies, promoting our products, operations are being disrupted. These physical risks present new ideas and leading collaborative efforts with business our business with potential threats to assets and economic considerations and civic partners to develop sustainable best practices. and people to enhance infrastructure needs that must be addressed. We seek out, invest in and lead opportunities to advance into everything we do. the sustainability conversation. Throughout this report, the Beyond Bloomberg sections highlight our efforts our sustainability. Bloomberg assesses risks to existing facilities and potential new locations. We implement appropriate to broaden our impact beyond our company‘s direct, mitigation and resiliency measures to ensure the safety first-degree impact. of our employees and uninterrupted service to our Strategy Here’s how we manage risk around customers. We have enhanced network functionality to some of our key material issues. ensure our employees can work remotely, implemented Products building upgrades to one of our U.S. data centers and We provide timely, reliable and actionable information 2020 goals Products moved out of a waterfront data center in New York City. on financial risks and opportunities related to In 2013, we announced 17 sustainability goals for Data security Additionally, we manage our internal operational risk by environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. our products, operations and people that we aim Bloomberg’s Chief Information Security Office, a division resource utilization reduction, infrastructure upgrades Operations to reach by the end of 2020. These targets are of the Chief Risk & Compliance Office, aims to minimize and renewable energy procurement. We strive to decouple our growth from environmental aggressive yet achievable goals that keep us focused the likelihood and impact of cyber-attacks and data People impact while demonstrating the business case for on advancing our sustainability strategy and help us incidents on Bloomberg systems. Three teams manage sustainable operations. identify areas where we’re falling short and should threats. Product Security conducts security code and Business ethics rethink our approach. architecture reviews, testing and training to ensure that The Bloomberg Global Core Guide provides employees People Bloomberg products and systems are built to reduce with information about their employment terms, benefits We engage our employees to address social and The Products, Operations and People sections of this the number and severity of vulnerabilities. Threat and and responsibilities. These clear and transparent ethical environmental issues that are relevant to our business report show our progress on the goals we continue Vulnerability Management continuously identifies, standards serve as the foundation for our work culture and the communities in which we live and work. to actively pursue. assesses and reports on vulnerabilities, working with and create an environment in which our employees can stakeholders across the organization to prioritize and do their best work. Climate-related strategy guide remediation efforts. And the Cyber Security Our strategy positions our business for success not only To view our full 2020 progress table, which includes Behavioral standards Operations Center monitors cyber security events and today, but also in a future that will be transformed by the goals we have achieved and goals that have evolved, Bloomberg requires employees to conduct themselves provides incident management services, including transition to a low-carbon economy. We are improving visit bloomberg.com/impact. and our business at the highest ethical level, with integrity security event triage and escalation. the sustainability of our operations and optimizing our and within guidelines that prohibit actual or potential products to capture related opportunities and mitigate Data privacy conflicts of interest or the perception of impropriety. The risks. Our agility allows us to adapt to changing markets Bloomberg is committed to compliance with our privacy Bloomberg General Standards of Conduct and Ethical and provide solutions as markets evolve. To help us assess obligations throughout the world. We respect the Behavior, part of our Global Core Guide, sets out the our resilience and plan for potential climate scenarios, privacy rights of our users and are strongly committed standards we expect our employees to follow. we conduct scenario analysis. (Read our climate-related to protecting our users’ information. Bloomberg keeps scenario analysis on page 12.) We disclose the actual and all personal information it collects from users on secure Human rights potential impacts of climate change on our strategy in servers. We restrict employee access to this information, Bloomberg complies with all applicable laws and accordance with the TCFD recommendations. allowing access if the data is required for carrying out regulations protecting employees’ rights to unionize employees’ roles and responsibilities. The privacy in the workplace as well as laws on modern-day slavery, notices we provide explain our personal data collection, including forced and child labor. We strive to ensure there use and disclosure practices. is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chain or any part of our business. 8 2018 Impact Report GRI: 102-15; 201-2 GRI: 205-1; 205-2; 205-3; 206-1; 308-1; 308-2; 407-1; 408-1; 409-1; 413-1; 413-2; 414-1; 414-2; 418-1; 419-1 9 SASB: TC-IM-220a.1 — a.6; TC-IM-230a.1 — a.2; SV-PS-230a.1 — a.3 2018 Extreme weather events Global Approach occur at current emissions frequency halved Considering climate. by 2050 Evolving strategies Bloomberg for an evolving world. scenario analysis Extreme weather events Global occur more emissions frequently continue to rise Climate change poses at current rates We monitor the following events and trends to alert us to potential climate-related impacts on our company. The financial impacts on Bloomberg that could result from changes around these signposts are reported in our scenario analysis on the next page. both risks and opportunities Type of change Select signposts Evolving areas of impact Policy and legal Tax policies and renewable energy Changing U.S. tax incentives will not impact our existing for business. incentives, especially in London renewable contracts; however, future contracts will and New York where our energy need to be evaluated under new policies. In Europe, Low-carbon use is concentrated the ESOS (Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme) is also changing, leading to uncertainties around impact. We Bloomberg conducts climate scenario analysis annually to better understand the potential effects of climate future have hired a consultant to help us take advantage of the changes once the policies are updated. change on our company and help us determine the Finalization of the Nationally Determined Progress at the UN climate change conferences will best paths forward for our business in a range of Increased Contributions (NDCs) to fulfill the Paris determine the speed and stringency with which the NDCs different future scenarios. global Agreement are finalized. Resulting future regional regulations may temperatures impact potential clean energy/smart technology projects Climate scenario analysis can help investors understand and product strategies. how a company‘s strategy might be resilient as the climate changes, regulations evolve, new technologies Resource efficiency Differences between regional prices Changes in prices between clean and traditional energy, emerge and consumer behavior shifts. As a private What will the world look like in the future? and energy source for renewable energy and natural such as the jump in U.S. natural gas futures in November We face a range of different futures, depending on the company, we do not have investors. However, gas in markets where we have 2018, will help us determine the type and pace of choices that governments, businesses and individuals demonstrating how our company is positioned to significant consumption renewable energy implementation going forward. make today. Here are two of the potential global respond to climate change may strengthen our scenarios we use in our scenario analysis. Penetration of renewable energy Innovation in procurement and pricing models, such as relationships with clients, employees and communities the Corporate Renewable Energy Aggregation Group, a while informing policymakers on best practices for purchasing cooperative Bloomberg recently helped form, corporate reporting. Climate scenario analysis has also Rising sea should make renewable energy sourcing more efficient proven to be a useful tool for managing our own climate levels displace and accessible on a smaller scale, thus expanding access coastal risks and identifying opportunities. in more markets. populations Our scenario analysis follows guidelines developed by the Market Volatility of fossil fuel and renewable Increases in volatility may change the trading tools FSB Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures energy markets our clients need and increase their reliance on high-frequency data. (TCFD). Bloomberg is a key supporter of the TCFD. New regulations Extreme global Changes in coal and crude oil prices Low prices for fossil fuels may limit the economic viability This is the second year that we have undertaken for businesses climate-related scenario analysis. Our impact estimations limit greenhouse warming of their production and accelerate a low-carbon transition. and potential results have not changed materially gas emissions Volume and scale of green debt and In 2018, significant growth in green-loan issuance allowed since last year. carbon trading markets and securitization us to capture more green-debt data for client analysis. of green bonds Further growth in sustainable-finance markets could lead In 2018, we added signals tracking to our climate to new client demand for data, analysis and trading tools. scenario analysis process. We established a set of signposts that will allow us to more rigorously monitor Products Bloomberg product sales linked to In 2018, we launched a new ESG enterprise-wide data feed different scenario pathways to see if the world is moving Wider access to and services climate-related tools to serve expanded customer needs. Ongoing increased closer to one potential scenario or another. This is useful demand for sustainability tools may lead us to expand ESG Water and energy-efficient to us because the climate-related issues that impact products and services. food scarcity in resources at our business do not change significantly from year to climate-stressed lower costs regions Physical Acute: Frequency of severe storms and In India, where air pollution is problematic, we've taken year. Our signposts allow us to track and understand Higher levels wildfires where we operate action to monitor and clean our office air, including incremental market changes so we can adjust our of pollution installing standalone purification systems and enhancing business strategies. impact human Chronic: Regional changes to temperature, existing HVAC systems. In 2018, we also took similar Carbon-intensive health air quality, sea level and water scarcity measures in response to the California wildfires. businesses have revised business 10 2018 Impact Report GRI: 102-15; 201-2 models 11 Low-carbon future 1.5°C Rapid alignment with the Paris Agreement Extreme global warming 4°C Failure of the Paris Agreement In 2018, we looked at the viability of Risks Impact quantification Timeline Potential result Risks Impact quantification Timeline Potential result Bloomberg’s strategies under a range Transition Policy and <1% impact 1–3 years, To limit global warming to 1.5°C, all countries would need to Transition Policy and No discernible Europe: Policy changes may happen at different times across of scenarios. We provide details on two legal on business 10+ years substantively change emissions policies. Bloomberg‘s 2025 legal quantified impact 1–3 years different geographies. Regardless, we will continue our divergent climate scenarios here: 100% clean power plan will mitigate immediate policy risk; Other: path toward renewable operations and do not anticipate however, in the long term, our high-touch model for sales and 4–10 years a meaningful impact. Low-carbon future (1.5° Celsius) account management may not be compatible. We are currently Technology <5% decrease in 4–7 years Renewable technology will not advance significantly, and • a rapid transition to a low-carbon economy where considering solutions for travel, some of which are already costs avoided from renewable energy prices may not continue to decline as technological advances and policy changes limit the being utilized by our analytics desk. using renewable they have over the last decade. Costs avoided from using warming of Earth’s temperature to less than 1.5° Celsius Technology Planned technology 1–7 years Accelerated advances in technology are needed to achieve a energy technology renewable energy may decline or take longer to realize. (2.7° Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial levels spend occurs sooner 1.5°C scenario, potentially leading to more spending upfront to Market Potential decline 8–10+ years Extreme global warming would cause significant disruptions than anticipated achieve our energy goals sooner. We may also become locked • while likely less destabilizing to the planet than more (% unknown) in longto financial markets, from banking to asset management into higher-than-market rates for current contracts. However, gradual transitions to a low-carbon future, this scenario term revenue growth and insurance. This would disrupt our core client base; if these represent only 17% of our energy use, so we will transition is more disruptive for the markets since industries must rate from financial these financial institutions are not prepared with resiliency the majority of our usage to renewable energy under new rates. sector shock measures, it could impact our business as well. adjust quickly Market 23% increase in capital 1–3 years Demand for sustainable-finance tools and data will grow rapidly, Reputation No discernible 1–10 years Even in the absence of policies to promote a low-carbon investment and R&D leading to faster headcount increases in Data, R&D, BNEF, BI Extreme global warming (4° Celsius) for sustainabilityand Editorial & Research. Other groups may lose resources in the quantified impact economy, Bloomberg will continue to incorporate • a limited-mitigation scenario where little or no sustainability into our business operations and product related products short term to cover hiring gaps and get products to market faster. concerted mitigation action is taken and climate offerings, so we do not anticipate reputational risk. Reputation No risk to 1–10+ years As a current leader in corporate sustainability, our reputational risk change continues on its current projected path reputation under a low-carbon scenario is minimal. We engage in activities to • Earth’s temperatures warm significantly more than stay at the forefront of building a low-carbon economy. 1.5° Celsius, with catastrophic consequences Physical Acute 10% increase in 1–10 years A 1.5°C scenario may lead to fewer physical risks than other Physical Acute 15% increase in 1–10 years Businesses may experience losses in productivity or working capital investment scenarios; however, due to the uncertainty of these risks, for new While we shared our 2° Celsius scenario last year, this year capital investment days due to severe weather events. While our contingency at key facilities key facilities we add in the next decade, we would match the we are highlighting our 1.5° Celsius scenario. As rapid at key facilities plans protect against a loss in revenue due to such events, we resilience measures already in use for higher degrees of physical may need to increase spending on resiliency beyond what is decarbonization of the economy presents more policy risks. Even under the current climate, physical disruptions are needed in a low-carbon scenario. and market risks, we wanted to show how our business occurring in new regions. The 2018 California wildfires impacted can address these risks. Limiting the temperature increase local office air quality, prompting us to provide air-cleaning Chronic <1% of an impact 4–7 years The majority of Bloomberg’s business dealings and operations measures which were unprecedented in that region. on business are not in areas that are stressed by water or extreme to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels rather than 2°C would Chronic <1% of an impact 4–7 years Our business is not water-intensive, centered in climatetemperatures; our own business is not resource-intensive, significantly reduce the damaging effects of climate on business stressed regions or reliant on outdoor labor, so chronic physical so chronic changes are not likely to have a large impact. change on human health and safety, and Bloomberg changes that occur under a 1.5°C scenario would not be advocates pursuing this more ambitious goal. significant. Notes Opportunities Impact quantification Timeline Potential result Opportunities Impact quantification Timeline Potential result • These scenarios are not forecasts or predictions of Resource efficiency Additional $12 million 1–7 years If technology drives down renewable energy prices faster and Resource efficiency Minimal energy 8–10+ years Renewable energy prices may stagnate, but climate stress may the future, but a way for us to imagine plausible future and energy source in avoided costs further than expected, our transition to renewable energy by and energy source cost savings cause non-renewable resources to increase in price, ultimately worlds and plan for resilience. 2025 would allow us to avoid more energy costs and realize the leading to greater cost avoidance from our renewable operations. changes sooner than less rapid transition scenarios. Products and services <5% increase 4–7 years Our clients invested in markets such as real estate and insurance • To help us determine when certain portions of our Products and services 23% increase Most A 1.5°C scenario will bring about rapid changes in many industries, in revenue from will need new products to analyze potentially significant market business may be most impacted, we have analyzed the in revenue from significant as well as an increased need for transparent climate-related sustainable finance changes. We currently offer tools such as MAPS, a geo-insight impact of climate change over three time frames: short products resource that helps investors analyze physical climate-change sustainability-related impact risk and opportunity information from companies. Demand for (1–3 years), medium (4–7 years) and long (8–10 years). products and services seen within products and services to address these changes would accelerate, risks, and we will continue to develop products to capture We indicate when the scenario will most significantly over 10-year period 1–3 years with the most immediate impacts occurring in BNEF, which is increased demand. impact each type of risk or opportunity, but the impact already expanding industry coverage, and our newly available ESG Markets <1% increase in total 8–10 years As markets such as real estate and commodities become quantification applies to the full 10-year period of analysis. enterprise data feed. product revenue more volatile, the need for timely, transparent data and Markets 12% increase in revenue 1–3 years The significant expansion of green debt and emissions markets, market-driven news could potentially increase; however, • Bloomberg, as a private company, does not release from sustainabilityas well as the development of green securitization and derivative this will not have a significant impact on our business, which segment financial information due to confidentiality related products over markets needed in the near term to achieve a 1.5°C scenario, already provides solutions for volatile markets. constraints. In lieu of exact figures, a best practice 10-year period would lead to more client demand in the near future for tools to Resilience <1% increase in value 8–10 years Our current resiliency practices have led us to build and recommended by the TCFD, we have provided participate in these markets. Already in 2018, we saw a significant directional percentages. of physical assets renovate our buildings to extremely high physical-stress increase in issuance of green loans and have responded by standards. If climate change continues on its current path, providing more analysis and data on these instruments. this investment in resilient infrastructure may increase the Resilience No discernible 1–10 years Investing in sustainable products, services and infrastructure, value of the real estate assets we own. quantified impact combined with our clients’ dependence on us to provide tools 12 2018 Impact Report for the changing markets, will strengthen our sustainability13 focused business models. Thought leadership Full disclosure. Better data will Corporate Reporting Dialogue TCFD Mobilizing private capital Clarifying sustainability disclosures Improving climate-related financial reporting As climate risks and opportunities become more lead the way to a As the financial markets have grown more interested in how companies are managing climate-related Established by Financial Stability Board Chair and Bank of England Governor Mark Carney to help the transparent, we expect investors and businesses to increase financing for climate solutions and risks and opportunities, a number of organizations financial markets better understand and manage sustainable companies. To accelerate this process — sustainable future. have developed guidelines on what sustainability climate-related financial risks, the FSB Task Force on and help meet the Paris Agreement goal of mobilizing information companies should share. Today, there Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) developed at least $100 billion per year for climate-related are more than a dozen frameworks for reporting recommendations and advises companies on disclosing investments by 2020 — Bloomberg is supporting Since our founding in 1981, Bloomberg has been sustainability performance with different focuses, decision-useful climate-related financial information. two new initiatives: guided by the principle that making markets more audiences and governance procedures. Unfortunately, The Task Force, which is chaired by Mike Bloomberg, transparent empowers investors, fuels entrepreneurs that’s also led to divergent definitions of terms and released its voluntary climate-risk disclosure framework Climate Finance Leadership Initiative and supports economic growth. As climate change competing views of what’s important, confusing in 2017; more than 600 global companies have Formed by Mike Bloomberg at the request of UN begins to affect business, market transparency is more investors and creating a bigger reporting burden expressed support for its recommendations. Secretary-General António Guterres, the CFLI will help important than ever. In 2018, climate-related natural for companies that want to disclose information to facilitate the private financing objectives included disasters caused $91 billion in damage in the United multiple audiences. Over the past year, the Task Force has focused on in the Paris Agreement to accelerate clean energy States alone. Understanding and pricing climate-related fostering wider adoption of the recommendations. and climate solutions around the world. The group’s threats — and opportunities — has become essential for To clarify the conversation, we helped the Corporate The TCFD published its first status report on current founding members include Allianz Global Investors, accurately valuing companies and efficiently allocating Reporting Dialogue launch its Better Alignment Project disclosure practices, sharing examples of good practice AXA, Enel, Goldman Sachs, HSBC, Macquarie and the capital. Over the past five years, we’ve championed in 2018, serving as a consultant and funder. Through and noting areas for improvement. The group also Government Pension Investment Fund (Japan). this two-year initiative, the Corporate Reporting launched the online TCFD Knowledge Hub to provide the development of decision-useful, comparable and U.S. Alliance for Sustainable Finance Dialogue’s eight members — financial standards-setting guidance, research and tools to help companies better consistent sustainability disclosures, and advancements USASF, a group of leading financial services firms, organizations that meet regularly to share their views understand the climate-risk reporting process and in corporate reporting are leading to a much greater is promoting sustainable finance innovation in and coordinate their work — will seek to harmonize structure their disclosures. understanding of how businesses are responding the U.S. capital markets to help drive more capital reporting standards that have similar goals but ask for to climate change and societal shifts. Here’s how we SASB to sustainable investments. The Alliance is part information in different ways. The organizations will collaborated with partners in 2018 to improve the identify the commonalities and differences among of the UN’s global network of Financial Centres Industry-specific sustainability standards quality and ease of sustainability reporting and to sustainability frameworks, then refine overlapping for Sustainability (FC4S). Since its founding in 2011, the Sustainability Accounting encourage investors to use this information. disclosures and metrics to achieve better alignment. Standards Board Foundation (SASB) has worked with investors and businesses to develop standards for measuring, managing and reporting on sustainability factors that drive value and affect financial Market infrastructure support performance. Bloomberg is a founding partner in this We’re leading market-driven initiatives to improve both the supply side and the demand side of sustainable finance. effort, providing crucial expertise from Bloomberg specialists and significant grant support through Bloomberg Philanthropies. In 2018, SASB published the Supply side Demand side Efforts that improve ESG data and help companies Complementary efforts to “make a market in transition,” world’s first set of industry-specific reporting standards better communicate their long-term strategies around or empower companies, investors and creditors to seize on sustainability issues, covering 77 industries. These sustainability and the transition to a low-carbon economy opportunities in the transition to a low-carbon economy standards focus on the sustainability factors most likely to have financially material impacts on a typical company in each of these industries, providing investors with the context they need to evaluate TCFD recommendations Climate Finance Leadership Initiative (CFLI) companies’ long-term strategies. SASB industry-specific standards U.S. Alliance for Sustainable Finance (USASF) 14 2018 Impact Report 15 17,789 1,000+ 30,000 1,900 customers using our ESG data BloombergNEF reports on the evolving energy industry subscribers to our Good Business newsletter leaders attending our Sustainable Business Summits Critical transparency Product strategy Select 2020 goals Material issue: Economic/Financial Provide timely, reliable and actionable information on into sustainability. sustainability-related financial risks and opportunities for leading business, finance and policy professionals. Integrate sustainable finance % to target 100% across the asset classes represented Key activities: within the Terminal (Commodities, 80% Structural and systemic shifts such as climate change, Currency, Derivatives, Equities and 60% resource scarcity, regulatory pressures and new Develop and deliver sustainable finance products Fixed Income). perspectives on the value of human capital and We’re constantly working to expand the universe of 40% Status: 60% achieved. Commodities, diversity increasingly pose material business risks high-quality environmental, social and governance Equities and Fixed Income are 20% and opportunities for issuers and investors globally. (ESG) data and analytical tools and to further the field integrating sustainable finance. 0% As investors, policymakers and citizens seek out more of sustainable finance. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 information on sustainability, Bloomberg is providing new and expanded data sets, analysis and news. Improve our clients’ use of ESG data Be the leading voice on 100% We provide news and analysis and host events sustainability in business across throughout the year to share the latest ideas on and news and media platforms. 80% best practices for sustainable business and finance Status: 85% achieved. Bloomberg 60% 2018 highlights with our clients. News has established a team of 40% journalists dedicated to sustainability Lead market infrastructure and diversity, which has helped to 20% Data 18 increase our coverage of these areas We actively work with the leading sustainability reporting 0% across the newsroom. frameworks to enhance the quality, comparability and 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Analysis 22 financial relevance of sustainability-related information. Expand sustainability analysis Bloomberg is a contributing member of the Global Reporting 100% News and media 24 into all major industry products Initiative (GRI), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board and services. 80% (SASB) and the FSB Task Force on Climate-related Financial Beyond Bloomberg 26 Status: Achieved. In 2017, our industry 60% Disclosures (TCFD), with senior executives serving in formal product offerings increased from roles within SASB and TCFD. We also participate as the only 40% Case study three to five (Bloomberg Law, Tax, non-EU member of the European Commission’s Technical Government, Environment and 20% Expert Group on Sustainable Finance, working to develop BloombergNEF), with sustainability 0% market and legislative initiatives to help align the financial embedded in each. New dimensions for climate–change analysis 28 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Products markets with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. 2020 goal Read our full 2020 progress table online at Achieved bloomberg.com/impact. Challenges Data quality Increased competition Not enough companies disclose investor-relevant Bloomberg has been a leading provider of sustainability sustainability data that is consistent, comparable products and services for years. As market demand and complete. Bloomberg is promoting the grows, we‘re facing increasing competition from other use of sustainability reporting standards to news outlets and data providers. improve disclosures. 17 Products Data. We provide data that clarifies a rapidly We distribute ESG data primarily through the Bloomberg Terminal, displaying it alongside fundamental financial data on the same screens that Bloomberg users consult to make critical investment 11,500 All access It's a new era for our ESG data. We began providing ESG data for companies on the Bloomberg Barclays Indices companies‘ ESG data tracked on the Terminal Bloomberg partners with MSCI ESG Research, a leading provider of environmental, social and governance data, to produce the Bloomberg Barclays MSCI ESG decisions every day. On the Terminal, ESG data is Bloomberg Terminal a decade ago. In the years since, Fixed Income Indices, the market’s first and most evolving world. fully integrated with all of Bloomberg’s cutting-edge interest in this data set has surged as investors have realized that these areas can have a material impact comprehensive collection of fixed income indices analytics. And, just as with core financial indicators, incorporating measures of ESG risk. Bloomberg offers key ratios and highlights the on businesses and drive value within their portfolios. most important performance indicators so users Today, it is clear that markets have an important Our core ESG fixed income family includes Socially ESG data can compare ESG and financial performance role to play in building a sustainable world — from Responsible Indices, which exclude issuers that are Bloomberg makes ESG data relevant and actionable for across companies. financing a low-carbon economy to shaping how involved in business lines or activities that conflict financial market participants by collecting, verifying and human capital is viewed — and that these markets, with investment policies, values or social norms; sharing this data from more than 11,500 companies in In 2018, for the first time, we made our ESG data and their critical players, need detailed and reliable Sustainability Indices, which include only issuers 83 countries. Investors incorporate ESG data into their available for off-Terminal use via Bloomberg Data ESG data. Meanwhile, technological advances have MSCI ranks highly for managing ESG risks; and financial analysis, generating critical insights into risks License. (See “All access,” right.) The number of made it possible for more organizations to handle big ESG-Weighted Indices, which use MSCI ESG ratings and opportunities in the evolving global economy. customers using ESG data on the Terminal has more sets of data comfortably. and ratings momentum to re-weight issuers within than tripled over the past seven years. The launch an existing Bloomberg Barclays parent index. of our ESG enterprise data feed empowers an even This is why we now also offer our ESG data outside wider audience to use ESG data to gain insights. the Terminal as a licensed data feed delivered to We also offer a family of green bond indices for climateorganizations daily. focused and impact investors; the Bloomberg Barclays Nearly 18,000 customers are using ESG data MSCI Green Bond index was hailed as Index of the Year The number of customers using our ESG data has more than tripled over the past seven years. Unlike the ESG data investors use within the at the 2018 Environmental Finance Green Bonds Awards. Terminal environment, ESG data delivered by Customers Bloomberg Data License is designed to be used In 2018, as demand for ESG data grew and matured, 17.5k 17,789 by multiple applications and people. All systems we expanded our ESG fixed income indices to reach at a firm receive Bloomberg’s scrubbed, verified new regions and new types of investors; investment and updated data at the same time, ensuring firms launched seven ETFs linked to our products. 15k 14,935 that critical information is consistent across front, We introduced the first off-the-shelf ESG fixed income middle and back offices. And, once the data leaves indices for Canadian debt; BlackRock and Vanguard the Terminal and flows into a firm’s databases, launched funds that track our ESG fixed income indices 12.5k users are free to mine its metadata and ontologies, in Australia. We also created our first-ever optimized 12,242 11,542 11,894 opening up new possibilities for analysis. ESG fixed income indices for iShares ETFs, aimed at investors seeking a risk and return similar to parent 10k Now investors, companies and researchers have indices while achieving a more sustainable outcome, more options for incorporating Bloomberg’s ESG and developed custom ESG indices for high-yield and data into their financial analysis — they can use the emerging market debt. 7.5k 7,500 Terminal and its leading analytics and ratings to help interpret ESG data or they can choose our enterprise data feed and go further with their own 5,172 analytics, mixing our ESG data with their own data 5k across their organizations. 2.5k 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 18 2018 Impact Report 19 Products Data. Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index The Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI) tracks the performance of the public companies most committed to advancing women globally. As investor demand Sustainable debt Issuance of sustainable debt products surged 26 percent to $247 billion last year, with the sustainable debt market expanding to include bonds and loans $247 Sustainable debt market sees record activity in sustainable debt issuance billion The sustainable finance market surged 26% in 2018, with a record $247 billion worth of sustainability-themed debt instruments raised during the year. Green bond issuance hit a new high of $182.2 billion, and sustainability-linked loans reached $36.4 billion. $ billion for ESG products increases, the index represents an that finance projects with environmental benefits, social 275 important opportunity for companies to attract new benefits or a mixture of both. As investor demand capital and widen their investor base. A growing number increases, we’re enhancing the data and insights we of companies are using their inclusion in the index to offer to drive transparency and enable innovation in 250 $247 billion demonstrate their commitment to advancing equity. this unregulated market. 225 To fill a void in the market, we built a first-of-its-kind Bloomberg provides green bond market governance, tool for companies to disclose data across multiple research, data and analytics to help users identify dimensions: company statistics, benefits, gendergreen securities — bonds that fund projects with 200 $196 billion conscious product offerings and community support. environmental benefits — and assess alignment to All of this data is publicly available on the Bloomberg the Green Bond Principles developed by the 175 Terminal. The 2019 index includes 230 companies International Capital Markets Association. headquartered in 36 countries and regions. The data reported by these companies represents a workforce Our green bond label and additional green 150 of over 15 million people, including 7 million women disclosures on the Bloomberg Terminal offer around the world. unprecedented transparency to market participants. 125 In 2018, we added “Social” and ”Sustainability” bond Building on our purpose of leveraging data to drive labels to the Bloomberg Terminal to help users find $113 billion equality, we announced a new partnership with the U.K. securities that offer positive impacts to both society 100 government in September 2018. Incorporating metrics and the environment. from the U.K.‘s mandatory reporting requirements into 75 our framework provides global companies consistency We also introduced a label for green loans to help in raw pay-gap measurement guidelines. investors assess loans that facilitate and support $57 billion environmentally sustainable economic activity. The 50 As the U.K. Government Equalities Office looks to green loan label aligns with the new Green Loan $40 billion expand its reporting requirements, we will help it Principles from the Loan Market Association and 25 provide the same consistency by advising on metrics captures information on reporting and governance $15 billion companies already measure and report on through commitments of green loan proceeds — crucial $5 billion Bloomberg disclosures. We look forward to exploring disclosures to add transparency to this nascent market. 0 new public-private collaborations to enhance 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 transparency in gender reporting around the globe. Green bonds Sustainability bonds Social bonds Green loans Sustainability-linked loans Source: BloombergNEF % of firms tracked by the 2019 GEI review compensation to identify gender–based pay variations 21 Products Analysis. New sustainable finance tools Our in-depth research In 2018, BNEF published more than 1,000 reports and research pieces. These included updated editions Bloomberg Intelligence Bloomberg Intelligence (BI), provides Terminal users BloombergNEF Sustainable Debt Tool Developed by BNEF researchers, the Sustainable Debt of its annual flagship reports State of Clean Energy with in-depth analysis, commentary and data sets on and powerful analytics Investment, a report on energy trends drawn from a 135+ industries and 2,000 companies across ten major Tool (BNEF <GO>) is an interactive data set that helps BNEF clients analyze the fast-growing sustainable debt proprietary database of 100,000+ deal and project sectors as well as the government, credit and litigation market, including green bonds, green loans, social extract uncommon insights records; New Energy Outlook, a long-term economic issues that impact decision making. bonds, sustainability bonds and sustainability-linked forecast of the world’s power sector; Electric Vehicle loans. Users can customize analysis in many ways, from environmental, social Outlook, a long-term forecast of global electric vehicle adoption; and Climatescope, a country-by-country Dedicated ESG analysts provide unique, data-driven insights into sustainability themes such as climate including by issuer, time, location, debt type change, water use, corporate governance and safety, and adherence to global principles. assessment of clean energy investment conditions and governance data. in emerging markets. which present significant risks and opportunities for BI SDG Tool individual companies and for industries in general. This year, BNEF expanded Climatescope coverage Collaboration with industry experts ensures that BI ESG Created by Bloomberg Intelligence analysts, this Excel BloombergNEF from 71 to 103 countries. As a result, the report now research is timely and impactful, providing clients with model (BI ESG <GO>) helps Terminal users analyze a BloombergNEF (BNEF) produces research on industries offers a snapshot of clean energy investment in virtually a deeper level of insight for investment decisions. company’s exposure to the United Nations’ Sustainable in transition, focusing on clean energy, advanced all developing nations. BNEF also launched a number Development Goals (SDGs). Investors can view the of new reports, including the Corporate Energy In 2018, key research included reports on the rapidly transport, digital industry, innovative materials and percentage of revenue a company generates from Market Outlook, which tracks corporate clean energy expanding market for gender-themed funds and ESG commodities. BNEF insights help corporate strategy, business segments exposed to specific SDGs and see procurement globally. and sustainability ETFs. finance and policy professionals separate the reality what SDG-related ESG metrics a company discloses. from the hype, navigate change and generate opportunities. Available online, on mobile and on Extreme weather tools the Terminal, BNEF research is powered by 250 With our new Storm Map (MAP STORM <GO>), analysts in 18 locations worldwide. Terminal users can track the progress of active The ESG and sustainability ETF hurricanes, typhoons and cyclones around the globe BNEF: $332.1 billion invested in clean energy market is rapidly expanding and monitor the potential impact on energy assets. Global clean energy investment reached $332.1 billion in 2018, the fifth year in a row in which investments exceeded the $300 billion The creation of ESG and sustainability themed ETFs We also offer maps that track earthquakes (MAP mark. Investment was down 8% from 2017 levels due, in part, to a mid-year change in solar energy policy in China. accelerated in 2018, with assets reaching $41.7 billion. QUAKE <GO>), wildfires (MAP FIRE <GO>) and other $billion extreme weather like excessive snow or record-setting Number of ETFs AUM ($billion) 400 temperatures (MAP WEATHER <GO>). Investors can 250 45 search for a company and see how close its assets are 350 to predicted or actual weather. 200 36 300 250 150 27 200 100 18 150 50 9 100 50 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0 ESG and sustainably themed funds 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Assets under management ($billion) Source: BloombergNEF Note: Assets under management (AUM) include active funds tracked by Bloomberg Source: Bloomberg Intelligence 22 2018 Impact Report 23 Products News and media. We cover the critical environmental and New Voices The opinions of women executives are under-represented in the media.Bloomberg has committed itself to increasing the number of women experts and officials quoted in our Digital media 2,700 In November 2018, we enhanced our coverage of sustainable finance and leadership, expanding our weekly Sustainable Finance Brief newsletter for Bloomberg Television Bloomberg journalists & analysts Bloomberg Television is available in more than 433 million homes worldwide in over 70 countries; it streams live on Bloomberg’s digital and mobile stories and appearing on our broadcasts. In early 2018, our institutional investors into a new bloomberg.com properties, along with Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV, journalists around the world set goals for improvement and social issues that established tracking tools to ensure progress is being made. editorial hub called Good Business. The site covers the sustainable finance industry plus a broader range Android TV, Samsung TV and Roku. Bloomberg TV delivers 24 hours of continuous global business and Bloomberg is building out the definitive global database of are reshaping the women experts in business and finance and keeping track of their appearances on Bloomberg TV and Radio, in print of topics that ESG investors care about, including food safety, worker minimum wage and recycling. Good financial news, taking advantage of global reporting strengths and newsgathering assets. Bloomberg TV stories and at Bloomberg Live events. A newsroom policy Business joins our three other dedicated channels for covers global sustainability and clean energy through global economy. requires that Bloomberg journalists participate only on panels that are gender-diverse. And Bloomberg has begun offering news, interactive graphics, video and data on critical a unique lens, providing insight into and analysis of environmental and social issues that are reshaping emerging technologies, policies and trends. Our media training for women at financial firms around the world the global economy. These are Climate Changed, weekly program Bloomberg Commodities Edge to prepare them for on-camera interviews. In 2019, we plan Bloomberg Editorial & Research to expand this training from New York, London, Toronto and our award-winning editorial hub about climate science focuses on the biggest stories and trends in the Hong Kong to Sydney, Mumbai, Dubai and San Francisco. and the future of energy, Hyperdrive, our site about commodities market, including sustainability, Bloomberg Editorial & Research aims to be the the future of transportation, and Bloomberg Equality, and draws upon proprietary BNEF research. definitive chronicler of capitalism by covering which covers how companies and institutions are everything that matters in global business and finance. Bloomberg Radio We increased the number of external confronting gender, race and class. As rising temperatures have begun to impact the Bloomberg Radio can be heard on its four flagship women guests on Bloomberg TV global economy, sustainability and climate change Print media stations in Boston, New York City, San Francisco and In January 2018, women represented 12% of all external have become an essential part of our coverage. guests interviewed on Bloomberg TV. In January 2019, Bloomberg Businessweek delivers the most Washington, D.C. Bloomberg shows and short-form More than 2,700 Bloomberg journalists and analysts women represented 18% of all external guests. comprehensive global business and finance content reports are also heard on more than 300 radio stations in 120 countries deliver over 5,000 stories a day to of any magazine brand, across multiple platforms. One across the United States, including leading all-news radio Bloomberg Terminal subscribers. The Terminal features of the magazine’s most-read features in 2018 examined stations in major cities from coast to coast. In addition, regular coverage of sustainable finance and corporate the threat to Miami‘s drinking water as rising ocean levels Bloomberg Radio can be heard nationally on SiriusXM governance, with a particular focus on how companies caused by global warming pose dangers to the city’s satellite radio channel 119 and live on the Internet create (and destroy) shareholder value, company aquifer. Bloomberg Businessweek publishes an annual and the Bloomberg Radio+ mobile app. supply chains, renewable energy trends, executive “Good Business” issue. pay and diversity. Bloomberg Editorial also feeds the The Bloomberg Green Business Report explores the latest Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan publications and broadcasts produced by Bloomberg Bloomberg Markets, a bi-monthly magazine focused developments in green technology. The show profiles Media Group, our consumer-facing media division, as Number of appearances by external women guests on finance, banking, economics and investing, companies making breakthroughs in renewable energy, Trend line well as bloomberg.com and TicToc by Bloomberg. is distributed to more than 375,000 financial conservation, recycling, zero-emission transportation and professionals around the world who subscribe waste disposal. Topics range from long-life batteries to We increased the number of women Bloomberg Media Group to Bloomberg Professional Services and is also available light-emitting diodes to sustainable agriculture. In April sources in Bloomberg stories In the first quarter of 2018, women represented roughly on newsstands. The magazine provides regular 2018, Bloomberg Radio broadcasted live from the BNEF Bloomberg Media Group is a leading multi-platform 2% of sources quoted or cited in stories running on our coverage on energy, the environment and sustainability Future of Energy Summit in New York. global business and financial media company, “top news” pages. By year‘s end, they represented 9% developments as they pertain to the global financial reaching more than 80 million consumers. Powered of all sources quoted. community. The April/May 2018 issue featured a special by Bloomberg journalists and analysts, we break news, section on sustainable investing. analyze data, share perspectives and tell the stories leaders need to know. Bloomberg Media Group connects influential audiences to news, ideas and intelligence across every platform: digital, TV, radio, print and live events. Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Number of top news stories that quote women Trend line 24 2018 Impact Report SASB: SV-ME 000.A; SV-ME 000.B 25 Reference the GRI Media Sector Supplement for additonal details on this area of our business Products Beyond Bloomberg. To extend the conversations In 2018, we hosted five Sustainable Business Summits: Amsterdam, London, New York, Seattle and Toronto. Sustainable Finance Week, New York: (L to R) Seema Hingorani (Girls Who Invest), The summits drew 1,900 senior business leaders, around our sustainability investors and government officials for conversations Tony Steadman (EY), Margaret Foran (Prudential Financial) and Lauren Kiel (Bloomberg) discuss about driving innovation and scaling best practices in building an inclusive corporate environment at data, analysis and news, sustainable business and finance. In 2019, we will be hosting seven summits, expanding into South America the Global Responsible Investing Forum. we host live events with (São Paulo) and Asia (Hong Kong) for the first time. BNEF Summits changemakers around BNEF hosted four summits in 2018 around industries in transition, powered by its market-leading research. the world. The Future of Mobility Summit in Palo Alto brought industry, finance and policy leaders together to discuss electrified transport, shared mobility, autonomous vehicles and energy. Some 2,000 key decision makers Our events, which draw on the expertise of employees Sustainable Business Summit, Seattle: representing all segments of the energy sector (L to R) Al Gore (Generation Investment across our company, provide an opportunity to share attended three other BNEF Summits, held in New York, Management) and Emily Chasan (Bloomberg the power of ESG data and visionary ideas beyond London and Shanghai; livestreams from the events News) discuss making ESG and sustainable Terminal subscribers. Our data fuels discussions, reached an even wider audience. BNEF also convened finance a priority. and our journalists and sustainability experts moderate 100 CEOs and thought leaders from India’s leading oil, panels; in addition, we produce surveys, white papers gas, power, auto and tech companies for its first-ever and editorial coverage around conference themes, Executive Forum in New Delhi. BNEF will hold a full thus amplifying their impact. Summit in New Delhi in August 2019. Sustainable Finance Week Bloomberg New Economy Forum Bloomberg launched Sustainable Finance Week In November, Bloomberg Media Group held its in December 2018. Designed to accelerate the adoption inaugural New Economy Forum. Co-chaired by of sustainable finance practices, the week offered Henry Kissinger and Hank Paulson and hosted by Mike four separate events in New York City — the Global Bloomberg, the two-day forum in Singapore brought Responsible Investing Forum, presented by Nuveen; BNEF Summit, London: together 400 world leaders and global CEOs from 60 BNEF's Claire Curry (far right) moderates a panel the SASB 2018 Symposium; the RI Americas 2018 countries. Participants discussed private-sector-led on how digital technologies can transform the Conference; and IR Magazine and Corporate Secretary’s solutions to the risks, opportunities and challenges energy sector with speakers from ENEL, Energy ESG Integration Forum. More than 1,500 financial, created by a world economy in transition. More than Impact Partners, E.ON and Iberdrola. business and policy decision makers participated in 70 organizations pledged their support for ideas the week’s conversations on responsible investing, including re-skilling workers, greening supply chains, monitoring ESG exposures, decision-useful hiring refugees, creating a better market for recycled disclosures and more. plastics and a range of other creative and collaborative proposals. At the conclusion of the forum, Bloomberg Sustainable Business Summits launched the New Economy Forum SolutionsLab to Bloomberg’s Sustainable Business Summits bring lead the implementation of these initiatives. Bloomberg together C-suite executives, influential investors and Media Group hopes to build the New Economy Forum innovative thought leaders to discuss how companies New Economy Forum, Singapore: into a global institution that will advance pragmatic are using sustainability to enhance business value. (L to R) Clive Crook (Bloomberg News), Sri solutions to the world’s challenges. Mulyani Indrawati (Minister of Finance, the Republic of Indonesia), Ravi Menon (Managing Director, Monetary Authority of Singapore) and Janet Yellen (Former Chair, U.S. Federal Reserve Board) discuss managing the next financial shock. 26 2018 Impact Report 27 Case study New dimensions for The future in black climate–change analysis. and white (and color) The Bloomberg Terminal’s Created with Bloomberg’s MAPS tool, these maps helped our client, TD Bank, better assess the physical risks of climate change on some of its borrowers in the power and utility sector in North America. geospatial solutions add eye-opening geographic context to financial analysis. As markets grow more interested in the impact of As part of this project, Bloomberg collaborated with the global warming on business, we’re building out our group on using our mapping technologies to assess the collection of mapping tools to help companies, investors physical impacts of climate change on company assets and researchers better visualize climate-related risks in their portfolios. and opportunities. With our quick-create maps — Custom Map (MAP <GO>) and Company Map (CMAP For example, we helped TD Bank North America <GO>) — or our advanced mapping technology — Geo analyze 20 borrowers from TD Bank’s North American Insights (MAPS <GO>) — users can overlay financial and power and utilities portfolio under three climate environmental data sets from the Terminal, including scenarios. While we didn’t evaluate specific extreme up-to-the-minute data from the World Bank, the World events, the analysis yielded several intriguing findings Resources Institute, the U.S. Geological Survey and — including that decreases in borrower revenues were more. Layering geographic data showing current or primarily driven by incremental climate change, not projected climate change with asset locations and extreme weather events. The visual approach was also financial and production data can generate thoughtuseful for quickly pinpointing areas for further study provoking visuals that provide insights into the impact and facilitating discussions with stakeholders. of climate change against an investor’s assets, portfolio and industry. A growing number of companies are using Bloomberg’s mapping tools to help them disclose the potential impacts of climate change on their businesses, in line with recommendations from the FSB Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. In 2018, the UN Environment Finance Initiative convened Top map: The incremental impact of a 2°C scenario on annual hydroelectric power production by the 2040s. Pink indicates more a working group of 16 banks to help develop a rigorous hydropower production loss (dark pink is the most loss) and blue methodology for assessing physical risk, the risk indicates less loss (dark blue is the least loss). resulting from climate variability, extreme events Bottom map: The incremental impact of a 4°C scenario on annual and longer-term shifts in climate patterns. thermal power production by the 2040s. Lavender indicates more thermal power production loss (dark lavender is the most loss) and green indicates less loss (dark green is the least loss). Source: UNEP Finance Initiative (2018). Navigating a New Climate. 28 2018 Impact Report 29 $116 million 33 million 17% 39 in avoided operating costs since 2008 kWh of energy saved by increased data center efficiency of electricity from renewable energy sources LEED-/BREEAM-certified facilities Efficiency and resiliency Operations strategy Select 2020 goals Material issues: Energy, Emissions Decouple our growth from environmental impact in a changing world. while demonstrating the business case for sustainable operations. Reduce emissions by 20% % to target 40% from 2007 baseline. 20% Key activities: Status: 30% achieved. 2018 marketBloomberg strives to decouple company growth from Reduce our emissions based emissions were 6% lower than 0% environmental impact while increasing the efficiency our 2007 emissions. We anticipate and resiliency of our operations. Finding innovative ways We’re on target to reduce our emissions by 20% -20% the full-year impact of two largeto power our business with renewable energy, lower our by 2020 from a 2007 baseline. scale renewable energy projects in -40% emissions and reduce waste, among other efforts, has 2019 will help us achieve the 20% -60% improved operating margins, minimized risk, lessened Increase renewable energy use target reduction by 2020. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 our environmental impact and saved money. Since 2008, We’re committed to obtaining 100% of our electricity Bloomberg has avoided more than 1 million metric tonnes from renewable sources by 2025. Save/avoid $100 million in costs 100% of CO₂e emissions and avoided $116 million in operating from 2014–2020. costs. Through our efforts, Bloomberg is proving the Invest in energy-efficient buildings Status: 59% achieved. We reached $59 80% business case for sustainability. We build or renovate all new office space to meet million in cost avoidance from 2014–2018. 60% best-in-class sustainable building standards. While we have been successful realizing 40% financial savings from our operations during this period, lower energy prices (a positive 20% 2018 highlights Improve operational resilience for our overall energy purchases) have We prepare our business to withstand severe weather limited savings on certain key projects. 0% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 events and other climate-related disruptions by fortifying Energy 33 key facilities, building in-network redundancies and Increase use of direct clean helping key suppliers manage climate change. energy to 35%. 100% Facilities 36 80% Status: 49% achieved. In 2018, 17% Measure relationship between environmental of our electricity came from direct 60% Business activities 39 and economic performance clean energy. The annual impact 40% We aggressively pursue efficiency, tracking our progress of completed renewable projects Performance summary by department 41 in reducing emissions and energy consumption in our should result in approximately 45% 20% facilities, business travel, paper use, supply chain and of electricity from renewables by the 0% Beyond Bloomberg 42 waste and measuring the impact of these activities on end of 2019. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Operations our operating costs. 2020 goal See our full 2020 progress table online at Case study Achieved bloomberg.com/impact. Ten years of sustainable operations 44 Challenges Renewable energy Business travel Procuring renewable energy outside the U.S. is Our extensive news bureaus and “hub-and-spoke” complicated as countries have different markets, office model add to the challenges we face in reducing incentives and availability, and Bloomberg has lower carbon-intensive business travel. energy needs in these markets. We continue to seek feasible projects; we are currently focusing on the U.K. 31 Operations Operations Carbon emissions Energy. reductions and targets. With carbon emissions reductions to date and projected emissions reductions, we expect to Reducing our energy Emissions by activity Energy dominates Bloomberg’s emissions profile, offset growth and achieve our goal of 20 percent accounting for 55.1% of our total CO₂e emissions. absolute CO₂e emissions reduction by 2020. use is a top priority. Energy consumption: 55.1% Carbon emissions reductions from Business as Usual Bloomberg consumed 303.4 million kilowatt hours (kWh) From 2008–2013, our emissions reductions were reliant on demand-reduction initiatives, achieving energy efficiencies and infrastructure of energy in 2018 that, coupled with fuel consumption, Business upgrades in key facilities globally. Since 2014, our focus has shifted to an aggressive pursuit of renewable energy opportunities. resulted in 104,439 metric tonnes of location-based travel: 33.1% emissions (74,716 metric tonnes of market-based emissions). As a company with nearly 20,000 employees Publishing 2008—2013 reductions 2014—2020 reductions (P) operations: 9.5% located in 177 locations globally, including data centers, Demand reduction: 94.2% Demand reduction: 84.6% reducing our energy-related carbon emissions is critical to Other: 2.4% reducing our overall environmental impact. Bloomberg’s Infrastructure: 5.2% Infrastructure: 5.2% energy strategy is comprehensive, focusing on reducing Solar/wind: 0.6% Solar/wind: 9.4% total energy consumption, implementing energyOther renewables: 0% Other renewables: 0.8% efficiency projects at our facilities, building new facilities to LEED/BREEAM environmental standards and developing both onand off-site renewable energy projects. 2020 carbon emissions growth projection and reduction target Total kWh and kWh per employee The graph below compares unmitigated growth projections of CO₂e emissions (a Business as Usual scenario originating in 2007) As our company has grown and our total energy consumption has increased, our energy consumption per employee has decreased. with the impact of realized and projected emissions reductions. These reductions will allow us to reach our goal of 20% absolute emissions reduction by 2020. CO2e (metric tonnes) 23,332 23,432 400k 22,003 Business as Usual growth projection 20,276 350k 18,471 17,533 17,184 17,076 16,636 16,446 300k 16,114 Energy 43% 15,372 250k 305M 308M 299M 303M 200k 287M 2007 baseline emissions Publishing 4% 268M 150k 266M Renewables 12% Target: 20% absolute 254M 100k emissions reduction 242M 238M 232M 50k 227M 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019(P) 2020(P) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Projected Bloomberg L.P. CO2e Emissions reductions from BAU: Energy Publishing Renewables kWh/employee Total kWh 32 2018 Impact Report GRI: 305-1; 305‑2; 305‑3; 305‑4; SASB: TC-IM-130a.1 GRI: 302-1; 302-3; 302-4 33 Operations Energy. Renewable energy Renewable energy targets Path to RE100 In 2013, Bloomberg set a goal to source 35 percent of Bloomberg is a member of RE100, a global initiative of influential businesses committed to using 100% renewable electricity. Bloomberg began investigating renewable energy We have pledged to obtain 100% of our electricity from renewable sources by 2025. its electricity from renewables by 2020. To help meet projects in 2008; our first project, a 1.8MW solar this goal, Bloomberg signed the Corporate Renewable installation in New Jersey, began providing us with energy Energy Buyers’ Principles with the Renewable Energy Bloomberg renewable energy at year-end in 2012. In 2018, we obtained energy from six onand offBuyers Alliance in 2014. These principles were developed site solar and wind sites. Our newest installation, a 20MW Bloomberg renewable Projected by a group of large energy buyers to spur progress wind farm in Arkwright, New York, started providing us energy projects on renewable energy and add their perspective to the 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 with energy in October 2018. Procuring renewable energy future of the U.S. energy and electricity system. In 2016, Owned renewables MWh 0 0 38 64 60 60 222 242 245 242 242 outside the U.S. is a challenge we are addressing. Bloomberg expanded its commitment to renewable In 2018, we received 17 percent of our energy from energy by joining RE100, a global initiative of influential Power purchase agreements (PPAs) MWh 0 0 2,425 2,472 2,606 2,929 4,719 4,150 3,642 4,150 4,150 renewable sources, up from 11 percent in 2017, driven businesses committed to using 100 percent renewable primarily by the addition of the Arkwright wind farm. energy. We have pledged to obtain 100 percent of our Virtual PPAs MWh 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 17,415 34,464 135,300 135,300 Our renewable energy projects reduced our 2018 electricity from renewable sources by 2025. Other renewables MWh 0 0 0 0 0 0 4,831 11,646 12,013 12,000 12,000 operating expenses by $1.7 million. To date, our Renewable energy credits renewable projects have generated 75,579 megawatt Total project renewables MWh To supplement our use of renewable energy, Bloomberg 0 0 2,463 2,536 2,666 2,989 9,772 33,453 50,364 151,692 151,692 hours of energy and saved Bloomberg $2.8 million. purchases renewable energy credits (RECs) that represent Additional renewable energy credits (RECs) MWh 145,247 211,060 205,837 209,041 88,141 91,045 85,612 79,700 79,301 4,207 4,207 Projects under development megawatt hours of renewable-generated energy and In 2018, we laid the groundwork for a collaborative can be claimed as offsets to conventional energy use. virtual power purchase agreement (VPPA) with four While we view voluntary REC purchases as less central 17MW 20MW to our energy strategy than our demand reduction, HillTopper Arkwright Summit other companies that will allow us to obtain a relatively infrastructure investment and renewable energy sourcing Wind Project Wind Project small amount of renewable energy from a 100MW solar efforts, we believe RECs provide an opportunity to (2019) project in North Carolina. Working with renewable energy procurement firm LevelTen Energy, we formed send an important signal to the clean energy market the Corporate Renewable Energy Aggregation Group that demand for renewable energy is growing, which with Cox Enterprises, Gap Inc., Salesforce and Workday, hopefully promotes further growth. 1.5MW companies that had similar renewable energy needs. Queens Solar Project Together, we negotiated a joint 42.5 megawatt deal with the solar project’s developer, BayWa r.e., using Science-based targets our collective buying power to become the anchor 184KW Science-based targets are greenhouse-gas reduction Princeton Maintenance tenant. We closed the deal in January 2019. targets that align with efforts to limit global warming Building Solar Project to less than 2° Celsius above pre-industrial levels. In In December 2017, we signed a 15-year power purchase 2018, Bloomberg submitted its commitment to the 1.8MW agreement (PPA) to buy energy from a 17MW portion of Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), a collaboration 41KW Princeton Solar the HillTopper wind farm, a new facility in Illinois operated between CDP, the United Nations Global Compact, San Francisco Project by Enel Green Power North America. The wind farm was World Resources Institute and the World Wide Fund for Solar Project built in 2018; our contract began on January 1, 2019. 5MW Nature. We expect to submit our emissions-reduction 5MW North Carolina We continue to aggressively pursue renewable energy targets to SBTi for validation in 2019, allowing us to Hidalgo Wind Project Solar Project (2020) opportunities where they make sense — environmentally, more formally contribute to our industry’s climateoperationally and economically. change mitigation efforts. Our commitment to science-based targets will also expand our access to technical assistance and peer knowledge on resource Internal goal: RE100 goal: 17% 35% 100% management and energy sourcing. RE100 Began investigating First projects commitment renewable energy projects completed announced renewable energy renewable energy renewable energy 35 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Operations Facilities. We push beyond Landlord/tenant partnerships are key to reducing emissions in cities where office towers consume a LEED and BREEAM office space 75% of Bloomberg employees sit in environmentally certified office space. significant amount of energy. We partnered with Vornado conventional ideas to Realty Trust, the landlord of our global headquarters in New York City, to earn our LEED O+M certification. minimize the impact We also worked with Vornado to earn the highest level 19,347 19,974 of Fitwel certification for the building, signifying that it 18,794 18,310 of our buildings and supports employee health, safety and well-being. 17,276 In total, we have attained LEED Platinum (the highest data centers. level) for 17 projects, LEED Gold (second highest level) 15,264 15,611 15,653 75% for 21 projects and an “Outstanding” BREEAM rating for our European headquarters in London. By the end 12,689 of 2018, Bloomberg had 39 environmentally certified 64% Facilities account for a large percentage of Bloomberg’s 10,990 CO₂e emissions, so they are a prime focus of our projects on six continents, with six more in progress. 10,317 environmental efforts. Facilities management is also Our project-based reduction efforts for buildings an area in which we have had significant success. and technology have resulted in savings/avoidance Buildings of almost 340 million kWh of energy since 2008, 32% with cost savings of $59 million. 29% In 2018, Bloomberg occupied 174 non-data-center 27% 28% 26% locations globally, representing 4.5 million square feet, which consumed 142 million kWh of energy and 9% generated 55,412 metric tonnes of location-based CO₂e. Our European headquarters 5% 2% 3% Bloomberg invests in environmentally certified office Our European headquarters in London is a spaces to ensure we are limiting the environmental showcase for sustainable technologies and 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 impact of both construction and occupancy. forward-looking design. Opened in late 2017, the % of employees in environmentally certified space Total headcount (includes Bloomberg L.P. and BBNA) Components of this process include: building minimizes its impact on the environment through innovative features like natural ventilation, • incorporating sustainability considerations into our a ceiling with petal-shaped tiles that regulate heat search criteria when seeking new office space and light and an on-site power generation center. Data centers To evaluate our data centers, we created the Bloomberg • ensuring that all new office developments, Due to its design, the building uses 73 percent less Average Data Center Efficiency (BADE) analysis tool. water and 35 percent less energy than a typical Our data centers handle the large volume of data and refurbishments and expansions are certified or built to This tool compiles data on a number of information office building of its size. In 2018, the building won analytics we provide to more than 325,000 customers Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) technology-related metrics, including memory, several awards, most notably the Royal Institute of through Bloomberg Professional Services. These or Building Research Establishment Environmental processor speed and disk utilization, as well as building British Architects (RIBA) Stirling Prize, given to the centers are critical assets and require significant Assessment Method (BREEAM) standards power usage, to determine a monthly efficiency score. U.K.’s best new building, and the British Council for amounts of energy to function. While our objective is to In 2018, we received four new LEED Gold certifications, Offices’ Corporate Workplace of the Year award. minimize our energy usage, we cannot compromise the Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) is a measure of for projects in Arlington, Virginia, and New York City. quality of data stored, Terminal functionality, complexity how efficiently a data center uses energy, specifically One of these was our first LEED Building Operations In 2017, sustainability ratings agency BRE Global of routinely performed calculations or uninterrupted the ratio of energy used by the facility to the energy and Maintenance (LEED O+M) certification for existing awarded the building a BREEAM score of 98.5 service to our customers. delivered to the computer equipment. (Lower PUE is buildings at our global headquarters in New York percent, the highest design-stage score ever better.) We have been steadily reducing our PUE since achieved by a major office development; in 2018, In 2014, we built our Leadership in Energy and City. LEED O+M certification recognizes efficient 2010, when we started measuring it. Bloomberg’s PUE the building earned a final, post-construction Environmental Design (LEED) New Construction data and optimum use of energy and water resources, has improved 18.3 percent since 2010, which translated BREEAM score of 99.1 percent. center in upstate New York to LEED v4 specifications. purchase of environmentally preferred products and into approximately 33 million kWh of energy savings This data center is 24 percent more efficient than the food, waste stream management and ongoing indoor in 2018. This amounts to $2.7 million in savings in Bloomberg facility it replaced. environmental quality. operating expenses versus our 2010 baseline. 36 2018 Impact Report SASB: TC-IM-130a.3 37 Operations Operations Facilities. Business activities. Water Waste We seize opportunities Bloomberg is always looking for opportunities to Aggressive recycling, waste-to-energy utilization in New reduce water consumption in our facilities. We used an estimated 126 million gallons of water in 2018, largely York City and London and composting programs in key offices globally have driven our waste-reduction and in every area of our driven by our employees and building operations. waste-diversion success. In 2018, Bloomberg diverted 81 percent of total waste away from landfills; we are targeting operations to reduce Our growing number of LEEDand BREEAM-certified 90 percent diversion by 2020. Our waste sent to landfills buildings has allowed us to implement water-reduction measures throughout the majority of our key locations resulted in 1,450 metric tonnes of CO₂e, a 16 percent our carbon footprint. decrease over the prior year. On a per-employee basis, globally. Among the innovations we use in our buildings: this represents an 18.5 percent decrease versus 2017 • Our data center in upstate New York has a rainwater and a 71.3 percent reduction from 2007. We continue to Business travel capture system that utilizes rainwater in its HVAC system, educate our employees and build awareness surrounding our waste-reduction efforts globally. Business travel represents 33.1 percent of Bloomberg’s We actively seek opportunities to reduce the saving more than 5 million gallons of water annually. total emissions. It’s our biggest challenge for mitigation environmental impact of our business travel. Two • Our new European headquarters employs a variety of Bloomberg’s broad recycling program is a critical as we are a sales-driven organization with a high-touch promising initiatives we are currently exploring: water-saving features. The building collects, treats and component of our waste-diversion strategy. In 2018, approach that requires us to be in front of our customers. • partnering with car-service companies with a high reuses rainwater from its roof and from cooling systems we recycled 3,142 metric tonnes of waste, mostly paper, As our employee headcount has grown in recent years, percentage of hybrid or electric vehicles and gray water from sinks, saving almost 7 million gallons e-waste and cardboard. overall miles traveled have increased accordingly. of water per year. Its airline-style vacuum toilets use 75% • global carbon-offset projects to use against less water than typical toilets. In 2018, employees traveled almost 214 million miles. ongoing travel emissions • Low-flow fixtures installed in our 39 LEED/BREEAM Employee business travel generated 62,725 metric offices worldwide provide a projected 37 percent tonnes of carbon, a 9.4 percent increase over 2017 reduction in water usage over traditional fixtures. With and a 146 percent increase from 2007 levels. 75 percent of our employees working in LEED-/BREEAMcertified office space, this equates to an annual water savings of more than 5 million gallons. Bloomberg business travel Travel miles by mode Miles traveled and CO2e emissions by year In 2018, our employees traveled the most miles by air. Metric tonnes/ Miles (million) Year Miles CO2e full-time employee 225 2018 213,651,581 62,725 3.18 Waste by type 200 1.6% We’ve dramatically reduced our per-employee waste sent to landfills over the past 2017 190,101,748 57,309 3.00 6.0% decade as we’ve increased recycling, composting and waste-to-energy programs. 175 92.5% 2016 174,073,931 51,971 2.80 150 2008 2018 2015 188,722,901 55,489 3.08 125 Landfill waste: 48% Landfill waste: 19% 2014 153,383,876 45,151 2.76 100 Recycling: 51% Recycling: 45% 2013 143,588,688 42,757 2.73 75 Compost: 1% Compost: 25% 2012 128,650,352 35,063 2.26 50 Waste-to-energy: 0% Waste-to-energy: 11% 2011 122,272,565 37,973 2.76 25 2010 113,077,208 38,289 3.21 0 2018 Car miles Rail miles Air miles 38 2018 Impact Report GRI: 303-1; 303‑2; 303‑3; 303‑4; 303‑5; 306‑1; 306‑2 SASB: TC-IM-130a.2 39 Operations Operations Business activities. Performance summary by department. Publishing operations Internal paper Percentage reduction in CO₂e 44% CO2e 1,003,263 MT $116 million emissions and emissions intensity by Intensity Avoided CO2e Cumulative net In 2018, we published two magazines — Bloomberg We track our internal consumption of paper — paper focus area (2018 vs. 2007 baseline) with reduction from business as avoided costs* Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets — consuming used in our offices and at our in-house print facilities cumulative cost avoidance since 2008 usual (2008–2018) more than 11 million pounds of paper and distributing in New Jersey, London and Hong Kong — separately *Net avoided costs include additional cost avoidance of $19.6 million and 32 million copies of our magazines globally. Publishing from the paper we use in publishing. Internal Absolute Intensity Cost avoidance expenses of $19.1 million not represented below. operations generated 17,932 metric tonnes of CO₂e, or paper consumption represents only 0.3 percent of 9.5 percent of total company emissions. This represents Bloomberg’s carbon emissions, but is still an area of a 4.4 percent reduction in emissions versus 2017 opportunity to mitigate our environmental impact. -11% due to a number of strategies we use to reduce the Globally, 77 percent of office paper is FSC-certified, Facilities: offices $22.8 million -50% environmental impacts of our publishing operations. with an average recycled content of 72 percent. Office These include: paper consumption has seen a 63.6 percent per-4% headcount decrease, and overall internal paper usage Information systems $26.6 million • FSC certification: Bloomberg has been using Forest -49% is down 26 percent since 2007. Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper since 2009. -27% • Efficient printing: We’ve introduced processes to limit Supply chain Facilities: data centers $11.2 million -76% paper waste during production. Our Supplier Code of Conduct and Sustainable • Strategic publishing: In 2018, Bloomberg Businessweek Operating Guidelines ensure that we source goods and 27% Engineering systems $0 printed 45 issues instead of 47 and reduced its average services from vendors who operate in a responsible and -57% issue print run by 7.8 percent. Bloomberg Businessweek sustainable manner. Bloomberg is committed to working and Bloomberg Markets are eliminating printing and with our vendors to: -1% Networks $0 -32% distribution of unnecessary copies. • operate an efficient and sustainable supply chain that • Regional printing and distribution: We’re shortening supports corporate responsibility, creating long-term -22% Broadcast $592,000 transportation distances with regional printing value and mitigating risk -22% and distribution. • develop sourcing solutions aligned with regulatory and Employee 145% • Digital publishing: We encourage subscribers to move stakeholder needs and expectations $32.4 million business travel 21% to digital subscriptions. • prohibit child, convict/prison and slave labor while ensuring that Bloomberg and our vendors abide by -55% Bloomberg Businessweek $3.3 million globally recognized, UN-mandated human rights policies -24% Global paper usage Product transportation Bloomberg Businessweek accounts for the overwhelming majority -72% Bloomberg Markets $11.4 million -77% of our company’s paper usage and associated emissions. We ship B-Units, flat panels, keyboards, PCs and other products to customers globally, and our internal print 2% shop distributes products internally. In 2018, we sent Bloomberg Ink $498,000 -19% Office paper: 2.1% and received almost 680,000 shipments. Our nonpublishing logistics activity generated 2,509 metric Bloomberg Ink: 2.9% -36% tonnes of CO₂e, about the same amount as in 2017. Asset management $7.1 million -60% BBNA publishing: 4.1% Approximately 93 percent of shipments were sent via Bloomberg ground or sea. We have five major distribution centers, -92% in New York, Brazil, London, Singapore and Tokyo, and Pantry $0 Markets: 12.2% -96% more than 300 stocking locations globally to provide Bloomberg best-in-class customer service. -32% Businessweek: 78.7% $0 Waste -66% 125% 100% 75% 50% 25% 0 -25% -50% -75% -100% 40 2018 Impact Report GRI: 102-9; 102‑11; 301‑3; G4-EN1; Sector Disclosure: 301-1; 306-2 41 Operations Beyond Bloomberg. No company can Bloomberg, one of the first commercial office participants, has committed to cut GHG emissions in half at its New York City locations by 2025. Twentysolve climate-change six companies have pledged to improve the energy efficiency of their office space in New York as part of issues alone. the Carbon Challenge. Step Up Declaration We seek out and support collaborative efforts with At the 2018 Global Climate Action Summit, Bloomberg Mike Bloomberg at the Global Climate business and civic partners and industry groups to joined 20 technology companies in signing the Step Up Action Summit in San Francisco mainstream sustainable operations and encourage Declaration, a tech sector pledge to use the power of renewable energy adoption. Through these technology to accelerate climate action. Bloomberg’s collaborations, we promote business practices that can specific Step Up commitments include verifying that reduce global warming and empower one another to our emissions-reduction commitments reflect sciencepursue more ambitious carbon emissions reduction based requirements, committing to and integrating goals. Here’s a sampling of some of the partnerships science-based targets and ensuring that 85 percent of that helped us share ideas and boost sustainable our employees will occupy environmentally certified business activity in 2018. space by 2020. RE100 Our founder’s personal activism inspires us and connects us to the world’s leading climate-change Bloomberg is a member of RE100, a collaborative group thinkers. In 2018, Mike Bloomberg: of global companies that have committed to using 100 percent renewable power. The group is managed by • served as the UN Secretary-General’s Special Envoy The Climate Group, in partnership with the CDP, as part for Climate Action Photo: Nick Midwig of the We Mean Business coalition. Of the 161 companies • chaired the Climate Finance Leadership Initiative, that have joined RE100 as of year-end, 114 are Bloomberg an effort to accelerate private investment in renewable business partners. energy and climate-resilience projects ahead of the Scene from Paris to Pittsburgh The Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance (REBA) UN Climate Summit 2019 REBA helps large energy buyers like corporations, cities • chaired the TCFD and SASB and public institutions navigate the journey to powering • co-chaired the board of the Global Covenant of Mayors their operations with renewable energy. Bloomberg was for Climate & Energy, the largest global coalition of cities an original signatory of the Renewable Energy Buyers’ committed to climate issues, with European Commission Principles and actively works with the Rocky Mountain Vice-President Maroš Šefčovič Institute’s Business Renewables Center on its mission to • launched Bloomberg Philanthropies’ American Cities help streamline and accelerate corporate purchase of Climate Challenge, a $70 million program to help 25 cities off-site, large-scale wind and solar energy. meet or beat their near-term carbon-reduction goals NYC Carbon Challenge • expanded Bloomberg Philanthropies’ Vibrant To combat climate change and help meet Paris Climate Oceans Initiative to protect marine environments Agreement goals, New York City has committed to in ten countries reducing its global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions • produced Paris to Pittsburgh, a documentary film by 80 percent from 2005 levels by 2050. To achieve this showcasing American communities’ climate solutions target, the city has asked local colleges, hospitals and companies to reduce emissions and is sharing ideas and Mike Bloomberg and UN tracking progress through the NYC Carbon Challenge. Secretary-General António Guterres 42 2018 Impact Report 43 Case study Ten years of A decade of innovation sustainable operations. at a glance. Walk into any Bloomberg office worldwide, and sustainable innovations are everywhere. Our coffee cups are compostable. Lights and screens In the decade since, our sustainability initiative has shut down when not in use. Our printers default to transformed our culture, making our company more double-sided printing, and most office paper has efficient and resilient — and avoiding $116 million in recycled content. But just ten years ago, we looked operating costs. This transformation didn’t happen very different. Plastic water bottles were stacked in overnight, but is the result of a deliberate and our office pantries. The lights in our office buildings methodical effort that started simply and has grown burned all night long. more sophisticated as we’ve accumulated more expertise and data. Our sustainability initiative officially launched in 2008. Bloomberg’s sustainability department began Today, as our global demand-reduction and by identifying opportunities across the company for infrastructure improvement efforts get closer to mitigating our environmental impact. We tackled the peak efficiency, we are shifting focus to increasing low-hanging fruit first — shutting off the lights during our investment in renewable energy and sharing our non-working hours, starting a composting program experiences to encourage other companies to adopt and removing those plastic water bottles from pantries sustainable practices. around the world. This allowed us to start reducing emissions immediately while we planned for more complex infrastructure projects and established the partnerships needed to negotiate renewable energy contracts. It also helped generate buy-in throughout the company for lessening our environmental impact — especially as the firm began realizing tangible financial benefits alongside the environmental reductions of our efforts. Demand reduction Infrastructure investments Facilities Renewable energy 44 2018 Impact Report 161,798 6,392 94% 47.5 hours of volunteer service employees engaged with employee resource groups completion rate for our U.S. wellness incentive program hours of training per employee Global reach. People strategy Select 2020 goals Material issue: Employee engagement/Diversity & inclusion Engage our employees in addressing social and Local impact. environmental issues that are relevant to the business and the communities in which we work. Increase engagement of the global % to target 100% employee population across all Key activities: employee programs and initiatives 80% To shape the future and drive breakthrough to 90% of employees. 60% performance, we rely on creative, collaborative Invest in our employees Status: Achieved. 92% of our employees with diverse experiences and a global Bloomberg invests in talent development and offers employees engage with our diversity, 40% outlook. We inspire our workforce by providing comprehensive benefits to ensure the health, philanthropy, sustainable business 20% opportunities to make a difference and by well-being and financial security of our employees and/or wellness programs. 0 supporting their personal growth. and their families. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Embrace diversity and inclusion Extend reach of employee100% 2018 highlights We’re building a culture that values difference, engagement initiatives to fosters inclusion and promotes collaboration Bloomberg families, increasing 80% to drive business results. engagement of spouses & 60% dependents by 50%. Philanthropy and engagement 48 40% Give back to our communities Status: Achieved. More than 2,800 Diversity and inclusion 50 We focus our philanthropic efforts in four key areas friends and family attended at least 20% where we believe we can achieve the greatest good — one Bloomberg event in 2018, a 60% 0 increase in participation since 2013. Talent development and benefits 52 arts & culture, education, human services and 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 the environment. Complete 50 skills-based Beyond Bloomberg 53 100% service projects. 80% Status: Achieved. We‘ve Case study completed 50 projects since 60% 2013. Our volunteering strategy 40% has evolved to incorporate more Cracking the code 54 skills-based projects over time. 20% 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 People 2020 goal See our full 2020 progress table online at Achieved bloomberg.com/impact. Challenges Gender balance Data collection Thirty-two percent of our employees are women. We In many jurisdictions globally, employees are not are determined to achieve greater gender balance required to provide information about their gender, in our workforce, and we have launched a variety race and ethnicity, LGBT+ status or other elements of external and internal initiatives to hire, retain and of diversity. Therefore, we do not have a complete advance more female talent. picture of diversity at Bloomberg. We are working to improve the response rate on diversity surveys. 47 People Philanthropy and engagement. Bloomberg’s Philanthropy Environment Enhancing green spaces Arts & Culture Investing in public art In 2018, Bloomberg’s mentor network featured more than 3,650 employees in more than 41 cities around the world. Our employees also provide business and Engagement program More than 2,000 employees supported local greening efforts in 33 cities around the world in 2018. In Sydney, We believe artists have the potential to serve as civic leaders, drawing attention to and encouraging dialogue coaching and strategy development for entrepreneurs and small businesses in the U.S. and U.K. through nearly 80 employees contributed almost 200 volunteer around pressing problems. In 2018, Bloomberg focuses on four key areas: hours to the Royal Botanic Garden’s Community Philanthropies’ support for public art extended to our partnerships with Teach First, the Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses Program and Echoing Green. Greening Project. Bloomberg employees joined senior some of the most visited installations around the world, Arts & Culture, Education, citizens in mulching and weeding in local gardens, including: The London Mastaba in Hyde Park’s Serpentine Expanding employment opportunities helping to decrease social isolation while improving Lake by artists Christo and Jeanne-Claude, featured on the Bloomberg, in partnership with the Fortune Society, Human Services and accessibility to green spaces. In London, Bloomberg volunteers helped maintain Buckhill Meadow with the Bloomberg Philanthropies Mobile Tours at the Serpentine Galleries; Narcissus Garden by Yayoi Kusama, presented has created a successful career-readiness program designed to provide a path to full-time, sustainable Royal Parks Foundation and planted 3,000 trees as part by MoMA PS1 at Rockaway!, in New York City; the 33rd the Environment. of the London Mayor’s National Tree Week efforts. Bienal de São Paulo in Brazil; and NICK CAVE: UNTIL employment for justice-involved job-seekers. In 2016, we launched the Fortune Fellowship at Bloomberg, In New York City, employees helped Governors Island at Carriageworks in Sydney. In December, artist Olafur a program that provides hands-on work experience with a number of major green infrastructure projects. Eliasson and geologist Minik Rosing installed melting in our Operations division, including IT, finance Our philanthropic programs at Bloomberg allow blocks of glacial ice outside of our European headquarters administration, facilities/hospitality and events, and employees, clients, partner nonprofits, as well as Human Services in London and on Bankside outside Tate Modern. The with our food service vendor Sodexo. During 16 weeks our friends and families, to come together to inspire artwork, entitled Ice Watch, was intended to convey the Providing legal assistance of paid, full-time work, fellows build their job skills, the next generation, develop our talent, protect the urgency of tackling climate change and inspire the public In 2018, Bloomberg’s New York City-based legal team professional network and confidence. Bloomberg environment and serve the communities in which to take action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. provided more than 3,500 hours of free legal expertise employees help fellows acclimatize to the corporate we operate. Our mission is to harness and invest the We also welcomed nearly 130,000 visitors to London to underserved communities. About one-third of those environment and teach workshops on communications skills and resources of our employees and our business Mithraeum Bloomberg SPACE, a museum at Bloomberg’s hours were spent on immigration-related work, with styles, personal branding and interviewing. We now to support local communities where we live and work European headquarters that features a reconstruction of employees supporting CUNY Citizenship Now and the offer a dozen fellowships each year. Since we launched and create a sustainable impact that we can continue the Roman Temple of Mithras. Immigrant Justice Project. Our legal volunteers won our fellowship program, 86 percent of its graduates to grow throughout the year. In 2018, more than 12,000 asylum for an LGBT client, helped eight low-income have moved on to full-time employment. employees in 88 cities around the world contributed Education domestic violence survivors gain legal status and 161,798 hours of service. Volunteer hours have almost assisted hundreds of individuals applying for Deferred Supporting students and entrepreneurs doubled since 2014. Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and naturalization Bloomberg Startup, our global education, engagement in the U.S. Our employees also helped more than a and mentoring program, offers a wide range of activities dozen transgender individuals with legal name-change designed and led by our employees in collaboration petitions and assisted military veterans and microwith nonprofit partners. Bloomberg volunteers teach entrepreneurs at legal clinics. We are now launching Startup workshops for students in coding and Java, new programs to expand our legal pro bono efforts business journalism, project management and robotics, outside the U.S. among other areas. GRI: 431-1 161,798 1,554 15,199 3,696 12,345 79,523 52 88 Volunteer Hours Nonprofit Partners Trees / Plants Planted Potential Lives Saved Unique Volunteers Individuals and Countries and Regions Cities Engaged Through Blood Donation Families Served 3,500 $626,943 15,692 20,000 2,822 271 3,650 19,508 Hours of Pro Bono Disaster Relief KM Run / Biked / Walked Students Served Friends and Family Arts and Cultural Employee Mentors Articles of Clothing Legal Services Funds Raised for Charity Volunteers Memberships Collected for Charity 948,245 38,312 906 10,612 17,370 1,736 2,466 Meals Served / Care Packages Hours of Pro Bono Arts Club Client Members Hours Spent on Animals Cared For Bikes Built Prepared Assembled Coaching for Small Environmental Stewardship for Children Businesses in Local Communities People Diversity and inclusion. Our Diversity & Inclusion Building an inclusive culture Bloomberg Communities Investing in diverse talent Accelerating careers Driving business innovation Chairman’s Challenge initiatives drive business We offer eight employee-run networks, called Bloomberg Communities, structured around different dimensions of We are focused on building strong, diverse teams in which employees feel valued and engaged. Bloomberg In July 2017, Bloomberg Chairman Peter Grauer announced the Chairman’s Challenge, a 12-month diversity, while leaving room to explore interconnected partners with strategic diversity organizations globally to competition designed to elevate diversity and inclusion results by developing identities. Employees across all businesses can join our broaden and strengthen our talent pipeline at all levels. efforts across the company. Bloomberg business units Abilities Community; Black Professional Community; launched dozens of initiatives to increase diversity and a work culture where Latino Community; LGBT and Ally Community; Military We offer a variety of global, regional and departmental development programs to help employees expand inclusion, including a returners program for women and Veterans Community; Pan-Asian Community; who’ve taken a career break, various efforts to increase their skills, build their networks, gain exposure, innovation can thrive. Women’s Community; and Working Families Community. Each Community develops a business plan for the receive feedback and position themselves for diversity in hiring and projects to enhance the physical accessibility of our offices. year to show how it will support goals in five key continued career growth. areas: commercial impact, recruiting, marketing In October 2018, we announced the Chairman’s Our programs encourage all employees to bring their Our programs for female employees include access to Challenge winners, recognizing the initiatives that and communications, leadership development and diverse, global experiences to work and seek out Landit, a digital platform that provides individualized were the most impactful, innovative and collaborative. community engagement in partnership with Philanthropy different perspectives. We work across regions to ensure networking and career coaching; Fast Forward, a forum Winners included Analytics, which increased the & Engagement. Community members visit colleges to we are addressing local priorities and are consistent with for senior women to help elevate their performance diversity of its external hires in the U.S. by sourcing help recruit students, plan events like all-women panels local cultures. We focus on education, recruiting diverse across the company; and the Women’s Leadership talent from more schools and improving its internship at client-facing conferences and provide a safe space for talent, delivering business value and leveraging partners Program, a four-day workshop designed to enhance program; Technical Operations, which led the way conversation, among other activities. Communities are a and research to drive our mission. the existing skill sets of female employees in Europe in establishing diverse slates of job candidates and key part of our diversity and inclusion strategy because and the Middle East so they can become experts supporting internal mobility; Editorial & Research and they give employees the opportunity to solve problems, We promote an inclusive culture in a number of in particular areas, develop new projects or pursue Media, for their “Business of Equality” franchise and New innovate and develop and showcase their leadership ways. Employees can participate in various initiatives, leadership roles. In 2018, we launched a similar fourVoices initiative; Global Data, which launched a returners skills regardless of seniority or managerial status. In 2018, including mentoring programs and 300 employee day career accelerator program for black and Asian program and roundtable discussions about diversity Community membership grew to over 6,000 employees events per year that facilitate dialogue and share employees in Europe and the Middle East, featuring and inclusion; and Legal, which sponsored events in 99 offices. research and thought leadership broadly. To infuse diagnostic tools, group exercises and reflective learning. with all eight Bloomberg Communities and assisted diversity and inclusion principles and behaviors into Workplace mental health immigrants and veterans through pro bono projects. all company processes, Bloomberg has incorporated Bloomberg deepened its commitment to creating a diversity and inclusion objectives into the performance mentally healthy workplace in 2018, prompted by the evaluations of all our managers. Stevenson/Farmer Review, a landmark U.K. government study of how employers can better support mental health. Our European headquarters in London led the way, holding events during World Mental Health Day and Mental Health Awareness Week, hosting a series of workshops by U.K. mental health organization Mind Global gender ratio U.S. ethnicity ratio on understanding symptoms and providing support. In addition, we trained 15 London employees to serve as Mental Health First Aiders who can offer colleagues Male: 68.2% White: 53.4% guidance on mental health resources. In October, Bloomberg signed the Time to Change Employer Hispanic: 6.2% Female: 31.8% Pledge, joining other companies in a U.K.-wide initiative Not assigned: 1.3% to erase the stigma around mental health issues and challenges. In 2019, we plan to extend our mental health Other: 2.5% awareness conversations globally as we strive to create an Black: 3.8% environment where colleagues can successfully deal with Asian: 32.8% mental health challenges while continuing to contribute in their roles. 50 2018 Impact Report GRI: 405-1 SASB: TC-IM-330a.1 — a.3; SV-PS-330a.1 51 People People Talent development Beyond Bloomberg. and benefits. Our employees help us Local Leadership Accelerator In 2018, we launched an initiative to equip local There’s strength managers in the Asia Pacific region with the skills they shape the future, enabling need to move into senior roles at Bloomberg. Twentyin numbers. one employees from seven offices participated in our us to enter new markets, first Local Leadership Accelerator, a yearlong program of activities designed to broaden their education and We amplify our impact by empowering our employees to launch new ventures and raise their profile at the company, including networking with senior leaders, team-based business simulations connect and collaborate with peers outside our company who are working on solving sustainability challenges. and leadership coaching. Of the first group of push boundaries. Taking participants, seven have already been promoted Here are some of the ways our employees expanded their reach in 2018. and five have made cross-business lateral moves care of our people allows or expanded their responsibilities. Bloomberg Equality Summit In May 2018, we held our first-ever Bloomberg Equality us to thrive as a company. Benefits Summit, bringing 400 business, academic and political leaders, nonprofit workers and activists to our global Bloomberg provides a comprehensive suite of programs designed to improve the health and wellheadquarters in New York City for a day of discussions being of employees and their dependents, reduce about equality, one of the most important ethical issues Leadership and talent development health risks and manage work and family demands. facing companies today. In 2019, the Summit returned U.S. employees who complete an online course about to New York City in March and will expand to London We offer learning and development opportunities health, wellness and our health plan offerings receive a and Mumbai. to help employees perform at their best and enjoy fulfilling careers. Our efforts focus on providing onwaiver of their annual health care premiums; 94 percent Data for Good Exchange the-job learning, coaching/mentoring and formal skillof U.S. employees completed the program in 2018. Data for Good Exchange (D4GX), an annual one-day building with online and classroom events. We also offer Bloomberg supports employees’ work/family needs event created by Bloomberg’s CTO Office, brings tuition reimbursement for pre-approved courses and across all major life events. We offer programs and data scientists and government and nonprofit officials certifications to help full-time employees grow in their resources to assist with fertility, adoption, lactation, together to explore using data to solve social problems. roles and beyond. parenting, child care, education and adult/elder care. Our 2018 conference drew more than 500 participants (Programs vary by location.) In addition, all major who shared machine-learning and data science Bloomberg invests in developing leaders. In addition Bloomberg offices have private and secure lactation methods and puzzled out real-world problems like to offering training programs for new and experienced rooms and, in some locations, quiet rooms. helping U.S. residents better understand and respond managers, we provide a three-month coaching to the 2020 U.S. Census. experience to help newly promoted leaders transition from managing a single team to managing multiple In most of our global locations, we provide discounts for gym memberships, weight loss programs and Financial journalism training teams. Our six-month Build the Future program prepares other fitness-related activities and subsidies for Bloomberg supports a range of financial journalism high-performing mid-level managers to take on bigger Bloomberg sports teams and leagues to encourage training programs designed to strengthen reporting and more critical roles in the company through digital physical activity and friendly competition outside of on financial markets and global economies around courses, individual and group projects, coaching and the office. We offer seasonal community-supported the world. Bloomberg Media Initiative Africa (BMIA) a three-day seminar. Some 255 managers globally have agriculture (CSA) programs in four offices; these has trained 568 journalists and mid-level professionals completed the program since we introduced it three CSAs support local farms and promote healthy eating from 13 African countries through its six-month financial years ago, broadening their skills and internal networks. habits. In locations where we have a larger footprint, journalism training course, taught by Bloomberg we maintain on-site wellness services, including four reporters and editors, since 2014. health centers in the U.S. and London and wellness coaches in New York City and New Jersey. Top to bottom: Bloomberg Equality Summit, New York Data for Good Exchange, New York BMIA workshop, Nairobi 52 2018 Impact Report GRI: 401-2; 404-1; 404-2; 404-3 53 Case study Recruiting ecosystem Cracking the code. Pipeline Recruiting • Bloomberg supports organizations that help • We target our entry-level engineering recruiting increase women’s participation in STEM and efforts at colleges that have achieved or are focused finance fields, providing access to technology on attaining gender parity in their STEM classes and and exposing students to various career options majors, including Cornell University, Harvey Mudd through Bloomberg Startup. Female engineers from College and MIT. Our strategy to increase the Bloomberg talk to students about technology careers and teach technology skills at events organized by partners like Code 2040, FIRST Robotics and the • We send recruiters and technical speakers to major women-in-technology conferences around the world, including the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women number of women engineers National Center for Women in Technology. in Computing, womenENcourage and the Women • Women engineers at Bloomberg also design in Technology World Series. We make it possible for their own local initiatives to inspire interest in STEM more female students to attend the Grace Hopper subjects and careers. In 2018, BWIT members in New Celebration by sponsoring a number of travel grants at Bloomberg relies on multiple York City developed and led a series of hands-on engineering workshops for middle-school girls in to the conference each year. • We actively recruit women engineers with nonafter-school programs; female engineers in Princeton traditional backgrounds, seeking future employees components working together. organized drop-in code classes for girls at the at programs like the Fullstack Academy bootcamps Princeton Public Library. and the Grace Hopper Program. We also recruit women engineers with non-traditional career paths, partnering with iRelaunch to host events for women returning to technology jobs after a break. To create products that serve increasingly diverse But we know that’s not enough. In recent years, we’ve customers and solve a wider range of social problems, adopted a system-wide approach to increasing the technology companies need women engineers. number of women in technical roles, taking steps However, only 25 percent of math and computer science to remove barriers to advancement both inside our Training Leadership & talent development jobs in the United States are filled by women.1 Part of organization and beyond Bloomberg by supporting We’ve expanded diversity training for our • Our global Women in Engineering Leadership the problem is that not enough women are studying female talent from middle school through mid-career. engineering workforce to ensure that all technical Development (WELD) program provides mentorship, technology — only 18 percent of U.S. undergraduate Our formal efforts are enhanced by Bloomberg employees, especially managers, understand the sponsorship and networking for all female team leads computer science degrees go to women.2 But women Women in Technology (BWIT), an employee-led global value of diverse teams and barriers to inclusion. in Engineering. Participants gain visibility with senior also leave science, engineering and technology roles at community of 1,000 members focused on learning, In 2018, courses included Unconscious Bias leaders through monthly small-group meetings with higher rates than men. One-third of women in the U.S. leadership and networking. (understanding unconscious prejudice), Bias department heads. and China quit these jobs mid-career due to factors like Interrupter (identifying simple actions that can • Women engineers can take advantage of social isolation, a lack of access to creative technical While the number of women in technical jobs at help correct bias in business systems like hiring Bloomberg’s culture of continuous learning and roles and difficulty advancing to leadership positions.3 Bloomberg is growing, we’re still far from where we and compensation), Conscious Decision Making sharpen their technical skills through open courses want to be. But we’re committed to completing all (preventing bias from creeping into decision making) developed by Bloomberg, on-site training sessions At Bloomberg, we’ve established a company culture the steps needed to solve the equation. and Inclusive Leadership (developing empathy, and business hackathons held throughout the year. that supports gender equality. It’s a priority for our appreciation and strategies for inclusion). In 2018, BWIT engineers in London taught several senior leaders, who hold our businesses accountable Python courses for female Bloomberg employees by reviewing their diversity and inclusion business plans from across the company, inspiring four women from regularly. We also offer family leave benefits designed other divisions to move into Engineering. to make it possible for all employees to balance family and career responsibilities. Community Allies To strengthen the network for women engineers at In 2018, BWIT piloted an ally program in New York to Bloomberg, BWIT global chapters organize more than develop and empower male advocates for women 150 events, mentoring sessions and meet-ups a year. in technical roles. Female engineers hosted a series Highlights include the BWIT Annual Summit, a day of events for male employees to share strategies for of panel discussions and workshops for Bloomberg supporting female engineers. We plan to expand this 1. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics women in technology and the Princeton office Tech program to other cities in 2019. 2. U.S. Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics Expo, an opportunity for female engineers to present 3. Center for Talent Innovation work, gain exposure and form partnerships with other Bloomberg teams. 54 2018 Impact Report 55 About this report. Bloomberg L.P.’s 2018 Impact Report provides In addition, we consulted with two sustainable business an overview of our efforts to promote sustainable organizations, Business for Social Responsibility finance and business practices through our (BSR) and the World Business Council for Sustainable products, our operations, our people and our Development (WBCSD), to ensure that our 2018 Impact partnerships. We believe that sustainability presents Report follows sustainability reporting best practices. a market opportunity. Bloomberg is a signatory of the UN Global Compact The report features content about business, and the United Nations Principles for Responsible environmental and social issues that have a direct Investment (UN PRI). and significant impact on our company, our employees and/or our strategic partners as well as issues that our The sustainability data, disclosures and claims organization has a unique opportunity to influence. in this report have been verified by Cventure LLC. We identified these issues through a materiality What do those small gray numbers on assessment we initially conducted in 2015. the bottom of each page mean? Our business units and operational divisions provided Where the report fulfills specific GRI or SASB standards, content and data for this report. The annual data we note the standard on the corresponding page. presented online and in our highlights report covers our 2018 fiscal year (January 1 to December 31, 2018). This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Comprehensive Option (GRI Standards Content Index and Media Sector Supplement); the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards and its industryspecific accounting standards; the FSB Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) guidelines; and select content from the CDP. This was printed on Neenah Classic Crest Digital Recycled 100 Bright White 80# Cover and 80# Text. Classic Crest is FSC–certified, contains 100% PCW. © 2019 Bloomberg L.P. All rights reserved. 56 2018 Impact Report
