COP REPORT 2018/19 Contents 2 Page 3 CEO commitment Page 4 UNGC 10 principles Page 5 8 Labour, human rights and sourcing Page 9 People and colleague culture Page 10 Body image Page 11 Charity Page 12-13 Environment and travel Page 14 Anti-corruption Page 15 Data, security and privacy Page 16-17 Financial services Page 18 Summary CEO commitment 3 Since I joined the business in May 2018, we have driven strong progress in our continued transformation journey. We are pleased to have reported membership, we remain members of colleagues and partners and ensure strong underlying financial the Ethical Trading Initiative, we remain a sustainable business. performance, despite a challenging SEDEX, Fast Forward and the retail environment and changing Carbon Trust, and a signatory to We are proud of our progress economic conditions. the Bangladesh Accord on Fire and over the past 12 months, including Building safety, all of which continue launching a number of projects in our As the UK’s largest integrated to drive and monitor our work in this supply chains aimed at improving pureplay digital retailer and financial area. This year, we also became the lives and livelihoods of workers, services provider, we exist to make signatories to the UK Apparel and supporting two homelessness good things easily accessible General Merchandise Public and charities in the North West, and to more people. With our multiPrivate Protocol. continuing in our quest to reduce our category range of famous brands, environmental impact by reducing market-leading technology and data We place a strong focus on the usage of single use plastics from capabilities and unique financial sourcing responsibly, reducing our sites. services products offering flexible our environmental impact, lending ways to pay, we are well placed to responsibly, engaging our colleagues We are looking forward to what we deliver on that promise. and being the best citizen we can we will deliver on our CSR agenda be in the communities in which we over the next 12 months. In the Since joining the UNGC in January operate. To further our ambitions meantime, our report on progress for 2004, we have continued to actively in these areas we have taken the the 2018/19 calendar year provides support the United Nations Global decision to centralise CSR activities an overview of key activities Compact and to abide by the ten and create a holistic strategy which undertaken across our business principles in all of our business covers all areas of the business. Our during this period. operations. We actively participate new strategy will be linked to the in both the Modern Slavery and UN Sustainable Development Goals We hope you find it useful. Sustainable Development Goals and will be underpinned by a set of working groups, and this year our public commitments which we hope Head of CSR was asked to join the to achieve by 2025. We believe that local network’s advisory group. this new strategy, which will align with our broader business strategy, Henry Birch Alongside our UN Global Compact will deliver value to our customers, Group CEO The United Nations global compact ten principles 4 The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative. The UNGC issues Ten Principles on Human Rights, Labour Standards, the Environment and Corruption. Membership of the UNGC requires companies to issue a ‘Communication on Progress’ report annually. This report is our ninth COP and outlines Shop Direct’s activities in support of these ten principles. Human rights Labour Principle 1 Principle 3 Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should uphold the freedom of protection of internationally-proclaimed human association and the effective recognition of the right rights; and to collective bargaining; Principle 2 Principle 4 Make sure that they are not complicit in human The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory rights abuses. labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Anti-corruption Principle 7 Principle 10 Businesses should support a precautionary Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, approach to environmental challenges; including extortion and bribery. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. Labour, human rights and sourcing 5 and Labour Abuse Authority (GLAA), through the use of the SEDEX POLICIES Department for Work and Pensions system, an online platform for factory We maintain and abide by rigorous (DWP), Health and Safety Executive audit sharing. policies on labour, human rights and (HSE), and HMRC to help eradicate sourcing across our supply chain, modern slavery in the UK textiles Our dedicated responsible sourcing and all suppliers must sign up to industry. The Apparel and General team, both in the UK and key our code of conduct prior to doing Merchandise Public and Private sourcing countries, continues to business with us. Alongside this, Protocol commits signatories to work work hard to understand risks we have worked hard to update and together to eradicate slavery and specific to our supply chain and the develop further policies to support exploitation in textile supply chains. countries we source from. They do our responsible sourcing programme As a partner, we have pledged to this by utilising internal expertise and to improve our knowledge and raise awareness to prevent worker and databases, as well as third party understanding of our suppliers. exploitation, protect vulnerable information including audits, ETI These include an updated young and exploited workers and disrupt updates, trade union risk maps and worker policy as well as a migrant exploitative practices within the NGO country reports. and contract labour policy, to support industry. our factories in developing their own policies in these areas and adopting From this work we recognise that Recognising that in some a best practice approach. This year there is an increased risk of potential geographies we have specific we launched a new supplier website, human rights abuses where there challenges that cannot be tackled with copies of the code of conduct are: by working alone, we have launched and other responsible sourcing partnerships with United Work • A prevalence of migrant labour policies included on the website to and Mudem, two NGO’s in Turkey • Contract and agency workers allow suppliers access at all times. working to support Syrian refugees • High presence of refugees into formal employment. • Young workers and risk of child We continue to be transparent about labour our supply chain by publishing a full Our memberships of these • Vulnerable workers list of our first tier manufacturing organisations and our involvement sites on our corporate website. We • Unauthorised subcontracting in new partnerships allow us to build update this list every six months. and maintain strong relationships This year, we have worked on with a varied group of businesses Certain countries within our gathering data for sites beyond tier as well as trade unions, NGO’s and operations may have one or more one, which will support in increasing government departments. They lead of these risks and this leads us to visibility and traceability of our to shared information and resources, more closely monitor these areas. product, through the various stages which in turn benefit workers in our We do this through regular visits of production. We believe that supply chains. These partnerships, by our in-country teams, who offer sharing this data will help support collaborations and shared learnings additional support and guidance to us in our efforts to better understand are incredibly valuable to our work our suppliers to ensure that they and make improvements within our in responsible sourcing and will are managing these situations supply chain. continue to drive our approach in this responsibly. area. PARTNERSHIPS SUMMARY Alongside membership of the United Nations Global Compact, we are At Shop Direct, we have a broad also members of the Ethical Trading and varied supply chain sourcing Initiative, Fast Forward and SEDEX, both own brand fashion and home and continue to be a signatory to and living products from over 600 the Bangladesh Accord on Fire and factories in 30 countries worldwide, Building Safety. To further increase including China, India, Bangladesh, our commitment to finding and Malaysia, Poland and Turkey, where tackling modern slavery in our supply we have in-country sourcing offices. chains, both at home and abroad, we We are aware that our supply chain have recently signed a revolutionary remains complex and is constantly agreement with UK enforcement evolving, so we work in collaboration bodies including the Gangmasters with our suppliers to ensure visibility of sites manufacturing our product Labour, human rights and sourcing 6 SUPPLY CHAIN MONITORING issues occurring. Over the past were established to ensure the We continue to develop our 12 months we have rolled out our protection of child rights and responsible sourcing policies responsible sourcing training to over observance of labour laws, while and due diligence approach and 200 factories in five key supply chain families with young children took recognise that these are a key countries giving factories a better part in interactive sessions to learn aspects of our responsible sourcing understanding of our requirements about issues related to underage programme. Our human rights due but also informing them of best employment. diligence is based on the Ethical practice and how to implement this Trading Initiatives Human Rights at their own sites. Other community activity included Due Diligence Framework and mass awareness days on gender ensures that we have a holistic HUMAN RIGHTS equality and labour welfare, using risk assessment in place, not only digital content and performances. Over the past 12 months we have looking not only at risk but also Young women aged 12 to 17 launched a number of new projects taking into account our leverage and took part in sessions on personal focussing on key risk areas within responsibilities, what we need to do development, health and life our supply chain. The projects aim to mitigate the risk, and how we then skills leading to the creation of an to support our factories with more ensure that we effectively monitor ‘adolescent parliament’. In schools, complex issues and improve the and review remediation efforts. teachers and students learned about lives and livelihoods of workers in This framework has led us to our supply chain. child rights, labour laws and the prioritise work in potential highnegative consequences of leaving risk regions such as Turkey and education early. The project also Bangladesh, as well as looking more Through our own supply chain worked with mill recruitment agents closely at regions like Malaysia due diligence and reports from to ensure fair, ethical recruitment where we know there is a prevalence local NGO’s, we became aware practices, to create a pool of of migrant workers, thus increasing of potential issues relating to the preferred agents and to establish a the potential risk of labour rights employment conditions of young code of conduct that is regulated by abuses. women in South India’s fabric a committee. mills. In order to better understand this issue and improve conditions Last year we reported on our new we have worked with two other This project has been well received global agreements with three audit retailers and the local NGO SAVE to by both the mills, workers and their companies, in order to improve our engage almost 9,500 people in the communities. Mill management have ongoing verification of suppliers’ first phase of a project to support stated that they have seen positive conformance to our code of conduct. the formalisation of recruitment changes among the workforce, while These agreements have allowed us practices, promote skilled labour in peer educators have shared that to ask for specific areas to be looked the mills and develop better worker the training has equipped them with at in more depth if we have particular and management dialogue in the the knowledge of how to handle concerns at a supplier site, and have mills. tough situations positively, cope with given us a more consistent picture stress more effectively, and speak of our supply base. Our third-party more openly about their emotions audit programme is still a crucial due Approximately 950 workers have and anxiety with mill wardens and diligence tool, allowing us to better received training and support to supervisors. assess our suppliers’ and factories’ boost life skills, confidence and level of knowledge and ability awareness of employment rights, with the aim of enhancing peer In Bangladesh, our factories have to comply with legal and ethical interaction, improving relationships a predominantly female workforce requirements. between workers and managers, and we wanted to launch a project and establishing better policies, aimed at empowering and improving Alongside our audit programme, procedures and grievance handling the lives of all workers, but in our strategy remains focussed on systems within the mills engaged. particular women. In order to do better supporting our factories by This programme was supported this, we worked with two of our key offering our time and resources to by village-based outreach to more suppliers in Bangladesh and Impactt, assist them in making sustainable than 8,500 people, designed to a specialist third party ethical trade improvements. Our in-country raise awareness of issues affecting consultancy, to design a programme specialists work collaboratively with female mill workers among potential that would be participatory, practical our internal teams and suppliers to employees, their families and local and rooted in workers’ lives and resolve issues that are identified communities. Village committees experiences. and deliver training to prevent Labour, human rights and sourcing 7 The programme is made up solve problems they face at home has supported in empowering of three main topics: financial and at work, improve attendance at workers and management to better literacy, communication skills and work and therefore increase takecommunicate, including raising health and wellbeing. Financial home pay through bonus schemes, grievances and potential slavery literacy focused on the importance and build better relationships with risks. of saving, especially through supervisors and fellow workers formalised means, such as bank We believe that these projects are accounts, understanding household Having completed the training, we crucial in improving the lives of expenditure and creating a savings have had positive feedback from workers, and we intend to continue plan. Health and wellbeing looked the factories, who have seen better developing projects that tackle to ensure that workers achieved a relationships built between workers salient rights risks within our supply work-life balance, followed a healthy and supervisors as well as having chain in the future. lifestyle and had the knowledge reduced absenteeism and worker to prevent illness in their family. turnover. The trainers who have FORCED LABOUR & THE Communication was centred told us that they feel more valued MODERN SLAVERY ACT (2015) around leadership, so covered by the workforce, have been able to problem solving, communication The Shop Direct code of conduct, have difficult conversations at home and persuasion skills, building good which is signed by all suppliers, and in the workplace with positive relationships with factories and states the following: outcomes, and are able to save sharing knowledge in the community • There must be no form of forced money, with workers now opening in order to help others. labour, whether it be involuntary bank accounts and ensuring that they are eating nutritious meals. prison labour, indentured labour, This training was delivered through bonded labour or otherwise. a train the trainer approach with • No employee should be obliged In China, we have just completed each factory asking for eight people to work through force, financial a factory improvement programme to volunteer to become trainers. pressure, intimidation or any aimed at giving factories the tools The trainers ended up being a mix other means. to better assess and monitor their of supervisors, welfare officers and • Workers are not required to own risks. The twelve-month training workers from production. In each lodge deposits or their identity scheme included modules on health factory, over 50% of the trainers papers with their employer and safety, responsible recruitment, were female. Once these workers and are free to leave their working hours and wages, and social were trained, they then went back to employment after reasonable dialogue. The factories involved the factories and with the support of notice. made good progress, particularly in our local team and Impactt, delivered • There must not be any form of the area of HR policy and process, the training to all workers. social pressure, unpaid loans and their improved knowledge and better systems will support them or other restrictions imposed by The aims of the project were to in being more capable of spotting the employer that would restrict enable workers to save money the signs of modern slavery and workers’ freedom. each month, take practical steps implementing remediation with our to improve their and their families’ support where necessary. The final health and wellbeing, proactively module around social dialogue Labour, human rights and sourcing 8 Last year, we reported on a practices going forward to ensure recruitment and what can be done consistent issue we had found in new workers enter the workplace in both sender and host countries to Malaysia around workers paying free of debt. ensure workers enter employment fees to secure employment. Over the debt free, but will also include a last 12 months, we have continued wider set of labour rights issues The issue around migrant to work with these suppliers on facing migrant workers. recruitment fees remains complex issues relating to the employment of and not something that we will be migrant workers. We have hosted a able to tackle alone. With this in We will continue to work proactively responsible partnership workshop mind, we have joined the ETI’s with our suppliers on this issue, for our suppliers, focusing on responsible recruitment working raising their awareness and giving issues of modern slavery and the group alongside other stakeholders them the tools that they need to try Dhaka Principles on responsible with the aim of sharing best practice and spot the signs of potential forced recruitment. Since this workshop, examples, providing guidance for labour and modern slavery. we have spent time with suppliers corporate policies and strategies in to enable better understanding of this area and developing specific the role of agents in the recruitment In line with the legislative actions to mitigate, manage and chain, looking at the contracts they requirement, we updated our Modern remediate modern slavery risks have in place with their agents and Slavery Statement in December amongst migrant workers. The group initiating conversations with these 2018 and will further update this in will not only look at responsible agents with a view to changing December 2019. Plans for 2019/20 We intend to further align our CSR opportunities to confidentially report and health and wellbeing training to strategy with the UN Sustainable problems or grievances within mills, their workers, and hope to replicate the Development Goals with an increased we are launching an app called results and success that the previous focus on gender equality, decent Timby. This app will be managed by factories have experienced. work, climate action, economic growth the resource centres as well as mill and responsible production and management staff to ensure issues consumption. We have used the goals are rectified in a fair and independent Malaysia: to frame our future agenda and shape manner. To further our efforts in looking at the our targets in this area. responsible recruitment of migrant workers into Malaysia, we are Bangladesh: collaborating with two of our suppliers India: Having seen such success following to develop and trial a mobile app, Over the next few months, we will be phase one of our project in Kordus, that provides information launching phase two of our Southern Bangladesh, we want to continue to to job-seekers on all aspects of the India project alongside a new NGO ensure the wellbeing of ready-made journey from their homes to the host partner, READ. The next phase will garment workers within our factories. country. Kordus provides employees see continued engagement with the We recognise that support for workers with a user-friendly, mobile interface communities we have already worked mental wellbeing is very much crucial with all the information workers in and will also incorporate a new for not only their own health but also need to go through the recruitment focus on occupational health and to enable a better, more harmonious journey and also for life on the job. It wellbeing, along with further training working environment. Positive mental allows document storage, provides for women and girls who are planning health allows workers to realise their information to workers’ families, to work in spinning mills. full potential, cope with the stresses of offers points of help and invites work and home life, work productively real-time feedback at every stage. and make meaningful contributions to Kordus enables companies, suppliers, We intend to launch community their communities. With this in mind, employees, labour providers and resource centres that will provide we intend to offer the 16 workers and recruiters to collaboratively drive workers with pre-departure training welfare officers an additional 13 days greater transparency and efficiency, and support when they return from of training, covering self-identification, and will enable users to make informed the mills, as well as continuing body, mind and empowerment, choices throughout the recruitment the work towards responsible body and rights, communication process and their employment. The recruitment through engagement and psychosocial support and app will also allow us and our suppliers with communities, recruiters and the occupational health and safety. The to monitor the recruitment journey and Village Vigilance Committees. Within aim is to strengthen the relationships provide us with measurable data on the mills, we will extend the training and communications between these the effectiveness and impact of our currently being provided to workers workers and the rest of the workforce, implementation of the Employer Pays and supervisors to continue building so they are better able to handle Principle. better relationships within the mills. workplace issues and contribute to a There will also be a new focus on better working environment inside the increasing workers soft and leadership factories. Outside of the projects in our supply skills and giving hostel wardens chain we will continue our active support through psychosocial training engagement in the UN Global which will help them recognise when Alongside this, we are also working Compact and are looking to join both workers are struggling. To support with two new factories to provide the Climate Action and Child Labour these developments and give workers financial literacy, communication skills working groups. People and colleague culture 9 Colleague reward we implemented our Our new approach to understanding first market-based pay review during the colleague engagement we launched our POLICIES year. This fairer and more transparent new approach to measuring engagement Shop Direct is compliant with all UK approach to our annual pay review process and monitoring our culture through a more employment law and we proactively look to was well received by colleagues, and we focused and actionable colleague survey, integrate updates and improvements. For will therefore continue with the approach for Voice. Our leaders now have instant access example, we have recently updated our the next three years. We go far beyond the to results and actionable insight. The core policies to in line with the Senior Manager bare minimum when it comes to benefits, team then pulls out the big organisational Certification Regime. Our people activity and our minimum pension offer is 4% of and departmental themes in order for the can be grouped under these headings: qualifying earnings split equally, rather leadership team to collaboratively build our • A purpose and values-led business than the government split of 5% employee action plans. • Attracting and retaining world class and 3% employer. We continually review talent our benefits offering so colleagues can reshape their benefits package to suit them Fulfilment following the announcement • Releasing our talent’s full potential in April 2018 that we will be closing our • Inspiring internal stakeholders through each year. Linked to our focus on wellbeing, we have partnered with Nudge who provide existing Greater Manchester warehouses to communications create a new automated fulfilment centre in • Focusing on ways of working to colleagues with personalised financial education to help make money matters the East Midlands in 2021, we established create an inclusive and collaborative a taskforce to focus on ensuring positive environment simpler. outcomes for colleagues. The taskforce includes representation from Shop Direct, Diversity and inclusion we were proud local councils, government departments to report progress against our commitments and external skills providers as well PARTNERSHIPS in our second Gender Pay Gap Report. as representatives from Guidant and We continue to seek full and open We were also pleased to share that our USDAW. This group has a strong collective dialogue with our colleagues and their gender pay gap had improved compared understanding of the local economy and representatives through channels such to the prior year, with our median hourly future workforce needs and is committed as people forums, joint working parties, pay gap reducing by 1.5% pts and our to supporting colleagues for the future with briefing groups and our collective mean hourly pay gap reducing by 0.7% pts. a strong development offer, which includes bargaining approach with the USDAW March 2019 saw us hold our first internal apprenticeships, Maths and English and SATA trade unions. We keep diversity festival, Inclusion: Live, which functional skills and self-led digital learning. colleagues updated on corporate and brought colleagues together to focus on The taskforce meets monthly and will individual business unit objectives, trading the importance of an inclusive business, continue to do so until at least 2021. performance, economic conditions and helping us to collaborate and to ensure other relevant matters. They are also that all colleagues can thrive by being represented on our pension trustee boards. themselves at work. We also supported MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOMES Pride in Liverpool for the first time. For our new internal measurement of engagement and culture, Voice, we set SUMMARY OF PROGRESS ourselves a target of 7/10 and achieved Development to focus on building a more Early talent we continued to form key an inaugural score of 7.2/10 from a collaborative, customer-centric business, strategic partnerships with schools and colleague participation rate of 75%. The we launched a core learning offer for universities to fuel our strategic talent survey now consists of 20 questions; two both people managers and colleagues. pipeline. We also worked hard to create on our purpose, three on each of our five The offer incorporates a range of topics early talent opportunities that accelerate, values, two based on loyalty and one free designed to improve performance and inspire and support our future leaders text question to enable colleagues the provided in-the-moment learning, short and across graduates, interns and up-andchance to leave verbatim. Every question interactive learning events, and practice coming apprentices. New initiatives place contributes to the overall score. Overall, opportunities. focus on supporting the tech gender gap we saw really positive scores around our by inspiring young girls to follow a career in purpose, loyalty and most of our values tech. (trusted, ambitious, proud, innovative and Performance our focus during the year was on embedding our values and together) – particularly ‘proud’ which was outcomes-driven performance management Refreshing our company values our our stand-out value with a score of 7.9. Our approach and creating a culture of core business values, originally created first survey reminded us that our business feedback. by our colleagues over five years ago is filled with colleagues who are committed when we were still a catalogue business, to helping drive the organisation forward, went through a refresh in March 2019 who feel pride in being associated with our Leaders we defined what we needed with colleagues from across the business brand and, crucially, want to stay and be a from our leaders through a set of leadership helping us to evolve the sentiment behind part of our continued success in the future. qualities or acts of leadership and core each value to better reflect the business Around 75% of the 1,294 free text verbatim business capabilities. These qualities and we are becoming as part of our ongoing text left by colleagues were positive or capabilities have laid the foundations for transformation. neutral in sentiment, where free text boxes what we need from our leaders now and in colleague surveys are typically used to in the future, and provided a framework for express their frustrations. leadership development. Plans for 2019/20 Our people strategy combines the development of the right good things easily accessible to more people and our values. talent plan for new and existing colleagues with the creation We will rebrand to The Very Group in November 2019 to of an organisational change roadmap focused on building align our corporate brand with our flagship consumer brand, outcome-focussed teams. We are putting the colleague Very.co.uk, to bring our colleagues closer to our customers, experience at the heart of everything we do – creating a sense and to support us in attracting even more world class talent to of inclusion and belonging, fuelled by our purpose to make join us. Body image 10 PARTNERSHIPS To support, inspire, celebrate and POLICIES We work with a number of external empower women of all shapes, Shop Direct adheres to a body model agencies, all of which must sizes and ethnicities, we built upon image policy which includes the adhere to our policies. We ensure our successful 2017 International following requirements to ensure that model agencies are informed Women’s Day campaign. For the photography and other content of any body shape concerns we 2018 we introduced the views of we produce are positive for our may have. In such cases the model younger females from a variety customers: will not be booked again until a of ethnic groups and physical new assessment (casting or digital abilities. We continue to partner imagery) is complete. with both established and emerging • All adult models sourced by influencers to promote the setting of Shop Direct to be a minimum of life goals and women supporting one SUMMARY OF PROGRESS another. 18 years old and models should look between 25 and 30 when In 2018/19, we maintained the strict styled standards of our body image policy. We continued to implement research • We use models that are a learnings that reflected consumer minimum female UK size 8 (for preferences towards model age, petite height models size 6-8) racial mix and body shape to create through to curve models up to a more inclusive brand appeal across size 18 gallery and aspirational imagery. We • Female height 5ft 8in to 5ft 11in, promoted diversity and inclusivity petite height 5ft 3in to 5ft 4in, by increasing ethnic diversity within male height generally 6ft to 6ft our signed-off model pack from 30% 3in (2016) to 51% for females and 68% • All ethnicities and nationalities for males (2018). desirable to represent the diversity of our customer base • All child models should appear New for 2018 was the use of model within healthy body weight squads to present similar products parameters in line with ageon a range of body shapes, across related expectations channels and within gallery pages particularly in branded sportswear • All models booked through Through our branded lifestyle established agencies to ensure content, we actively encourage any required visas and licences a healthy lifestyle based around are in place medical recommendations of • Thorough casting process with exercise and consumption of healthy regular studio castings held foods, and only comment positively to enable face-to-face model on lifestyle and celebrity-related reviews and digital images and articles. video footage to assess model suitability Plans for 2019/20 51% 68% In 2019/20, we aim to maintain our standards on body imagery, as well as the level of ethnic diversity across our model board. In line with customer research recommendations, we plan to constantly review brand imagery Female Male and model pitch. Specifically, we will look to promote inclusivity by including Ethnic diversity within our model pack models who have more achievable, healthy body shapes and plus-size male models, and to increase the use of models with disabilities. Charity 11 charities. We’ve committed to raising sporting events, a sponsored POLICIES £600,000 across a two-year period 15,000ft skydive and a to support the charities in delivering sponsored sleepout in our head Giving something back to the places a multi-faceted approach to improve office car park where we live and work is important digital inclusion and employment for to us. We continue to play a positive • Samples sold through The some of Manchester and Liverpool’s Whitechapel Centre’s retail store role in our local communities through most excluded and impoverished our charity programme. Through a • A themed charity ball in people. Charities Trust operates business-wide colleague vote, our November 2018, raising our matched giving scheme and colleagues select a digitally-focused £210,000 towards our administers our payroll giving project that will deliver maximum fundraising target through table scheme. impact in our local communities sales and fundraising activities. for us to support as a team. That support is delivered through SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND As part of our strategic partnership, colleague fundraising activities as MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES we formed an innovation board to well as skill sharing. This year saw us reach the halfway work with the charities to provide point of our fundraising challenge for industry-leading knowledge to drive The following policies underpin our The Booth and Whitechapel Centres the project. This included: approach: and we are on track to raise the full • Project planning support £600,000 by the end of October • We match-fund colleague 2019.To achieve our stretching • IT hardware, software and fundraising of up to £200 per target, we worked to an engagement systems advice activity plan to support colleague • Building design support • We raise funds for our chosen fundraising, driven by our company• Training, development and charity partner through a biennial wide network of charity champions. recruitment expertise themed ball Colleagues were kept informed via • We donate our sample clothing regular group-wide communications, to charity partners, which they visits from and to the charities, and a sell to raise funds dedicated online hub. • We offer payroll giving to enable colleagues to donate directly to Activity across the year included: their chosen charities • A stretching fundraising target • We do not support any charities per team or site with political or religious links • Charity visits to at all sites to drive engagement • Regular group-wide communications PARTNERSHIPS • Site visits to our charities to see In October 2017, our colleagues progress of the project voted to support The Booth and Whitechapel Centres, the North • A calendar of group-wide West’s leading homelessness fundraising activities including Plans for 2019/20 We will continue to support and engage our colleagues to reach our target of £600,000 for The Booth and Whitechapel Centres by the end of October 2019. This will be supported by our commitment to our shared innovation board to ensure we share our knowledge and expertise to drive the project. In November 2019, our colleagues will once again vote to choose our 2019-2021 charity partner, which will see us raise £600,000 across a two-year period for a charity that supports children’s future development. Environment and travel 12 POLICIES energy forecasting and consumption ‘we don’t do rubbish’ initiative We continue to work with our recycle on a monthly basis. across all staff restaurants and partner to ensure we maintain a the promotion of ‘free’ coffee zero to landfill policy. We have grounds to be used as a natural driven forward with innovation and Our Engie partnership is now well fertiliser by our green-fingered improved convenience to ensure we established and we have benefited colleagues make recycling choices easier for from their innovations and insight, our colleagues. Our focus remains particularly in the areas of energy to reduce our carbon impact on efficient refrigeration and electric TRAVEL the planet and we are committed vehicle charging. PV solar panelling • We continue to promote safe, to making a year-on-year energy and onsite energy storage are other cost effective and responsible reduction. areas we are currently exploring. travel by working with our partner Travel & Transport Statesman SUMMARY OF PROGRESS to ensure our travellers book responsibly PARTNERSHIPS WASTE • Our implant team is integral to Our partnership approach to • Supported by a colleague our continued analysis of how supplier management has matured awareness campaign and we travel, when and why this and we have established strategic office events, we’ve simplified greater focus allows us to relationships with our core FM colleague recycling to just two foresee trends and upcoming suppliers, including Veolia, waste streams, making it easier events, thus allowing us to travel Statesman Travel, Engie, and for colleagues to separate dry safely but with a focus on cost Inspired Energy. mixed recyclables and general and environmental impact waste • Partnering with our travel Veolia has an integrated approach to • We reduced usage of single provider enables us to negotiate the collection, recycling, treatment, use plastics through removal with suppliers that offer newer and recovery of our waste. They of plastic cutlery from our modes of transport, which is are a UK leader in environmental staff restaurants and plastic important to us to continue to solutions and are key to our ambition drinking cups unless there is a reduce our carbon footprint to innovation and the reduction of cultural need, which has led to a where practical, and to keep our environmental impact. combined reduction of more than costs down one tonne of waste Statesman Travel has been our • We launched bespoke Shop trusted travel provider for over Direct-branded drinking cups and eight years. In May 2017, they were incentivised use in our catering aquired by Travel & Transport, which facilities by offering reduced is the fifth largest travel management prices whenever colleagues company in the US. This has choose this option increased their capability through • At our head office, we launched greater resource. Towards the end of a trial of cardboard cup recycling 2018, Travel & Transport, a founding in partnership with Veolia member of Radius Travel, purchased • We further analysed our waste the remaining shares, giving it streams, focused again on 100% ownership of the network, moving waste to a resource, and which provides access to over 100 continued to improve our recycle reputable agencies in 100+ markets streams hierarchy to continue across six continents. to meet our zero to landfill commitment Inspired Energy is one of the UK’s • Veolia continues to support the leading independent third-party reduction of our carbon footprint intermediates and we continue to by keeping the mileage low in work closely in our efforts to reduce the vehicles that pick up our energy consumption. We continue to waste by processing it locally to have 100% automatic meter reads our different sites (AMR) and regularly review our • We continue to support the Environment and travel 13 ENERGY MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • Inspired Energy is our partner for utility invoice validation, carbon WASTE reduction commitment and our • Monthly MI energy savings opportunities • Quarterly account review scheme meetings • We have seen a reduction in • Recycling events twice a year electricity consumption year-onyear TRAVEL • We regularly review our energy • Monthly MI consumption for both positive • Quarterly account review and negative expenditure meetings with Travel & Transport • We share best practice and Statesman and airlines innovation ideas across our • Annual price reviews group • We are looking to extend our ENERGY current partnerships with British • Inspired Energy web portal for Gas and Scottish Power MI • Water consumption is regularly • Carbon Trust Standard bearer for reviewed, and a number of 11 years assets have been replaced with • Monthly FM energy management more efficient types, such as review taps, WCs and showers • Refrigeration cooling at our Aintree site was replaced by a more efficient system, with electrivity savings of £25k per annum against an investment of £260k • We continue with replacement LED energy-efficient light fittings at our head office and contact centres • Our new fulfilment centre has achieved an A-rated energy certificate, benefiting from full LED lighting, water harvesting and onsite generation offsetting Plans for 2019/20 Our focus for the future is to continue environmental footprint. to improve our carbon footprint through the reduction of single use plastics, focusing on our waste Our ambition is to continue the hierarchy and further educating good work and downward trend in colleagues on how we recycle. energy reduction and further educate colleagues on how they can play their part. We will also gain insight We will continue to work closely with into ever-developing energy-efficient our frequent travellers through our technologies and introduce these implant team to continue to make within our property portfolio and responsible travel easy, convenient daily processes to be the best we and safe. Our focus remains on can be when measuring our energy partnering with responsible airlines consumption. who are committed to reducing their Anti-corruption 14 PARTNERSHIPS POLICIES We manage our own policies through We have maintained our zero internal teams. Our confidential tolerance approach to corruption, whistleblowing line is operated by our which is underpinned by a number of security partner, Cordant Security. key policies and processes, including: • Any gifts, hospitality and SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND entertaining must be formally MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES approved in advance and must be Specific areas of focus and appropriate, proportionate and not development over the period included: have the ability to unduly influence decisions • Conducting annual refresher • Any potential conflicts of interest training on key policies, with must be declared and registered the training module driving 97% and potential mitigating action participation and engagement considered by the appropriate • All internal policies were regularly director reviewed as part of our ongoing • A confidential whistleblowing line assurance activity is in operation, and is operated • Our gifts and hospitality policy by a third party, with any reported has been re-communicated to all incidents being investigated relevant colleagues independently • Bribery and corruption risks were • All new suppliers receive considered within all relevant Shop Direct’s code of conduct internal audits and a statement of our zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption, with existing MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES suppliers also receiving periodic We report on adherence to bribery reinforcement communications and corruption policies in our quarterly • Bribery and corruption risks are audit committee including the outcome reviewed on an annual basis of any whistleblowing cases. There and are factored into the audit were no instances of non-adherence planning process to policy identified during the period and all whistleblowing incidents • All employees are trained annually were independently investigated to a on the above key policies, satisfactory outcome. including a knowledge check Plans for 2019/20 We are currently reviewing evaluate how additional supplier 97% ownership of key policies as part intelligence sources can be of our readiness work for the embedded in our supplier due FCA’s Senior Management and diligence processes. Certification Regime. In parallel with this, we will review and update all key policies as appropriate and online training will be updated Colleague training and refreshed for all colleagues participation in November 2019. We will also Data, security and privacy 15 PARTNERSHIPS MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOMES POLICIES We work with leading security Using information security KPIs, we We are committed to building stronger organisations to help us deliver a cyberregularly assess and measure our defences to thwart cyber-attacks, resilient service for our customers. resilience to cyber threats by objectively preserving the confidentiality, integrity These partnerships include: evaluating our environments against and availability of all customer • NCSC the UK’s National Cyber global information security standards information. Our policies and procedures Security Centre, which advises like the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, outline our guidelines and provisions for organisations on how to protect their ISO/IEC 27001 and compliance preserving the security of our data and information and information systems requirements like PCI DSS, the Data technology infrastructure: against today’s threats Protection Act and the GDPR. This • Information and cyber security allows us to measure and report • ICO – the UK’s Information policy: ensuring that the business upon the effectiveness and value of Commissioner’s Office, which implements a secure environment our security programme and security upholds information rights in the to protect the confidentiality, investments. public interest and data privacy for integrity, and availability of all individuals information, in all its forms held by We also work towards independent • ISF – the Information Security or on behalf of Shop Direct certifications for our security measures Forum, which is the world’s leading • Data security risk management authority on cyber, information to protect customers’ financial and policy: demonstrates our upmost security and risk management. personal information. commitment to comply with the • IBM – IBM provide enterprise-wide relevant laws and legislation related security intelligence and expertise to data privacy • Security awareness and education standards: ensuring that our SUMMARY OF PROGRESS colleagues are suitably trained and As part of our security transformation there are standards in place which across this period, we: colleagues must uphold to protect • Conducted an in-depth internal customer data audit of our cyber security controls, • Secure configuration: establishing based on the NIST Cybersecurity and actively maintaining the secure Framework and ISACA’s Capability configuration of information and Maturity Model Integrator communications technology (ICT) • Continued with the implementation by having policies and processes of remedial actions based in place to develop secure baseline on previous security controls builds assessments • Continued with our strategic education and awareness programmes across Shop Direct Plans for 2019/20 We will continue to develop and up-to-date security ultimately lead to alignment with the and progress with our bold and measurements necessary to support NIST Cybersecurity Framework and innovative security KPIs tool, management decisions. ISO/IEC 27001, which are standards, which will empower our board to We will also: guidelines, and best practices to understand the current cyber threats • Continue to mature information manage cyber security-related risks. and associated defences so that security Our capabilities to identify, protect, they can make informed decisions • Increase our technical capability detect, respond and recover will be regarding the organisation’s • Meet our regulatory and CSR greatly enhanced by these efforts. information security activity, costs requirements and prioritisation. • Use information security This will also help to address to enable and enhance the compliance requirements, such as Additionally, this will facilitate the business the GDPR and PCI DSS, all of which work of our head of information will support the security and privacy security, as it provides continuous We are building an approach that will of customer data. Financial services 16 PARTNERSHIPS We continue to enhance both our POLICIES product offering and customer Shop Direct Financial Services is As a responsible lender authorised journey to ensure that our customers the sole provider of credit facilities by the FCA, we will not lend to are provided with credit products that to support our retail offering. This customers where we believe meet their needs and are clear to enables customers to finance their the lending is unaffordable or understand. purchases using clear, easy to unsustainable. understand credit products. This includes our delivery of our We monitor customers’ financial improved self-serve functionality In addition, we partner with other wellbeing every month, both in terms which allows our customers to lenders to offer credit card facilities of account performance with Shop manage the amount of credit that to customers. Before working with Direct and external performance they have with us at all times. other lenders, we conduct due using credit bureaux data. This diligence to ensure that firms are information is considered in every acting responsibly and in line with credit lending decision we make regulatory requirements. using highly predictive scoring systems, which ensures that our decisions are consistent and robust. SUMMARY OF PROGRESS Last year, the FCA published rules We are proud of the range of and guidance which up-weighted the financial services products we offer creditworthiness and affordability and the important role we play in our assessments firms should undertake customers’ lives. when providing a line of credit. Shop We take our responsibilities as a Direct were ahead of the regulatory credit provider seriously and as work due to the approach to lending such ensure that we have a suite of decisions that were already in place. policies in placed to ensure we do things in the right way. Financial services 17 MEASUREMENTS OF We also recognise that there OUTCOMES may be times when customers experience financial difficulties, for We continue to ensure that good a variety of reasons. Whilst most customer outcomes are at the heart customers are able to resolve these of everything we do from ensuring difficulties without assistance, we a customer can afford the credit know that some customers require we provide to them, to supporting support from us. At such times, customers through periods of those colleagues who are trained financial difficulty. in dealing with people in financial difficulty work with individual customers to find solutions to meet Our enhanced creditworthiness their needs. Solutions range from and affordability approach ensures short to longer-term arrangements that we continue to enhance our and, if we identify that the customer capability to provide an ongoing is in broader financial difficulty, we assessment of our customers’ refer customers to independent debt circumstances, making sure that we advisory services and charities. continue to make the best and most responsible possible credit decisions based on the most up-to-date We continue to protect our information available. customers by investing heavily in measures to prevent and detect criminal activity and lessen the Our proactive approach to assessing effects this can have upon our the financial wellbeing of our customers and wider society. Our customers can result in us refusing fraud prevention measures improve or restricting the credit afforded to each year and we currently deploy some customers. Last year, this machine learning solutions to identify resulted in: likely potential fraud before referring • Shop Direct only accepting 31% these cases for human review and of new applicants decision. This approach allows us • Shop Direct affording c.900,000 to detect fraud trends and patterns credit limit increases to existing whilst ensuring that we reduce customers the impact our fraud prevention • Shop Direct reducing c.1,400,000 strategies have on genuine credit limits customers. Plans for 2019/20 We will continue to test and whether that be with regard to our customer journey and develop additional tools to help an individual lending decision associated communications, us understand and monitor our or by identifying potential providing customers with customers’ use of credit. vulnerabilities and proactively reminders and timely education reaching out to customers to pieces to ensure that they are Using near-time data, we will offer support. aware of the risks associated be able to better personalise with using credit. our approach for customers, We will continue to enhance Summary In this annual communication on progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Throughout our 2019/20 financial year, we will continue to drive CSR activities across our business and ensure we hold ourselves accountable for meeting our commitments. We look forward to reporting on our progress next year.
