Shaping a Sustainable Future Sustainability Report 2018 Vision Mission Operating Principles A global company at the forefront of Guided by our operating principles 1 Best value propositions to customers. our chosen industries, shaping the future and core values, we will deliver 2 Tapping and developing best talents for the benefit of all our stakeholders solutions for sustainable urbanisation from our global workforce. – Sustaining Growth, Empowering Lives profitably, safely and responsibly. 3 Cultivating a spirit of innovation and Nurturing Communities. and enterprise. 4 Executing our projects well. 5 Being financially disciplined to earn best risk-adjusted returns. 6 Clarity of focus and operating within our core competence. 7 Being prepared for the future. Contents Group Overview Empowering Lives Letter to Stakeholders 2 Safety & Health 56 Highlights 5 Labour Practices & Human Rights 64 Sustainability Framework 6 Shaping a Sustainable Future 8 Nurturing Communities Sustainable Development Goals 9 Communities 72 Group Structure 14 Sustainability Management 15 Other Information Materiality 18 United Nations Global Compact 19 About this Report 84 Awards & Recognition 21 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index 85 Independent Assurance Statement 89 Sustaining Growth LBG Assurance Statement 2018 91 Economic Sustainability 22 Key Personnel 92 Corporate Governance 26 Risk Management 33 Regulatory Compliance 37 Environmental Management 39 Suppliers 48 Product Excellence 51 Shaping a Sustainable Future Keppel is a multi-business company committed to providing robust solutions for sustainable urbanisation. Focused on being at the forefront of our chosen industries, we are sharpening our competitive edge and developing new platforms for growth, while placing sustainability at the heart of our strategy and operations. Group Overview Letter to Stakeholders GRI 102-14 Channelling our capabilities Dear Stakeholders, As part of the steps taken to enhance our internal controls, policies and procedures, to shape a more sustainable Sustainable Solutions for an Keppel Corporation has engaged KPMG future aligned with the UN SDGs, Urbanising World to provide an independent platform for Urbanisation is one of the most significant employees and external parties, such as while harnessing the business development trends facing the world today. customers, suppliers and contractors, and investment opportunities to raise concerns about any perceived that these create, are at the With more than half the world’s population irregularity or misconduct. We have also living in cities, a proportion that is expected enhanced reporting channels and increased core of the Keppel Group’s to increase to 68% by 20501, the 2030 the geographical coverage for whistle-blower strategy and how we see Agenda for Sustainable Development hotlines to include 10 countries, including acknowledges the importance of sustainable Brazil, China, Vietnam and the US. ourselves contributing to urban development and management. a better world. The United Nations Sustainable Development We will continue to strengthen our policies Goals (UN SDGs) have even included a and procedures and ensure that we win dedicated goal on sustainable cities and business legally and ethically, based on the communities. Comprehensive planning to strengths of the Group and the quality of support growing populations, as well as our solutions. solutions to confront the environmental impact of urban growth, are needed to Managing Resources, Responsibly make the world’s urban spaces safer, The Paris Agreement adopted in 2015 was more inclusive, resilient and sustainable. an essential step to address climate change. Last December, at the UN Climate Change Keppel is a multi-business company driven Conference COP24 in Katowice, governments by a common purpose to provide solutions adopted an action plan, which sets out the for sustainable urbanisation. Beyond the guidelines for countries to make emission sustainable practices adopted across cuts under national climate plans. our businesses, we see sustainability as a business – whether it is providing access We are committed to support efforts by the Loh Chin Hua to cleaner sources of energy, building and international community and the Singapore Chief Executive Officer operating water treatment or waste-to-energy government to tackle climate change. We plants, planning and building sustainable continued to undertake initiatives to promote cities, or providing green data centres greater environmental responsibility and and logistics operations. Channelling our encourage the development and diffusion capabilities to shape a more sustainable of environmentally friendly technologies. approximately 95,000 tonnes of carbon Keppel O&M and Keppel Infrastructure are future aligned with the UN SDGs, while dioxide emissions. Cumulatively, the Group collaborating on a solar leasing project at harnessing the business and investment Keppel Corporation made a public climate has saved over 3 million GJ of energy over Keppel O&M’s yards, where the renewable opportunities that these create, are at the action pledge with the Singapore Ministry of the past five years, which translates to a energy generated is helping to offset the core of the Keppel Group’s strategy and the Environment and Water Resources in total of about $188 million in cost savings, yards’ energy requirements. The solar how we see ourselves contributing to a 2018 to factor in environmental considerations and an avoidance of over 360,000 tonnes panels at Keppel O&M’s yard have an better world. in our businesses, invest in green technology, of carbon dioxide emissions over this period. installed capacity of 5.2 MWp, and solar and optimise our operations to enhance panels are progressively being installed. Strengthening Governance Frameworks energy efficiency. In 2014, we set the goal of In collaboration with the Singapore Building In addition, a portion of the renewable Keppel carefully considers environmental, achieving a 16% improvement in carbon and Construction Authority (BCA), we will be energy certificates generated through social and governance (ESG) issues in all emissions intensity from 2020 business-asincorporating five new and emerging energy this initiative is being transferred to our strategic and investment decisions. usual levels. In 2018, we established a longer efficient technologies in Keppel Bay Tower, Keppel Corporation, allowing the corporate term target to achieve a 28.8% reduction in where the headquarters of the Keppel Group office at Keppel Bay Tower to be fully Integrity is a core value for Keppel. We care carbon emissions intensity by 2030, from is based. The technologies that will be piloted powered by clean energy from the dearly about how results are achieved, 2010 levels. Both targets were set based include a high efficiency air distribution end of 2018 through the retirement not just that they are attained. Instilling on the national targets announced by the system, a revolutionary cooling tower water of these certificates2. this core value into every employee and Singapore Government in 2009 and management system, and an intelligent enhancing our regulatory compliance 2015 respectively. building control system. This will be the Fostering Safe & Productive Employment are thus key priorities for the board and first time that any of these technologies are Our people are our most valuable resource. management of the company. As at end-2018, our operations in Singapore implemented in a development in Singapore. We respect and uphold labour and human and overseas have achieved a 24% average When the project is completed in 2020, rights principles, adhere to fair employment During the year, Keppel Offshore & Marine reduction in carbon emissions intensity from we expect to improve the annual energy practices, and are committed to nurture (Keppel O&M) carried out a risk review our 2010 baseline. We are on track to achieving consumption of Keppel Bay Tower by 20%. and empower a diverse, competent and and audit of anti-corruption compliance. Keppel’s 2020 target, and will continue to We are also working to certify the building dedicated talent pool to drive Keppel’s further In November, Keppel O&M’s entities in work steadily towards our 2030 target. under BCA’s new Green Mark for super low growth. This year, we invested over 500,000 Singapore achieved certification for the energy buildings. hours training and developing our global ISO 37001 Anti-Bribery Management System. Energy efficiency initiatives implemented talent pool, and leveraged digital platforms We will continue to work towards certification across the Group in 2018, including Keppel The Group continued to promote the use of for faster and better reach. We seek to create for the other entities within Keppel O&M Land’s Green Mark-certified developments, renewable energy in our different businesses. a conducive workplace where employees can and the Group. The Group is committed are estimated to have saved 812,134 GJ to putting in place effective and robust of energy, equivalent to 9% of the Group’s compliance and governance regimes and total energy consumption, during the year. 1 Revision of World Urbanisation Prospects (2018), Population Division of the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs. honour the undertakings given as part of the This translates to an estimated $55 million 2 The renewable energy certificates allocated to Keppel Corporation’s corporate office for the period starting 2017 global resolution involving Keppel O&M. in cost savings, and an avoidance of December 2018 will be retired in July 2019. 2 Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 3 Group Overview Letter to Stakeholders explore, develop and fulfil their professional financially-disadvantaged students, aspirations, and at the same time help and RMB 5 million to the China Foundation Keppel achieve its mission to provide for Poverty Alleviation to support projects solutions for sustainable urbanisation. to benefit impoverished communities in China. Beyond Singapore and China, Keppel has a robust Health, Safety and Keppel also supports various literacy and Environment Policy, which all our employees skills training programmes in Brazil, the and suppliers are expected to abide by. While Philippines and Vietnam to benefit less we have made good progress in our safety privileged children and youth. journey, sadly, we suffered one fatality of a contractor in 2018. The incident was In recognition of our corporate giving efforts, associated with steel fabrication works in Keppel was conferred the title Champion of one of our Singapore shipyards. We are Good by the National Volunteer & Philanthropy deeply saddened by the loss and have Centre in Singapore in 2018. thoroughly investigated the root causes of the incident. We will continue to strengthen Communicating on Progress efforts in our safety journey to ensure that Keppel Corporation is a signatory of the Keppelites, as well as those who work on UN Global Compact, the world’s largest our premises, are able to go home safe corporate sustainability initiative to mobilise every day. a global movement of sustainable companies. We reaffirm our support of the Global Suppliers of Keppel Group companies are Compact’s 10 principles on human rights, expected to abide by the Keppel Group’s labour, environment and anti-corruption, supplier code of conduct, which covers which resonate strongly with our own core areas pertaining to business conduct, values. In this report, which is also our first environmental management, labour practices, annual Communication on Progress, we as well as safety and health. In 2018, all new have described our actions to integrate suppliers were screened in accordance the principles into our business strategy, with environmental, social and governance culture and daily operations. criteria, and 99.8% of qualified suppliers signed the Code or have their own codes Shaping a Better Tomorrow which met Keppel’s requirements. We are encouraged that our sustainability efforts have been internationally recognised. Investing in Our Communities In 2018, Keppel continued to be recognised Wherever we operate, we aim to invest in the in Singapore and internationally for our long-term economic and social well-being of sustainability efforts and reporting. Keppel our communities, be it through working with Corporation was the winner of the UN SDGs the underprivileged, promoting education or category at the Sustainable Business Awards. caring for the environment. Keppel Corporation has also continued to be listed on various sustainability indices and Keppel Volunteers clocked over 14,000 hours rankings, including the MSCI World ESG of volunteer work in 2018, and brought cheer Leaders Index, Euronext Vigeo Eiris Index – to more than 2,600 beneficiaries. Our outreach World 120, as well as the iEdge SG ESG efforts have positively touched lives not only Leaders Index and iEdge SG ESG Transparency in Singapore, but in China, Vietnam, Indonesia Index by the Singapore Exchange. and Brazil, among other countries where we operate. I would like to acknowledge and As we execute our businesses, we will thank all our volunteers for their dedication, actively explore new opportunities and build as well as partners and Keppel alumni future growth engines which harness the members who also contributed to the efforts. Group’s collective strengths and capabilities, and augment our mission as a provider In partnership with organisations that share of solutions for sustainable urbanisation. our values, we commit up to 1% of the Group’s We will also continue to strengthen net profit to worthy social and environmental collaboration with partners to make a causes. These contributions are coordinated meaningful impact to society, and create and disbursed by Keppel Care Foundation, value for our stakeholders as we shape a the Group’s philanthropic arm. The Foundation sustainable future. has disbursed over $36 million to worthy causes since its launch in 2012. In 2018, we made a $1 million donation to the President’s Challenge in Singapore to support over 50 social service organisations that provide programmes to support the vulnerable in society. We also committed Loh Chin Hua $10 million to the Institute of Technical Chief Executive Officer Education to promote education for 23 April 2019 4 Highlights Accolades Sustainability Benchmarks Economic Value Conferred the Sustainable Business Award 2018 in the United Nations Top 10 $7.1b Sustainable Development Goals category. Constituent of the iEdge SG ESG Of economic value generated Leaders Index and the iEdge SG ESG for our stakeholders. Transparency Index by the Singapore Exchange in 2018. Sustainability Innovation Energy Savings Water Recycling 27% $55m 29% Of R&D expenditure invested in In estimated cost savings from energy Of our water consumed in Singapore sustainability-linked innovation. efficiency initiatives implemented is water recycled by the Group. in 2018 and from Keppel Land’s Green Mark-certified developments. Carbon Emissions Suppliers Safety 24% 100% >200 In average reduction in emissions Of all new suppliers screened Safety leadership coaching intensity from our 2010 baseline. in accordance with environmental, programmes held globally to train social and governance criteria. and empower frontline managers. Training & Development Social Investments Volunteerism 27.1hrs $8.9m >14,000hrs Of training per employee globally. Invested in social causes in 2018. Of community work achieved by Keppel Volunteers, touching the lives of over 2,600 beneficiaries. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 5 Group Overview Sustainability Framework GRI 102-16 Keppel provides robust solutions for sustainable We are committed to sustainability, and consider environmental, social and proposition to customers, making a difference to the wider community, 10 universal principles. We are also committed to working towards urbanisation, to meet the world's needs for energy, governance issues in the determination and contributing to a sustainable future. the achievement of the Sustainable infrastructure, clean environments, high quality of our strategy and policies. Our approach to sustainability starts with our goal to Keppel Corporation is a signatory of the Development Goals, and have incorporated 10 of the goals as a homes and offices, and connectivity. run a profitable, safe and responsible United Nations (UN) Global Compact, supporting framework to guide our business providing the best value and we are committed to the Compact’s sustainability strategy. OUR BUSINESS ENGINES HOW WE CREATE VALUE Keppel provides solutions for OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE GOVERNANCE MEASURING PERFORMANCE sustainable urbanisation, with key businesses in Offshore Our approach to sustainability starts with our goal to run a profitable, safe and The Keppel Corporation Board of Directors and Strong Governance Framework Balanced Scorecard & Marine, Property, Infrastructure responsible business providing the best value proposition to customers, while guided by management regularly review as well as oversee the Keppel is focused on upholding The Company’s balanced and Investments. our core values and operating principles. management and monitoring of the material ESG high standards of corporate scorecard aligns compensation factors of the Company. governance. We have a with corporate and individual Our businesses collaborate to offer The company’s sustainability strategy is guided by the three thrusts of Sustaining Growth, strong and independent board, performance, both in terms of a spectrum of innovative and Empowering Lives and Nurturing Communities. The Group Sustainability Steering Committee, and are committed to good financial and non-financial sustainable solutions for urbanisation. chaired by Keppel Corporation’s Chief Executive business ethics. We maintain performance. Sustaining Growth Officer Loh Chin Hua and comprising senior clear, consistent and Energy We integrate sustainability principles in our business strategies and management from across the Group, provides regular communication There are four scorecard areas We support the safe and operations, and regard sustainable development both as a corporate guidance on the Group’s sustainability strategy with shareholders. that the Company has identified efficient harvesting of responsibility and a source of business opportunities. while the Group Sustainability Working Committee, as key to measuring the energy sources to power comprising discipline-specific working groups, executes, Keppel’s System of performance of the Group: the world’s needs. We are focused on strong corporate governance, prudent risk monitors and reports on the Group’s efforts. Management Controls management and resource efficiency. Framework 1. Financial and Business Drivers; Our management systems, policies and guidelines, The Framework outlines the 2. Process; Empowering Lives including our Employee Code of Conduct; Health, Safety Group’s internal control and 3. Stakeholders; and People are the cornerstone of our businesses. and Environment Policy, and Supplier Code of Conduct, risk management processes 4. People. Urban Living translate our principles into practice by setting standards and procedures. The Framework We shape skylines both for our Company and those whom we work with. Some of the key sub-targets We are committed to grow and nurture our talent pool through training comprises three Lines of and lives through within each of the scorecard and development to help our people reach their full potential. Defence towards ensuring the vibrant and sustainable areas include key financial OUR STAKEHOLDERS adequacy and effectiveness of urban developments. indicators, safety goals, risk With safety as one of our core values, we are committed to providing the Group’s system of internal a safe and healthy workplace for all our stakeholders. controls and risk management. management, compliance and controls measures, sustainability Nurturing Communities Employees efforts, employee engagement, Core Values and talent development and Clean Environments As a global citizen, Keppel believes that as communities thrive, we thrive. Operating Principles succession planning. We green cities with Keppel’s core values of solutions for waste, water We engage and nurture communities wherever we operate, with the goal integrity, accountability, The four scorecard areas have and urban climate control. of shaping a sustainable future together. people-centredness, safety, Customers among others, along with been chosen because they support how the Group achieves MATERIALITY APPROACH our operating principles, guide its strategic objectives. The management and staff in the framework provides a link for Material issues affect our ability to create value in the long term, and influence the conduct of our businesses. staff to understand how they decisions of our stakeholders. Connectivity Governments contribute to each area of the We connect people and Process Risk-Centric Culture scorecard, and therefore to the businesses with A robust process was undertaken to identify and prioritise Keppel Corporation’s material Effective risk management Company’s overall strategic information, goods and environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. The process was supported by an hinges not only on systems goals. This is designed to achieve services in an increasingly independent consultant and involved stakeholder consultations, workshops for senior and processes, but equally a consistent approach and digital economy. management, an assessment of long-term global trends and an internal review of our Shareholders & Investors on mindsets and attitudes. understanding across the Group. businesses. The material ESG issues for Keppel Corporation were reviewed in 2018 and The Group fosters a risk-centric deemed to remain relevant. culture that enables us to continue to respond effectively Asset Management Read more about our materiality process on page 18. to the dynamic business We create enduring value Suppliers environment, shifting business with quality investment Keppel Corporation Material Issues demands and to seize new products and platforms. value-added opportunities for Tier 1: Issues of Critical Importance Tier 2: Issues of High Importance our stakeholders. • Corporate governance • Labour practices and • Economic sustainability human rights Read more about our approach to Read more about how our businesses • Safety and health • Community development Local Communities governance and risk management contribute to the Sustainable Development • Product excellence • Supply chain and on pages 26 to 38. Goals on pages 9 to 13. • Environmental performance responsible procurement 6 Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 7 Group Overview Shaping a Sustainable Future GRI 102-2 | 102-6 | 102-7 | 102-15 Keppel is committed to sustainability, both Our businesses collaborate to offer a as a responsible corporate citizen and as a spectrum of innovative and sustainable provider of solutions that contribute to a solutions for urbanisation. more sustainable world. Strengthening Key Verticals We have undertaken strategic initiatives to stay relevant, unlock new opportunities and drive growth in a fast-changing landscape. Our Offshore & Marine Division, for instance, has been re-positioned as an offshore energy and infrastructure solutions provider, expanding its markets beyond the oil drilling sector. In 2018, we secured Liquefied Natural Gas and scrubber projects worth over $600 million. With the successful deployment of the world’s first converted Floating LNG (FLNG) vessel, Hilli Episeyo, we have demonstrated that converted FLNG solutions can be a quick and cost-efficient way of monetising stranded gas reserves. At the same time, Keppel Land is continuing its transformation to be a multi-dimensional real estate company, with one of the highest rates of return in Asia. Keppel Infrastructure is seeking value-enhancing projects, leveraging its project development, engineering, and operations and maintenance capabilities, while Keppel Telecommunications & Transportation is scaling up its logistics and data centre businesses. Keppel Capital is also seeking long term growth, including expanding into new markets and asset classes, focusing on areas which harness the capabilities of the Keppel Group. Seizing New Opportunities Urbanisation trends present many exciting and interconnected opportunities for Keppel, whether it is providing energy, property, environmental solutions or connectivity. With a view to developing future growth engines, we are actively exploring and investing in new businesses such as senior living and renewable energy infrastructure. We are also expanding our presence in consumer businesses including electricity retail, urban logistics and telecommunications. In Singapore, Keppel Electric became the second largest electricity retailer after SP Services in 2018. In addition, Keppel Corporation, together with Singapore Press Holdings, have privatised M1, and are driving business changes that will enable M1 to compete more effectively in the telecommunications industry. Unleashing Synergies Our businesses are collaborating with one another to seize opportunities with the common purpose of providing solutions for sustainable urbanisation. Keppel Urban Solutions (KUS) for example, brings together the Group’s capabilities and track record in energy, property, infrastructure and connectivity to create smart, sustainable urban townships. KUS is working with Keppel Land to develop the 64-hectare Saigon Sports City in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. By working together as a group, we can enhance the value of our landbank and real estate, as well as enjoy multiple income streams from developing and managing properties and infrastructure, and providing a host of high quality urban services. 8 Sustainable Development Goals GRI 102-2 | 102-6 | 102-7 | 102-12 | 102-15 Keppel is committed to the international community’s sustainable development agenda, and will leverage collaboration and partnership to support the global goals. Energy Keppel believes that businesses can The demand for energy will grow as cities continue to undergo play an important role in contributing urbanisation. Solutions in our energy portfolio focus on enhancing to the achievement of the Sustainable access to energy. With climate change as a growing international Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 concern, demand for cleaner sources of energy such as Liquefied Agenda for Sustainable Development. Natural Gas (LNG) is expected to rise. LNG is considered to be We firmly believe that a company that one of the safest and cleanest fossil fuels available, and offers is aligned with the global sustainable significant potential for industries to reduce greenhouse gas development agenda can not only emissions. With a view to developing future growth engines, enhance its social licence to operate, but Keppel is actively exploring and investing in new businesses also improve the sustainability, efficiency such as renewable energy infrastructure. and competitiveness of its business. As one of the world’s leaders in LNG vessel repair, Keppel Offshore Having reviewed how our different & Marine (Keppel O&M) has built up critical knowledge for handling businesses can contribute to each of the materials at extremely low temperatures. This experience, coupled SDGs, we have incorporated the goals, with a strong track record in oil and gas projects, has enabled where appropriate, as a supporting Keppel to achieve many firsts in the delivery of LNG solutions. framework to shape and guide our Hilli Episeyo, the world’s first converted FLNG vessel which sustainability strategy. In this report, Keppel O&M delivered in late 2017, has maintained 100% uptime we share how different activities of the since beginning commercial operations. Hilli’s successful proof of Keppel Group contribute towards ten concept as a quick and cost-efficient solution for monetising stranded of these goals. gas reserves continues to add momentum to new opportunities in the liquefaction vessel space. Keppel O&M has since received the final Sustainable Urbanisation notice to proceed on a second FLNG conversion project – the Gimi Today, 55% of the world’s population lives FLNG. The Gimi FLNG is slated to support the Greater Tortue/ in urban areas, a proportion that is expected Ahmeyim project located offshore West Africa. to increase to 68% by 2050. Projections show that urbanisation, rural-urban Our ability to offer end-to-end solutions has also primed Keppel to migration, combined with the overall meet rising demand for LNG in archipelagic markets unserved by gas growth of the world’s population could pipelines. Keppel O&M has seen continued demand for LNG related add another 2.5 billion people to urban solutions such as LNG carriers and dual-fuel tugs. In 2018, Keppel O&M areas by 2050, with close to 90% of this secured over $600 million worth of LNG and scrubber projects. increase taking place in Asia and Africa1. Keppel Infrastructure’s Energy Infrastructure Division provides With more and more people making competitive energy solutions and services across the natural cities their home, sustainable development gas value chain through its subsidiaries Keppel Merlimau Cogen, depends increasingly on the successful Keppel Electric, Keppel Gas, Pipenet and Keppel DHCS. The Keppel management of urban growth. Understanding Merlimau Cogen plant uses natural gas to generate electricity. the key trends in urbanisation that are likely Gas-fired plants have significantly lower carbon emissions than to unfold over the coming years is crucial oil-fired steam plants. to the implementation of the SDGs. Many countries will face challenges in meeting the In Singapore, Keppel Electric became the second largest electricity needs of their growing urban populations, retailer after SP Services, with a 13.9% market share2. including for housing, transportation, energy systems and other infrastructure. During the year, Keppel DHCS clinched a contract for the initial design phase of a new district cooling services (DCS) plant in the upcoming Keppel’s suite of solutions for energy, Jurong Innovation District in Singapore. Contingent upon approval urban living, clean environments and by JTC Corporation, there may be a subsequent phase of the connectivity can help countries maintain contract to build, own and operate a DCS plant, with a capacity of a balance between the trend of rapid up to 14,000 refrigeration tonnes (RT), on a 30-year contract term. urbanisation and the focus on sustainability. With the aggregate installed capacity across major business and industrial parks projected to increase to 74,000 RT, Keppel DHCS remains the largest DCS provider in Singapore. Separately, under a research grant awarded by the Energy Market Authority in Singapore, Keppel DHCS and the National University of Singapore are jointly developing novel heat transfer materials for DCS. If successful, the new technology would not only improve 1 Revision of World Urbanisation Prospects (2018), Population Division of the UN Department of energy efficiency by as much as five times but could also result in Economic and Social Affairs (UN DESA). space savings of the same magnitude. The project is expected to be 2 National Electricity Market of Singapore: completed by 2021. Market Report 2018, Energy Market Company. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 9 Group Overview Sustainable Development Goals Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City The Keppel Group leads the Singapore Consortium in the development of the Eco-City. Urban Living This is a high-level project between the governments of Singapore and China to develop a Buildings play a dominant role in the clean sustainable city which can be a model for sustainable urbanisation in other Chinese cities. energy transition. The construction and operations of buildings accounted for 36% Since the groundbreaking in 2008, the Eco-City has been transformed from a barren, saline of global final energy use and nearly 40% and alkaline site to an emerging green city, where over 100,000 people live and work. of energy‐related carbon dioxide emissions. The Eco-City was named China’s first National Green Development Demonstration Zone, Final energy demand in buildings has risen first Integrated Smart-Grid Demonstration Zone and a National Green Building Base. significantly with the impact from the growth in floor area and population outpacing the Keppel has been participating actively in and contributing to the Eco-City’s development. impact of energy efficiency improvements3. Keppel Land’s eco-friendly homes have been well-received by the market. To date, The rapid deployment of energy-efficient Keppel has launched about 4,500 units of homes in the Eco-City, of which about 98% and low-carbon solutions for buildings and have been sold as at end-2018. In 2018, Keppel secured a 10.97-hectare residential site construction can help put the world on a in the Eco-City for a total consideration of RMB 1.07 billion (approximately $214 million). sustainable trajectory. The new site will be developed into an eco-community comprising 392 units of terrace houses and 180 units of low-rise apartments. The project is expected to be launched In line with our mission of providing solutions in 4Q 2019. for sustainable urbanisation, the Group considers environmental factors during the planning and design of our property Past: developments, data centres and warehouses, The site chosen for the Tianjin Eco-City was saline and alkaline land lacking in fresh water. as well as during their operational phases. As one of Asia’s premier property companies, Keppel Land is focused on developing properties that harmonise with the environment, and adopts a holistic and proactive approach towards environmental management. As a leading green developer, Keppel Land has set the benchmark4 for all new Singapore developments and overseas commercial projects to be certified to the Building and Construction Authority of Singapore’s (BCA) Green Mark GoldPLUS standard, or its equivalent, and for all overseas residential developments to be certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent. All newly acquired completed commercial buildings are also to be certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent, within two years. The company has garnered a total of 83 BCA Green Mark Awards to date. Present: The Tianjin Eco-City is now one of China’s best-known sustainable urban developments. In collaboration with BCA, Keppel Land will be incorporating five new and emerging energy-efficient technologies in Keppel Bay Tower, where the headquarters of Keppel Corporation is based. When implemented in 2020, this will allow Keppel Bay Tower to yield estimated overall annual energy savings of approximately 1.5 million kWh, equivalent to the amount of energy required to power more than 250 five-room HDB flats in Singapore for one year. Read more about our efforts to factor in sustainability considerations into our solutions and operations on pages 40 to 47. 10 Clean Environments Connectivity In 2018, the world’s cities generated over 2 billion tonnes of solid Keppel Telecommunications & Transportation (Keppel T&T) continues waste, amounting to a footprint of 0.74 kilogrammes per person per to focus on energy efficiency and reliability in its data centre portfolio of day. With rapid population growth and urbanisation, annual waste 22 data centres across 14 cities in Asia Pacific and Europe. The company’s generation is expected to increase by 70% to 3.40 billion tonnes data centre facilities in Singapore are certified with the Singapore Standard by 20505. for Green Data Centres, and utilise a host of energy-efficient solutions to improve power usage effectiveness. In the Logistics business, the Residents in developing countries are more severely impacted by company continues to harness technology, such as enhanced route unsustainably managed waste. In some countries, over 90% of planning, to minimise travelling distance and reduce fuel wastage. waste is often disposed in unregulated dumps or openly burned. These practices create serious health, safety, and environmental Keppel T&T is also pursuing innovative new solutions in collaboration consequences. Poorly managed waste serves as a breeding ground with other business units in the Group, including floating data centre for disease vectors and contributes to global climate change through parks and high-rise green data centres, which may also incorporate methane generation. Managing waste properly is essential for building sustainable and liveable cities. cold energy harvesting facilities. Keppel Infrastructure taps the advanced technology solutions In September 2018, Keppel Corporation announced a major strategic of its subsidiary, Keppel Seghers, to address a wide spectrum of initiative, in collaboration with Singapore Press Holdings (SPH), to gain environmental issues in solid waste and wastewater management. majority control of M1, in order to drive business changes that will enable With a strong track record in implementing water and waste M1 to compete more effectively in the telecommunications industry. management projects in Europe, North and South America, The voluntary conditional general offer for M1 turned unconditional in Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East, Keppel is well-positioned February 2019, with the joint venture company, Konnectivity, and its to meet the challenges of building a cleaner world. concert parties achieving majority control of M1. On 16 April 2019, due to the strong support from M1’s shareholders, Konnectivity Waste-to-energy (WTE) plants by Keppel generate green energy exercised its rights to compulsorily acquire all the shares of shareholders from waste and help in landfill diversion by as much as 90% who have not accepted the offer. M1 complements Keppel’s mission through reduction in the volume of waste disposed. We have as a solutions provider for sustainable urbanisation, which includes implemented our proven and patented WTE technologies in more connectivity, and can serve as a digital platform and connectivity than 100 state-of-the-art facilities around the world. partner to complement and augment Keppel’s current suite of solutions. Keppel’s advanced water solutions cover the full water cycle, including wastewater treatment, process and drinking water, desalination and water reuse. We have implemented more than 350 water and wastewater treatment projects globally to date. Keppel has designed, built and is now operating two landmark projects that serve the environmental needs of Qatar – the Doha North Sewage Treatment Works, which recycles wastewater and treats sludge for agricultural reuse, and the Domestic Solid Waste Asset Management Management Centre, which treats municipal waste to generate As an integrated asset manager, Keppel Capital continues to play green energy. a key role in collaborating with other business units to create real assets from the spectrum of solutions offered by the Group. In 2018, Keppel Seghers expanded its track record as a choice provider Keppel Capital will continue to pursue opportunities to grow its assets of WTE technology and services, and its geographical reach. In China, under management, boosting the Group’s funding capabilities and Keppel Seghers secured a contract to provide WTE technology and expanding its capital base. Leveraging the Group’s core competencies, services for a project in Xian, Shaanxi Province. With this, Keppel is Keppel Capital will continue to create innovative investment solutions currently executing nine technology package projects with a total and connect investors with high-quality real assets in fast-growing incineration capacity of over 15,000 tonnes per day in China. sectors fuelled by urbanisation trends. Keppel Seghers will also supply technology and services worth over €70 million for Australia’s first WTE plant in Kwinana. When In 2018, Keppel Capital made headway in the investments into completed in 2021, the facility, which utilises Keppel Seghers’ alternative asset classes, including senior living and education proprietary technology, can reduce the volume of waste for landfills real estate sectors. Population ageing, especially in urban societies, by over 90% and export about 36 megawatts of green electricity will be one of the most significant social transformations of the to the grid. Meanwhile, engineering design work is progressing well twenty-first century, with wide-ranging implications on many sectors. for Phase 1 of the Hong Kong Integrated Waste Management Facility, Keppel’s announced acquisition of a stake in a leading US senior living the first waste-to-energy facility for Hong Kong, with key procurement and prefabrication works expected to commence in 2019 alongside operator is a strategic move to enter this new growth sector and also ground preparation for reclamation works. bring customised solutions to Singapore and other markets in Asia. The Keppel Marina East Desalination Plant in Singapore is on track for completion in 2020 and will help bolster the country’s water supply resilience. The plant is able to treat both seawater and freshwater, and is Singapore’s first large-scale dual-mode desalination plant. 3 Global Status Report: towards a zero-emission, efficient and resilient buildings and construction sector (2018), International Energy Agency and the United Nations Environment Programme. 4 Keppel Land’s environmental targets apply to all projects where it has a majority stake and/or operational control. 5 What a Waste 2.0: A Global Snapshot of Solid Waste Management to 2050 (2018). Urban Development Series. Washington, DC: World Bank. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 11 Group Overview Sustainable Development Goals Valuing Our People Ensuring Compliance Our businesses spark economic growth, productivity and jobs. Guided by our core values and enhanced code of conduct, we are fully In 2018, Keppel’s businesses generated over $7 billion in economic committed to ensuring that compliance is a central pillar of our value. This includes revenue, interest and investment income, management and an integral part of our corporate culture and and disposal gains. $988 million was paid out in employee wages business processes. We remain focused on ensuring consistency in and benefits, and $135 million was paid to governments in the application and operational effectiveness of the compliance form of taxes. programme across the Group. Some 18,000 people in over 20 countries work at Keppel. They are Given the geographical diversity of our businesses, we closely monitor supported by an inclusive culture that allows them to maximise their developments in the laws and regulations of countries where the potential. Our hiring policies ensure equal employment opportunities Group operates to ensure that our businesses and operations comply for all. Our stance on diversity and inclusion is articulated in with all relevant laws and regulations. We regularly engage with local our corporate statement on diversity and inclusion, which was government authorities and agencies to keep abreast of changes formalised in early 2019, and is publicly available online. to laws and regulations. We recognise that non-compliance with laws and regulations not only has significant financial impact but We are committed to nurture human capital, and make investments potentially detrimental reputational impact on the Group. to equip our employees with up-to-date skills and certifications. We also partner government bodies and educational institutions Keppel is committed to putting in place effective and robust on initiatives targeted at grooming young talents. compliance and governance regimes. As part of ongoing efforts to strengthen its compliance controls, Keppel O&M executed a review Read more about our training and development initiatives for staff and audit of its anti-corruption compliance. In November 2018, on pages 68 and 69. Keppel O&M’s entities in Singapore achieved certification for the ISO 37001 Anti-Bribery Management System. We will continue to work towards certification for the other entities within Keppel O&M and the Group. Read more about our regulatory compliance practices on pages 37 and 38. Occupational Safety & Health Safety is a core value at Keppel, and an integral part of our business. We are committed to provide a safe and healthy workplace for all our stakeholders, and focus on strengthening our frameworks and management systems as well as promoting a culture of safety ownership across our operations. In 2018, we invested approximately $26 million in enhancing safety infrastructure, upgrading systems and building knowledge and skillsets across the Group. We also support national and industry-related initiatives to raise safety standards, and members of Keppel’s management team sit on various committees of the Workplace Safety and Health Council and related industry associations. Over 200 safety leadership coaching programmes were conducted globally in 2018 to train and empower frontline and senior managers. The Group also rolled out its Incident Investigation and Root Cause Analysis training programme in Singapore in 2018 as part of ongoing efforts to harmonise safety systems and processes across our global operations. The Keppel Safety Training Centre at Keppel Shipyard in Singapore offers a complete range of safety training and certification courses in both trade specific and broad-based skills for all levels of the workforce. In Brazil, BrasFELS opened a new health, safety and environment Training Centre in 2018. The Centre is equipped with two auditoriums, a classroom for practical safety trainings and a showroom. Keppel Land’s Safety Awareness Centres in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam; Johor Bahru, Malaysia; Jakarta, Indonesia and Tianjin, China, provide mandatory training for contractors’ employees and foster a culture of safety across Keppel Land’s supply chain. In 2018, Keppel Land launched a mobile centre in Wuxi, China, which will serve three sites. Read more about our efforts to establish a strong culture of safety at our workplaces on pages 57 to 63. 12 Supporting the SDGs GRI 102-12 Keppel firmly believes that a company that is aligned with the global sustainable development agenda can not only enhance its social licence to operate, but also improve the sustainability, efficiency and competitiveness of its business. We have incorporated the Sustainable Development Goals, where appropriate, as a supporting framework to shape and guide our sustainability strategy. Keppel’s Related Sustainability Material Related Thrusts Issues SDGs Approach Sustaining Environmental Our advanced technology solutions address a wide spectrum of environmental performance issues in solid waste and wastewater management, as well as seawater and Growth freshwater treatment to bolster water supply resilience. Product excellence We enhance access to energy with our diverse portfolio of solutions. Our delivery of the world’s first Floating Liquefied Natural Gas vessel conversion puts us ahead of the curve as a leading provider of floating liquefaction solutions. Economic Our businesses help promote sustainable urbanisation. We offer solutions for sustainability/ property, infrastructure, technology and services that optimise urban systems and Product excellence contribute towards resilient, green and liveable cities. Environmental We are focused on achieving sustainable management and efficient use of natural performance/ resources. We aim to reduce waste generation through resource efficiency, Supply chain recycling, and reuse of natural resources. and responsible procurement Environmental We are committed to minimising our environmental impact. To support the climate performance change agenda, we have set a target of achieving a 28.8% reduction in carbon emissions intensity by 2030 from 2010 levels, in addition to the target of achieving a 16% improvement in carbon emissions from 2020 business-as-usual levels. Corporate governance We will conduct ourselves according to the highest ethical standards and comply with all applicable laws and regulations wherever we operate. Our tone on regulatory compliance is clear and consistently reiterated from the top of the organisation. We have zero tolerance for fraud, bribery, corruption and violation of laws and regulations. Empowering Safety and health Providing a safe and healthy working environment for all stakeholders is fundamental to our commitment to conduct business responsibly. We are strong Lives advocates for safety and health in the broader community, and champion national and industry initiatives to raise standards and drive innovation in these aspects. The Keppel Group won 28 awards at the Workplace Safety and Health Awards in 2018, the highest number of awards won by a single organisation in the year. Labour practices and Our businesses spark economic growth, productivity and jobs. Our hiring policies human rights ensure equal employment opportunities for all, and we are committed to invest in nurturing our human capital. Economic We are committed to operating sustainably, and apply our knowledge, skills and sustainability/ technology to drive innovation and support economic development and the Community well-being of our communities. development Nurturing Community Through collaboration with our stakeholders, we mobilise and share knowledge, development expertise and technology, as well as financial and human resources to support the Communities achievement of the SDGs. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 13 Group Overview Group Structure GRI 102-4 | 102-5 | 102-6 | 102-7 | 102-45 Keppel Corporation Limited Offshore & Marine Property Infrastructure Investments • Offshore rig design, construction, • Property development • Energy infrastructure • Asset management repair and upgrading • Investments • Environmental infrastructure • Master development • Ship conversion and repair • Infrastructure services • Investments • Specialised shipbuilding • Logistics and data centres • Investments KEPPEL OFFSHORE & KEPPEL LAND LIMITED KEPPEL INFRASTRUCTURE KEPPEL CAPITAL HOLDINGS MARINE LTD HOLDINGS PTE LTD PTE LTD 100% 100% 100% 100% Keppel FELS Limited 100% Keppel Land 100% ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE Keppel REIT Management 100% International Limited Limited Keppel Shipyard Limited 100% Southeast Asia and India Keppel Gas Pte Ltd 100% Alpha Investment Partners Ltd 100% Keppel Singmarine Pte Ltd 100% Keppel Land China 100% Keppel Electric Pte Ltd 100% China Keppel Infrastructure Fund 100% Keppel LeTourneau 100% Keppel DHCS Pte Ltd 100% Management Pte Ltd Keppel Nantong Shipyard 100% Keppel Bay Pte Ltd 100% Keppel Merlimau Cogen 49% Keppel DC REIT 50% Company Limited Keppel REIT 3 & 4 47% Pte Ltd5 Management Pte Ltd6 China ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE Keppel-KBS US REIT 50% Offshore Technology 100% Management Pte Ltd Development Pte Ltd Keppel Seghers Pte Ltd 100% Keppel-KBS US REIT4 8% Keppel Marine & 100% INFRASTRUCTURE SERVICES Deepwater Technology Pte Ltd Keppel Infrastructure 100% Services Pte Ltd KEPPEL URBAN SOLUTIONS Keppel AmFELS LLC 100% PTE LTD United States 100% INVESTMENTS Keppel FELS Brasil SA 100% Brasil Keppel Infrastructure Trust 4 18% KRISENERGY LTD 4 Cayman Islands Keppel Philippines Marine Inc 98% 40% The Philippines KEPPEL TELECOMMUNICATIONS & TRANSPORTATION LTD 100% M1 LIMITED2 Keppel Subic Shipyard Inc 86% 100% The Philippines LOGISTICS & DATA CENTRES Dyna-Mac Holdings Limited4 24% Keppel Logistics Pte Ltd 100% Keppel Data Centres Holding 100% Pte Ltd UrbanFox Pte Ltd 85% Keppel DC REIT4 25% SINO-SINGAPORE TIANJIN ECO-CITY INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT CO., LTD1 China 50% GROUP CORPORATE SERVICES Control & Accounts Human Resources Tax Corporate Communications Legal Treasury Strategy & Development Risk & Compliance Information Systems Corporate Development Audit Health, Safety & Environment Notes: 1 Owned by a Singapore Consortium, which is in turn 90%-owned by the Keppel Group. 2 Owned by Keppel Telecommunications & Transportation Ltd (19%) and Konnectivity (81%), a joint venture between Keppel Corporation and Singapore Press Holdings. 3 Owned by Keppel Land Limited (43%) and Keppel Capital Holdings Pte Ltd (4%). 4 Public listed company. 5 Owned by Keppel Infrastructure Holdings Pte Ltd (49%) and Keppel Infrastructure Trust (51%). 6 Owned by Keppel Capital Holdings Pte Ltd (50%) and Keppel Telecommunications & Transportation Ltd (50%). Updated as at 8 May 2019. The complete list of subsidiaries and significant associated companies is available at www.kepcorp.com. 14 Sustainability Management GRI 102-18 | 102-19 | 102-20 | 102-22 | 102-26 | 102-29 | 102-31 | 102-32 Sustainability issues are managed and communicated Board Statement on Sustainability at all levels of the Group. “The key material environmental, social and governance factors for Keppel Corporation have been identified and are regularly reviewed by Keppel Corporation’s Board of Directors and management. The Board oversees the management and monitoring of these factors and takes them into consideration in the determination of the Company’s strategic direction and policies.” Keppel Corporation Board of Directors The Keppel Corporation Board and management Supporting the Steering Committee regularly review as well as oversee the is the Working Committee, co-chaired management and monitoring of the material by Sebastien Lamy, Director of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Group Strategy & Development and factors of the Company, and take them into Managing Director of Keppel Technology consideration in the determination of the & Innovation, and Ho Tong Yen, Director Company's strategic direction and policies. of Group Corporate Communications, Keppel Corporation. The committee, The Group Sustainability Steering Committee comprising eight discipline-specific provides guidance on strategic and operational working groups with representatives issues. The committee is chaired by Keppel from across our different businesses, Corporation’s Chief Executive Officer and executes and reports on the Group’s Executive Director Loh Chin Hua and comprises efforts across the material ESG aspects senior management from across the Group. of Economic Sustainability, Corporate Governance, Environmental Performance, High-level strategic matters pertaining to Product Excellence, Safety & Health, sustainability issues are addressed at the Labour Practices & Human Rights, annual Group Sustainability Steering Supply Chain & Responsible Procurement, Committee meeting. and Community Development. Keppel Group’s Sustainability Management Structure KEPPEL CORPORATION BOARD Economic Sustainability Sustainability Steering Committee Corporate Governance Sustainability Working Committee Environmental Performance Secretariat Product Excellence Safety & Health Labour Practices & Human Rights Supply Chain & Responsible Procurement Community Development Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 15 Group Overview Sustainability Management Collaboration with stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Memberships in Associations GRI 102-21 | 102-42 GRI 102-13 supports us in addressing Regular engagement with our stakeholders In addition to engaging our stakeholders, sustainability challenges. helps us determine our material areas we participate as members of organisations of focus. that include: Our stakeholder engagement • United Nations (UN) Global Compact framework is developed in accordance as a Signatory, and Global Compact with the AA1000 AccountAbility Network Singapore as a member; Stakeholder Engagement Standard, we are committed to the 10 principles whereby stakeholders are defined to of the Global Compact and be individuals, groups of individuals support broader UN sustainable or organisations that affect and/or development goals; could be affected by Keppel’s • Singapore Institute of Directors to activities, products or services promote the professional development and associated performance. of directors and corporate leaders and uphold the highest standards In reviewing our approach towards of corporate governance and the management and reporting ethical conduct; of ESG issues, Keppel embarked on • Securities Investors Association (Singapore) a stakeholder consultation exercise to engage the investment community and in end-2018. All stakeholder groups are promote good corporate governance; represented in the consultation process, • Singapore National Employers which is targeted for completion Federation to promote excellence in in mid-2019. employment practices; • Workplace Safety & Health Council to build industry capabilities to better manage WSH and promote safety and health at work; • Singapore Institute of International Affairs to deepen understanding and forge stronger partnerships between countries in the region. The Keppel Core Values GRI 102-16 Can Do Safety Passion and Vigour Zero Accident, Zero Loss Integrity Agility & Innovation Act with Ethics and Honesty Adapt to Change and Innovate for Growth Customer Focus Collective Strength Forge Value-Added Global Mindset Partnerships and Teamwork People-Centredness Accountability Value and Nurture People Responsible to all Stakeholders 16 Our Stakeholders GRI 102-21 | 102-40 | 102-42 | 102-43 | 102-44 Employees Customers Governments Significance Significance Significance People are our most valuable asset. Customer satisfaction is crucial to the Governments shape the business We are committed to investing in the success of our businesses. We are environments in which we operate. development of our people. We adopt committed to continually improve our Political factors, policies and regulation merit-based recruitment practices and range of products to better meet customers’ can affect how businesses are run and emphasise diversity and inclusiveness. needs, and we harness insights from our create new opportunities for companies. engagements with customers. We track topics of concern to governments and regulatory bodies wherever we operate. Key Topics & Concerns Key Topics & Concerns Key Topics & Concerns Vision, strategy and direction; Product and service quality; Health, Safety Opportunities for business collaboration innovation; productivity; collaboration; and Environment (HSE) excellence. and investment; sharing of industry best people development. practice; setting industry benchmarks. Approach Approach Approach Annual employee engagement surveys; Regular meetings; ongoing communications Occasional official visits and meetings; regular townhalls; training; mentorship via email and phone; regular customer industry forums. programmes. satisfaction surveys. Our Response Our Response Our Response Read more about how we manage our Read more about how we engage Read more about how we collaborate with global workforce on pages 64 to 71. customers on pages 53 and 54. governments to raise industry standards on pages 60 and 61 as well as page 80. Shareholders & Investors Suppliers Local Communities Significance Significance Significance Shareholders play an important role in Strong, effective relationships with our As active members of our communities, the financing and governance aspects suppliers give our businesses strategic we aim to contribute towards their of our business. Our Investor Relations advantages, including better value. continued well-being. We engage Policy sets out the principles that the By effecting stringent procurement community leaders to develop Company abides by to help shareholders processes and a supplier code of conduct, impactful programmes that drive and prospective investors make we aim to encourage our suppliers to community development. well-informed decisions and ensure adopt sustainable practices. a level playing field. Key Topics & Concerns Key Topics & Concerns Key Topics & Concerns Business strategy and direction; Compliance; HSE excellence. Community investments, economic performance. volunteer programmes. Approach Approach Approach Regular conference calls; shareholder Regular meetings by project managers Regular meetings and community meetings; briefings to retail shareholders; and HSE teams with key subcontractors outreach initiatives. facility visits; quarterly results webcasts; and suppliers; regular site visits ongoing email and phone communications. by management. Our Response Our Response Our Response Read more about how we engage the Read more about how we work with Read more about how we collaborate investment community on pages 32 suppliers to influence their sustainability with community partners to drive social and 33 of Keppel Corporation’s Report performance on pages 48 to 50. development on pages 72 to 83. to Shareholders 2018. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 17 Group Overview Materiality GRI 102-46 Our materiality assessments Materiality assessments are important sustainability context, materiality and components of Keppel’s sustainability completeness. Materiality with respect are based on principles strategy and reporting. Our materiality to sustainability reporting, as defined by of inclusivity, materiality assessments were based on the AA1000 GRI Standards, includes topics and indicators AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity and that reflect the organisation’s significant and completeness. Materiality, as well as the Global Reporting economic, environmental, and social impacts; Initiative (GRI) Principles for Defining Report and would substantively influence the Content – stakeholder inclusiveness, assessments and decisions of stakeholders. Process Identify Prioritise Integrate Review & Validate Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 We identify the From the list of Important material The material issues Company’s material issues matters are are reviewed and material identified, we managed as part validated annually, Environmental, prioritise those of our business taking into account Social and that have the most processes, and changes to our Governance (ESG) significant impact targets are set to businesses and issues through on our ability to drive behaviours societal trends. stakeholder successfully and measure consultations, an execute our performance. assessment of strategy and long-term global deliver long-term trends and an value to our internal review of stakeholders. our businesses. To focus our Read more about efforts, the issues how we engage are classified stakeholders on as being either sustainability of ‘Critical issues on pages Importance’ or 16 and 17. ‘High Importance’. Keppel Corporation Material Issues GRI 102-47 Tier 1: Issues of Critical Importance Corporate Economic Safety & Product Environmental Governance Sustainability Health Excellence Performance Tier 2: Issues of High Importance Labour Community Supply Chain Practices & Development & Responsible Human Rights Procurement 18 United Nations Global Compact GRI 102-12 We are a signatory of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and are committed to upholding its 10 principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The following report index describes the progress we have made in 2018. Performance Data Principle Approach Measures HUMAN RIGHTS Keppel upholds and respects the fundamental Our stance on human rights is formalised in our Principle 1 principles set out in the UN universal declaration corporate statement on human rights which is publicly Support of human rights of human rights and the International Labour available online. Organisation’s (ILO) declaration on fundamental Principle 2 principles and rights at work. Our suppliers are expected to abide by the Keppel Exclusion of human rights supplier code of conduct, which sets our expectations abuses Our approach to human rights is informed and guided for suppliers to respect and uphold fundamental by general concepts from the UN Guiding Principles human rights in their operations. on Business and Human Rights. Where applicable, our business units conduct outreach We respect the values and cultures of the people programmes and briefings to subcontractor workers and the communities in which we operate, to inform them of their employment rights, and the and aim to serve as a positive influence. available channels to report any violation of their rights. In the broader community, we contribute towards providing educational opportunities to the disadvantaged through scholarships and bursaries, as well as offer skills development and job training opportunities at our workplaces. Read more about how we screen and qualify our suppliers on pages 49 and 50. Read more about how we support education for the disadvantaged on pages 76 to 83. LABOUR We have zero tolerance for unethical labour practices We adhere to national labour laws and regulations Principle 3 such as child labour, forced labour, slavery and human wherever we operate. In Singapore, both local and Assurance of freedom trafficking in any of our operations. Keppel also foreign workers receive protection under the Penal of association supports the elimination of exploitative labour. Code and employment legislation such as the Employment Act and Workplace Safety and Health Act. Principle 4 Unions are our partners and we place great In addition, foreign workers, especially the lower-skilled Elimination of all forms of emphasis on maintaining a harmonious relationship. and lower-income workers, are accorded additional forced and compulsory labour Approximately 28.9% of our global workforce protection under the Employment of Foreign Manpower are bargainable employees covered by Act and the Employment Agencies Act. Principle 5 collective agreements. Abolition of child labour The Keppel supplier code sets out the standards of conduct to which our suppliers are expected to adhere to in relation to child labour, forced labour, freedom of association, equal opportunity and fair compensation. Read more about our labour practices on pages 64 to 71. Principle 6 Our hiring policies ensure equal employment Our employee code of conduct sets the tone in relation Elimination of discrimination opportunities for all. New hires are considered to the Group’s stance against discrimination on based on individual competencies as well as any basis. organisational and job fit. Our employment statistics are reviewed regularly. We adhere to provisions of national laws and regulations concerning discrimination wherever we operate. Our company policies and procedures make qualifications, skills and experience the basis for the recruitment, placement, training and advancement of staff at all levels. If any discrimination is identified, guidelines are in place for the appropriate handling on any grievance cases to address complaints, handle appeals and provide recourse for employees. In Singapore, Keppel adheres to the tripartite guidelines on fair employment practices and endorses the employers’ pledge of fair employment practices. A key principle espoused in the guidelines is that the recruitment of employees should be on the basis of merit and regardless of race or other characteristics, such as age and gender. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 19 Group Overview United Nations Global Compact Performance Data Principle Approach Measures ENVIRONMENT The proactive management of our environmental All our key business units are certified to the ISO 14001 Principle 7 impact enables us to improve resource efficiency, environmental management system, which guides how Precautionary approach to reduce costs and support the global climate we identify, manage, monitor and control environmental environmental challenges change agenda. issues. In addition, the rigs and ships we build comply with all six technical annexes of the International Principle 8 The Group’s risk-based strategies are used to assess, Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Initiatives to promote greater avoid, reduce and mitigate environmental risks and Ships (MARPOL 73/78) which is the main international environmental responsibility impacts. Our focus areas are enhancing energy convention covering prevention of pollution of the efficiency, managing water and waste, reducing our marine environment by ships, while our data centres Principle 9 carbon emissions and improving our environmental are certified under the SS 564 Singapore standard for Development and management systems. national green data centres management system. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our approach to environmental management covers Across our key businesses, we adopt a systems the following aspects: approach and apply the International Standards – fulfilling compliance obligations; framework and Plan-Do-Check-Act model to achieve – protecting the environment by preventing or continual improvement in environmental management. mitigating adverse environmental impacts; – enhancing environmental performance; In line with our mission of providing solutions – achieving financial and operational benefits that for sustainable urbanisation, the Group considers can result from implementing environmentally environmental factors during the planning and design sound alternatives that strengthen Keppel’s of our property developments, data centres and market position; and warehouses as well as during their operation phases. – communicating environmental information to relevant interested parties. Read more about our initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility on pages 39 to 47. ANTI-CORRUPTION Guided by our core values and enhanced code of We have a strict code of conduct that applies to Principle 10 conduct, we are fully committed to ensuring that all employees, who are required to acknowledge Measures against corruption compliance is a central pillar of our management and and comply with the code. The code covers areas an integral part of our corporate culture and business from conduct in the workplace to business conduct, processes. We will do business the right way and including clear provisions on prohibitions against comply with all applicable laws and regulations bribery and corruption, and conflicts of interests wherever we operate. amongst others. Our tone for regulatory compliance is clear and We ensure that our compliance policies and procedures consistently reiterated from the top and throughout are communicated effectively to all employees and all levels of the Group. We have zero tolerance directors. These include policies on anti-bribery, gifts for fraud, bribery, corruption and violation of laws and hospitality, agent fees, donations and sponsorships, and regulations. solicitation and extortion, conflict of interest, and insider trading amongst others. Our regulatory compliance governance structure is designed to strengthen our corporate governance. Our written policy on commitment to compliance with The board risk committee supports the Board anti-corruption laws was strengthened in 2018 with the in its oversight of regulatory compliance and is issuance of the global anti-bribery policy, consolidating responsible for driving the Group’s implementation the multiple relevant policies which form part of our of effective compliance and governance systems. compliance programme. The procedures and rules defined in the policy encapsulates key points of the We continue to improve our risk-based due Group’s zero-tolerance approach towards bribery. diligence process for all third party associates who represent the Keppel Group in business dealings, An e-training and assessment exercise covering all including our joint venture partners, to assess the key policies, including Keppel’s enhanced code of compliance risk of the business partner. In addition conduct, is carried out an annual basis, and targeted to background checks, the due diligence process training focused on line manager responsibilities incorporates requirements for third party associates and employee obligations were conducted in 2018. to acknowledge understanding and compliance Over 15,000 directors and employees completed the with our code of conduct. e-training and toolbox training in 2018. Keppel’s Whistle-Blower Policy encourages the reporting of suspected bribery or misconduct through a clearly-defined process and reporting channel, by which reports can be made in confidence and without fear of reprisal. In 2018, the whistle-blower hotline was outsourced to an external and independent service provider to cater to language and time zone requirements across the different countries in which the Group operates. In November 2018, Keppel Offshore & Marine’s Singapore entities achieved the ISO 37001 certification on anti-bribery management system. We continue to work towards certification for the Group. Read more about our regulatory compliance framework, as well as policies and procedures to reinforce a strong compliance culture on pages 37 and 38. 20 Awards & Recognition Sustainable Business Awards Singapore Asia Sustainability Reporting Awards MSCI World ESG Leaders Index Keppel Corporation won the United Nations Keppel Corporation was honoured as a finalist Keppel Corporation was listed as a constituent Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) at the fourth Asia Sustainability Reporting of the MSCI World ESG Leaders Index1 for the category at the Sustainable Business Awards for the categories of Asia’s best fifth consecutive year. The index comprises Awards 2018. The awards, organised by workplace reporting, Asia’s best community companies with high environmental, social and Global Initiatives in partnership with PwC reporting and Asia’s Best SDG reporting. governance (ESG) ratings relative to their Singapore, recognise businesses with The awards, which recognise exemplary regional sector peers. sustainable business practices. corporate reporting in Asia, had close to 400 submissions from 16 countries. Sustainable Business sg Awards Singapore iEdge SG ESG Indices Euronext Vigeo Eiris Index-World 120 Workplace Safety and Health Awards Keppel Corporation continued to be listed Keppel Corporation was listed as an index The Keppel Group was conferred 28 awards among the top 10 constituents of the iEdge SG component of the Euronext Vigeo Eiris – at the Workplace Safety and Health (WSH) ESG Leaders Index (formerly SGX ESG Leaders World 120 Index for the sixth consecutive year. Awards 2018 organised by Singapore’s Index) and iEdge SG ESG Transparency Index Developed by Euronext, the primary exchange in Ministry of Manpower and the WSH Council. (formerly SGX ESG Transparency Index) in the Eurozone, and Vigeo, the leading European The Group received accolades in the following 2018. The iEdge SG ESG Indices are composed agency in corporate social responsibility ratings, categories: Safety and Health Award Recognition of SGX-listed companies that meet minimum the Euronext Vigeo Eiris – World 120 Index is for Projects Awards, WSH Performance Awards, sustainability reporting requirements and are composed of 120 of the highest-ranking listed WSH Innovation Awards and WSH Awards for considered ESG leaders with established and companies globally in terms of performance in Supervisors. This is the largest number of leading ESG practices. corporate responsibility. awards won by a single organisation in 2018. Champion of Good Patron of the Arts Award Keppel was conferred the title Champion Keppel Corporation was conferred the of Good, a national recognition framework Distinguished Patron of the Arts Award by under the Company of Good programme Singapore’s National Arts Council for the by Singapore’s National Volunteer & 11th consecutive year. The award recognises Philanthropy Centre, for the second organisations which have contributed significantly consecutive year. towards the development of the arts. 1 The inclusion of Keppel Corporation in any MSCI Index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement or promotion of Keppel Corporation by MSCI or any of its affiliates. The MSCI Indices are the exclusive property of MSCI. MSCI and the MSCI Index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its affiliates. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 21 Sustaining Growth Economic Sustainability Urbanisation trends present many exciting and interconnected opportunities for Keppel, whether it is providing energy, property, environmental solutions or connectivity. MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS IN 2018 Offshore & Marine Property Infrastructure Investments Secured about $1.7 billion worth Sold about 4,440 homes in Secured $180 million worth of Keppel Capital announced of new contracts. Asia, mainly in China, Vietnam contracts in energy and expansion into new asset classes and India. environmental infrastructure such as senior living. Sold five existing drilling rigs to across Singapore, Australia, Borr Drilling. Completed divestments and China and Europe. Keppel REIT divested a 20% stake in sale of residential projects Ocean Financial Centre in Singapore. Delivered eight major projects en-bloc worth $1.7 billion Signed two agreements to safely, on time and on budget. across Singapore, China, develop and operate data Keppel Infrastructure Trust Vietnam and Thailand. centres in Jakarta, Indonesia announced the acquisition of Ixom. Signed Technical Assistance and Johor, Malaysia. and License Agreement with Completed about $0.8 billion Keppel DC REIT and Gaztransport & Technigaz to worth of acquisitions in Signed partnership agreements Keppel-KBS US REIT expanded jointly market LNG solutions. Singapore, China, Vietnam to explore data centre their portfolios with acquisitions and Indonesia. opportunities in China. worth over $700 million. Signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Replenished residential landbank Raised stake in UrbanFox to 85% AAMTF III closed at US$1.1 billion. Maritime Port Authority of with the addition of about to pursue growth in e-commerce Singapore and the Technology KUS signed MOUs with Envision 3,600 units in China and channel management and Centre for Offshore and Marine, and ST Engineering for smart 500 units in Indonesia. last-mile fulfilment. Singapore to jointly develop city solutions. autonomous vessels. KUS signed MOUs for development Singapore entities achieved opportunities in the Philippines certification for the ISO 37001 and China. Anti-Bribery Management System. Keppel and SPH launched an offer to take majority control of M1. On 16 April 2019, Konnectivity, a joint venture between Keppel Corporation and SPH, exercised its rights to compulsory acquire all the shares of shareholders who have not accepted the offer. 22 Overview We have undertaken strategic initiatives to stay relevant, unlock new opportunities and Revenue ($m) Today, more than half of the world’s population live in urban areas. According to drive growth in a fast-changing landscape. 15,000 estimates by the United Nations, urban areas are projected to house 68% of people In September 2018, Keppel Corporation 12,500 globally by 20501. announced a major strategic initiative, in collaboration with Singapore Press Holdings 10,000 Urbanisation trends and a growing middle (SPH), to gain majority control of M1, in order 7,500 class, especially in Asia, continue to drive to drive business changes that will enable demand and provide opportunities for M1 to compete more effectively in the 5,000 companies able to supply solutions to meet telecommunications industry. The voluntary their needs. Robotics, artificial intelligence conditional general offer for M1 turned 2,500 and digitalisation are also empowering unconditional in February 2019, with the companies with new ways of working, joint venture company, Konnectivity, and 0 its concert parties achieving majority 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 and provide actionable insights to enable the provision of more effective and control of M1. On 16 April 2019, due to the 13,283 10,296 6,767 5,964 5,965 efficient solutions for customers. strong support from M1’s shareholders, Konnectivity exercised its rights to Management Approach compulsorily acquire all the shares of GRI 102-10 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 shareholders who have not accepted the offer. M1 complements Keppel’s mission Net Profit ($m) Urbanisation trends present many exciting and interconnected opportunities for Keppel, as a solutions provider for sustainable 2,000 whether it is providing energy, property, urbanisation, which includes connectivity, environmental solutions or connectivity. and can serve as a digital platform and 1,600 With a view to developing future growth connectivity partner to complement and engines, we are actively exploring and augment Keppel’s current suite of solutions. 1,200 investing in new businesses such as 800 senior living and renewable energy infrastructure. We are also expanding 400 our presence in consumer businesses 1 Revision of World Urbanisation Prospects (2018), including electricity retail, urban logistics Population Division of the UN Department of 0 and telecommunications. Economic and Social Affairs (UN DESA). 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1,885 1,525 784 196^* 944 * 2017 financial figures have been adjusted, following the adoption of the new financial reporting framework, Singapore Financial Reporting Standards (International). ^ Includes the one-off financial penalty and related costs of $619 million. Keppel Capital continues to seek out new markets and asset classes such as senior living, which are fuelled by urbanisation trends. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 23 Sustaining Growth Economic Sustainability Financial Performance in 2018 Total Equity ($b) Shareholders’ Funds ($b) GRI 419-1 For 2018, the Group achieved a net profit 15.0 12.0 of $944 million, an increase of 382% 12.5 11.5 from $196 million for 2017. Net profit for 2017 included $619 million for the 10.0 11.0 one-off financial penalty arising from Keppel Offshore & Marine’s global resolution 7.5 10.5 with criminal authorities in the United States, 5.0 10.0 Brazil and Singapore, and related legal, accounting and forensics costs. Excluding 2.5 9.5 the one-off financial penalty and related costs from 2017, net profit for 2018 of 0 9.0 $944 million was 16% above the net profit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 '2014 2014 '2015 2015 '2016 2016 '2017 2017 '2018 2018 of $815 million for 2017 due largely 14.7 11.9 12.3 12.0* 11.6 10.4 11.1 11.7 11.4* 11.3 to earnings growth registered by the Property and Infrastructure Divisions as well as lower loss at the Offshore & Marine Division, partly offset by loss from the Investments Division. Total Distribution Per Share (cts) Earnings Per Share (cts) Earnings Per Share was 52.0 cents, 120 an increase of 381% from 10.8 cents for 50 100 2017. Return On Equity was 8.3%, compared to 1.7% for 2017. Economic Value Added 40 80 was positive $252 million for 2018, compared to negative $839 million for 2017. 30 60 Free cash inflow was $515 million, compared 20 40 to $1,802 million for 2017. Net gearing for 2018 was 0.48 times, compared to 0.46 10 20 times for 2017. 0 0 Total cash dividend for 2018 will be '2014 2014 '2015 2015 '2016 2016 '2017 2017 '2018 2018 '2014 2014 '2015 2015 '2016 2016 '2017 2017 '2018 2018 30.0 cents per share. This comprises a 48.0 34.0 20.0 22.0 30.0# 103.8 84.0 43.2 10.8*^ 52.0 proposed final cash dividend of 15.0 cents per share as well as an interim cash dividend of 10.0 cents per share and a special cash dividend of 5.0 cents per share paid in the third quarter of 2018. Economic Value Added ($m) Return On Equity (%) 2,000 1,500 20 1,000 16 500 12 0 8 (500) 4 (1,000) 0 '2014 2014 '2015 2015 '2016 2016 '2017 2017 '2018 2018 '2014 2014 '2015 2015 '2016 2016 '2017 2017 '2018 2018 1,778 648 (140) (839)*^ 252 18.8 14.2 6.9 1.7*^ 8.3 # Comprises a proposed final cash dividend of 15.0 cents per share, an interim cash dividend of 10.0 cents per share and a special cash dividend of 5.0 cents per share. * 2017 financial figures have been adjusted, following the adoption of the new financial reporting framework, Singapore Financial Reporting Standards (International). ^ Includes the one-off financial penalty and related costs of $619 million. 24 Economic Value Economic Value Economic Value Generated by Keppel Distributed to Others Retained by Keppel $7,058m Operating Costs This includes purchases from $1,242m $3,939m suppliers and contractor costs, This includes revenue, and other operating expenses. The majority of this is invested interest and investment in capital expenditure and acquisitions. income, and disposal gains. Employee Wages Employee costs include salaries & Benefits1 and benefits. $988m Capital Providers This includes dividends and $745m interest paid. Governments This includes income taxes paid, $135m net of refunds received. Communities This includes voluntary donations $8.9m and sponsorships disbursed that are not business or marketing related. 1 Excludes capitalised staff costs in stocks and work-in-progress and capital expenditure. Government Assistance & Taxes Paid Economic Value Delivered to Society GRI 201-4 GRI 201-1 In 2018, the Group received a total of Keppel’s business operations generate $6.6 million in financial assistance from employment, opportunities for suppliers governments. Approximately 57% of and tax revenues for governments. financial assistance received was from We are committed to positively impact the government of China for business the communities in which we operate, development incentives, land subsidies and and contribute to worthy social causes green building grants. Close to 39% relates to through donations and sponsorships. the Singapore government’s Research and Development grants as well as cash grants In 2018, Keppel generated $7,058 million under its wage credit and employment credit of economic value for our stakeholders, schemes. The remaining 4% was from the which was distributed through our business governments of Australia and Belgium. operations to suppliers, contractors, subcontractors, employees, investors, The Group operates in more than 20 countries governments and community organisations, and has paid a total of $135 million in taxes among others. The majority of the economic to the various countries and tax jurisdictions value retained by Keppel after this in which it operates. distribution is invested in capital expenditure and acquisitions, as we maintain our Employee Compensation competitive edge and stand ready to seize In 2018, staff costs amounted to $988 million growth opportunities. in the form of wages and salaries, employer's contribution to Singapore's Central Provident Fund, share options and share plans, 2 The figures in this section do not take into account as well as other staff benefits. The Group's the headcount and staff costs of associated companies, whereby an associated company is average number of employees in 2018 an entity, not being a subsidiary, over which the was 18,1862. Keppel Group has significant influence, but not control. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 25 Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance The long term sustainability of the Group’s businesses is underpinned by our core value of integrity, and driven at the highest level of the organisation through strong corporate governance and proactive engagement with stakeholders. PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW 2018 Targets 2018 Performance 2019 Targets Topics Identify opportunities to Introduced policies and enacted Continue to improve risk and Ethics and integrity harmonise both risk and new processes to strengthen compliance policies, processes compliance policies and risk and compliance standards and operating standards to Governance processes, and strengthen of practice and overall corporate strengthen the overall culture Anti-corruption corporate governance as well as governance across the Group. of risk and compliance and improve the Group’s risk and corporate governance in Risk management compliance culture. Reinforced a stronger culture the Group. of proactive risk management Regulatory compliance Integrate risk management encompassing emerging or Embed proactive risk management into strategic planning and evolving risks. as part of the overall operating reinforce proactive risk framework for risk management management approaches. Initiated the evaluation of controls and governance. and compliance culture as part SDGs Recruit experienced of the scope of internal audits. Cascade compliance best compliance officers to further practices through targeted enhance compliance coverage Delivered targeted training training and workshops. and processes. focused on line manager responsibilities and employee Extend the evaluation of controls Evaluate controls and obligations through both and compliance culture as part compliance culture as part face-to-face training and the of internal audits. of internal audit. annual e-training and declaration of Group policies exercise. Conduct targeted training and communication of policies and procedures to relevant employees. 26 Overview Board’s Conduct of Affairs The Board and management of GRI 102-18 | 102-22 | 102-23 | 102-26 | 102-33 | System Of Management Keppel Corporation Limited 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Controls Framework 3 (“KCL”, “Keppel” or the “Company”) Governance Framework firmly believe that a genuine commitment KCL’s governance structure is set out below. to good corporate governance is essential to the sustainability of the Company’s Dr Lee Boon Yang is the non-executive and Lines of Defence towards ensuring businesses and performance, and are independent Chairman of the Company. the adequacy and effectiveness of pleased to confirm that the Company Mr Loh Chin Hua is the CEO of the Company. the Group’s system of internal controls has adhered to the principles and and risk management. guidelines of the Code of Corporate The Chairman, with the assistance of the Governance 2012 (the “2012 CG Code”). Company Secretaries, schedules meetings In describing corporate governance and prepares meeting agenda to enable the Independence Of Directors 8 practices, the Company also took Board to perform its duties responsibly guidance from the Code of Corporate having regard to the flow of the Company’s Governance 2018 (the “2018 CG Code”)1 operations. He sets guidelines on and and accompanying Practice Guidance. monitors the flow of information from Out of 10 directors are independent. Governance Framework 2018 CHAIRMAN Board Risk Audit Internal Committee Committee Audit Nominating BOARD Committee Board Safety Remuneration Committee Committee CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Corporate Central Finance IMPAC Functions Committee IT Steering Committee Group Regulatory Compliance Management Management Committee Committees Management Development Committee Group Regulatory Group Compliance Sustainability Working Team Steering Committee 1 The 2018 CG Code was issued on 6 August 2018 by the Monetary Authority of Singapore to replace the 2012 CG Code and will apply to annual reports covering financial years commencing from 1 January 2019 onwards. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 27 Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance management to the Board to ensure that 2. Management Development Committee A process is in place to support the all material information is provided in a (MDC), which nominates candidates as Board in reviewing and monitoring the timely manner to the Board for the Board to nominee directors to the boards of Group’s strategic plans, including providing make good decisions. He also encourages each unlisted company or entity that directors with the necessary context and constructive relations between the Board the Company is invested in (“Investee opportunity to undertake effective and and management, and between the Company”) so as to safeguard the robust deliberation and debate. In this regard, executive and non-executive directors. Company’s investment. In respect of a two-day off-site board strategy meeting is At board meetings, the Chairman encourages Investee Companies that are (a) listed on organised annually for in-depth discussion a full and frank exchange of views, drawing a stock exchange, (b) managers or trustee on strategic issues and direction of the out contributions from all directors so that managers of any collective investment Group. This is followed by an update of the debate benefits from the full diversity schemes, business trusts or any other each business unit’s strategic plans for of views, in a robust yet collegiate setting. trusts which are listed on a stock exchange, alignment with the Group’s strategy. At annual general meetings and other or (c) parent companies of the Company’s To support the Board’s oversight of the shareholders’ meetings, the Chairman core businesses, the Committee will implementation of the strategic plans, ensures constructive dialogue between recommend the candidates for the one business unit is invited to each shareholders, the Board and management. approval of the Nominating Committee. quarterly Board meeting to present on The Chairman sets the right ethical and The MDC also provides inputs, guidance its plans and current challenges and behavioural tone and takes a leading and direction on operational policies and provide the Board an opportunity to role in the Company’s drive to achieve human resources/organisational matters; perform an in-depth review into each and maintain a high standard of corporate 3. Central Finance Committee, which reviews, of the Group’s core businesses. governance with the full support guides and monitors financial policies of the directors, Company Secretaries and activities of Group companies; An Effective Board and management. 4. Group Regulatory Compliance Management GRI 102-25 | 102-27 | 102-28 Committee (Group RCMC), which Our Board fully understands that they must To assist the Board in the discharge of its articulates the Group’s commitment act in the best interest of the Company at all oversight function, various board committees, to regulatory compliance, directs and times, are accountable to the shareholders namely the Audit, Board Risk, Nominating, supports the development of over-arching and have the responsibility to safeguard the Remuneration, and Board Safety Committees, compliance policies and guidelines, and interests of all shareholders. In this aspect, have been constituted with clear written facilitates the implementation and the Board and management fully appreciate terms of reference. All the board committees sharing of policies and procedures that fundamental to good corporate are actively engaged and play an important across the Group; governance is an effective and robust role in ensuring good corporate governance 5. Group Regulatory Compliance Working Board whose members engage in open in the Company and within the Group. Team (Group RCWT), which supports and constructive debate and challenge The responsibilities and authority of the the Group RCMC and oversees the management on its assumptions board committees are set out in their development and review of over-arching and proposals. respective terms of reference, which were compliance policies and guidelines for revised in January 2019 for alignment with the Group, as well as review training Independence of Directors the 2018 CG Code. and communication programs; The Nominating Committee (“NC”) 6. Keppel IT Steering Committee, determines on an annual basis whether The CEO, assisted by the management team, which provides strategic information or not a director is independent. There is makes strategic proposals to the Board and technology (IT) leadership and ensures a strong and independent element on our after robust and constructive board discussion, IT strategy alignment in achieving Board, with an independent chairman and executes the agreed strategy, manages business strategies; and majority of our Board comprising independent and develops the Group’s businesses 7. Group Sustainability Steering Committee, directors. Except for the Board Safety and implements the Board’s decisions. which sets sustainability strategy and Committee, all board committees comprise He is supported by management leads performance in key focus areas. entirely independent or non-executive committees that direct and guide directors, with independent chairmen. management on operational policies Board Strategic Review and activities, which includes: The Board periodically reviews and approves Independent Judgment the Group’s strategic plans. In FY 2014, All directors are expected to exercise 1. Investments & Major Projects Action the Board approved the Group’s Vision 20202 independent judgment in the best interests Committee (IMPAC), which guides the which sets out the vision, operating principles of the Company. This is one of the performance Group to exercise the spirit of enterprise and values of the Group, and the roadmap3 criteria for the peer and self-assessment on as well as prudence to earn optimal to take the Group’s businesses into 2020 to the effectiveness of the individual directors. risk-adjusted returns on invested achieve faster growth, build a stronger Keppel Based on the results of the peer and capital for its chosen lines of business, that fully captures the significant synergies self-assessment carried out by the directors taking into consideration the risks, within and among its Group companies, and for FY 2018, all directors have discharged in a controlled manner; fully develop the potential of its people. this duty consistently well. 2 With effect from FY 2014, and following a review and update in 2017, the vision of the Company is to be a global company at the forefront of its chosen industries, shaping the future for the benefit of all its stakeholders – Sustaining Growth, Empowering Lives and Nurturing Communities. Guided by our operating principles and core values, the Company’s mission is to deliver solutions for sustainable urbanisation profitably, safely and responsibly. 3 This roadmap includes four broad areas for sustainable growth: (1) Business: Setting the overarching strategies, targets, and key actions to be undertaken by the business units; (2) People: Building a robust succession pipeline and continued strong employee satisfaction; (3) Process: Pursuing excellence in safety, productivity and innovation; and (4) Corporate Citizenry: Formalising and further organising community outreach efforts to positively impact communities in which the Group operates. 28 Conflict of Interest that female candidates are included performance as board or board committee Every director is required to promptly for consideration. Having said that, members. A training programme is also disclose any conflict of interest, whether gender is but one aspect of diversity and, in place for directors in areas such as direct or indirect, in relation to a transaction while due consideration would be given accounting, finance, risk governance and or proposed transaction with the Company to the benefits of diversity, new directors management, the roles and responsibilities as soon as is practicable after the relevant will continue to be selected on merits of a director of a listed company and industry facts have come to his/her knowledge. based on objective criteria. In FY 2018, specific matters. In FY 2018, some KCL On an annual basis, each director is also there was 1 female director out of a directors attended talks on topics relating required to submit details of his/her total of 10 directors. to corporate governance and ethics associates for the purpose of monitoring (including case studies), cybersecurity interested persons transactions. Board Information governance, health safety and environment Directors facing conflicts of interest To effectively engage the management, (HSE) performance, and macroeconomic recuse themselves when the conflict-related the Board, in particular, the non-executive trends. Sites visits are also conducted matter is discussed, unless the Board is directors, must be kept well informed periodically for directors to familiarise them of the opinion that his/her presence and of the Company’s business and with the operations of the various businesses participation is necessary to enhance the affairs and be knowledgeable about the so as to enhance their performance as board efficacy of such discussion, and abstain industry in which the businesses operate. or board committee members. from voting in relation to conflict-related The Company has therefore adopted matters. In January 2019, the Board had, initiatives to put in place processes Board Evaluation on the recommendation of the NC, to ensure that the non-executive directors Our Board has implemented formal approved and adopted the “Keppel Group are well supported by accurate, complete processes for assessing the effectiveness – Directors’ Conflict of Interest Policy” and timely information, have unrestricted of the Board as a whole and its board to help inform Keppel directors about access to management, and have committees, the contribution by each the general principles relating to conflicts sufficient time and resources to discharge individual director to the effectiveness of interest, as well as to guide directors their oversight function effectively. of the Board, as well as the effectiveness in identifying, disclosing and managing of the Chairman of the Board. conflict situations. The policy further These initiatives include regular informal serves to emphasise the Keppel Group’s meetings for management to brief To ensure that the assessments are done commitment to ethics and compliance with the directors on prospective deals and promptly and fairly, the Board has appointed the law, for the protection of the Company’s potential developments at an early an independent third party (the “Independent interest and the promotion of transparency stage before formal board approval is Co-ordinator”) to assist in collating and for the benefit of shareholders. sought, and the circulation of relevant analysing the returns of the board members. information on business initiatives, Mr Michael Lim, former Chairman, Board Competency & Diversity industry developments and analyst and PricewaterhouseCoopers and Land Transport The competencies and skill sets of the press commentaries on matters in relation Authority, and currently Chairman of Nomura directors and the composition of the Board to the Company or the industries in Singapore Limited, was appointed for this play a role in the overall effectiveness of which it operates. The Board also reviews role. Mr Michael Lim does not have business the Board. At Keppel, the NC ensures that the budget on an annual basis, and relationships or any other connections with the Board and board committees comprise any material variance between the the Company or its directors which may directors who, as a group, provide core projections and actual results would affect his independent judgment. competencies required to exercise be disclosed and explained. A two-day effective oversight and direction. off-site board strategy meeting is Board Composition & Succession Planning organised annually for in-depth discussion GRI 102-24 The NC is satisfied that the Board and the on strategic issues and direction of the There is a process of refreshing the Board board committees comprise directors Group, to give the non-executive directors progressively over time so that the experience who as a group provide an appropriate a better understanding of the Group and of longer serving directors can be drawn balance and mix of skills, knowledge, its businesses, and to provide an opportunity upon while tapping into the new external experience, and other aspects of diversity for the non-executive directors to familiarise perspectives and insights which more recent such as gender and age. The NC is also themselves with the management team appointees bring to the Board’s deliberation. satisfied that the directors, as a group, so as to facilitate the Board’s review of the The Board believes that orderly succession possess core competencies including Group’s succession planning and leadership and renewal is achieved as a result of careful accounting or finance, business or development programme. Directors are planning, where the appropriate composition management experience, human resource, also entitled to request from management, of the Board is continually under review. risk management, technology, mergers and would be provided with, such additional and acquisitions, legal, international information as may be needed from time to The NC is responsible for reviewing the perspective, industry knowledge, time in order to make informed decisions. succession plans for the Board. In this regard, strategic planning experience and it has put in place a formal process for the customer-based experience or Training renewal of the Board and the selection of new knowledge, required for the Board and The directors are provided with continuing directors. The NC leads the process and makes the board committees to be effective. education in areas such as directors’ duties recommendations to the Board as follows: and responsibilities, corporate governance, In this respect, the NC recognises the changes in financial reporting standards, 1. NC reviews annually the balance and merits of gender diversity in relation changes in the Companies Act, continuing mix of skills, knowledge, experience, to the composition of the Board and, listing obligations and industry-related and other aspects of diversity such as in identifying suitable candidates for new matters, so as to update and refresh them gender and age, and the size of the Board appointment to the Board, would ensure on matters that may affect or enhance their which would facilitate decision-making. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 29 Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance Keppel’s Board Safety Committee regularly makes site visits to the Group’s operations such as the Keppel Marina East Desalination Plant in Singapore. In this review, the NC will also take into All new appointments are subject to the Remuneration Framework account the needs of the Group, the recommendation of the NC based on the GRI 102-35 | 102-36 collective skills and competencies of following objective criteria: The Remuneration Committee (“RC”) the Board and service tenure spread is responsible for ensuring a formal and of the directors. In the year under 1. Integrity transparent procedure for developing review (FY 2018), for purposes of 2. Independent mindedness policy on executive remuneration and Board succession planning, the NC 3. Diversity – Possess core competencies for determining the remuneration also took into consideration the 2018 that meet the needs of the Company packages of individual directors and CG Code and the amendments to and complement the skills and senior management. the SGX Listing Rules relating to competencies of the existing directors the continued appointment as on the Board The RC assists the Board to ensure that “independent director” of a director 4. Able to commit time and effort to carry remuneration policies and practices are who has served for an aggregate out duties and responsibilities effectively sound in that they are able to attract, period of more than 9 years, bearing 5. Track record of making good decisions retain and motivate without being excessive, in mind that these rules would come 6. Experience in high-performing companies and thereby maximise shareholder value, and into effect from 1 January 2022. 7. Financially literate recommends to the Board for endorsement 2. In the light of such review and in a framework of remuneration (which covers consultation with management, the The NC is also charged with the all aspects of remuneration including NC assesses if there is any inadequate responsibility of re-nomination having directors’ fees, salaries, allowances, bonuses, representation in respect of any of those regard to the director’s contribution share-based incentives and awards, benefits attributes and if so, determines the role and performance (such as attendance, in kind and termination payments) and and the desirable competencies for a preparedness, participation and candour), the specific remuneration packages for particular appointment. with reference to the results of the each director and the key management 3. External help (for example, Singapore assessment of the performance of the personnel. The remuneration framework Institute of Directors and search individual director by his/her peers. is set out from pages 78 to 82 of our consultants) may be used to source Report to Shareholders 2018. for potential candidates if need be. The directors submit themselves for Directors and management may also re-nomination and re-election at regular To enhance objectivity, the RC comprises make recommendations. intervals of at least once every three years. entirely non-executive directors, three out 4. NC meets with the short-listed Pursuant to the Company’s constitution, of four of whom (including the Chairman) candidate(s) to assess suitability and one-third of the directors retire from are independent. to ensure that the candidate(s) is/are office at the Company’s annual general aware of the expectations and the meeting, and a newly appointed director The RC has access to expert advice from level of commitment required. must submit himself/herself for re-election external remuneration consultants where 5. NC makes recommendations to at the annual general meeting immediately required. In FY 2018, the RC sought views the Board for approval. following his/her appointment. on market practice and trends from 30 external remuneration consultants, Keppel’s System of Management Aon Hewitt. The RC undertook a review Controls Framework of the independence and objectivity of the The Group has in place Keppel’s System external remuneration consultants through of Management Controls Framework discussions with the external remuneration (the “Framework”) outlining the Group’s consultants, and has confirmed that the internal control and risk management external remuneration consultants had no processes and procedures. The Framework relationships with the Company which would comprises three Lines of Defence towards affect their independence and objectivity. ensuring the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls Risk Management & Internal Controls and risk management. GRI 102-11 | 102-17 | 102-33 | 205-2 The Board, supported by the Audit Under the first Line of Defence, Committee (“AC”) and Board Risk Committee management is required to ensure (“BRC”), oversees the Group’s system of good corporate governance through internal control and risk management. the implementation and management of policies and procedures relevant to The AC’s primary role is to assist the Board the Group’s business scope and in ensuring the integrity of financial reporting environment. Such policies and procedures and adequacy and effectiveness of the system govern financial, operational, information of internal controls. The BRC considers the technology and regulatory compliance nature and extent of the significant risks matters and are reviewed and updated which the Company may take in achieving periodically. Compliance governance is its strategic objectives and value creation; governed by the respective regulatory and reviews and guides management in the compliance management committees formulation of risk policies and processes and working teams. Employees are to effectively identify, evaluate and manage also guided by the Group’s Core Values significant risks, to safeguard shareholders’ and expected to comply strictly with interests and the Group’s assets. Keppel’s Code of Conduct. Keppel’s System of Management Controls (KSMC) Policies 4 Board Oversight Board of Directors Business Unit Internal External 3 Assurance Representation Audit Audit Systems Processes Management & Self Assessment Enterprise Risk Regulatory IT Governance 2 Assurance Frameworks Process Management Compliance Framework Core Values, Corporate & Employee Conduct Business Governance/ 1 Rules of Governance Policy Compliance Operational Financial Management Governance Governance Governance People Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 31 Sustaining Growth Corporate Governance Under the second Line of Defence, compliance process and by reminding Reporting Mechanisms significant business units are required every Keppelite of that value is a focus of 10 to conduct a self-assessment exercise attention for us, our boards, and officers on an annual basis. This exercise requires and line managers across the globe. such business units to assess the status of their respective internal controls and Read more about the Group’s enhanced Countries with local toll-free whistle-blower compliance programme on pages 84 to 87 risk management via self-assessment. hotlines, and 1 global e-mail hotline. of our Report to Shareholders 2018. Where required, action plans are developed to remedy identified control gaps. Under Communications & Training the Group’s Enterprise Risk Management Communication & Training >15,000 Framework, significant risk areas of the The Group continuously ensures that Group are also identified and assessed, its compliance policies and procedures with systems, policies and processes are communicated effectively to all put in place to manage and mitigate the employees and directors. An e-training Directors and employees received and assessment exercise covering all key identified risks. Regulatory Compliance compliance e-training on key Group policies, including Keppel’s Enhanced Code supports and works alongside business policies and requirements. of Conduct, is carried out on an annual basis, management to ensure relevant policies, processes and controls are effectively and targeted training focused on line designed, managed and implemented to manager responsibilities and employee ensure compliance risks and controls are obligations were conducted in FY 2018. effectively managed. For FY 2018, over 15,000 directors and employees have completed the e-training Under the third Line of Defence, to assist and toolbox training. the Group to ascertain the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s internal Reporting & Investigation controls, business units are required Keppel Whistle-Blower Policy took effect to provide the Group with written on 1 September 2004 and was enhanced assurances as to the adequacy and on 15 February 2017 to encourage effectiveness of their system of reporting in good faith of suspected internal controls and risk management. reportable conduct by establishing Internal and external auditors provide clearly defined and centralised processes their assessments based on the work through which such reports may be made performed during the year. with confidence that employees and other persons making such reports will Enhanced Compliance Programme be treated fairly and, to the extent possible, At Keppel, integrity is a core value. As our protected from reprisal. Code of Conduct states, “we care how Read more about our Risk Management & results are achieved, not just that they are Internal Controls framework on pages 83 to 87 attained.” Implementing that core value of our Report to Shareholders 2018. through enhancing our regulatory 32 Risk Management GRI 102-11 | 102-15 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 We maintain a balanced approach to risk management, Leadership Ownership & undertaking only appropriate Accountability & Governance and well‑considered risks to optimise returns for our shareholders. Transparency Framework & Competency & Values As an enterprise that seeks to deliver Risk-Centric solutions for sustainable urbanisation, Culture Keppel adopts a balanced approach to risk management, undertaking only appropriate and well-considered risks to optimise returns for our shareholders. Keppel’s risk management approach stems from the philosophy of seeking Training & Process & sustainable growth opportunities and creating Communications Methods economic value, while ensuring only appropriate and well-considered risks are assumed. Risk management is an integral part of the way in which we develop and execute our business strategies. It is consistent with our operating principles and belief that a holistic approach of balancing risks and rewards is key to delivering long-term value and 3. Process & Methods Through the Board Risk Committee (BRC), growth for our shareholders. An integral aspect of both strategic and the Board provides valuable advice to operational decision making includes management in formulating and In 2018, we continued a disciplined pursuit consideration and management of risks implementing the risk management of new opportunities, innovation and at all levels of the businesses. As part of framework, policies and guidelines. revenue streams to safeguard shareholders’ the Group’s framework and process, the Keppel’s management surfaces significant interests and the Group’s assets. Our robust appropriate tools, techniques and risk risk issues for discussion with the BRC risk-centric culture and risk management management methodologies are applied, and the Board to keep them apprised of system have enabled us to continue to along with the requisite domain knowledge key issues in a timely manner. The terms respond effectively to the dynamic business capabilities, in making decisions. of reference for the BRC are disclosed on environment and shifting business demands page 89 of Keppel Corporation’s Report to to seize new value-added opportunities for 4. Training & Communications Shareholders 2018. The Board has defined our stakeholders. Training and communications are three risk tolerance guiding principles for the conducted regularly to enhance risk Group, which serves to determine the nature Risk-Centric Culture management competency across the and extent of the significant risks which the Effective risk management hinges not only Group. Through various forums and Board is willing to take in achieving our on systems and processes, but equally on in-house publications, including different strategic objectives. mindsets and attitudes. The Group fosters a modes of training, risk management is risk-centric culture through several aspects. reinforced as a discipline and developed These principles are: through awareness and practice. 1. Risk taken should be carefully evaluated, 1. Leadership & Governance commensurate with rewards and in line Our management is fully committed to 5. Transparency & Competency with the Group’s core strengths and fostering a strong risk-centric culture and We promote transparency in information strategic objectives. consistently demonstrate strong support sharing and escalation of risk-related 2. No risk arising from a single area of for risk management in all initiatives. matters. Risk identification and assessment operation, investment or undertaking Key messages encouraging prudent are embedded in key control processes. should be so huge as to endanger the risk-taking in decision making and business A Group-wide survey is conducted entire Group. processes are interwoven into major periodically to assess risk awareness 3. The Group does not condone safety meetings, speeches and publications. amongst employees. breaches or lapses, non-compliance with laws and regulations, as well as 2. Framework & Values 6. Ownership & Accountability acts such as fraud, bribery and corruption. When considering risks in daily To maintain our standards in risk activities, the Group’s management management, we advocate ownership Keppel’s risk governance framework, and staff are guided by our Enterprise and accountability through the employee set out on pages 83 to 87 of Keppel Risk Management (ERM) framework; performance evaluation process. Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2018 our core values of integrity, accountability, under Principle 11 (Risk Management and people centredness and safety, as well Enterprise Risk Management Framework Internal Controls), facilitates management as our mission and vision to responsibly Keppel’s Board is responsible for risk governance and the BRC in determining the adequacy deliver sustainable urbanisation solutions and ensures that management maintains a sound and effectiveness of the Group’s risk in our chosen markets. system of risk management and internal controls. management system. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 33 Sustaining Growth Risk Management We are cognisant of the dynamic management system, and the Guidebook undertaking appropriate and well-considered environment in which the Group operates for Board Risk Committees. risks to optimise returns for the Group. and constantly enhance the framework and systems where necessary, to ensure strong Our Risk and Compliance Committee, Proactive Risk Management risk governance across the Group. comprising relevant subject matter risk Effective risk management requires a dynamic champions across the BUs, drives and approach and we recognise the need to Keppel’s ERM framework, a component of coordinates Group-wide risk management continually evolve our framework and Keppel’s System of Management Controls, activities and initiatives. The Committee’s processes to ensure our risk identification and provides the Group with a systematic approach activities are facilitated by regular bilateral mitigation remains effective. We remain vigilant to risk management. It outlines the reporting and BU-level meetings to ensure that against emerging threats that may affect our structure, monitoring mechanisms, pertinent risks are identified, assessed different businesses. We have a dedicated processes and tools, as well as policies and mitigated in a timely manner. focus group across BUs to identify, discuss and limits, applied in addressing the and analyse emerging risks which may Group’s key risks. We keep abreast of the latest developments have an impact on the Group's activities. and best practices through participation in Where applicable, these are escalated for Our ERM framework is constantly refined to industry seminars and interacting with risk discussion and consideration at various ensure it remains relevant in our operating management practitioners. governance committees. environment and where required, is tailored to the requirements of each business unit (BU) Keppel adopts a balanced approach to Through close collaboration with stakeholders depending on specific industry practices and risk management. Whilst our financial and constant vigilance, we will continue to objectives. The framework takes reference performance and operating environment proactively assess our risks and review our risk from the Singapore Code of Corporate are influenced by a vast range of risk management system to ensure that our ability Governance, ISO 31000 risk management factors, we recognise that not all risks to manage and respond to threats remains guidelines, ISO 22313 business continuity can be eliminated. We are committed to adequate and effective. Material Risks Issues Mitigating Actions STRATEGIC RISKS Market & A large part of the Group’s strategic risks include Strategy meetings are held across the Group to review business Competition market driven forces, evolving competitive strategies, formulate responses and take pre-emptive action against landscapes, changing customer demands and these risks. disruptive innovation. The Group remains vulnerable to several external factors including uncertainties in The BRC guides the Group in formulating and reviewing risk policies and the global economy, implications of recent and principles. These policies and principles are subject to periodic reviews impending geo-political developments, intense to ensure that they continue to support business objectives and are competition in our core markets and threats of aligned to our risk tolerance levels. Taking into consideration the disruptive technology. These risks receive constant prevailing business climate and the Group’s risk tolerance, the policies high-level attention throughout the year. aim to address market and competition risks effectively and proactively. Strategic Ventures, We have an established process for evaluating Together with the Board, the Investment and Major Project Action Investments & investment and divestment decisions including Committee (IMPAC) guides the Group in taking considered risks in Divestments strategic ventures. Investments, divestments and a controlled manner, exercising the spirit of enterprise and prudence strategic ventures are monitored to ensure that they to earn the best risk-adjusted returns on invested capital across are on track to meet the Group’s strategic intent, our businesses. investment objectives and returns, and where required, the need for timely recalibration of Investment risk assessment involves rigorous due diligence, feasibility strategies in response to the changing business studies and sensitivity analyses of key assumptions and variables. Some environment. These investment decisions are guided of the critical factors considered include alignment with Group strategy, by investment parameters set on a Group-wide basis. financial viability, country-specific political and regulatory developments, contractual risk implications, as well as lessons learnt. The investment portfolio is constantly monitored to ensure that performance is on track to meet the Group’s strategic intent and investment returns. Human We continue to maintain a strong emphasis on In talent development programmes, we emphasise the importance of Resources attracting and building a deep pool of talent. This having a risk-centric mindset and endeavour to inculcate the ability to includes nurturing employees, maintaining good identify and assess risks, develop and implement mitigation actions, as industrial relations and fostering a conducive work well as monitor risks. Keppel Leadership Institute, established as a global environment for all employees. The Group is focused centre to groom leaders and equip employees with the capabilities to on strengthening succession planning and bench drive and support Keppel’s growth, helps to inculcate this mindset by strength, as well as building new organisational embedding risk management in its key leadership courses. capabilities to drive business growth whilst maintaining our status as an employer of choice. 34 Material Risks Issues Mitigating Actions OPERATIONAL RISKS Project From project initiation through to completion, At the project execution stage, we execute project reviews and quality Management risk management processes are an integral part assurance programmes to address issues involving cost, schedule and of project management activities to facilitate quality. Project Key Risk Indicators are used as early warning signals to early risk detection and proactive management. determine if remedial actions are required. The Group adopts a systematic assessment and monitoring process to help manage the key risks in In addition, we conduct knowledge-sharing workshops to share best projects. Particular attention is given to technically practices and lessons learnt across the Group. These processes help challenging and high-value projects, including to ensure that projects are completed on time and within budget, greenfield developments and deployment of new without compromising safety and quality standards, as well as technology and/or operations in new geographies. contract obligations. Projects are managed in accordance with the respective country’s environmental laws and labour practices. Health, Safety & Maintaining a high level of Health, Safety and Key initiatives include driving a Zero Fatality Strategy with a roadmap Environment Environmental (HSE) standard is of paramount focused on aligning Hazard Identification Risk Assessment standards importance to the Group. We constantly strive to across our global operations, enhancing competency of employees raise awareness, maintain vigilance and foster a performing safety-critical tasks, strengthening operational controls, strong HSE-centric culture across the Group and deploying standard Root Cause Analysis across the Group, as well as particularly at the ground level. developing more proactive and leading risk indicators/matrices to monitor HSE performance in each BU. Environmental management practices in key operating sites are also closely monitored. As a Group, we continue to embrace and leverage technology to improve HSE processes and systems. Testament to the Group’s concerted efforts in safety, Keppel clinched 28 awards at the Workplace Safety and Health (WSH) Awards for exemplary safety performances, implementation of strong WSH management systems, as well as efforts to create solutions that improve workplace safety. Business & We continue to streamline our business processes. Recognising the need to keep at the forefront of technology, we have Operational We have established common shared services embarked on digitalisation initiatives and continue to take measured Processes platforms which enable us to better manage costs steps, applying a risk-based approach, to embrace the appropriate while enhancing efficiency, productivity, compliance technologies in optimising our processes. and controls. We have adopted ISO standards and certifications to achieve standardisation of some of our processes and kept up with best practices. In addition, procedures relating to defect management, operations, project control and supply chain management continue to be refined to improve the quality of deliverables. We conduct regular reviews of policies and authority limits to ensure that they remain relevant in meeting changing business requirements. Business We are committed to enhancing operational With the increasing risk of cyber threats and attacks, we have increased Continuity resilience with a robust Business Continuity our efforts and focus on ensuring adequacy of our defense against Management (BCM) Plan that will equip us to the risk and our response plans in the event of an incident. The Group respond effectively to business disruptions, ensuring maintains a close watch and keeps abreast of evolving techniques that critical business functions continue to operate and threats in order to develop the appropriate mitigation measures. with minimal impact to our people, operations We constantly evaluate our ongoing state of readiness against business and assets. disruptions to ensure that plans remain current and relevant. As a Group, we are cognisant of the risk of natural Crisis management and communication procedures have also been disasters, terrorism and cyber threats, and we seek embedded into the Group’s BCM processes. These procedures are to maintain operational resilience through regular constantly refined to allow us to respond in an orderly and coordinated review and testing of our BCM plans under different way, and to expedite recovery. We are focused on building capabilities to threat scenarios. The BCM Steering Committee respond to crises effectively while safeguarding our people and assets, provides direction and guidance to ensure BCM and the interests of our stakeholders. plans across the Group are effectively managed. Information Information Technology risks are an integral Our IT security, governance and controls continue to be strengthened Technology aspect of our processes. The Group has in place through the refinement and alignment of our IT policies, processes and an Information Technology (IT) governance structure systems, and the consolidation of servers and storages. We have also and IT security framework to address both general appointed IT security officers and instituted policies on end-user computing IT and data security controls, as well as evolving and safeguarding information, as well as IT self-assessments to identify IT risks including cybersecurity, theft or loss of security gaps. confidential data and data integrity. Our pool of dedicated IT experts enables us to keep abreast of the latest developments, innovation and threats in the IT domain. They are assisted by Keppel Technology and Innovation to assess risks at various levels, and to further the adoption of technology and innovation within Keppel. Extensive training and assessment exercises have been conducted on user security education to heighten overall awareness of IT threats. Measures and considerations have also been taken to safeguard corporate data assets against loss of information, data security and service disruption of critical IT systems. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 35 Sustaining Growth Risk Management Material Risks Issues Mitigating Actions COMPLIANCE RISKS GRI 205-1 Laws, Regulations Given the geographical diversity of our businesses, In 2018, we made significant progress in our regulatory compliance & Compliance we closely monitor developments in laws and initiatives, ensuring that compliance principles are embedded in our regulations of countries where the Group operates, activities, and implementing best practices from industry leaders as to ensure that our businesses and operations we develop and strengthen our compliance framework. comply with all relevant laws and regulations. We regularly engage with local government Significant risks issues, such as risks relating to corruption in all areas of authorities and agencies to keep updated on operations within the Keppel Group where we have operational control, changes to laws and regulations, ensuring that are surfaced by management and assessed by the Board. With respect to we can assess our exposures and risks effectively. corruption, significant risks include areas where external agents are used for business development. We recognise that non-compliance with laws and regulations not only have significant financial impact More details on the steps taken to operationalise our regulatory compliance but have potentially detrimental reputational impact framework are set out on pages 37 and 38. on Keppel. While we have significantly strengthened our regulatory compliance framework, we remain fully committed to enhancing our regulatory compliance policies and processes, ensuring that the Group maintains a high level of compliance and ethical standards in the way in which we conduct our business. Our emphasis is clear and consistently reiterated. We have zero tolerance for fraud, bribery, corruption and violation of laws and regulations. FINANCIAL RISKS Fraud, Misstatement We maintain a strong emphasis on ensuring that Regular external and internal audits are conducted to provide assurance of Financial financial statements are accurate and presented on accuracy of financial statements and adequacy of the internal control Statements & fairly in accordance with applicable financial framework supporting the statements. Where required, we leverage the Disclosures reporting standards and frameworks. expertise of the engaged auditors in the interpretation of financial reporting standards and changes. We conduct regular training and education programmes to enhance competency of the Group’s finance managers. Keppel’s System of Management Controls framework outlines our internal control and risk management processes and procedures. Financial Financial risk management relates to our ability to Our procedures include the evaluation of counterparties and other related Management meet financial obligations and mitigate credit, liquidity, risks against pre-established internal guidelines. We conduct impact currency and interest rate risks. Policies and financial assessments and stress tests to gauge the Group’s exposure to changing authority limits are reviewed regularly to incorporate market situations, to enable informed decision making and changes in the operating and control environment. implementation of prompt mitigating actions. We also regularly monitor our asset concentration exposure in countries where we have a presence We are focused on financial discipline and seek to ensure that our portfolio of assets, investments and businesses are well to deploy our capital to earn the best risk-adjusted diversified and adequately safeguarded against the systemic risks of returns for shareholders, while maintaining operating in a specific geography. a strong balance sheet to seize new opportunities. For more details, please refer to page 66 of Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2018. 36 Regulatory Compliance GRI 102-15 The tone for regulatory framework that commensurate with the size, role and activity of our businesses, (Group RCWT), which is chaired by the Head of Group Risk & Compliance. The Group compliance is driven including appropriate compliance control RCWT oversees the development and review systems, to be able to effectively detect of pertinent regulatory compliance matters, from the top. Guided by and remedy gaps. Most importantly, we over-arching compliance policies and our core values, we are remain focused on rebuilding our credibility guidelines for the Group, as well as reviewing and reputation with our stakeholders, training and communication programmes. committed to building a and building a sustainable compliance more disciplined and framework that supports the Group’s growth. Each BU has a dedicated Compliance Lead, supported by the respective risk and sustainable company. Governance Structure compliance teams, and is responsible for Our Regulatory Compliance Governance driving and administering the compliance Structure is designed to strengthen our function and agenda for the BU. This includes corporate governance. The Board Risk providing support to BU management with Guided by our core values and enhanced Committee (BRC) supports the Board in subject matter expertise, process excellence code of conduct, we are fully committed its oversight of regulatory compliance and and regular reporting to ensure that compliance to ensuring that compliance is a central is responsible for driving the Group’s risks are effectively managed and mitigated. pillar of our management and an integral implementation of effective compliance Across the Group, continued recruitment part of our corporate culture and business and governance systems. The Group Risk efforts are in progress to strengthen the processes. We will do business the right way & Compliance department serves as a Compliance team with additional professional and comply with all applicable laws and secretariat to the BRC, assessing and and experienced compliance officers. regulations wherever we operate. We strive reporting on the Group’s compliance risks, to achieve outstanding performance, whilst controls and mitigations. Under the direction of the Group RCMC and maintaining the highest level of ethical integrity. Group RCWT, BUs working in partnership The Group Regulatory Compliance with their respective risk and compliance Our tone for regulatory compliance is clear Management Committee (Group RCMC) teams are responsible for implementing and consistently reiterated from the top and is chaired by Keppel Corporation’s Chief the Group’s Code of Conduct and regulatory throughout all levels of the Group. We have Executive Officer and its members includes compliance policies and procedures. They zero tolerance for fraud, bribery, corruption all business unit (BU) heads. The role of are also responsible for ensuring that risk and violation of laws and regulations. the Group RCMC is to articulate the Group’s assessments in relation to material regulatory commitment to regulatory compliance, compliance risks are conducted, and that Strategic Objectives direct and support the development of control measures are adequate and effective, Following the improvements and enhancements over-arching compliance policies and to mitigate the identified risks which the to the compliance framework and processes, guidelines, and facilitate the effective BUs may face. we remain focused on ensuring consistency implementation of policies and procedures. in application and operational effectiveness Regulatory Compliance Framework of the compliance programme across the The Group RCMC is supported by the Group As part of ongoing efforts to strengthen Group. We are developing a compliance Regulatory Compliance Working Team our regulatory compliance framework, we have defined our focus on compliance covering broadly the following areas: culture; policies and procedures; training and communication; key compliance processes; compliance risk assessment, reviews and monitoring; and compliance resources. Compliance Culture A key aspect of the framework is the Resources structure of the compliance organisation. Our reporting structure of the compliance organisation reinforces independence of the function. The Head of Group Risk & Compliance reports directly to the Chairman of the BRC. Similarly, the Compliance Leads of the Compliance, BUs have established direct reporting Policies & Risk Assessment, Regulatory Procedures lines to the respective Audit or Board Risk Review & Monitoring Compliance Committees. Furthermore, BU Compliance Framework Leads report directly to the Head of Group Risk & Compliance. This reporting structure reinforces independence of the function and enables senior management, including members of the Board, to provide continuous, Key Compliance Training & clear and explicit support to the Group’s Processes Communications compliance programme. Culture Culture and mindset are critical in ensuring the effectiveness of our compliance programme. Management has a key role in setting the right tone and walking the talk. The tone for Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 37 Sustaining Growth Regulatory Compliance full regulatory compliance must cascade to an external and independent service on the line manager’s responsibilities in down the organisation. We have posters provider to cater to language and time zone developing the desired culture and mindset on anti-bribery, anti-corruption and reporting requirements across the different countries regarding compliance. These responsibilities mechanisms that are exhibited in our in which the Group operates. include the need to establish and maintain offices globally to reinforce the message. effective internal controls to ensure that Individual performance measures to Compliance Policies processes are robust, and that potential gaps are influence personal behaviour, and periodic We maintain a comprehensive list of policies identified and mitigated in a timely manner. compliance-focused messages are also covering compliance-related matters including delivered by BU heads to employees. anti-bribery, gifts & hospitality, agent fees, Training focused on building risk and donations & sponsorships, solicitation & compliance competencies are also organised Policies & Procedures extortion, conflict of interest, and insider trading to ensure that we are apprised on changes GRI 102-16 | 102-17 amongst others. These policies are reviewed in approaches, best practices and tools. Employee Code of Conduct periodically to ensure that they commensurate We have a strict Code of Conduct (the Code) with the activities in the jurisdictions in Our BU risk and compliance teams conduct that applies to all employees, who are which the Group operates. Group policies periodic site visits to all locations in which required to acknowledge and comply with are applicable to all BUs and unless the the Group operates to raise awareness the Code. The Code sets out important jurisdictional regulatory requirements are of compliance risks. We also leverage principles to guide employees in carrying out more stringent, these policies represent opportunities at various management their duties and responsibilities to the highest the minimum standard for the Group. conferences and employee meetings to standards of personal and corporate integrity. stress the importance of compliance. It covers areas from conduct in the workplace Compliance remains a key focus for the to business conduct, including clear provisions Group. Our written policy on commitment Key Processes on prohibitions against bribery and corruption, to compliance with anti-corruption laws Due Diligence and conflicts of interests amongst others. was strengthened in 2018 with the issuance We continue to improve our risk-based We continually review and enhance our of the Global Anti-Bribery Policy, consolidating due diligence process for all third party Code to ensure that it stays updated and the multiple relevant policies which form associates who represent the Keppel Group properly instructive. part of our compliance programme. The in business dealings, including our joint procedures and rules defined in the Policy venture partners, to assess the compliance Appropriate disciplinary action, including encapsulates key points of the Group’s risk of the business partner. In addition suspension or termination of employment, zero-tolerance approach towards bribery. In to background checks, the due diligence will be taken if an employee is found to November 2018, Keppel Offshore & Marine’s process incorporates requirements for have violated the rules set out in the Code. Singapore entities achieved the ISO 37001 third party associates to acknowledge The Code of Conduct is also provided to certification on Anti-Bribery Management understanding and compliance with our all third parties who represent Keppel in System. We continue to work towards Code of Conduct. business dealings, including joint venture certification for the other entities within partners, who are required to acknowledge Keppel Offshore & Marine and the Group. Other Processes understanding and compliance with the As part of our ongoing review of policies requirements of the Code. We ensure Training & Communication and procedures, we ensure compliance that disciplinary actions are carried out GRI 205-2 oversight is embedded in key processes consistently and fairly across all levels Training is an essential component of including areas such as gifts and hospitality, of employees. Keppel’s regulatory compliance framework. agent fees, donations and sponsorships, Our programmes are tailored to specific as well as conflicts of interest. Supplier Code of Conduct audiences and we leverage Group-wide The acknowledgement to abide by our supplier forums to reiterate key messages. Risk Assessment, Review & Monitoring code of conduct, which was developed to GRI 102-30 integrate Keppel’s sustainability principles We have a comprehensive annual e-learning We continue to develop our compliance across our supply chain, and positively training programme for directors, officers resources and framework. This will enable influence the environmental, social and and employees. The content of the training the Compliance team to conduct independent governance performance of our suppliers, covers key compliance policies, and directors, risk assessments to identify and mitigate is mandatory for all key suppliers of the officers and employees are required to key compliance risks. Regular discussions Keppel Group. complete assessments at the end of the are held with all business units, focusing training to successfully mark completion. on risk assessments including specific The areas covered within the supplier As part of the annual training, directors, compliance risks identified for their respective code of conduct include proper business officers and employees are also required businesses. Separately, independent reviews conduct, fair labour practices, stringent to formally acknowledge their understanding of compliance risks are carried out within the safety and health standards, and responsible of policies and declare any potential conflicts scope of internal audits including thematic environmental management. of interest. Toolbox training on anti-bribery reviews of the effectiveness of key aspects are also carried out for industrial/ of our compliance programmes. Whistle-Blower Policy general workers. Keppel’s Whistle-Blower Policy encourages Resources the reporting of suspected bribery or We continue to focus on refining our compliance We recognise the need for an experienced misconduct through a clearly-defined training programmes and curriculum for new compliance team to effectively support the process and reporting channel, by which and existing employees. We are also focused business in compliance advisory, as well as reports can be made in confidence and on developing and tailoring training content to ensure that compliance programmes and without fear of reprisal. depending on the target audience. controls are effectively implemented. Senior management, including members of the The process is reviewed regularly. In 2018, In addition to policy-related training Board, are fully committed to ensuring that the whistle-blower hotline was outsourced programmes, we conduct trainings focused we build a strong compliance function. 38 Environmental Management We are committed to improving resource efficiency and reducing our environmental impact. 2018 Targets 2018 Performance 2019 Targets Topics Achieve a 28.8% reduction in Achieved a 24% average Achieve a 28.8% reduction in Management systems carbon emissions intensity reduction in emissions intensity carbon emissions intensity by 2030 from 2010 levels, from our 2010 baseline. by 2030 from 2010 levels, Sustainable design in addition to the target of in addition to the target of a Installed solar panels with a Energy efficiency a 16% improvement in carbon 16% improvement in carbon emissions from 2020 businesscapacity of 5.2 megawatt peak emissions intensity from 2020 Carbon emissions as-usual levels. (MWp) at Keppel Offshore & business-as-usual levels. Marine’s (Keppel O&M) yards. Renewable energy Improve the environmental Increase the generation and management systems of key All business units have usage of renewable energy in Water, waste and business units to meet the improved their environmental our operations. effluent management requirements of the revised management systems to transition to the revised Review climate change risks and Compliance ISO 14001 standard. ISO 14001 standard. refine climate change strategy. Develop solutions that minimise environmental impact. Embarked on a pilot project to make Keppel Bay Tower the first Increase the generation and Super Low-Energy High-Rise SDGs usage of renewable energy in Existing Commercial Building our operations. in Singapore. Corporate office at Keppel Bay Tower powered by clean energy from end-2018, through retirement of renewable energy certificates. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 39 Sustaining Growth Environmental Management Overview representatives from business units, many Energy Efficiency The proactive management of our of whom are certified energy managers. 812,134 GJ environmental impact enables us to improve resource efficiency, reduce costs and support All our key business units are certified to the global climate change agenda. the ISO 14001 environmental management system, which guides how we identify, manage, Of projected energy savings through This environmental performance report monitor and control environmental issues. In energy efficiency initiatives implemented includes data from the Group’s major addition, the rigs and ships we build comply in 2018 and from Keppel Land’s Green subsidiaries in Singapore and overseas with all six technical annexes1 of the international Mark-certified developments, translating operations in which the Group has significant convention for the prevention of pollution from to estimated cost savings of about ownership. This includes Keppel O&M and ships (MARPOL 73/78) which is the main $55 million. its significant subsidiaries – Keppel FELS, international convention covering prevention Keppel Shipyard and Keppel Singmarine, of pollution of the marine environment by ships, Water Savings Keppel Land, Keppel Infrastructure, Keppel while our data centres are certified under 1,419,628 m3 Telecommunications & Transportation the SS 564 Singapore standard for green (Keppel T&T) and Keppel Capital. data centres management system. Due to commercial sensitivity, direct energy Our approach to environmental management Of water recycled in Singapore, consumption and carbon emissions arising covers the following aspects: equivalent to approximately 29% from Keppel Infrastructure’s power generation • Fulfilling compliance obligations; of the Group’s water consumption operations are excluded from this report. • Protecting the environment by preventing in Singapore. or mitigating adverse environmental impacts; Management Approach • Enhancing environmental performance; GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 • Achieving financial and operational The Group’s risk-based strategies are used to benefits that can result from implementing assess, avoid, reduce and mitigate environmental environmentally sound alternatives that risks and impacts. Our focus areas are enhancing strengthen Keppel’s market position; and energy efficiency, managing water and waste, • Communicating environmental reducing our carbon emissions and improving information to relevant interested parties. our environmental management systems. The implementation of our Group-wide 1 The six technical annexes are: Annex I – Regulations carbon management strategy is led for the Prevention of Pollution by Oil; Annex II – Regulations for the Control of Pollution by Noxious by the energy efficiency committee. Liquid Substances in Bulk; Annex III -Prevention of The committee sets targets, evaluates the Pollution by Harmful Substances Carried by Sea in effectiveness of our carbon management Packaged Form; Annex IV – Prevention of Pollution by Sewage from Ships; Annex V – Prevention of efforts, and monitors and reports on Pollution by Garbage from Ships; and Annex VI – performance. The committee comprises Prevention of Air Pollution from Ships. International Standards Framework and Plan-Do-Check-Act Model for Environmental Management Plan Establish environmental objectives and processes Act necessary to deliver Take actions to results in accordance continually improve. with environmental policy. Improvement Planning Leadership Performance Support and Check Evaluation Operation Do Monitor and measure Implement the processes against the processes as environmental policy, planned. including its commitments, environmental objectives and operating criteria, and report the results. 40 Keppel Corporation's Climate Action Pledge As a solutions provider for sustainable urbanisation, Keppel Corporation pledges our commitment to support efforts by the international community and the Singapore government in tackling climate change. Our Climate Action Goals To factor in environmental To optimise our To invest in green To include more To promote considerations in operations and technology and increase eco-friendly eco-consciousness our businesses. processes to enhance usage of renewable features in our products. among our stakeholders. energy efficiency. sources of energy. Across our key businesses, we adopt • A clean desk policy ensures that no 1,621,069 GJ of indirect energy in 2018, a systems approach and apply the equipment is left switched-on overnight, compared to 7,149,190 GJ of direct energy International Standards framework and thereby reducing energy wastage; and and 1,643,681 GJ of indirect energy in 2017. plan-do-check-act model to achieve continual • Copiers with secure printing features The data includes direct energy used in improvement in environmental management. help reduce paper wastage. activities carried out by both employees and contractors at our worksites. Sustainable Design To recognise Keppel Corporation, In line with our mission of providing solutions Keppel Land and Keppel Capital for their Improving Energy Efficiency for sustainable urbanisation, the Group commitment towards environmental The Group is estimated to have saved considers environmental factors during protection and efforts in improving 812,134 GJ2 of energy from its energy the planning and design of our property staff health and well-being, the BCA efficiency initiatives in 2018 and from developments, data centres and warehouses, and Health Promotion Board (HPB) Keppel Land’s Green Mark-certified as well as during their operational phases. awarded all three companies the BCA-HPB developments. The total energy saving Keppel Land, in collaboration with the Green Mark Platinum certification for is equivalent to about 9% of the Group’s Building and Construction Authority (BCA), Healthier Workplaces, a new certification total energy consumption in 2018, and will be incorporating five new and which promotes health and wellness in translates to estimated cost savings of emerging energy-efficient technologies in offices and workplaces. about $55 million3 and avoidance of Keppel Bay Tower, where the headquarters approximately 95,000 tCO2 emissions4. of Keppel Corporation is based. Energy GRI 302-1 | 302-4 These savings were achieved through the Read more about how Keppel Bay Tower The Group’s energy demand comprises a optimisation of operations and processes; is gearing towards becoming a Super mix of direct and indirect sources of energy. technological improvements, including Low-Energy Building on pages 46 and 47. Direct energy refers to primary sources of the adoption of more sustainable building energy consumed on site by our operations, designs and materials; and the use of Separately, following office renovations at whereas indirect energy is electricity energy-efficient equipment and devices. Keppel Bay Tower in 2018, the work spaces purchased from external suppliers. of Keppel Corporation, Keppel Land and Examples of initiatives undertaken in Keppel Capital have been enhanced with The Group’s primary energy sources are 2018 include: a suite of green and healthy features to diesel, naphtha, piped natural gas, petrol, • Equipping data centres with Diesel improve energy efficiency and staff health furnace oil and liquefied petroleum gas. Rotary Uninterruptible Power Supply and well-being. The renovated offices are (DRUPS) with higher efficiency and lower designed with demand control strategies In 2018, the Group consumed 7,530,345 chemical waste compared to a static to minimise wastage including: gigajoules (GJ) of direct energy and UPS, and chilled water cooling systems • Smart lighting systems that utilise 1,818,482 GJ of indirect energy or electricity, to reduce electricity consumption occupancy sensors to continuously compared to 7,271,829 GJ of direct energy requirements. Keppel DC Singapore 3 adjust lighting levels according to and 1,890,734 GJ of indirect energy in 2017. was re-awarded the BCA-IMDA Green occupancy load; Mark Platinum in 2018. The green • Photosensors that dim perimeter Our Singapore operations consumed features at the facility include an lightings when there is sufficient daylight; 7,280,286 GJ of direct energy and energy-efficient chiller plant system, 2 The 812,134 GJ in savings comprise savings from the reduced usage of fossil fuels, such as diesel, and a reduction in electricity consumed. The amount of savings in absolute terms is the difference in consumption before and after the implementation of an energy efficiency project. The savings are converted to energy equivalent in gigajoules based on the corresponding energy conversion factors for fossil fuels and electricity published in the United Kingdom’s Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) 2017 Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, whereby 1 kWh = 0.0036 GJ and 1 tonne of diesel = 43.33 GJ. 3 The electricity conversion factor used is based on the United Kingdom’s DEFRA 2017 Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, whereby 1 kWh = 0.0036 GJ. Estimated monetary savings are calculated based on the average electricity tariff rates in 2018 as published by Singapore Power, whereby 1 kWh = $0.2447. 4 The electricity savings in carbon dioxide equivalent was estimated by multiplying the energy savings in kWh with the Electricity Grid Emission Factor, whereby 1 kWh = 0.4244 kg CO2, published by Singapore’s Energy Market Authority. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 41 Sustaining Growth Environmental Management motion sensor and zone control powered by clean energy from the for data centre suites as well as end of 2018 through the retirement of flywheel-powered DRUPS. these certificates5. • Changing high bay lighting to T5 lamps which are more energy efficient. In 2018, Water 49 T5 lamps were installed in Keppel GRI 303-1 | 303-3 Logistics’ facilities in Singapore. Water is a precious resource. The Group continues to strengthen its water Renewable Energy conservation efforts through initiatives The Group has also continued to such as promoting water-saving practices, promote the generation and usage adopting water-efficient technologies of renewable energy. Keppel O&M and and equipment as well as implementing Keppel Infrastructure are collaborating process improvements. on a solar leasing project at Keppel O&M’s yards. The solar panels at Keppel O&M’s The total water consumption of the Group yard have an installed capacity of 5.2 MWp, consists of potable water (water from local and additional solar panels are progressively catchment and imported water), NEWater being installed. In addition, a portion of the (treated wastewater from sewage), recycled renewable energy certificates generated water and water drawn from rivers. The through this initiative is being transferred to Group consumed 6,068,582 cubic metres (m3) Keppel Corporation, allowing the corporate of water in 2018, an increase of 19% compared office at Keppel Bay Tower to be fully to 5,111,238 m3 in 2017. Environmental Data GRI 302-1 | 303-1 | 303-3 | 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-7 | 306-2 2016 2017 2018 Global Operations Direct Energy Consumption (GJ) 7,394,690 7,271,829 7,530,345 Indirect Energy Consumption (GJ) 1,820,611 1,890,734 1,818,482 Direct Emissions (tCO2) 1,205,749 1,065,179 1,001,025 Indirect Emissions (tCO2) 224,146 228,551 237,722 Potable Water Used (m3) 2,523,902 1,705,917 1,983,358 NEWater Used (m3) 2,648,455 2,622,096 2,604,498 Recycled Water Used (m3) 294,361 727,702 1,419,696 River Water Used (m3) 32,418 55,523 61,030 Recycled Waste (t) 297,137 44,127 561,818 Incinerated Waste (t) 27,948 27,743 18,073 Singapore Operations Direct Energy Consumption (GJ) 7,166,393 7,149,190 7,280,286 Indirect Energy Consumption (GJ) 1,595,838 1,643,681 1,621,069 Direct Emissions (tCO2) 1,031,948 838,666 829,957 Indirect Emissions (tCO2) 191,189 193,615 209,141 Nitrogen Oxides Emissions (mg/Nm3) Keppel Merlimau Cogen Plant 33.03 24.87 28.44 Keppel Seghers Tuas WTE Plant 283.91 137.53 162.13 Sulphur Dioxide Emissions (mg/Nm3) Keppel Merlimau Cogen Plant 7.15 10.12 10.40 Keppel Seghers Tuas WTE Plant 11.68 31.26 67.47 Senoko WTE Plant 68.87 101.90 48.79 Average Particulate Matter Emissions (mg/Nm3) Keppel Seghers Tuas WTE Plant 12.04 8.55 7.88 Senoko WTE Plant 10.75 17.58 5.92 Potable Water Used (m3) 1,445,304 1,001,2541 872,864 NEWater Used (m3) 2,586,318 2,622,096 2,604,498 Recycled Water Used (m3) 294,055 727,646 1,419,628 Recycled Waste (t) 47,263 38,195 29,239 Incinerated Waste (t) 27,929 24,067 18,071 1 The figure for potable water in 2017 have been restated to account for corrections to historical data. 42 Keppel Land considers environmental factors during the planning and design of its property developments. Our operations in Singapore consumed for recycling. Hazardous waste generated is registering a 25% decrease compared 4,896,990 m3 of water compared to handled, stored and disposed in a manner to 24,067 t in 2017, due to changes in 4,350,996 m3 in 2017. that adheres to best practices and meets business activities. local regulatory requirements. Water Recycling As incineration of refuse is prohibited The Group recycled a total of 1,419,628 m3 Waste recycled included ferrous scrap, or unavailable in some countries where of water in 2018 that was used in its grits, plastic stretch wrap, paper and other we operate, a total of 131,506 t of plants in Singapore, which is equivalent to office consumables. In 2018, the Group municipal waste was disposed at landfill approximately 29% of the Group’s water recycled 561,818 tonnes (t) of refuse, sites in 2018, an increase over 1,539 t in 2017. consumption in Singapore. The amount of which is a significant increase from water recycled in 2018 is almost double the 44,127 t of waste in 2017. The increase Emissions & Effluents volume recycled than 2017. The increase was largely due to increased amounts GRI 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-5 | 305-7 is largely attributed to the optimisation of of scrap metal from Keppel AmFELS in Emissions Intensity Targets the effluent filtration system at Senoko the US and Keppel Batangas Shipyard in Keppel aims to achieve a 16% improvement Waste-to-Energy (WTE) Plant, and the the Philippines, as yard activities picked up, in carbon emissions intensity from 2020 redirection of water drained during boiler which contributed to a combined amount business-as-usual levels. This is based on shutdowns into the recycled water system. of 532,579 t. Our Singapore operations the national targets which the Singapore recycled 29,239 t of waste in 2018, government had disclosed in 2009. Waste a decrease from 38,195 t recycled in GRI 306-2 Singapore the previous year. In support of the Paris Agreement, Singapore The Group strives to minimise waste announced its intended nationally determined generation, increase opportunities for As a Group, a total of 18,073 t of waste contribution of reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) reusing and recycling, as well as treat and was sent for incineration in 2018, which is emissions intensity by 36% from 2005 levels dispose waste responsibly where other approximately a 35% decrease compared by 2030. In line with the government’s options are not practicable. to 27,743 t in 2017. commitment, we have set a long-term target of a 28.8% reduction in carbon Waste is segregated at our offices, plants In land-scarce Singapore, refuse is emissions intensity from 2010 levels by and yards to promote reuse and recycling. incinerated to reduce the volume of waste 2030 for our global operations6. Our target Used papers from our offices as well as and to remove harmful substances before was derived by adjusting the national scrap metals and spoilt equipment recovered disposal at the landfill. A total 18,071 t of target to a shorter timeframe, as data from our shipyards and WTE plants are sent waste was sent for incineration in 2018, prior to 2010 is unavailable. 5 The renewable energy certificates allocated to Keppel Corporation’s corporate office for the period from December 2018 will be retired in July 2019. 6 In calculating emissions intensity reductions, each business division first computes its base year (i.e. 2010) emissions intensity using a normalising factor relevant to its business activity. The total emissions intensity reduction is the difference in the Group’s average emissions intensity between the base year and the current year in which the data is reported. The normalisation factors for our business divisions are based on their key activities and industry best practices. They are as follows: m2 of gross floor area for Keppel Corporation and Keppel Land, million man-hours for Keppel FELS, Keppel Shipyard, Keppel Singmarine and Keppel Logistics; tonnes of refuse incinerated for our WTE plants; million kWh for City Gas; volume of water produced for SingSpring Desalination Plant; volume of NEWater produced for the Ulu Pandan NEWater Plant; refrigeration tonnes per hour for our district heating and cooling plants; and kilowatt of IT power for Keppel Data Centres. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 43 Sustaining Growth Environmental Management As at end-2018, our operations in Singapore incineration of waste at WTE plants Tuas WTE Plant were 5.92 mg/Nm3 and and overseas7 have achieved a 24% average amounted to 1,001,025 tCO2, registering a 7.88 mg/Nm3 respectively, which were reduction in carbon emissions intensity 6% decrease from 1,065,179 tCO2 in 2017, well below the NEA emission standard of from our 2010 baseline8. while indirect emissions from electricity 100 mg/Nm3. Variations in emissions are use was 237,722 tCO2, which is a 4% dependent on the type of municipal refuse We are on track to achieving the 2020 increase from 228,551 tCO2 in 2017. incinerated by the plants. target of a 16% improvement in carbon emissions intensity. Direct emissions for Singapore All trade effluent from our operations are operations was 829,957 tCO2, treated and discharged to water courses The Singapore government implemented a comparable to 838,666 tCO2 in 2017. or sewer systems in accordance with carbon tax in 2019. The carbon tax is set at a Indirect emissions from our Singapore the environmental discharge limits and rate of $5 per tonne of GHG emissions (tCO2) operations was 209,141 tCO2, compared effluent standards in the countries from 2019 to 2023. Singapore will review with 193,615 tCO2 in 2017. of operation. the carbon tax rate by 2023, with plans to increase it to between $10 and $15/tCO2 Other Emissions & Effluents Compliance by 2030. The tax is applied upstream, for Keppel Infrastructure continues to actively GRI 306-3 | 307-1 example, on power stations and other large manage the emissions from its operations. There were no reports of spillages, direct emitters. The carbon tax would have Nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide and no sanctions pertaining to spillages an impact on the business cost, which would emitted from the three plants under that were administered by Singapore or in turn impact project economics. To mitigate Keppel Infrastructure remain far below overseas authorities on the Group in 2018. the impact of the carbon tax, the Group has the emission standards of 700 milligrams continued to improve our energy efficiency per normal cubic metre (mg/Nm3) and In 2018, the main contractor appointed and reduce our carbon footprint, particularly 500 mg/Nm3 respectively, as stipulated by by Keppel Land for a residential project for businesses that are energy intensive. Singapore’s National Environment Agency in Singapore was fined $1,000 for (NEA) Code of Practice on Pollution Control. creating conditions favourable for Carbon Emmisions9 mosquito breeding at the construction In 2018, total direct emissions from the In 2018, dust or particulate matter emitted site. Mitigating actions have since been use of fuels across the Group and the by Senoko WTE Plant and Keppel Seghers taken to prevent recurrence. 1 44 1 Keppel DHCS’ district cooling plant at Changi Business Park generates solar energy through the building-integrated photovoltaics installed on the rooftop and building facade. 2 The David Malcolm Justice Centre, which Keppel REIT owns 50% interest in, is the first building in Perth, Australia, to attain the Green Building Council of Australia’s 6 Star Green Star Performance rating. 2 7 Excludes Keppel O&M’s operations abroad. We are working to progressively include all overseas facilities in our monitoring of emissions intensity. 8 Due to commercial sensitivity, data from Keppel Merlimau Cogen is excluded from the calculation. 9 The GHG conversion factors used for Scope 1 (direct emissions) are based on the United Kingdom’s DEFRA 2017 Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting. The GHG conversion factors for Scope 2 (indirect emissions) are based on the “Electricity Grid Emission Factor” for 2017 from Singapore’s Energy Market Authority. The GHG emission Scopes 1, 2 and 3 are defined by the GHG Protocol, whereby Scope 1 refers to emissions from company owned and operated facilities, machines, vehicles, etc. The primary sources of energy consumed on site by our operations are diesel, liquefied petroleum gas, naphtha, piped natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, compressed natural gas, acetylene, and refrigerants – R22, R407C, R410A, R22, R407C, R410A; Scope 2 refers to emissions from the generation of purchased electricity consumed by the company; Scope 3 emissions are a consequence of the activities of the company, but occur from sources not owned or controlled by the company, such as employee commuting, business travel and the purchase of office supplies. The Group does not report on Scope 3 emissions as the boundaries for such emissions are very broad, and it is presently not feasible to track such data for a credible Scope 3 assessment. As there is no existing international benchmark on the amount of carbon emissions from the incineration of waste, Keppel has established a methodology for estimating carbon emissions based on the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National GHG Inventories (Volume 5 – Waste). Carbon emissions are estimated based on the fossil carbon arising from the incineration of non-organic waste content in the incineration plant, which is dry plastics in Singapore’s context. The plastics content and the moisture content in the waste are determined through annual refuse sampling, which is a requirement by NEA for the annual incineration capacity test for each plant. The carbon emission factors for 2017 are one tonne of waste incinerated equals to 0.3139 tCO2 for Keppel Seghers Tuas WTE Plant, and 0.4283 tCO2 for Senoko WTE Plant. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 45 Sustaining Growth Environmental Management Special Focus Gearing Towards a Super Low-Energy Building Keppel Land has been awarded a grant of up to $1.28 million by the Building and the new Green Mark for Super Low-Energy scheme, qualifying it as Singapore’s first Five selected technologies from the inaugural BCA-Keppel Land Joint Challenge Call Construction Authority of Singapore (BCA) Super Low-Energy High-Rise Existing to implement new and emerging green Commercial Building. will be implemented at Keppel Bay Tower as part of an innovative test-bedding project technologies at the Green Mark Platinumsupported by the BCA Green Building Innovation Cluster. certified Keppel Bay Tower, where Keppel Land will implement the technologies Keppel Corporation is headquartered. in certain parts of the 18-storey building, which will allow Keppel Bay Tower to yield The five technologies that will be estimated overall annual energy savings piloted at Keppel Bay Tower include a of approximately 1.5 million kWh. This is high efficiency air distribution system, equivalent to the amount of energy required a revolutionary cooling tower water to power more than 250 five-room HDB flats management system, integrated sensor in Singapore for one year. technology to optimise fresh air intake, smart lighting solutions as well as Keppel Land also estimates it can achieve an intelligent building control system. annual water savings of about 7,000 m3, This will be the first time that any of which is equivalent to the amount of these technologies, selected from the water in three Olympic-size swimming BCA-Keppel Land Joint Challenge Call pools. These savings in energy and water launched in 2017, are implemented in translate to cost savings of approximately a development in Singapore. In addition, $250,000 annually. Keppel Land will also explore opportunities to collaborate with Envision, a global leading If the technologies are applied to smart energy management company, the entire building, the annual energy to further improve the energy efficiency consumption of Keppel Bay Tower of Keppel Bay Tower. is estimated to be further reduced to 92 kWh/m2 per year. With the expected completion of the pilot in 2020, Keppel Bay Tower’s annual energy consumption is expected to improve from about 145 kilowatt hour (kWh)/m2 per year to 115 kWh/m2 per year1. This is a 20% improvement from its current annual energy 1 The estimated annual energy consumption of Keppel Bay Tower is within the Top Quartile of consumption. Keppel Land is working with large office buildings in the BCA Building Energy the BCA to certify Keppel Bay Tower under Benchmarking Report 2017. 46 Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 47 Sustaining Growth Suppliers We work closely with stakeholders in our supply chain to positively influence their sustainability performance. 2018 Targets 2018 Performance 2019 Targets Topics Further refine the implementation Screened 100% of all new Screen 100% of all new suppliers Screening suppliers of the Keppel supplier code suppliers in accordance with in accordance with ESG criteria. of conduct. environmental, social and Supplier code of conduct governance (ESG) criteria. To have 100% of all qualified Work with suppliers to improve suppliers endorse the Keppel Due diligence performance in accordance with 99.8% of qualified suppliers supplier code of conduct. best practices. endorsed the Keppel supplier code of conduct or have Expand the assessments of their own codes which met supplier performance in relation to topics covered in the Keppel SDGs Keppel’s requirements. supplier code of conduct. Worked with subcontractors to provide safety training for subcontract workers and shared best practices on health, safety and environment (HSE) at contractor and subcontractor forums. 48 Our Supply Chain GRI 102-9 Division Description Offshore & Marine Subcontractors work closely with Keppel Offshore & Marine (Keppel O&M) to construct, convert and repair offshore and marine vessels in our yards. Equipment manufacturers supply us with large-scale equipment such as thrusters, engines, winches, switchgear and variable control systems for installation on offshore and marine vessels that we build for clients; as well as specialised purpose-specific equipment such as cryogenic systems and offshore drilling equipment. We also procure shipyard-specific equipment such as cranes, forklifts, transporters and panel line systems. Bulk material suppliers supply us with steel plates, steel profiles, cables, piping and paint; and consumables such as fuel, grits and gases. Property Consultants, contractors, and interior design firms provide architectural and engineering design, construction and interior design services for our real estate developments. As a manager of real estate properties, we also employ facility management companies to service our commercial buildings. Infrastructure Keppel Infrastructure engages consultants, system integrators, equipment manufacturers and suppliers, and subcontractors for the construction of plants and facilities and for the provision of environmental technology solutions. We also purchase raw materials, such as feedstock, to power the co-generation plant for our Energy Infrastructure business. In addition, we procure goods and services for the operations and maintenance of the plants and facilities. Keppel Data Centres engages external contractors for the construction of new data centre facilities, and facility technicians for regular equipment maintenance. Keppel Logistics engages contractors for transportation services and warehouse operations, as well as for facility maintenance. UrbanFox, our e-commerce logistics arm, engages crowdsourced drivers for last-mile delivery services through its online platform. Investments Our managers engage subcontractors to ensure smooth operations and maintenance of our assets. The supply chain for this business also comprises mechanical and electrical equipment suppliers for some of our data centres, as well as property and facility management companies that provide building management, physical security, technical maintenance and routine cleaning services. Management Approach purchase orders in the prior calendar year GRI 102-10 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 308-1 | 403-7 | 414-1 are expected to sign and abide by the Supplier Code Of Conduct 99.8% The Group contracts local and foreign Keppel supplier code of conduct, which suppliers for our different lines of businesses, covers areas pertaining to business conduct, and we work closely with our suppliers labour practices, safety and health, and to make a positive impact on their environmental management. All Group Of all qualified suppliers endorsed sustainability performance. companies are required to include the the Keppel supplier code of conduct acknowledgment and signing of the code, or have their own codes which met We adhere to local content requirements and which is available in multiple languages, as Keppel’s requirements. are committed towards strengthening our part of their supplier selection procedure. In base of local suppliers in countries where we 2018, 99.8% of qualified suppliers endorsed operate. In doing so, we support domestic the code or have their own codes which Suppliers Screened 100% economic growth, generate employment met Keppel’s requirements. The remaining opportunities and improve the capacities 0.2% comprised three suppliers who could of the workforce in our host countries. not endorse the code. The business unit’s compliance team conducted further due Of all new suppliers were screened in Screening New Suppliers diligence and assessed that the three accordance with ESG criteria. All suppliers are qualified in accordance with suppliers were fit to be appointed. our requisition and purchasing policies, and screened based on ESG criteria. We review Third-party associates of the Group that potential suppliers’ industry reputation, provide services on behalf of a Group track record, financial performance, company or engage in business activities on security practices and certifications, behalf of a Group company are required to whereby suppliers with certifications abide by Keppel’s rules of business conduct. for ISO 9001 quality management system, The rules specify the Group’s policy with ISO 14001 environmental management regard to ethical conduct and compliance system, OHSAS 18001 occupational with laws, anti-corruption, gifts and health and safety assessment series hospitality, and donations and contributions. or equivalent are preferred. The Group’s enterprise resource planning All new suppliers that provide Keppel with initiative for companies in Singapore was products and services valued at $200,000 enhanced in 2018. The enhanced system or more per contract or over cumulative provides procurement managers across the Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 49 Sustaining Growth Suppliers Supplier Selection Process Signed Reviewed Assessed Evaluated Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 All new suppliers that provide All suppliers are qualified New suppliers are assessed We conduct regular Keppel with products and in accordance with again by the respective work reviews and assessment services valued at $200,000 our requisition and teams based on specified of supplier performance, or more per contract or over purchasing policies and criteria. All subcontractors with an emphasis on our cumulative purchase orders screened based on ESG are required to abide by subcontractors, including in the prior calendar year are criteria. We review potential the relevant laws and performance in relation expected to sign and abide suppliers’ industry reputation, regulations during the to topics covered in the by the Keppel supplier code track record, financial course of engagement. supplier code of conduct. of conduct. performance, security The feedback provided This includes document practices and certifications. by the work teams to the reviews and site visits to procurement teams helps ensure satisfactory service to determine whether new quality and HSE standards. suppliers are included in Business units also collect our approved supplier list. regular feedback from suppliers and incorporate feedback where applicable. Group with visibility on suppliers that Keppel Land has in place a five-step supply Building Capabilities have been qualified or suspended by other chain management process that covers We work closely with our contractors and business units. All overseas business units the whole lifecycle of its project from its subcontractors to maintain high safety are working to be on this common resource initiation and design development stages to standards throughout our workforce. planning platform. subsequent construction and operation stages. Read more about how Keppel drives high safety Due Diligence For all project sites covered under the scope standards in its supply chain on pages 57 to 61. Keppel O&M conducts regular audits of of Keppel Land’s environmental management resident subcontractors to ensure their system, contractors are required to conduct Forums and dialogue sessions with contractors adherence to the International Labour an impact assessment based on activities are held regularly to ensure alignment in HSE Organisation’s declaration on fundamental at the project site prior to construction. objectives, share experience and communicate principles and rights at work and Singapore’s The assessment covers potential negative our expectations regarding performance. Our Ministry of Manpower marine sponsorship environmental impacts, including depletion business units have incentive programmes scheme requirements for the employment of resources, biodiversity disturbance as well that reward and recognise contractors with of local and foreign employees. as air, water and noise pollution. Contractors exemplary HSE performance. are required to establish and implement As part of the due diligence process, which appropriate measures to mitigate and/or Keppel O&M conducts outreach programmes covers topics such as fair remuneration, prevent significant environmental impacts. and briefings to subcontractor workers to living standards and workplace safety, inform them of their employment rights, and Keppel O&M conducts monthly interviews Keppel Land also conducts regular site visits the available channels to report any violation with subcontract workers on a rotational and internal audits as part of its supplier due of their rights. basis to determine their levels of satisfaction diligence process. When lapses are identified, pertaining to worker welfare. The respective the company’s project team works closely subcontractors’ management are required with contractors to implement corrective to address any cause for concern. action plans and preventive measures. 50 Product Excellence We drive innovation and tap our businesses’ expertise and track records to seize new opportunities. 2018 Targets 2018 Performance 2019 Targets Topics Invest in research and Invested 27% of R&D expenditure Invest at least 20% of Innovation development (R&D) and on sustainability-linked innovation. R&D expenditure on innovations that support solutions sustainability-linked innovation. Product safety for sustainable urbanisation. Achieved high scores for customer satisfaction surveys Maintain high levels of Customer satisfaction Maintain high levels of across our business units. customer satisfaction across customer satisfaction across our businesses. our businesses. Most of our key business units are certified to meet the Certify products and services to Certify products and services to ISO 9001 quality management sustainability-related standards SDGs sustainability-related standards system, ISO 14001 environmental and protocols. and protocols. management system and OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety assessment series. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 51 Sustaining Growth Product Excellence 1 Overview Keppel Land has implemented the ISO 9001 Green Mark Awards Driven by our core values of customer focus management system for about 30% of its 83 as well as agility and innovation, Keppel projects under development in Singapore, delivers value-added solutions for sustainable China and Vietnam. In addition, 100% of urbanisation, taking into account the evolving Keppel Land’s managed development needs of our customers. projects and properties in Singapore, China Building & Construction Authority (BCA) and Vietnam have attained OHSAS 18001. Green Mark Awards achieved by We continue to drive innovation and tap To date, Keppel Land has garnered a Keppel Land to date. on our businesses’ expertise to seize total of 83 BCA Green Mark Awards in new opportunities. recognition of its holistic approach to Sustainability Innovation environmental management. 27% We exercise due care and diligence in the design, construction and operation of our About 70% of Keppel Infrastructure’s products and services to ensure that they operations are certified to meet the ISO 9001 do not pose hazards to customers. and ISO 14001 management systems and Of R&D expenditure invested in OHSAS 18001, demonstrating commitment sustainability-linked innovation. Management Approach to execution excellence. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Most of our key business units are certified Fostering Innovation to meet the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 The Keppel technology advisory panel (KTAP) management systems, and OHSAS 18001, was established in 2004 as a key platform to demonstrating our commitment to advance the Group's technology leadership. execution excellence. Its members include eminent business leaders and industry experts from across We regularly monitor and review the world. our operational processes to improve efficiencies and increase productivity. KTAP members provide Keppel with technology Through regular surveys and reviews, foresight, advice on strategic projects, and we seek to understand our customers’ broaden Keppel’s networks. Collectively, needs and enhance our products and members’ expertise cover a wide range services accordingly. of topics pertaining to sustainable urbanisation, including floating platforms, In 2018, Keppel Data Centres obtained urban design and liveability, alternative certification for the ISO 9001 management energy and efficiency, as well as system, ISO 27001 information security communication networks and digitalisation. management system as well as EN 50600 KTAP convenes once a year with key Class 3 European data centre standard for members of Keppel Corporation’s board Keppel DC Frankfurt 1. and senior management. 52 Keppel Technology and Innovation (KTI) 100 initiatives to enhance operations and We consider proper design, handling, is the Group’s platform to co-create and efficiency, translating to estimated cost storage and disposal of materials as incubate ideas, and serves to sharpen the savings of about $19 million. early as the planning stage. At the project Group’s focus on innovation. Through KTI, execution stage, we carry out project we aim to transform how Keppel harnesses Keppel Logistics has committed $17 million reviews and quality assurance programmes. technology and innovation to create value for UrbanFox to power its growth efforts for our stakeholders, including innovation in e-commerce channel management, In our business units, functional divisions, in business models and the way we work, warehousing and inventory management as including health, safety & environment (HSE), as well as how we collaborate with third well as last-mile fulfilment. For the benefit of commercial, engineering, and operations, parties to accelerate change. its customers and delivery partners, UrbanFox as well as project and plant managers, will be looking to enhance its analytics and are collectively responsible for the oversight In 2018, about 27% of the Group’s parcel sorting technology platform with of product and service safety. R&D expenditure was invested in automatic geospatial and chronological sustainability-linked innovation. delivery clustering to achieve gains in efficiency. All operational management and quality control systems at Keppel O&M are aligned In 2018, Keppel Offshore & Marine (Keppel O&M) Customer Health & Safety based on the company’s business excellence developed conceptual designs for innovative GRI 416-1 roadmap and framework. Clients are also floating assets, including wind turbine The health and safety of our customers in briefed on the management systems in installation jackup rigs as well as autonomous the provision and use of our products and place to address project-specific HSE risks. tugs. Separately, as part of an Industry 4.0 services are of utmost importance to us. This includes the development of HSE and transformation process, Keppel Shipyard emergency plans which detail how risks will implemented several innovation projects in Customer health and safety impacts are be managed at each phase of the project. 2018, including the digitisation of computed assessed for improvement in all our Regular site audits are conducted by the radiography procedures. Since 2015, significant product and service categories, client and our project teams to ensure Keppel Shipyard has implemented close to and throughout products’ life cycles. compliance to the client’s HSE standards. 2 1 Our data centres are certified to have fulfilled the requirements of international standards for operational resilience and information security, among others. 2 UrbanFox will continue to invest in technology and process optimisation initiatives. 3 Keppel Technology and Innovation is the Group’s platform to co-create and incubate ideas, and serves to sharpen the Group’s 3 focus on innovation. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 53 Sustaining Growth Product Excellence We actively seek our customers’ feedback and suggestions to help us better understand their needs and translate such feedback to improvements of our products and services. Keppel Land has adopted the guidelines on low-pressure piped town gas network in their needs, so that we are able to translate design for safety in buildings and structure Singapore, is certified to the ISO 9001 such feedback to improvements of our for all its new projects in Singapore since quality management system to ensure that products and services. 2008, in line with Singapore’s Workplace its output meet product specifications. Safety and Health Council’s design for safety Compliance regulations implemented since 2016. The Keppel Infrastructure Trust’s key customers GRI 416-2 guidelines require safety and health risks to include government agencies and regulatory Keppel subscribes to best practices and complies be incorporated into the early conceptual and authorities who oversee the provision of public with all applicable legislations and requirements. planning phases of a project, enabling designers utilities such as water, waste treatment and and consultants to reduce these risks through electricity. Ongoing efforts such as regular Keppel is not aware of any violation of laws, good design and effective project planning. reporting, annual capacity tests and audits regulations and voluntary codes pertaining help to further ensure the quality and reliability to the provision, use, health and safety of In our Infrastructure division, management of the company’s products and services. its products and services in 2018. systems are in place to improve the operational resilience of our assets. City Gas, Customer Engagement Keppel’s business units abide by the Singapore which is currently the sole producer and GRI 102-43 Code of Advertising Practice by the Advertising retailer of low-pressure piped town gas in We actively seek our customers’ feedback Standards Authority of Singapore, as well as Singapore and also the sole user of the and suggestions to help us understand similar codes overseas. Customer feedback 2018 (non-exhaustive) Division Feedback Process 2018 Outcomes Offshore & Marine Keppel Shipyard conducted customer service satisfaction Maintained a customer satisfaction score of 5.8 out of 6. surveys for 330 completed projects in Singapore. For Keppel FELS, face-to-face customer surveys were Obtained an average score of 4.3 out of 6, a slight decrease conducted once every four months to track customer from an average score of 4.9 in 2017. satisfaction at each project phase. Property Keppel Land conducted service quality surveys for 95.7% of respondents indicated that they were satisfied with 11 completed projects in Singapore, China, Vietnam the services rendered in the management and operations of and Indonesia. the developments, a slight increase from 95% in 2017. Infrastructure Keppel Logistics conducts regular customer meetings Maintained a customer engagement score of 100% in and annual customer surveys. Singapore and 90% in China. Keppel Data Centres conducts an annual customer survey. Scored 3.64 out of 5, up from 3.5 in 2017. At City Gas, customer review audits are performed by Scored 3.44 out of 4 for overall customer satisfaction, a third-party consultant. up from 3.3 in 2017. Investments Keppel REIT conducted tenant satisfaction surveys Survey results indicated high levels of tenant satisfaction. for its properties in Singapore and Australia. 54 Special Focus Driving Innovation We continue to invest in technology to maximise our value proposition and improve operational efficiency. Innovation and technology have been integral approach would involve physical model including asset management, remote parts of our growth and the company continues testing, which is time-consuming, resource advisory and rig performance optimisation. to invest in these areas to maximise its value intensive and costly. With this new service, Keppel O&M is able proposition, improve operational efficiency to offer reliable solutions throughout the rig’s and provide solutions for existing and Keppel Data Centres and its equipment lifecycle, from rig design, engineering and new markets. providers, together with A*STAR, use construction, to operation and maintenance. Aspire 1 for CFD modelling to study airflow Leveraging Supercomputing patterns for hot and cold air in its data centres. RigCare features include the use of: The Group uses supercomputing resources This is important in tropical Singapore where for a range of activities from digitally testing the bulk of energy consumption in data • Industrial Internet of Things to enhance and improving its rig and ship designs to centres goes towards cooling equipment. automation and mobile operations; mapping out the airflow at its data centres Understanding airflow in data centres allows • Smart sensors to drive towards conditionfor optimum usage. Keppel Data Centres to optimise the supply based class surveys in a joint development of cool air to mission-critical computer project with classification society Keppel Offshore & Marine (Keppel O&M), server racks while efficiently removing ABS to lower downtime and reduce through the Keppel-National University waste heat. maintenance costs; of Singapore Corporate Lab, uses the • Digital twin-based analytics to predict National Supercomputing Centre’s Harnessing Digitalisation machine failure and enhance overall supercomputer, Aspire 1, to run computational Keppel O&M’s proprietary RigCare Solution efficiency and robustness with real-time fluid dynamics (CFD) models to visualise gas provides customers with a suite of digital data; and and liquid flows for resistance and propulsion services to support the rig’s lifecycle needs, • Real-time optimisation of the studies to improve the safety, reliability, significantly increasing uptime and rig's operations fuel efficiency and operability of its products. improving safety while reducing Projects include designs for containerships, maintenance costs. In February 2019, Keppel FELS delivered LNG bunkering vessels and ice breakers Cantarell IV, its first jackup rig equipped as well as semisubmersible hull and column RigCare leverages digitalisation and data with the RigCare Solution, to Grupo R with optimisation. The conventional design insights to provide end-to-end solutions, a perfect safety record. Keppel O&M’s proprietary RigCare Solution uses digitalisation and data insights to provide end-toend solutions, including asset management, remote advisory and rig performance optimisation. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 55 Empowering Lives Safety & Health Safety is our core value. We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for all our stakeholders. 2018 Targets 2018 Performance 2019 Targets Topics Execute our Zero Fatality Developed global High Impact Execute our Zero Fatality Strategy Management systems Strategy and reduce workplace Risk Activities (HIRA) standards. and reduce workplace fatalities fatalities to zero. to zero. Hazard identification, Held over 200 safety leadership risk assessment and Reduce Accident Frequency coaching programmes globally Reduce total recordable incident incident investigation Rate (AFR) compared to to train and empower rate by 10% compared to 2017 levels. frontline managers. 2018 levels. Occupational health services Implement an electronic global Aligning business unit Conduct a compliance audit Worker participation, health, safety and environment requirements for electronic global for selected business units consultation and communication (HSE) management system HSE management system. in relation to the global Worker training to streamline data capture, HIRA standards. Collaborating with Keppel and communication analyse data, and develop intervention programmes. Technology and Innovation Invest in technologies to Promotion of worker health to explore the use of video drive improvements in Invest in technologies to mitigate analytics and business safety performance. risk and drive improvements in intelligence to harness data safety performance. from hazard reporting, observations and inspections. SDGs AFR increased to 0.25. Suffered one fatality in Singapore. 56 Overview • Reviewed potential safety risks for Safety is a core value at Keppel, an integral projects in the next quarter. Training >200 part of our business, and a key focus area for • Developed the global HIRA standards our board of directors and senior management. that will apply to the Group’s We are committed to provide a safe and operations worldwide. healthy workplace for all our stakeholders. Safety leadership coaching The effectiveness of our management programmes conducted globally. Processes and systems are in place to approach is reviewed regularly. During the identify, mitigate and report risks and annual HSE roundtable, senior management communicate best practices across the from our businesses share insights, Investment $26m Group, and we work with our contractors best practices and exchange ideas to and subcontractors to ensure that improve safety performance. The action they understand our requirements plan generated during the session is and expectations. incorporated into the Group’s safety Invested to enhance safety-related roadmap and strategies. infrastructure, upgrade systems and Management Approach GRI 102-13 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 403-1 | build knowledge and skillsets across All employees and contractors at the 403-2 | 403-3 | 403-4 | 403-5 | 403-6 | 403-7 the Group. worksites of Group companies where Keppel We focus on strengthening our frameworks has operational control are covered by our and management systems as well as HSE management systems. All employees and promoting a culture of safety ownership third-party suppliers and contractors are also across our operations. expected to abide by the Keppel Corporation HSE policy which places the highest priority Strategy, Policy & Management Systems on the health and safety of people and the Our approach to safety management is protection of assets and the environment. guided by the Keppel Zero Fatality Strategy. Introduced in 2016, the strategy outlines Our safety management system is routinely actionable items to reduce workplace audited by independent consultants as fatalities to zero through five strategic thrusts. well as internal audit teams. For example, Keppel Offshore & Marine’s (Keppel O&M) Key initiatives in 2018 include the following: cross-business unit audit ensures that • Held over 200 safety leadership coaching policies and management systems are programmes globally to train and adhered to and that practices across our empower frontline managers. global yards are aligned. • Implemented the new incident investigation and root cause analysis Our business units also strive to achieve training programme in Singapore. safety certifications in line with global best • Reinforced the five key safety principles practices. Keppel FELS, Keppel Shipyard and and life-saving rules through campaigns. Keppel Singmarine are certified to meet the Build a high-performance safety culture Streamline Adopt a proactive learning from approach to safety incidents management Keppel Zero Fatality Strategy Harmonise Leverage global safety practices technology to mitigate & competency safety risks Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 57 Empowering Lives Safety & Health Singapore standard for occupational safety Chaired by Tan Ek Kia, a non-executive and and health management system, while our independent director of Keppel Corporation, yards in Brazil, China, the Philippines and the BSC adopts a hands-on approach the United States are certified to meet the in setting the strategic direction and OHSAS 18001 occupational health and establishing a safety framework to ensure safety assessment series and ISO 14001 that consistently high safety standards environmental management system. are maintained across our business units. Major incidents are also shared and Keppel Land’s Singapore, China, Indonesia discussed at quarterly BSC meetings. and Vietnam units as well as Keppel Infrastructure and its key subsidiaries, The BSC leads efforts to implement including Keppel Seghers Engineering initiatives and improve performance with Singapore and Keppel DHCS, are certified the support of the inter-strategic business to meet OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001. unit safety committee, which comprises representatives from all our business units. In addition to being certified under Keppel Corporation’s BSC and the BSCs of OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001, our business units conducted six site visits Keppel Logistics is certified to meet the in Singapore and overseas in 2018 to engage hazard analysis and critical control point staff and understand challenges faced by management system. Keppel Datahub and staff on the ground. Keppel Digihub are also certified to meet the Singapore standard for information and Hazard Identification & Risk Assessment communications technology disaster Across the Group, we establish and recovery services. implement procedures to identify, assess and mitigate safety and health hazards As part of continuous improvement efforts, that are linked to our operations. we are working to meet the requirements under the new ISO 45001 occupational As part of hazard identification and health and safety management system, risk management, our operational and which provides a robust set of processes safety teams conduct periodic workplace for improving safety in global supply chains. inspections and internal audits. Training is conducted to equip HSE personnel Board & Management Oversight with the skills to effectively manage safety Keppel Corporation is the first publicly risks. Union workers and subcontractor listed company in Singapore to establish representatives are invited to participate in a board safety committee (BSC) in 2006. meetings where the identification of hazards, 58 The Keppel Group Safety Convention is held annually to reiterate Keppel’s commitment to a strong safety culture. assessment of risks and the application of Leveraging technology to drive improvements During the daily Take 5 toolbox talk, control measures are discussed1. is a key pillar of our Zero Fatality Strategy. workers are briefed on work-specific Group HSE is collaborating with Keppel hazards including ergonomics in material As part of Keppel’s five key safety principles, Technology and Innovation to explore handling. A fit test is conducted to ensure workers are empowered to stop any unsafe the use of video analytics and business that respirators used are in good condition work. Workers are protected from reprisal intelligence to harness data from hazard and correctly fit the user. when they report work-related hazards and reporting, observations and inspections. hazardous situations. Promotion of Worker Health Read more about how the Group utilises It is mandatory for all workers, including Findings from our risk assessments are technology to enhance safety measures contract workers, to be covered by work considered in the determination of facility on page 63. injury compensation insurance prior to requirements, training programmes working at our shipyards. In-house medical and operational controls. In terms of To protect workers from potential health centres are also located in all our shipyards. product safety, we adhere to design for hazards, hearing conservation and Our contractors partner with clinics to safety regulations for our construction respiratory protection programmes are provide contract workers with access to projects and comply with work environment implemented at at-risk sites. To protect medical care. requirements for the rigs and vessels against noise-induced hearing loss, that we build. Our hazard identification employees with high exposure to noise Keppel also promotes the wellness of its and risk assessment methodology is wear hearing protection gear and are workforce through programmes that address reviewed regularly to ensure effectiveness screened at annual audiometric tests physical and mental health-related risks. and relevance. conducted by a mobile medical unit. Voluntary health promotion programmes Group HSE Structure Business Unit Level KEPPEL CORPORATION BOARD SAFETY COMMITTEE Board Safety Committee Group Health, Safety & Management Safety Committee Environment Division 1 Representatives include members from the Inter-Strategic Business Unit Keppel FELS employees union and the subcontractors Department Heads Safety Committee executive council safety committees at Keppel FELS; Keppel employees union and subcontractor watch group at Keppel Shipyard; Keppel Subic Shipyard workers union and supervisory professional Project/Line Managers technical union at Keppel Subic Shipyard; Christian Labour Organisation and associated professional, supervisory, office and technical employees union at Keppel Batangas Shipyard; metallurgic union Health, Safety & of Angra dos Reis at Keppel FELS Brasil; Keppel Environment Committee employees union and Singapore industrial and services employees’ union at Keppel Infrastructure. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 59 Empowering Lives Safety & Health 1 and services across the Group include the on safety measures and best practices. In Brazil, BrasFELS opened a new training promotion of a smoking cessation hotline, In 2018, we invested approximately centre in 2018. The centre is equipped with healthy snacks in pantries and canteens, as $26 million in enhancing safety-related two auditoriums, a classroom for practical well as fitness classes. Workers’ dormitories infrastructure, upgrading systems and safety training and a showroom where are also equipped with gyms. building knowledge and skillsets across participants can learn more about HIRA the Group. at the shipyard. Keppel O&M conducts regular dormitory visits to engage workers on health and Plans are underway for all workers to Keppel Land’s safety awareness centres safety issues. Keppel Shipyard offers undergo HIRA training. The syllabus in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam; Johor Bahru, holistic health and medical services and covers high-risk activities specific to Malaysia; Jakarta, Indonesia and Tianjin, is equipped with a pharmacy, counselling work sites. China, provide mandatory training for rooms and designated rest areas. contractors’ employees and foster a safety To provide workers with a conducive All personnel entering a Keppel culture across Keppel Land’s supply chain. environment to rest during breaks, operated site must attend a site-specific In August 2018, Keppel Land launched the Keppel Shipyard built three 4-storey safety induction to gain familiarity company’s first mobile safety awareness rest areas. Each rest area accommodates on the basic safety requirements and centre in Wuxi, China. The new mobile centre up to 2,000 workers. potentially hazardous on-site activities is compact and suitable for deployment at or situations. offices and worksites. The Keppel wellness gallery at Keppel Shipyard features interactive The Keppel safety training centre at To promote safer driving, Keppel Logistics health exhibits to educate employees Keppel Shipyard in Singapore offers organises defensive driving courses for on the importance of having proper a complete range of training and its drivers. nutrition, an active lifestyle and good certification courses in both trade-specific mental health. and broad-based skills for all levels of Engaging Stakeholders the workforce. The centre is equipped We work closely with all stakeholders, Several of the Group’s companies, with classrooms, an e-learning zone, including our contractors, subcontractors, namely Keppel FELS, Keppel Shipyard, and a hall with multimedia and interactive customers, suppliers, regulators and Keppel Offshore & Marine Technology training stations. It also features a life-size industry associations, to maintain high Centre, Keppel Housing and City Gas, replica of the mid-section of a tanker safety standards throughout our were recognised for their outstanding with various technical training areas. workforce. Our subcontract workers workplace health promotion practices at Core competency and leadership undergo the same training as the biennial Singapore HEALTH (Helping development programmes, as well as direct employees. Employees Achieve Life-Time Health) workforce skills qualifications courses Awards in 2017. certified by the Singapore Workforce Members of Keppel’s management and Development Agency, are some of safety representatives sit on various Building Skillsets the key training modules conducted committees of the Workplace Safety We empower and train our stakeholders by qualified, full-time instructors at and Health (WSH) Council, such as the to ensure that all personnel are updated the centre. WSH (Marine Industries) committee, 60 Direct Workforce Contract Workforce Total 2018 AFR (reportable accidents per million man-hours) 0.27 0.23 0.25 ASR (man-days lost per million man-hours) 6 101 63 Fatal injury rate (fatal injury per 100,000 employed persons) 0 4.4 2.7 Number of man-hours 40,708,241 65,307,115 106,015,356 2017 AFR (reportable accidents per million man-hours) 0.12 0.09 0.10 ASR (man-days lost per million man-hours) 233 80 140 Fatal injury rate (fatal injury per 100,000 employed persons) 11.1 3.6 6.5 Number of man-hours 51,968,923 79,087,378 131,056,301 2016 AFR (reportable accidents per million man-hours) 0 0.14 0.15 ASR (man-days lost per million man-hours) 295 230 254 Fatal injury rate (fatal injury per 100,000 employed persons) 13.7 10.9 12 Number of man-hours 62,851,897 105,712,508 168,564,405 WSH (construction and landscape) In 2018, the Group reported a total accident Despite our best efforts, we suffered one committee, national work at height severity rate (ASR) of 63 man-days lost fatality of a contractor. The incident was safety taskforce, and related industrial per million man-hours, a decrease from associated with steel fabrication works in associations such as the Association last year, and a total AFR of 0.25 accidents one of our Singapore shipyards. We are of Singapore Marine Industries and per million man-hours in 2018, an increase deeply saddened by the loss of our colleague Real Estate Developers' Association from last year2. and have thoroughly investigated the root of Singapore. As bizSAFE partners, Keppel DHCS, 2 Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) = no. of workplace accidents reported x 1,000,000 no. of man-hours worked Keppel Seghers Engineering Singapore, Keppel FELS, Keppel Shipyard and Accident Severity Rate (ASR) = no. of man-days lost to workplace accidents x 1,000,000 no. of man-hours worked Keppel Singmarine actively encourage contractors to progress through the levels of the bizSAFE programme. Since 2013, Keppel Shipyard has imposed a bizSAFE Level 4 certification requirement for resident contractors before they are able to undertake work at the yard. As a bizSAFE mentor, Keppel Land encourages contractors to develop and implement safety initiatives at their workplaces. Prior to their appointment, Keppel Land’s main contractors must be confirmed as bizSAFE partners, and ensure that their subcontractors meet the standards set by the WSH Council. Performance GRI 403-2 | 403-9 In accordance with the company’s HSE policy, business units are required to report and investigate all accidents, incidents and near misses, and ensure that lessons learnt are shared to prevent any recurrence. All Group companies where Keppel has operational control are required to report incidents, including those that involve third parties such as contractors, clients 1 and visitors at our premises, as well as Keppel Land launched employees working at third party sites or the company’s first mobile safety awareness centre commuting for work-related purposes. in China (pictured), which will be deployed at offices At worksites, stand-downs are conducted and worksites. when incidents occur or when hazards 2 are spotted. Reportable incidents and We aim to ingrain safety near misses are also promptly reported consciousness among to senior management. 2 all our stakeholders. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 61 Empowering Lives Safety & Health As part of a global safety time-out event, employees across our global worksites simultaneously stopped work and participated in toolbox briefings. causes, which were related to working in at entrances. The safe work procedure category. Keppel FELS, Keppel Singmarine the line of fire and lifting. We determined methodology at Keppel Infrastructure and Keppel DHCS clinched the WSH the contributing factors and identified steps was also revised for processes involving Performance Awards for exemplary to prevent similar incidents in the future. the alignment of pipes. safety performance and implementation Lessons learnt were shared across of strong WSH management systems. the Group. All work-related incidents are jointly investigated by the operational and Enhancing Communication The Group reported a total of 26 safety safety teams. Where appropriate, Keppel’s five key safety principles are incidents3 in 2018, of which 10 incidents an independent team is set up to widely publicised to ingrain safety were reported by our direct workforce and investigate fatal and high potential consciousness among all stakeholders. 16 incidents by our contract workforce. incidents. All incident investigations The Group HSE Alerts system was The reported incidents have been classified include an account of the events leading established to better disseminate as the following types: up to the incident, how it occurred and lessons learnt globally and ensure that post-incident actions, as well as a root preventive measures are taken promptly. • caught between cause analysis and corrective action plan • fall on same level to prevent recurrence. On 23 October 2018, over 500 board • fall from height members, management, employees, • struck by All of the Group’s operational entities union members, contractors and • contact with monitor occurrences of occupational subcontractors, partners, and business • heat stroke disease at their individual sites. associates reaffirmed their collective • road traffic accident No occurrence of occupational commitment to safety at the 12th edition disease was reported in 2018. of the Keppel Group safety convention. Two of the 26 incidents resulted in The convention saw the continuation amputations, and both the affected Recognition of the annual Keppel Group safety employees received insurance payouts The Group was conferred 28 WSH Awards awards and also recognised 35 safety under the work injury compensation in 2018 by Singapore’s Ministry of Manpower innovation projects. scheme4. Following investigations, and the WSH Council. This is the highest corrective actions and preventive number of awards won by a single As part of a global safety time-out measures have been implemented at organisation in the year. event, employees across our the two affected worksites. This includes global worksites simultaneously the installation of barriers at Keppel Of the 28 awards, Keppel O&M received stopped work and participated in Telecommunications & Transportation 22 awards under the Safety and Health activities such as toolbox briefings to segregate vehicle and human traffic Award Recognition for Projects (SHARP) and sharing sessions. 3 A workplace accident that results in the injury of an employee who is given more than three consecutive days of medical leave or hospitalised for at least 24 hours; and a workplace accident that results in the injury of a self-employed person or non-employee who receives treatment in hospital. 4 A high-consequence work-related injury is defined as an injury which resulted in the affected worker being compensated with an insurance payout. 62 Special Focus Safety Innovations Across the Keppel Group, we continue to develop innovative solutions to enhance safety. In developing innovative and effective safety Drones are also used at Keppel Infrastructure’s alarm to continuously monitor the gas status solutions, we aim to improve work processes Keppel Marina East Desalination Plant within confined spaces. This reduces the and enhance safety. to regularly capture aerial photos of the risks associated with confined space entry construction site to help inform progress to a considerable extent. The use of drone technology enables us to reports and identify safety issues. safely and efficiently inspect, analyse and At Keppel Merlimau Cogen, a pre-loading provide repair support in high-risk and At some of Keppel Land’s projects in sampling device was designed to ensure difficult to access areas. Tianjin and Jakarta, surveillance cameras that tank valves are only opened when the with pan-tilt-zoom capabilities are installed device detects the correct chemical based Keppel O&M has teamed up with industry at strategic locations around the work sites. on its conductivity, eliminating the risk of partners to develop a hub-and-spoke Images from these cameras can be streamed incompatible chemicals being loaded into system of unmanned drones that can and viewed on a computer or mobile device the wrong tanks, which could otherwise conduct inspection, repair and maintenance anytime. This allows project managers cause adverse reactions and major work, and seabed mining at depths of to monitor site construction progress as disruption to operations. 5,000 m. The use of drones to inspect well as identify potential safety issues in difficult to access parts of vessels and rigs, a cost-effective manner. Moving forward, the safety team will continue such as the jackup rig’s legs, side-shell collaborating with Keppel Technology and of the external hull, derrick and cranes, To reduce the risk of working in hazardous Innovation to explore the use of video analytics eliminates the need for workers to operate conditions, Keppel Shipyard has developed and business intelligence to harness data from at height. a gas monitoring system equipped with an hazard reporting, observations and inspections. Utilising drone technology, Keppel is able to safely and efficiently inspect, analyse and provide repair support in high-risk and difficult to access areas. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 63 Empowering Lives Labour Practices & Human Rights We are committed to fair employment practices, upholding human rights principles and investing in developing and training our people. 2018 Targets 2018 Performance 2019 Targets Topics Continue to conduct the Conducted the Keppel Global Conduct the Keppel Global Fair employment Keppel Global Employee Employee Engagement Pulse Employee Engagement Engagement Pulse Survey Survey, where 87% of employees Survey to track employee Diversity and equal opportunity to track employee surveyed indicated that they engagement levels. Non-discrimination engagement levels. would “go beyond the norm” to contribute to Keppel’s success. Continue to promote diversity Training and education Continue to promote diversity and equal opportunity in and equal opportunity in Formalised the Corporate the workplace. the workplace. Statement on Diversity and Inclusion. Continue to empower our Further develop our workforce workforce through tech-enabled SDGs through tech-enabled and Launched a digital learning and self-paced training self-paced training programmes. platform for staff to enable programmes and achieve an self-directed learning, learning average of over 20 hours of on-the-go and social learning. training per employee globally. Recorded an average of 27.1 hours of training per employee, an increase from 22.6 hours in 2017. 64 Overview We believe that hiring from local People are our most valuable asset. communities1 enhances our ability to We respect and uphold human rights understand local needs, and strengthens principles, adhere to fair employment our capabilities on the ground. We also practices, and invest in developing and develop talents locally to assume management training our workforce. In doing so, we positions. Across our business units, enhance our ability to attract and retain 69.7% of senior management2 and 58.0% the best talent and grow the capabilities of our employees are citizens or permanent of our people. residents of the countries in which they work. Our total workforce across more than 20 countries was 18,778 as at end-2018. The data reported in this section takes The figure comprises full and part-time into account significant subsidiaries and permanent employees and excludes associated companies in which the Group our contractor workforce. has a stake that is equivalent to 51% or more. Our Global Workforce GRI 102-8 | 202-2 Distribution by Region Employees (%) Senior Management2 (%) No. of Employees % Local Hires1 Foreigners Local Hires1 Foreigners Singapore 9,374 50.0 36.1 63.9 88.6 11.4 Asia (excluding Singapore) & Australia 5,709 30.4 99.2 0.8 56.6 43.4 Americas 1,899 10.1 92.6 7.4 35.7 64.3 Middle East 1,638 8.7 0.6 99.4 0.0 100.0 Europe 158 0.8 96.2 3.8 63.6 36.4 Total 18,778 100.0 58.0 42.0 69.7 30.3 Distribution by Segment Employment Type (%) No. of Employees % Permanent Contract Corporate Office 545 2.9 89.7 10.3 Offshore & Marine 12,216 65.0 97.3 2.7 Property 3,086 16.4 85.8 14.2 Infrastructure 2,715 14.5 71.1 28.9 Investments 216 1.2 99.1 0.9 Total 18,778 100.0 91.8 8.2 1 Locals are defined as citizens or permanent residents of the country in which they work. 2 Senior management is defined as the top three individuals within each operating business unit with the highest levels of executive management. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 65 Empowering Lives Labour Practices & Human Rights Management Approach Compensation & Benefits in Singapore are entitled to a maximum GRI 102-41 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 401-2 | Keppel subscribes to a pay-for-performance of two weeks of paid paternity leave, 401-3 | 404-3 | 406-1 philosophy. We believe this drives ownership in accordance with the Singapore Ministry Fair Employment of collective goals and leads to a high of Manpower’s legislation. In Singapore, The ability to attract and retain talent is key performance culture that creates long-term we had a 100% return to work rate for to our business. We adopt fair employment shareholder value. the 49 female employees who went on practices and comply with local labour maternity leave. regulations across our global operations, Opportunities for advancement, promotion, as well as minimum wage laws, where recognition, compensation, training and The Keppel Group adheres to the respective such laws exist. We endorse Singapore’s other conditions of employment are social security contribution or pension Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Employment provided based on merit. Performance plan obligations of the countries in which Practices and the Employers’ Pledge of reviews are conducted for permanent we operate. In Singapore, the Central Fair Employment Practices. employees. The process, undertaken jointly Provident Fund (CPF) is a comprehensive by the employee and supervisor, entails the social security savings plan that enables Globally, 3,037 people were hired in 2018. setting of targets and a review of these salaried Singapore citizens and permanent Overall voluntary turnover rate was 12.7%, targets on an annual basis. residents to set aside funds to work towards a decrease from 13.4% in 2017. a secure retirement. Under the CPF scheme, Our employees in Singapore and overseas Keppel and its employees make monthly Keppel supports re-employability beyond the are provided with a comprehensive range contributions to the employees’ CPF statutory retirement age. Eligible employees of benefits that may include paid vacation accounts in accordance with the are offered post-retirement employment leave, medical benefits and group insurance prevailing regulations. opportunities in Keppel, in line with the plans. In Singapore, part-time employees are Singapore Tripartite Guidelines on the entitled to similar benefits on a pro-rata basis. Human Rights Re-employment of Older Employees. We uphold and respect the fundamental As at 31 December 2018, there were Eligible female employees in Singapore are principles set out in the United Nations (UN) 216 re-employed staff in the Group, entitled to a maximum of 16 weeks of paid Universal Declaration of Human Rights and of which 65 were re-employed in 2018. maternity leave, while eligible male employees the International Labour Organisation’s New Hires GRI 401-1 No. of Employees (Executive & Above) % Total 3,037 100.0 Singapore 1,275 42.0 Asia (excluding Singapore) & Australia 1,292 42.6 Americas 64 2.1 Middle East 378 12.4 Europe 28 0.9 Gender (%) Age Group (Executive & Above) (%) <30 30 to 39 40 to 49 50 years old Male Female years old years old years old & above Overall 62.9 37.1 40.4 40.4 11.3 7.9 Corporate Office 33.3 66.7 50.8 31.6 12.3 5.3 Offshore & Marine 80.6 19.4 41.3 40.1 12.4 6.2 Property 53.3 46.7 39.4 48.9 9.8 1.9 Infrastructure 58.9 41.1 38.7 31.1 8.7 21.5 Investments 53.1 46.9 36.7 30.6 24.5 8.2 66 declaration on fundamental principles Collective Bargaining and rights at work. Our approach to Unions are our partners and we place great human rights is informed and guided emphasis on maintaining a harmonious by general concepts from the UN Guiding and collaborative relationship with them. Principles on Business and Human Rights. Approximately 28.9% of our global workforce Keppel Corporation is a signatory of the are bargainable employees covered by UN Global Compact and is committed collective agreements. to the Compact's 10 universal principles, which include principles on human rights Guidelines are in place for the appropriate and labour practices. management of grievance cases. For unionised companies, employee grievances are resolved We have zero tolerance for unethical labour according to the grievance handling protocol practices such as child labour, forced labour, spelt out in the respective agreements. slavery and human trafficking in all of our operations. Our suppliers are expected All registered grievances are investigated to abide by the Keppel supplier code of and tracked through to final closure. In the conduct, which holds them accountable case of a grievance, our management and for responsible labour practices in the union will undertake every reasonable their operations. effort to resolve the grievance promptly. Our commitment to human rights is Across our businesses worldwide, there were supported by our Employee Code of Conduct, no reported cases of workplace grievances3 which sets the tone in relation to the Group’s in 2018. stance against discrimination on any basis. Our stance on human rights is articulated in 3 Workplace grievance is defined by Singapore’s our corporate statement on human rights Ministry of Manpower as discontent or the feeling which is publicly available online. of being victimised at work. Turnover1 GRI 401-1 2016 2017 2018 No. of Employees 3,868 2,872 2,381 Turnover Rate2(%) 12.3 13.4 12.7 No. of Employees Turnover Rate2 (Executive & Above) (Executive & Above)(%) By Region Total 987 14.1 Singapore 494 12.4 Asia (excluding Singapore) & Australia 459 22.7 Americas 29 7.1 Middle East 2 0.4 Europe 3 1.9 No. of Employees (Executive & Above) % of Total Turnover By Gender Male 632 63.6 Female 355 36.4 By Age Group <30 years old 277 28.1 30 to 39 years old 476 48.2 40 to 49 years old 161 16.3 50 years old & above 73 7.4 1 Turnover is defined as the total number of employees who leave the organisation voluntarily. It does not take into account employees who leave due to completion of contracts, dismissal, retirement or death in service. 2 The turnover rate is defined as the percentage of employees who leave the organisation voluntarily. It does not take into account turnover due to completion of contracts, dismissal, retirement or death in service. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 67 Empowering Lives Labour Practices & Human Rights Diversity & Inclusion Employee Demographics We believe that people should have access GRI 102-8 | 405-1 to the same opportunities regardless of ethnicity, gender, religious beliefs, nationality, Distribution by Gender (%) age or any physical disability. Our stance Male Female on diversity and inclusion is articulated in Overall 80.6 19.4 our corporate statement on diversity and By Region inclusion, which was formalised in early 2019, and is publicly available online. Singapore 85.0 15.0 Asia (excluding Singapore) & Australia 66.5 33.5 Our hiring policies ensure equal employment Americas 86.7 13.3 opportunities for all. Our employment statistics, Middle East 97.3 2.7 reviewed regularly, illustrate the diversity of Europe 67.1 32.9 our workforce. As at 31 December 2018, By Segment 19.4% of our employees are female, compared to 17.8% in 2017. We recognise that there Corporate Office 43.1 56.9 are certain segments in our businesses, such Offshore & Marine 90.9 9.1 as offshore and marine, which tend to attract Property 52.7 47.3 larger proportions of male employees due Infrastructure 76.6 23.4 to the nature of the jobs. At our corporate Investments 40.3 59.7 office and in certain segments of our businesses, such as investments, more By Employment Type than half of our employees are female. Permanent 81.5 18.5 In addition, 42% of the Heads of Departments Contract 73.2 26.8 at Keppel Corporation’s Corporate Office are females as of end-2018. There were no reported incidences of Distribution by Age Group (%) discrimination raised by our employees in 2018. <30 30 to 39 40 to 49 50 years old years old years old years old & above Training & Development Overall 23.1 39.9 23.2 13.8 GRI 404-1 | 404-2 By Segment We empower employees through learning Corporate Office 19.4 33.1 31.2 16.3 and development programmes and encourage Offshore & Marine 22.8 41.4 21.8 14.0 them to reach their full potential. The overall Property 25.3 40.6 24.6 9.5 average training hours per employee for our Infrastructure 22.9 33.8 26.0 17.3 key operations in Singapore was approximately 29.4 hours. Globally, the overall average Investments 18.9 43.3 27.2 10.6 training hours per employee was approximately 27.1 hours, with an average of 23.5 hours for females and 28 hours for males4. Distribution by Educational Qualification (%) Keppel Corporation’s Group Human Resources Post drives and coordinates efforts across the Secondary/ business units to ensure consistency PostBachelor's Pre-U/ Primary in processes such as performance graduate Degree Vocational Secondary & below management and talent management. Overall 4.8 25.9 29.6 31.8 7.9 By Segment In 2018, we launched an online learning Corporate Office 12.1 47.4 31.1 1.3 8.1 management system that enables Offshore & Marine 3.7 18.4 29.3 37.9 10.7 employees in Singapore to engage in self-directed and social learning across Property 6.5 44.2 29.9 18.4 1.0 a range of business topics. Infrastructure 5.3 31.7 31.3 27.7 4.0 Investments 18.9 67.3 12.9 0.0 0.9 Leadership Programmes Keppel Leadership Institute, headquartered in Singapore, offers a diverse range of leadership and development programmes, delivered in modular and blended approaches. These programmes are designed in consultation with senior management and are regularly refreshed to suit the Group’s evolving needs. Over 160 employees have participated in the institute’s leadership programmes since 2015. 4 Training hours reported in this section excludes on-the-job training. 68 About 200 employees are part of the In partnership with the Singapore government, Keppel Young Leaders programme, the Group supports the Singapore-industry Training & Development 500,000hrs which is the Group’s platform to nurture scholarship which sponsors Singapore young talents. Members of the programme citizens pursuing their undergraduate are given opportunities to lead high-impact studies in areas related to Singapore’s projects with guidance from senior strategic sectors. In 2018, the Group Invested in training our employees, management across the Group. Activities supported two students in the programme. including leveraging digital platforms undertaken by Keppel Young Leaders in for faster and better reach. 2018 include the Keppel Tech Symposium, Employee Engagement Keppel Young Leaders Week as well Celebrating 50 Years as dialogue sessions with eminent As 2018 marked Keppel Corporation’s Local Hires 69.7% external speakers. 50th anniversary, a series of activities, including the Keppel 50 Charity Run, were Separately, the Keppel associate programme held to commemorate this occasion and offers young talents opportunities for also to engage staff. A $200 cash gift was Of senior management are hired from leadership development through a series given to each of Keppel’s approximately local communities. of job rotations and structured learning. 20,000 staff in Singapore and overseas, in appreciation of their hard work Industry Programmes and dedication. The Group makes significant investments to equip employees with up-to-date operational Employee Engagement Survey skills and certifications. We support employees We conducted the Keppel Global Employee at all levels of the company in furthering their Engagement Pulse Survey in 2018. education. In 2018, the Group sponsored The survey achieved a strong response 19 employees in pursuing further studies. rate of 94% from a sample size of over 5,000 employees. The Group achieved a In 2018, Keppel Offshore & Marine high engagement score, with 87% of (Keppel O&M) signed a memorandum of employees surveyed indicating that they understanding with the National University would “go beyond the norm” to contribute of Singapore to offer employees training to Keppel’s success. places in an extensive range of academic modules and curated executive programmes. Enhancing Communication For example, employees will be able to pick up Various staff engagement initiatives are new skills in data analytics, robotics, process organised throughout the year to enhance engineering and environment engineering. communication between management and staff. The fourth edition of the Global Keppel O&M’s technical associate and Keppelites Forum, a group-wide town hall assistant technical associate schemes meeting, was held in February 2018. The are offered in collaboration with the Institute event, which was also broadcast online, of Technical Education. The two-year reached out to over 2,000 employees in work-and-study programme includes over 70 locations globally. classroom learning, practical skills training, on-the-job training and soft skills training. During the session, Loh Chin Hua, In 2018, seven students participated in Chief Executive Officer of Keppel Corporation, the programme. shared on the Group’s overall performance, Training GRI 404-1 Training Hours per Employee (hrs) 2016 2017 2018 Global 25.3 22.6 27.1 Singapore 29.8 22.9 29.4 Average Training Hours by Employee Category (hrs) Senior Management 30.8 Managerial 31.4 Executive 25.1 Non-Executive 26.2 Industrial/General 28.2 Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 69 Empowering Lives Labour Practices & Human Rights We build cohesive teams and forge camaraderie through participation in the National Day Parade marching contingent. strategy and priorities. Employees also took Keppel Corporation was awarded the this opportunity to pose questions to a panel NS Advocate Award for Large Companies comprising senior management from across at the Total Defence Awards organised by the Keppel Group. Singapore’s Ministry of Defence in 2018. The Award, conferred for a period of three Employees are updated on company years, is the highest accolade acknowledging developments at regular staff dialogue businesses for their exemplary support sessions. Orientation sessions for new hires towards Total Defence and in particular, NS. in 2018 included dialogue sessions with senior management. New hires are also Workforce Wellness assigned mentors who help them assimilate We are committed to the well-being of our and guide their professional development. entire workforce. This includes foreign workers who live and work away from their families. Building Strong Teams We believe that cohesive teams are integral Keppel O&M provides high-quality to a productive workforce. We continue dormitories for our directly employed to build camaraderie among employees foreign workers in Singapore. These through various platforms, such as dormitories offer a range of amenities and Keppel Games, a series of sports recreational facilities. Activities, such as competitions initiated by Keppelite talent search competitions, are organised Recreation Club, as well as volunteer to promote harmonious living and bonding. activities organised by Keppel Volunteers. Keppel Housing, which houses our yards’ direct workers, provides counselling services, Supporting National Defence including a 24-hour emergency helpline, As a company headquartered in Singapore, to look after our workers’ mental and we believe in contributing towards emotional well-being. Singapore’s national security. National Service (NS) is a vital component Other welfare initiatives organised by our of national defence, and we support business units include lunchtime talks, health our employees’ NS commitments. screening exercises and fitness classes. 70 Special Focus Driving collaboration as OneKeppel In the spirit of strengthening collaboration, the Group’s flagship address at Keppel Bay Tower underwent a transformation to an agile workplace configuration. Employees from Keppel Corporation rolled To encourage employee well-being and out the welcome mat and pulled back the “Compared to our old office at promote team bonding, a central wellness curtains on a brand new renovated smart team has been formed to organise activities office in December 2018, as they welcomed Bugis Junction Towers, the new like fitness classes and facilitate the setting colleagues from Keppel Capital and Keppel agile office feels more modern. up of interests groups. Land under one roof at Keppel Bay Tower My favourite feature is the in Singapore. staircase connecting the floors, In the spirit of strengthening collaboration as it’s easier for me to reach out “There is definitely more as OneKeppel, the Group’s flagship address features an agile workplace configuration to colleagues across the Group.” interaction with colleagues from that is designed to enhance interactions and Raymond Bay, Manager, different departments compared facilitate cross-business unit networking. Corporate Finance and Treasury, Keppel Capital to our old office where we were State-of-the-art technology, such as facial on different floors. There’s also a recognition for building access and lot more natural light streaming mobile-app integration for printing, meeting monitor screens are used for better comfort, room bookings and HR functions were while acoustic panels and phone booths in, which helps make the office integrated into the office redesign, allowing help to minimise noise levels. To ensure that bright, spacious and conducive employees seamless access to various health and safety standards are maintained facilities at Keppel Bay Tower. during operational hours, indoor air quality for work.” display panels are used to monitor air quality. Brenda Khoo, Senior Executive, To promote workplace wellness, ergonomic Healthier food options such as fruits and Marketing, Keppel Land chairs, standing desks and adjustable nuts are available at our pantries. A staircase across three floors connects Keppel Corporation, Keppel Capital, Keppel Technology and Innovation, and Keppel Leadership Institute. Bright and open collaborative spaces surrounding the staircase landing allow for spontaneous breakout discussions among employees. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 71 Nurturing Communities Communities We uplift communities through programmes that deliver enduring social, economic or environmental benefits. 2018 Targets 2018 Performance 2019 Targets Topics Achieve over 10,000 hours of Sponsored and participated Achieve over 10,000 hours of Social investment staff volunteerism worldwide. in a wide range of community staff volunteerism worldwide. initiatives, investing $8.9 million Volunteerism Support initiatives to promote in social causes. Support programmes aligned the social development of local with Keppel’s sustainability Impact measurement communities where we operate. Achieved over 14,000 hours of framework of Sustaining Growth, community service, an increase Empowering Lives and of about 2,000 hours compared Nurturing Communities. to 2017. Drive collaboration with SDGs Committed $10 million to the organisations that share our Institute of Technical Education commitment to have a positive (ITE) to promote education for impact on our communities. financially-disadvantaged students. Donated $1 million to the President’s Challenge to support over 50 social service organisations that provide programmes to empower the vulnerable in society. Committed RMB 5 million to the China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation in support of projects to benefit impoverished communities in China. Renewed partnership with Esplanade –Theatres on the Bay for Keppel Nights, with a commitment of $500,000 over three years to provide students from heartland schools with access to performing arts. 72 Overview In Singapore, our business units have been Keppel aims to deliver lasting socio-economic strong partners of Community Chest’s benefit to the communities where we operate. SHARE, a voluntary employee payroll In engaging and nurturing communities, donation programme. Employees of the we contribute to achieving a sustainable Keppel Group have contributed over future together. $2.9 million through SHARE since 1988. Keppel also contributes to overseas We invest in programmes aligned with communities where we have a presence. our Sustainability Framework, which For example, Keppel AmFELS has donated outlines Keppel’s commitment to over US$2 million in employee contributions Sustaining Growth, Empowering Lives to the United Way of Southern Cameron and Nurturing Communities. County in Texas, the United States, since 2000 to aid disadvantaged children We champion initiatives that protect and and families. help improve the environment. As leaders in our businesses, we also support industry Keppel follows the LBG (formerly London efforts that foster collaboration to promote Benchmarking Group) framework, the sustainable development. global standard for measuring and reporting on corporate community We empower lives by promoting education investment. As managers of LBG, and spearheading initiatives that promote Corporate Citizenship has assured the creativity through instilling an appreciation data in this section. Our LBG Assurance for the arts in children and youth. Statement for 2018 can be found on page 91. Management Approach GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 203-2 In partnership with organisations that share our values, we commit up to 1% of the Group’s net profit to worthy social and environmental Social Investment Spending causes. These contributions are coordinated by Project Type in 2018 (%) and disbursed by Keppel Care Foundation, the Group’s philanthropic arm, which is governed by its own Board of Directors. The Foundation has disbursed over $36 million to worthy causes till date, since its launch in 2012. In 2018, the Group spent $8.9 million on social investments. To deliver a greater positive impact, we bolster philanthropic giving with employee volunteerism led by Keppel Volunteers, the Group’s volunteer movement. Employees are given two days of paid volunteer leave Education* 70.1 annually. In 2018, Keppel Volunteers Industry Advancement 9.6 achieved over 14,000 hours of community service, an increase of 2,000 hours over Arts/Sports/Community the 12,000 hours in 2017. Development Projects 3.9 Care for the Underprivileged/ We maximise our corporate giving outcomes Healthcare 14.9 by partnering businesses and the community. Environment 1.5 For example, donation drives and environmental Total $8.9 million 100.0 campaigns are held at the lobbies of our commercial buildings to engage tenants, * Includes a $5 million donation (first payment tranche) employees and members of the public. to the ITE Education Fund. Keppel had committed Keppel Care Foundation also supports the a $10 million donation to the Fund to promote education for financially-disadvantaged students dollar-for-dollar matching of employee from ITE on the occasion of Keppel Corporation’s donations at the company’s fund-raising events. 50th anniversary in 2018. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 73 Nurturing Communities Communities Impact at a Glance >$36.3m >14,000hrs Disbursed by Keppel Care Of community work achieved by Foundation since 2012. Keppel Volunteers in 2018, translating to estimated manpower costs of $360,000. $8.9m Invested in social causes >2,600 lives in 2018. Touched through our volunteerism efforts in 2018. >400 Scholarships, bursaries >1,600 and study grants awarded to Low-income households benefited underprivileged and deserving from the food and household items students since 2011. provided by Keppel. >1.3m Visitors to the Keppel Centre for Art Education since its launch in 2015. >24,000 Students benefited from the Keppel Nights programme with Esplanade – Theatres on >1m the Bay since its relaunch in 2013. Visitors to the Learning Forest, which the Keppel Discovery Wetlands is part of, since its launch in 2017. 90% Of employees affirmed that Keppel is committed to corporate social responsibility. 74 Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 75 Nurturing Communities Communities Promoting Education Keppel Corporation 50th anniversary Inclusive, quality education can lift gala dinner, and the first payment “I would like to thank Keppel communities out of poverty by tranche of $5 million was disbursed enabling children and youth to create in 2018. Corporation for the Keppel Study brighter futures for themselves and Grant, which gave me much their families. Read more about our donation to promote needed support during my time education on page 82. Since its inception in 2012, Keppel Care as a student at the Singapore Foundation has disbursed over $16 million Fostering Creativity & Institute of Technology. Being to educational causes, which include Appreciation of the Arts scholarships and bursaries for students We believe that the arts inspire, awarded the Study Grant allowed of local universities and institutes of contribute towards civic engagement me to focus more on my studies, higher learning. and social cohesion, and build bridges which paved the way for me to between cultures. Through supporting In 2018, we made a $10 million the arts, we aim to stimulate the be the first in my family to obtain commitment to the ITE Education Fund cross-fertilisation of ideas, and foster a university degree.” to promote education for financially creativity and expression. This will disadvantaged students from ITE. in turn contribute to the vibrancy Ng Weng Pung, Engineer, The commitment was pledged at the of our communities. Keppel Study Grant recipient in academic years 2013/2014 and 2014/2015, and Singapore Institute of Technology 2015 graduate. $16m Including disbursements to fund bond-free scholarships, academic awards, bursaries and study grants for deserving students from low-income families. Key Partners Inputs Institute of Technical Education National University Singapore University of Singapore Institute Institute of of Singapore Technology and Design of Technology Technical Education Our bursaries provide students from disadvantaged backgrounds with access to quality education. Recipients have reported that the bursaries help to ease the financial burden on their families, with some reporting that they no longer need to take on part-time jobs to cover their school fees and daily expenses. With this financial assistance, Outputs Impact they are able to focus on their studies and benefit from a more holistic 413 educational journey. Recipients of our scholarships and academic awards have also reported bond-free scholarships, bursaries, that the recognition has inspired them to continue to work hard and study grants and academic awards. contribute to society. 76 Keppel Centre for Art Education Inputs Established with a $12 million commitment from Keppel, the Keppel Centre for Art Education at National Gallery Singapore is the first art education facility of its kind in the region. Outputs The Centre has hosted over 1.3 million visitors since its launch in 2015. Guided school tours and workshops at the Keppel Centre for Art Education introduce visual literacy, as well as analytical and interpretive skills to students. As part of the Singapore Ministry of Education’s museum-based learning programme, over 60% of the country’s Primary 4 pupils visited the National Gallery Singapore in 2018. The majority of students participating in the programme visited the Centre. Over 78,000 families participated in the Centre’s programmes such as Art Explorer and Stories in Art in 2018. In 2018, the Centre was named Winner of the Children in Museums Award 2018. The international competition, which drew participation from 35 museums around the world, recognised the Centre’s excellent, well-designed exhibitions for young visitors. Impact Educators have shared that the immersive spaces at the Centre encourage creativity and self-led exploration in children, and helps to improve students’ visual inquiry skills. The programmes offered at the Centre also promote familial bonding. Keppel Nights Inputs Keppel Corporation committed $500,000, from 2018 to 2020, to Keppel Nights, renewing its partnership with Esplanade – Theatres on the Bay to nurture a deeper appreciation of the arts among students in Singapore. In 2018, Keppel Nights expanded its scope to include Esplanade’s sensory-friendly performances designed for audiences with special needs. Outputs Since 2013, the partnership has provided about 24,000 students from more than 75 schools in the heartlands with access to arts and cultural shows presented by the Esplanade. Keppel Nights also includes an element of experiential learning, with dance and music workshops that give students the chance to try out various art and cultural forms and get a taste of performing. Impact Students have reported an increased interest in the arts and improved confidence and self-esteem after participating in Keppel Nights programmes. The sensory-friendly performances also provide students with special needs with opportunities to access arts and cultural shows. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 77 Nurturing Communities Communities Committed to being a good corporate citizen, Keppel supports meaningful The Philippines initiatives that uplift communities in countries where we have a presence in. In 2018, we awarded 75 out-of-school youths with full scholarships in technical trades such as flux-cored arc welding, shielded metal arc welding and structural fitting. Training sessions were conducted at the Keppel Batangas Training Centre. Over 100 volunteers also participated in National Schools Maintenance Week and helped with maintenance work and the clean-up of six public schools. A book reading session was also held at the SIBOL Learning Centre at the Keppel-GK Eco Village, with the aim of inculcating reading habits in young children. Vietnam We extended our support for Phase Two of Words on Wheels, a mobile library programme in partnership with the Singapore International Foundation, the China General Sciences Library of Tianjin Chengdu Ho Chi Minh City and Hanoi Public Library. In 2018, 2,500 students Keppel Land China has been In 2018, Keppel committed from seven primary and secondary a partner of Sunshine Welfare RMB 5 million to the China schools participated in sessions Singapore organised by Keppel Volunteers Home since 2017. Over 200 Foundation for Poverty Alleviation. volunteers have touched the The collaboration began with which included English lessons In commemoration of our 50th anniversary, “The volunteers from Keppel not only on green living and financial lives of more than 80 special a three-year programme we donated $1 million to the President’s delivered provisions to my house but literacy as well as mobile library needs students through regular focused on needy students Challenge to support over 50 social service took time to chat with me to understand visits. Volunteers also helped in the activities and excursions. from 10 schools in the Mabian organisations that provide programmes to the challenges I face in my daily life. refurbishment of a school library. In 2018, Keppel Land Tianjin County, Sichuan Province. Brazil empower the vulnerable in society. The provisions are important and help rallied its contractors to help Keppel Volunteers engage with my day-to-day living. It is really great Separately, over 200 volunteers in renovating and upgrading underprivileged students In the Teach-it-Forward programme, Keppel Volunteers host Read more about our donation to empower to know that there are many people who the home. in Mabian County, through and their families participated in students at the BrasFELS shipyard and provide mentorship. vulnerable groups on pages 81 to 83. care and are willing to help. The volunteers interactive story-telling sessions the Keppel Run4Future charity In 2018, about 100 students participated in the programme. encouraged me and gave me good advice, and educational games. run in Ho Chi Minh City. At the Separately, volunteers provided health education and As part of our skills-based volunteerism efforts, and this really motivated me to keep event, Keppel Land presented environmental awareness talks to 140 members of finance staff across the Group organised a improving myself. I am so grateful for 15 scholarships worth VND Read more about our donation to support needy students in China on page 83. the community. financial literacy carnival for underprivileged their time and help.” 225 million to students of Big families supported by Care Corner. A career Mohd Rosli Ramdan, Friend Foundation, a charity fair was separately organised by 60 volunteers a 52-year-old dialysis patient at NKF supporting needy Vietnamese to nurture the career aspirations of close to high school graduates. 50 children from Care Corner. Keppel Volunteers also reached out to needy dialysis patients through bi-monthly food delivery and home visits as part of The National Kidney Foundation’s (NKF) Grains of Hope programme. To meet the needs of low income households, 240 volunteers packed and distributed over 1,600 goodie bags comprising food and household items sponsored by Keppel during the year. 78 Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 79 Nurturing Communities Communities Advancing Corporate Sustainability We collaborate with governments and industry partners to support knowledge-sharing platforms that promote responsible business practices and sustainable urbanisation. Key Initiatives Outputs & Impacts UNLEASH Keppel was the main track partner of the ‘Sustainable Cities and Communities’ theme at UNLEASH 2018. The event served as a global innovation lab where 1,000 sustainability talents from over 110 countries convened to develop solutions for eight selected Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Six Keppel talents from across the Group also participated in the eight-day innovation lab where they worked on innovative solutions to advance the SDGs. Lee Kuan Yew World City Prize Keppel is the sole sponsor of the Lee Kuan Yew World City Prize. The biennial award, presented to Seoul at the World Cities Summit 2018, recognises the outstanding achievements and contributions of cities and key leaders in tackling urban challenges and creating liveable, vibrant and sustainable communities around the world. Singapore International Keppel is a Founding Sponsor of the Singapore International Water Week, an industry-focused global platform which Water Week encourages participants to share and co-create innovative water solutions. Global Compact Network Keppel supported the Global Compact Network Singapore Summit 2018 as a Gold Partner. Themed ‘Building Better Singapore Summit Businesses’, the conference explored the latest sustainability trends and insights to build more robust and future-ready businesses. Responsible Business Forum Keppel was the supporting partner of the Responsible Business Forum 2018, themed ‘Shaping the World in 2030: Partnerships for SDG Action’. The forum explored practical solutions across five areas critical to the attainment of the SDGs – climate action, urbanisation, circular economy, human rights and food and nutrition. Raising Eco-Consciousness We work closely with partners to lead initiatives that conserve biodiversity and promote climate action. Key Initiatives Outputs & Impacts Keppel Discovery Wetlands Established with a $2.08 million contribution from Keppel, the Keppel Discovery Wetlands at the Singapore Botanic Gardens includes a plant collection of over 200 species, allowing visitors to enjoy a freshwater forest wetland in the heart of the city. Over 1 million people have visited the Learning Forest, which the Keppel Discovery Wetlands is part of, since its launch in March 2017. In 2018, selected Keppel Volunteers successfully trained to become green ambassadors at the Keppel Discovery Wetlands. Our green ambassadors promote conservation through leading tours at the Keppel Discovery Wetlands and facilitating children crafts workshops on wetland habitats. Employees who participated in the training reported improved presentation skills and knowledge on flora and fauna in the wetlands. In recognition of the Group’s support of conservation efforts, a Heritage Tree at the Singapore Botanic Gardens was dedicated by Singapore’s National Parks Board to Keppel in January 2019. Eco Action Day For the fifth year running, Keppel Land and Keppel REIT Management collaborated with Ricoh Asia Pacific to support Eco Action Day, an annual nationwide campaign that encourages awareness of, and action for, the environment. As part of the campaign, a tree sapling was planted for every corporate pledge for climate action. Close to 200 corporate pledges and 500 individual pledges were canvassed at roadshows held at Keppel Land and Keppel REIT’s buildings. Staff from Keppel Land and Keppel REIT, together with their families, participated in the tree planting event held in October 2018, during which over 300 tree saplings were planted. Earth Hour Keppel demonstrated its support for climate action by participating in Earth Hour 2018. Non-essential lights at 34 of Keppel’s commercial, residential and hospitality developments in Singapore and overseas were turned off for an hour. Encouraging reduced Keppel Land and Keppel REIT, supported by the Singapore Green Building Council, jointly organised a public screening use of plastics of ‘A Plastic Ocean’ at the Singapore Botanic Gardens, which was attended by about 1,000 people. Separately, Keppel Land launched its ‘Plastic Straw Free’ challenge at Saigon Centre retail mall in Vietnam to encourage eco-friendly practices among shoppers and tenants. Tree planting and Keppel Volunteers planted 50 trees in Singapore as well as cleared 892 kilogrammes of marine trash in Singapore and coastal cleanups the Philippines combined. 80 Special Focus Celebrating 50 years: Doing Well, Doing Good Keppel commemorated its 50th anniversary by making several donations in support of meaningful causes. 1 President Halimah Yacob (seated, centre), Dr Lee Boon Yang (standing, rightmost), Chairman of Keppel Corporation, and Loh Chin Hua (standing, second from left), CEO of Keppel Corporation, joined Keppel’s beneficiaries from Monfort Care and Care Corner in an intergenerational crafts workshop. 2 Over 200 staff participated in a 50 km relay in support of the President’s Challenge. 1 Keppel is committed to making a positive impact in the communities where we operate. 3 August 2018 marked Keppel Corporation’s 50th anniversary. Since its beginnings as a small shipyard incorporated in 1968, Keppel has grown and diversified into a multi-business company, providing solutions for sustainable urbanisation. We commemorated this important milestone by giving back to the community, including making several donations in support of meaningful causes. Empowering Vulnerable Groups In July 2018, Keppel made a $1 million donation to the President’s Challenge 2018 to support over 50 social service organisations that provide programmes to empower the vulnerable in society. The donation was made at the Keppel 50 2 Charity Run, where over 200 Keppel staff participated in a 50 km relay in support of President’s Challenge and to mark the company’s golden jubilee. Guest of honour President Halimah Yacob, the less privileged among us. I hope At the event, Keppel Volunteers also held who received the donation on behalf that companies in Singapore will an intergenerational crafts workshop of President’s Challenge at the event, continue to give generously, not only to share this special occasion with the said, “I am heartened that Keppel has with financial support, but through children from Care Corner and elderly chosen to celebrate its 50th anniversary volunteerism and sharing of knowledge from Montfort Care. by giving back to society, and helping and expertise.” Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 81 Nurturing Communities Communities 1 Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong (centre), who was the guest of honour at Keppel Corporation’s 50th anniversary gala dinner, witnessed the cheque presentation by Dr Lee Boon Yang (second from left), Chairman of Keppel Corporation, and Loh Chin Hua (far left), CEO of Keppel Corporation, to Bob Tan (second from right), Chairman of ITE; and Low Khah Gek (far right), CEO of ITE. 2 Keppel Volunteers share their time, knowledge and skills to engage the students in Mabian County, China. 1 Promoting Education Prime Minister Lee said, “You have forged In August 2018, Keppel continued its tie-ups with the Institute of Technical Education, tradition of giving back to the community and sponsored scholarships with the at its 50th anniversary gala dinner with a Nanyang Technological University and the $10 million donation to the Institute of Technical Singapore University of Technology and Education (ITE) to support the education of Design. I am happy that Keppel will be taking financially-disadvantaged students. this further by making a $10 million donation to the ITE Education Fund to establish the The donation to the ITE Education Fund is Keppel Care Foundation Scholarships and matched 1.5:1 by a Singapore government Keppel Merit Awards in ITE.” grant, which will result in a total contribution of $25 million to ITE. Dr Lee Boon Yang, Chairman of Keppel Corporation, said, “Keppel believes The donation is being used to set up the in investing in education and developing Keppel Care Foundation Scholarship and capabilities to support Singapore’s Keppel Merit Awards. The Keppel Care growth into the future. We believe that Foundation Scholarship aims to recognise by improving access to education, we will and reward outstanding ITE students from empower youths and maximise their disadvantaged backgrounds, while the potential. Keppel’s donation towards the Keppel Merit Awards provide monthly financial ITE Education Fund will expand the pool of support for deserving students from low-income financial assistance available to students, families. Up to three Keppel Care Foundation provide relief for them and their families, Scholarships valued at $9,600 per recipient and encourage the students to continue to will be awarded annually, and up to 72 excel in their studies. Keppel Merit Awards valued at $3,000 per recipient will be given out each semester. Bob Tan, Chairman of ITE, added, Recipients will not be required to serve a bond. “Many students who enrol in ITE come from disadvantaged backgrounds. In his speech, guest of honour Singapore Providing financial assistance to these Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong commended students will go a long way in helping Keppel for its investments in human capital them stay focused on their studies, and noted its partnerships with local instead of having to supplement family universities and institutes of higher education. income with excessive part-time work. 82 “We are very grateful to Keppel for their The collaboration with CFPA began generosity. It will most definitely help to with a three-year programme focused alleviate the financial burden of our students on needy students from 10 schools and their families. This can make a big in Mabian County, Sichuan Province. difference in their lives and future prospects.” The programme provides close to 2,000 students with nutritious food items Beyond this donation to the ITE Education every school day, encourages active learning, Fund, Keppel has a long-standing and and cultivates good reading habits with holistic partnership with ITE to enhance library resources for beneficiary schools. the skills of students and guide their career paths. Keppel’s existing programmes Beyond financial support, Keppel Volunteers with ITE include technical skills training from across the Keppel Group will also and apprenticeships with relevant participate in the programme by volunteering certifications, as well as internships their time, knowledge and skills to engage and career placements. the students. Alleviating Poverty Touching Lives Abroad The charitable activities held to commemorate Beyond Singapore and China, we support our golden jubilee continued in China in initiatives that uplift communities end August 2018 with the launch of a new in countries where we have a presence in. partnership with the China Foundation for Our sustained social welfare programmes Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) at a commemorative include the Teach-it-Forward programme dinner in Beijing. in Brazil, Keppel-GK Eco Village in the Philippines and the Words on Wheels The company’s commitment of RMB 5 million programme in Vietnam. will support the Chinese Government’s plans to combat rural poverty and stimulate the Read more about how we impact communities development of remote regions. around the world on pages 78 and 79. 2 Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 83 Other Information About this Report This report focuses on the sustainability Service organisational mark is located Potable water consumption for 2017 has strategy and practices of Keppel Corporation on page 85. been restated on page 43 of this report for and its subsidiaries, namely the material corrections to historical data. environmental, social and governance (ESG) We used standard units of measurement. aspects of our business operations. Conversion factors may be found in the Independent Assurance relevant sections. All dollar values expressed GRI 102-56 This report provides an overview of our are Singapore dollars. Keppel Corporation appointed an independent management approach, priorities, targets third party, DNV GL, to provide assurance on and performance reviews in key areas. Report Boundary this report. The content was reviewed and GRI 102-46 | 102-48 | 102-49 the accuracy and reliability of the statements The content was defined by identifying and As a guide, this report covers global operations were validated in accordance with the DNV prioritising the Company’s material ESG and all subsidiaries for which the Group has GL Verification Protocol for Sustainability factors through a robust materiality analysis management control, unless otherwise Reporting, VeriSustainTM. process (see page 18). We printed limited indicated. The reporting boundary for financial copies of this report to minimise data is the same as that of Keppel Corporation’s The principles and concepts in this environmental impact. A PDF version is Report to Shareholders 2018. The reporting protocol draw on the GRI Standards, available at www.kepcorp.com. boundaries for Environmental Management, the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 Product Excellence, Safety & Health and by AccountAbility and the International Our stakeholders are advised to Labour Practices & Human Rights differ, Standard on Assurance Engagements read Keppel Corporation’s Report due to differences in where the impacts 3000 by the International Federation to Shareholders 2018, available at occur most for each topic. Business entities of Accountants. www.kepcorp.com/annualreport2018, for included within the boundaries contribute more information on the Group’s businesses, materially to overall Group performance. All underlying systems and processes strategy, performance and prospects. that support the Company’s sustainability The Company has 260 significant framework were reviewed in adherence to Reporting Period & Standards subsidiaries and associated companies as the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (2018) GRI 102-50 | 102-51 | 102-52 | 102-54 at 31 December 2018. Information pertaining of Inclusivity, Materiality, Responsiveness This report is published annually and covers to them is published on pages 193 to 204 and Impact, as well as the GRI Standards. the same period as the financial year of the of Keppel Corporation’s Report to The Assurance Statement is published on Company (January to December 2018). Shareholders 2018. pages 89 and 90. Our last sustainability report was published in May 2018. Where possible, we shared three-year historical information to provide a meaningful basis for comparison. This report has been prepared in accordance Feedback with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI 102-53 Standards: Core option and Singapore Exchange-ST Listing Rules Practice Note 7.6 This report demonstrates our commitment to keep our stakeholders abreast of Sustainability Reporting Guide. Keppel’s sustainability performance. We welcome feedback. The report was submitted for the GRI Phone/Email: Materiality Disclosures Service, and GRI Sustainability Reporting +65 6413 6297 / sustainability@kepcorp.com confirmed the correctness of the locations Media Relations +65 6413 6425 / keppelgroup@kepcorp.com of the materiality disclosures (GRI 102-40 to Investor Relations +65 6413 6436 / investor.relations@kepcorp.com 102-49). The GRI Materiality Disclosures 84 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index GRI 102-55 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option GRI 102-54 GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Reference Connections to Standard Number Title and Remarks* UN initiatives General Disclosures GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Organisational Profile GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organisation Cover UNGC Principles General 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8-14 1-10; SDG 3, 6, 7, 8, Disclosures 9, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17 2016 102-3 Location of headquarters Back Cover 102-4 Location of operations 14 102-5 Ownership and legal form 14, AR 2018 (193-204, 221) 102-6 Markets served 8-14 102-7 Scale of the organisation 8-14, 22-25 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 65-68 102-9 Supply chain 49 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 23, 49-50 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 31-36, AR 2018 (99-100) 102-12 External initiatives 9-13, 19-20 102-13 Membership of associations 16, 57-61 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2-4 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8-13, 33-38, AR 2018 (16-21) Ethics & Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Inside Front Cover, UNGC Principles 6-7, 38 1-10; SDG 16 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 31-32, 38, AR 2018 (83-87) Governance 102-18 Governance structure 15, 27-32 UNGC Principle 10; 102-19 Delegating authority 15 SDG 16 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, 15 and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 16-17 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 15, 27-28 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 27-28 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 29-30 102-25 Conflicts of interest 28-29 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, 15, 27-28 and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 28-29, AR 2018 (96) 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's performance 28-29, AR 2018 (91-92, 96) 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts 15 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 38, AR 2018 (89) 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 15, AR 2018 (73) 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 15 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 27-28, 31-32, AR 2018 (99) 102-35 Remuneration policies 30-31, AR 2018 (77-82) 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 30-31, AR 2018 (77-82) * References to Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2018 are expressed as ‘AR 2018 (page number)’. Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2018 is available at www.kepcorp.com/annualreport2018 Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 85 Other Information Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Reference Connections to Standard Number Title and Remarks* UN initiatives General Disclosures Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102: 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 17 UNGC Principle 3; General 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 66 SDG 8, 17 Disclosures 2016 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 16-17 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 17, 54 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 17 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 14, AR 2018 (193-204) 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 18, 84 102-47 List of material topics 18 102-48 Restatements of information 84 102-49 Changes in reporting 84 102-50 Reporting period 84 102-51 Date of most recent report 84 102-52 Reporting cycle 84 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 84 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 84-85 102-55 GRI content index 85-88 102-56 External assurance 84, 89-90 Topic-Specific Disclosures Economic Sustainability GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 23, AR 2018 (16-21) SDG 8, 9, 11, 17 Management 103-2/ Approach 103-3 2016 GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 25 Economic 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 25 Performance 2016 GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 24 Socioeconomic economic area Compliance 2016 Corporate Governance GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 27-33 UNGC Principle 10; Management 103-2/ SDG 16, 17 Approach 103-3 2016 GRI 205: 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 36 Anti-Corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 31-32, 38 2016 and procedures * References to Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2018 are expressed as ‘AR 2018 (page number)’. Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2018 is available at www.kepcorp.com/annualreport2018 86 GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Reference Connections to Standard Number Title and Remarks* UN initiatives Topic-Specific Disclosures Environmental Management GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 40-41 UNGC Principles 7-9; Management 103-2/ SDG 3, 6, 7, 12, 13 Approach 103-3 2016 GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 41-42 Energy 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 41-42 GRI 303: 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 42-43 Water 2016 303-3 Water recycled and reused 42-43 GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 42-45 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 42-45 2016 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 44 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX), and other significant 42, 44 air emissions GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 42-43 Effluents & 306-3 Significant spills 44 Water 2016 GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 44 Environmental Compliance 2016 Product Excellence GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 52-53 SDG 9, 11, 17 Management 103-2/ Approach 103-3 2016 GRI 416: 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and 53-54 Customer service categories Health & 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts 54 Safety 2016 of products and services Labour Practices & Human Rights GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 66-68 UNGC Principles 1-6; Management 103-2/ SDG 3, 4, 8, 17 Approach 103-3 2016 GRI 202: 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 65 Market Presence 2016 GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 66-67 Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 66 2016 temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 66 GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 68-69 Training & 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition 68-69 Education assistance programmes 2016 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 66 development reviews GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 68 Diversity & Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 406: 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 66-68 NonDiscrimination 2016 * References to Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2018 are expressed as ‘AR 2018 (page number)’. Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2018 is available at www.kepcorp.com/annualreport2018 Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 87 Other Information Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Reference Connections to Standard Number Title and Remarks* UN initiatives Topic-Specific Disclosures Safety & Health GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 57-61 SDG 3, 8, 17 Management 103-2/ Approach 103-3 2016 GRI 403: 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 57-61 Occupational 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 57-62 Health and Safety 403-3 Occupational health services 57-61 2018 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 57-61 occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 57-61 403-6 Promotion of worker health 57-61 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts 49-50, 57-61 directly linked by business relationships 403-9 Work-related injuries 61-62 Supply Chain & Responsible Procurement GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 49-50 UNGC Principles Management 103-2/ 1-10; SDG 8, 12, 16 Approach 103-3 2016 GRI 308: 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 49-50 Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 GRI 414: 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 49-50 Supplier Social Assessment 2016 Community Development GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 73 SDG 3, 4, 15, 17 Management 103-2/ Approach 103-3 2016 GRI 203: 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 73-83 Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 * References to Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2018 are expressed as ‘AR 2018 (page number)’. Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2018 is available at www.kepcorp.com/annualreport2018 88 Independent Assurance Statement GRI 102-56 Introduction conclusion of our verification to Keppel’s • Reviewed the current sustainability issues DNV GL, represented by DNV GL Business stakeholders. DNV GL is responsible for that could affect Keppel and could be of Assurance Singapore Pte. Ltd., has been planning and performing the engagement to interest to stakeholders. commissioned by the management of obtain moderate level of assurance based on Keppel Corporation Ltd. (Keppel) to carry out AA1000AS i.e. whether the reported disclosures Conclusion an independent assurance engagement for are free from material misstatement and Based on the work undertaken, we provide a the non-financial, qualitative and quantitative meets the GRI Standards (2016) disclosure moderate level of assurance over non-financial information (sustainability performance) requirements and selected GRI Standards (2018) disclosure presented in Keppel’s Report, reported in the Keppel Corporation Sustainability for identified material topics in accordance and based on the scope of this assurance Report 2018 (the Report), which is available with the core option of reporting. engagement and in doing so, nothing has from Keppel’s website and in print, for the come to our attention to suggest that the financial year ending 31 December 2018. Basis of our Opinion Report is not a fair representation of Keppel’s Our assurance opinion is based on the Type 2, related sustainability performance for the We performed engagement assurance using Moderate level of assurance engagement in line identified scope and boundary of reporting. AccountAbility’s AA1000 Assurance Standard with the AA1000AS requirements and DNV 2008 (AA1000AS) with 2018 Addendum and GL’s assurance methodology, VeriSustainTM. Without affecting our assurance opinion, DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1 A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and we also provide the following observations (Version 5.0), which is based on our professional assurance specialists performed the work regarding the adherence to the reporting experience, international assurance best at Keppel’s corporate headquarters and its principles for defining the sustainability report practices including International Standard on subsidiaries in Singapore – Keppel Infrastructure, content and for defining report quality as Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) Keppel Land and Keppel Capital, in March defined in the GRI Standards. Revised2 and the Global Reporting Initiative and April 2019 to verify the qualitative and (GRI) reporting principles on Content and quantitative disclosures, including testing Inclusivity Quality. The intended users of this assurance the reliability of data and the robustness of Keppel has identified six internal and external statement are the stakeholders of the Company. the data aggregation process, such as the stakeholder groups such as customers, related management approach for identified employees, governments, shareholders, Scope of Assurance material topics. local communities and suppliers. Keppel’s The scope of assurance included a review of stakeholder engagement activities occurred sustainability disclosures and performance As part of the verification, we planned and at the Group and business unit level through data from Keppel and its subsidiaries which performed our work based on DNV GL’s various platforms. Keppel has embarked on a Keppel has operational control in and outside risk-based approach to obtain the evidence stakeholder consultation exercise at the end of of Singapore. The boundary of the report for that we considered necessary to provide 2018 covering the various stakeholder groups identified material topics and topic-specific a basis for our assurance opinion. and this is targeted for completion in mid-2019. disclosures are defined in the respective Within the framework of our assessment, Nothing has come to our attention to suggest chapters and unless otherwise stated, will we performed the following procedures that the Report does not meet the requirements include those subsidiaries that Keppel has and other activities including: related to the Principle of Inclusivity. management control. We evaluated the Report • Conducted interviews with data owners from for adherence to the reporting principles for Keppel Corporation and its subsidiaries Materiality defining the sustainability report content as set including Keppel Infrastructure, Keppel Land Keppel revisited its material topics through forth in the GRI Standards. We understand that and Keppel Capital, to understand the key an annual internal exercise. In 2018, Keppel the reported financial data and information are processes and controls for reporting reviewed the material environmental, social and based on Keppel’s and respective subsidiaries’ subsidiary performance data; governance issues internally with the Keppel financial statements, which are subject to a • Assessed the robustness of the underlying Corporation Board of Directors as well as the separate independent audit process. The review data and information flow and controls; Group Sustainability Steering Committee and of financial data taken from the financial • Performed data analysis using a risk-based Working Committee. Keppel could consider a statements is not within the scope of our work. approach and materiality; review of the materiality following the stakeholder • Challenged the sustainability-related engagement exercise as well as consideration of Responsibilities of the Management of disclosure, statements and claims; material topics from new business acquisitions. Keppel and of the Assurance Provider • Performed limited testing on a sampling Nothing has come to our attention to suggest Keppel has sole responsibility for the integrity basis of the selected information at that the Report does not meet the requirements of the report and the responsibility includes Keppel’s corporate headquarters and related to the Principle of Materiality. designing, implementing, and maintaining subsidiaries’ headquarters to check that internal controls over collection, analysis, the selected environmental and social data Responsiveness aggregation, preparation and fair presentation had been properly measured, gathered, The Report provides an overview of the of the Report, and data that are free from recorded, collated and reported. Group’s activities; it keeps stakeholders material misstatement, including maintaining informed of corporate decisions in terms of integrity of the information on its website. In We also performed the following activities to achievements and performance in relation to performing our assurance work, our responsibility assess the adherence to reporting principles: the sustainability material arguments. Keppel’s is solely towards the management of Keppel • Interviewed senior managers and stakeholder dialogues and materiality review in accordance with the terms of reference representatives responsible for sustainability were used to determine the type of information agreed on with Keppel. However, our statement management and made enquiries to that is material to stakeholders. The Report represents our independent opinion and is determine their understanding of has brought out responses to the identified intended to inform the independent stakeholder engagement and materiality; material topics and fairly disclosed the 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available on request from the DNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com). 2 Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 89 Other Information Independent Assurance Statement strategies and management approach and and sustainability performances against the assurance engagement. We expressly challenges considering the overall sustainability material topics identified. The boundary of the disclaim any liability or co-responsibility context and external environment of its Report covers the sustainability performances for any decision a person or an entity may business within the identified reporting from the global operations, subsidiaries make based on this Assurance Statement. boundary. The Report could further bring and associated companies over which the out the long and medium-term targets related Keppel Group has management control. Statement of Competence & Independence to the identified material topics. With recent new acquisitions, the reporting DNV GL applies its own management standards boundary of Keppel could be expanded to and compliance policies for quality control, Impact include the subsidiaries which may also be in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:2011 – Keppel has identified Sustainable Development material to the organisation. Conformity Assessment Requirements for Goals (SDGs) where it contributes to. In 2018, bodies providing audit and certification of Keppel has applied the LBG Framework3 Balance & Neutrality management systems, and accordingly to quantify the Company’s contribution to The document allows the reader to examine maintains a comprehensive system of quality communities and understand the impact it both the positive and the negative trends of control including documented policies and has on the communities and for the business. Keppel’s performance in 2018, presenting procedures regarding compliance with ethical The case studies presented in the Report a balanced account of the activities and requirements, professional standards and provided insight on how Keppel can have results relevant to the reporting year, which applicable legal and regulatory requirements. an impact on the environment, how Keppel is consistent with the corporate strategies. We have complied with the DNV GL Code of develops innovative solutions in its business, We consider the Report to be a fair description Conduct4 during the assurance engagement, and how its businesses benefit different of Keppel’s sustainability impact. Nothing has and maintain independence where required by communities through its products and come to our attention to suggest that the relevant ethical requirements. This engagement services. DNV GL recommends that Keppel Report does not meet the requirements related work was carried out by an independent team sets consistent and clear boundaries, as well to the Principle of Balance and Neutrality. of sustainability assurance professionals. as a purpose, time period and scope, for DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of impact assessment in subsequent reports. Limitation any statements or data included in the Report Our assurance relies on the premise that the except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL Accuracy & Reliability data and information provided by Keppel to maintains complete impartiality toward Keppel has selected, compiled and reported us as part of our review procedures have stakeholders interviewed during the assurance information in a relatively consistent manner. been provided in good faith and free from process. DNV GL did not provide any services Any errors or misstatements identified during the misstatements. Because of the selected nature to Keppel during 2018 that could compromise assurance engagement were communicated (sampling) and other inherent limitation of both the independence or impartiality of our work. for correction prior to the Report being procedures and systems of internal control, published. DNV GL concludes that the level there remains the unavoidable risk that errors For and on behalf of DNV GL Business at which the Report adheres to the principle or irregularities, possibly significant, may not Assurance Singapore Pte. Ltd. of accuracy, and the reliability of the information have been detected. The engagement excludes on sustainability performance can be enhanced the sustainability management, performance by internal verification checks to improve and reporting practices of Keppel’s associated consistency in data collection. companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. The Specific Evaluation of the Information on company’s position statements, the statements Sustainability Performance for the management approach, case studies and The Report covers global operations and key examples are excluded from the scope of our Grace Cheah subsidiaries and associated companies for work. We did not interview external stakeholders Lead Assurer which Keppel has management control, as part of this assurance engagement. DNV GL Business Assurance unless otherwise indicated. The reporting of Singapore Pte. Ltd the sustainability performance presented in The reported disclosures related to Economic the Report is collected centrally by a dedicated performances are based on the financial function in the Group and consolidated for disclosures and data, which were cross-checked reporting. Keppel uses a system called CR360 with internal documents and the audited to gather sustainability performance data consolidated financial statements. Limited globally. The data used for the Report this depth of evidence gathering including inquiry year is based on a combination of manual and analytical procedures and limited sampling Nandkumar Vadakepatth collection and collated information from CR360. at lower levels in the organisation were applied Assurance Reviewer The Report presents Keppel’s non-financial as per the agreed scope of engagement. Head, Sustainability Operations performance in the wide context of sustainability The data for Environmental and Social DNV GL Business Assurance and explains how various initiatives from performance are verified with random India Pvt. Ltd. India Keppel and its subsidiaries are aligned with samples of data, and the aggregated data at achieving United Nations SDGs. the corporate level is used for the verification. 8 May 2019 The procedures performed in a limited/ Completeness moderate level of assurance engagement The Report has adequately covered the vary in nature and timing, and are less in sustainability strategy, management approach extent than for a reasonable/high level of 3 The LBG Framework measures a company’s overall contribution to the community, taking account of cash, time and in-kind donations, as well as management costs. The framework also records the outputs and longer-term community and business impacts of community investment projects. 4 The DNV GL Code of Conduct is available from the DNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com). 90 LBG Assurance Statement 2018 Corporate Citizenship has been asked by Keppel Corporation to review its use of the LBG Framework to measure and report on the company’s corporate community investment activities occurring between January 2018 and December 2018. The LBG Framework helps businesses measure, manage and report their corporate community investment activities. It moves beyond charitable donations to include the full range of contributions, or inputs, made to community causes (including time, in-kind and cash donations). It also assesses the actual results for the community and for the business, also known as outputs and impacts (see www.lbg-online.net for more information). The scope of the LBG assurance covers the information presented in the Communities section of Keppel Corporation’s Sustainability Report for 2018, on pages 72-83. The assurance engagement was undertaken at a limited level and involved the following activities: • Management interviews with key persons responsible for community investment activities to understand the process for collecting, validating and consolidating the data • A site visit to verify the internal systems and procedures for collecting, validating and consolidating the data • Checks on the accuracy and consistency of the data presented in this report on pages 72-83 As managers of LBG, Corporate Citizenship has worked with Keppel Corporation to review its understanding of the LBG framework and its application to measuring and reporting its wide range of community programmes. Our aim has been to ensure that the evaluation principles are correctly and consistently applied. We are satisfied, based on the limited scope described above, that this has been achieved. Our work has not extended to an independent audit of the data presented in this report. Corporate Citizenship Singapore 6 May 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2018 91 Other Information Key Personnel Group Sustainability Group Sustainability Group Sustainability Steering Committee Working Committee Secretariat Loh Chin Hua Sebastien Lamy Sue-Ann Huang Chairperson Co-Chairperson Senior Manager, Chief Executive Officer, Director, Group Corporate Communications, Keppel Corporation Group Strategy & Development, Keppel Corporation Keppel Corporation and Chan Hon Chew Managing Director, Han Sufen Chief Financial Officer, Keppel Technology & Innovation Senior Executive, Keppel Corporation Group Corporate Communications, Ho Tong Yen Keppel Corporation Ong Tiong Guan Co-Chairperson Chief Executive Officer, Director, Keppel Infrastructure Group Corporate Communications, Keppel Corporation Christina Tan Chief Executive Officer, Cindy Lim Keppel Capital Director, Group Corporate Development, Chris Ong Keppel Corporation and Chief Executive Officer, Managing Director, Keppel Offshore & Marine Keppel Urban Solutions Tan Swee Yiow Yeo Meng Hin Chief Executive Officer, Director, Keppel Land Group Human Resources, Keppel Corporation Thomas Pang Caroline Chang Chief Executive Officer, General Manager, Keppel Telecommunications & Transportation Group Legal, Keppel Corporation Tok Soo Hwa General Manager, Group Control & Accounts, Keppel Corporation Sepalika Kulasekera General Manager, Group Internal Audit, Keppel Corporation Kevin Chng General Manager, Group Risk & Compliance, Keppel Corporation R K Jaggi General Manager, Group Health, Safety & Environment, Keppel Corporation Jay Singham Executive Director, Commercial, Keppel FELS Serena Toh General Manager, Group Sustainability Strategy, Keppel Corporation 92 Edited and Compiled by Group Corporate Communications, Keppel Corporation Designed by Black Sun Pte Ltd Keppel Corporation Limited (Incorporated in the Republic of Singapore) 1 HarbourFront Avenue #18-01 Keppel Bay Tower Singapore 098632 Tel: (65) 6270 6666 Fax: (65) 6413 6391 Email: keppelgroup@kepcorp.com www.kepcorp.com Co Reg No: 196800351N
